My learned brother discusses in detail the deprivation, exclusion, and discrimination faced by the queer community. In eff ect, he: (i) recognizes that they have a right not to be discriminated against; and (ii) holds that the actions of the state have the eff ect of discriminating against them. However, he does not take the step which logically follows from such a ruling which is to pass directions to obviate such discrimination and ensure the realization of the rights of the queer community. I cannot bring myself to agree with this approach. The realization of a right is eff ectuated when there is a remedy available to enforce it. The principle of ubi jus ibi remedium (that is, an infringement of a right has a remedy) which has been applied in the context of civil law for centuries cannot be ignored in the constitutional context. Absent the grant of remedies, the formulation of doctrines is no more than judicial platitude. 334. Bhat, J highlights that the central question which arises for the consideration of this Court is whether the absence of law or a regulatory framework, or the failure of the State to enact law, amounts to discrimination that is protected under Article 15. He states that “there is no known jurisprudence or case law (yet) pointing to the absence of law being considered as discrimination as understood under Article 15.” Here, I would like to sound a note of caution (which, though obvious, bears repetition) – the manner in an issue is framed impacts the analysis of the issue. In fact, Bhat, J’s reasoning deviates from the jurisprudence that this Court has developed on the interpretation of Article 15. Bhat, J’s reasoning assesses the ‘objective’ of a law instead of its ‘eff ect. This is best understood with the help of an SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1413 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] example. Suppose the state were to enact a law which enabled only citizens of a particular caste to avail the services of a particular government hospital but which did not expressly prohibit members of other castes from availing its services. This law contains various conditions which must be satisfi ed before services of the hospital can be availed (such as a list of diseases which it treats or how advanced a particular disease is). This law can be understood as being an “enabling law” or a law which “regulates” or it can be understood (in its true sense) as a law which has the eff ect of excluding certain groups on the basis of prohibited markers of identity. This remains true not only of a hospital but of any service or scheme or institution that one can imagine. Hence, what is framed as the “absence of a law” or an “enabling law” can have the same restrictive eff ect as a law which expressly bars or prohibits certain actions or excludes certain groups. 335. I disagree with the observations of my learned brother that the State has a positive obligation under Article 21 but such an obligation cannot be read into other fundamental rights other than Article 21.