27 For short, “SEZ”. 28 Supra note 18. 29 Supra note 19. 30 “38. Central Transmission Utility and functions.—(1) The Central Government may notify an Government company as the Central Transmission Utility: Provided that the Central Transmission Utility shall not engage in the business of generation of electricity or trading in electricity: Provided further that the Central Government may transfer, and vest any property, interest in property, rights and liabilities connected with, and personnel involved in transmission of electricity of such Central Transmission Utility, to a company or M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 363 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] any Government company as the Central Transmission Utility31. The CTU cannot engage in business of generating and trading of electricity. Its functions under Section 38(2) includes the planning and coordination relating to inter-State transmission system and the development of effi cient, coordinated and economical system of inter-State transmission lines for smooth fl ow of electricity from generating stations to the load centre and to provide non-discriminatory open access to its transmission system for use by a licensee or generating company on payment of transmission charges and by any consumer as and when open access is companies to be incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) to function as a transmission licensee, through a transfer scheme to be eff ected in the manner specifi ed under Part XIII and such company or companies shall be deemed to be transmission licensees under this Act. (2) The functions of the Central Transmission Utility shall be— (a) to undertake transmission of electricity through inter-State transmission system; (b) to discharge all functions of planning and co-ordination relating to inter-State transmission system with— (i) State Transmission Utilities; (ii) Central Government; (iii) State Governments; (iv) generating companies; (v) Regional Power Committees; (vi) Authority; (vii) licensees; (viii) any other person notifi ed by the Central Government in this behalf; (c) to ensure development of an effi cient, co-ordinated and economical system of inter- State transmission lines for smooth fl ow of electricity from generating stations to the load centres; (d) to provide non-discriminatory open access to its transmission system for use by— (i) any licensee or generating company on payment of the transmission charges; or (ii) any consumer as and when such open access is provided by the State Commission under sub-section (2) of Section 42, on payment of the transmission charges and a surcharge thereon, as may be specifi ed by the Central Commission: Provided that such surcharge shall be utilised for the purpose of meeting the requirement of current level cross-subsidy: Provided further that such surcharge and cross subsidies shall be progressively reduced in the manner as may be specifi ed by the Central Commission: Provided also that the manner of payment and utilisation of the surcharge shall be specifi ed by the Central Commission: Provided also that such surcharge shall not be leviable in case open access is provided to a person who has established a captive generating plant for carrying the electricity to the destination of his own use.” 31 For short, “CTU”.