Hence, in light of the same, the respondents’ claim on the strength of doctrine of holding over or through doctrine of acquiescence as well as the reliance on the conduct of appellants, remains in doldrums as the same are hinged on the finding in respect of G determination of lease. It is also highlighted that decades have passed in litigation, and it would be extremely iniquitous to remand the case to revenue authorities at such a belated stage. [Para 49][971-G; 972-A-B] H 940 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 1.7 Even assuming that JV was deemed to have been granted status as an ‘Occupancy Tenant’ under the 1939 Act, it should be noted that his status as an ‘Occupancy Tenant’ cannot be transferred to the predecessor of respondents in light of Section 33 of the 1939 Act. The only exception to the bar on transfer of status as an ‘Occupancy Tenant’ in the section 33 is B under sub-clause (b) of clause (2) wherein reference is made to Section 251 which in turns deals with sale of occupancy rights when the tenant himself is facing the execution of a decree for arrears of rent. As no factual situation has been indicated stating that JV had suffered a decree for rent arrears, there is no surety C as to how any transfer of ‘Occupancy Tenant’ status in favour of the predecessor of respondents was sustainable. This confusion further indicates that the predecessor of respondents could not have been accorded the status of ‘Sirdar’ under the Zamindari Notification on the strength of revenue entries which recorded him as an ‘Occupancy Tenant’. [Para 52][973-B, G-H; 974-A-B] D 1.8 The High Court again made sweeping remarks in respect of the tenancy status without any serious consideration as to whether the same were legally tenable or not. No reference is made to any proceedings wherein the status as an occupancy tenant was ever granted to the predecessor of the respondent E and, if so, how and when the same culminated into the status of ‘Sirdar’ under the Zamindari Notification. These proceedings which ultimately led to the grant of status of ‘Bhumidhar’ in favour of the predecessor of respondents for the first time, could have potentially served as the litmus test for the validity of these F revenue entries. [Para 53][974-B-D] 1.9 The High Court held that predecessor of respondents was rightly accorded the status of ‘Sirdars’ under the Zamindari Notification on the ground that they were leaseholders governed by the Government Grants Act of 1895. However, this finding G again appears unsustainable because there is no proper factual analysis as to when the 1924 Lease Deed stood determined or whether the same subsisted after the initial period of thirty years. [Para 54][974-D-E] H STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 941 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS 1.10 Initially the 1939 Act was not applicable to the Suit A Land as the concerned area where it is situated was excluded from the purview of the 1939 Act, as it was specifically included in the First Schedule.