29. The scheme of Section 7 stands in contrast with the scheme under Section 8 where an operational creditor is, on the occurrence of a default, to first deliver a demand notice of the unpaid debt to the operational debtor in the manner provided in Section 8(1) of G the Code. Under Section 8(2), the corporate debtor can, within a period of 10 days of receipt of the demand notice or copy of the invoice mentioned in sub-section (1), bring to the notice of the operational creditor the existence of a dispute or the record of the pendency of a suit or arbitration proceedings, which is pre- existing—i.e. before such notice or invoice was received by the H 394 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A corporate debtor. The moment there is existence of such a dispute, the operational creditor gets out of the clutches of the Code. 30. On the other hand, as we have seen, in the case of a corporate debtor who commits a default of a financial debt, the adjudicating authority has merely to see the records of B the information utility or other evidence produced by the financial creditor to satisfy itself that a default has occurred. It is of no matter that the debt is disputed so long as the debt is “due” i.e. payable unless interdicted by some law or has not yet become due in the sense that it is payable at some future date. It is only when this is proved to the C satisfaction of the adjudicating authority that the adjudicating authority may reject an application and not otherwise.” (emphasis added) 9. The view taken in the case of Innoventive Industries3 has D been followed by this Court in the case of E.S. Krishnamurthy and others2. Paragraph nos.32 to 34 of the said decision read thus: 32. In Innoventive industries [Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank, (2018) 1 SCC 407, paras 28 and 30 : (2018) 1 SCC (Civ) 356], a two-Judge Bench of this Court has E explained the ambit of Section 7 IBC, and held that the adjudicating authority only has to determine whether a “default” has occurred i.e. whether the “debt” (which may still be disputed) was due and remained unpaid. If the adjudicating authority is of the opinion that a “default” has F occurred, it has to admit the application unless it is incomplete. Speaking through Rohinton F. Nariman, J., the Court has observed: (SCC pp. 438-39, paras 28 & 30) “28. When it comes to a financial creditor triggering the process, Section 7 becomes relevant. Under the Explanation to Section G 7(1), a default is in respect of a financial debt owed to [Ed. : The word between two asterisks has been emphasised in original.] any [Ed. : The word between two asterisks has been emphasised in original.] financial creditor of the corporate debtor — it need not be a debt owed to the applicant financial creditor. Under Section 7(2), an application is to be made under sub- H M. SURESH KUMAR REDDY v. CANARA BANK & ORS.