On the other hand, Appendix-1A has been inserted by the Income Tax (Twelfth Amendment) Rules, 1997 with retrospective eff ect from 02.04.1997. While column one of Appendix-1A mentions about the class of assets, column two provides for the relatable depreciation allowance of such class of assets as per the percentage of actual cost. From a comparison of the two appendixes, it is evident that the depreciation allowance as per percentage of WDV in Appendix-1 is higher than the depreciation allowance as per percentage of actual cost under Appendix-1A. 42. From a conjoint reading of Rules 5(1) and (1A) of the Rules read with Appendix-1 and Appendix-1A, it is evident that while sub-rule (1) provides for allowance of depreciation in respect of any block of assets in terms of the second column of the table in Appendix 1, sub-rule (1A) enables an assessee to seek allowance of depreciation of assets acquired on or after the 1st day of April, 1997 as per the percentage specifi ed in the second column of the table in Appendix-1A on actual cost basis. However, the second proviso to sub-rule (1A) clarifi es that an assessee may opt for depreciation under Appendix-1 instead of Appendix-1A but such option has to be exercised before the due date for furnishing the return of income under sub-section (1) of Section 139 of the Act. 520 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 43. In the instant case, there is no dispute that the assessee had claimed depreciation in accordance with sub-rule (1) read with Appendix-I before the due date of furnishing the return of income. The view taken by the assessing offi cer as affi rmed by the fi rst appellate authority that the assessee should opt for one of the two methods is not a statutory requirement. Therefore, the revenue was not justifi ed in reducing the claim of depreciation of the assessee on the ground that the assessee had not specifi cally opted for the WDV method. 44. A similar issue was examined by this Court in CIT Vs. GR Govindarajulu, (2016) 16 SCC 335,wherein it has been held that the law does not mention any specifi c mode of exercising such an option. The only requirement is that the option has to be exercised before fi ling of the return. In that case, assessee had set apart a sum of Rs. 32 lakhs to be spent for charitable purposes in the following year and claimed deduction of the entire amount under Section 11 of the Act which deals with income from property held for charitable or religious purposes. This claim of the assessee was denied by the assessing offi cer on the ground that no option for this purpose was exercised by the assessee before fi ling of the return. Though the assessee had stated so in the return itself, that was not treated as exercising the option in a valid manner. All the appellate authorities answered this issue in favour of the assessee. When the revenue approached this Court by way of civil appeal, this Court opined that the law does not mention any specifi c mode of exercising the option.