H.E.H. the Nizam accepted the G said report and issued a Farman accordingly.In the said report of Mirza Yar Jung Committee, a definite finding was given that it was not proved by claimants that Nawab Khurshid Jah left any property which was not acquired or purchased out of the Paigah income within the meaning of para (2) of the preliminary portion of the Farman. H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 299 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 11. By reason of the finding of the Mirza Yar Jung Committee A negativing the existence of any Mathruka acquired or purchased from sources other than paigah income there were only two categories of Mathruka property of Nawab Khurshid Jah viz, (a) properties or articles purchased or buildings constructed out of the income of the Paigah, B (b) Precious stones, Jewellery and rare articles purchased with money belonging to the Paigah and held in trust by Paigah Amir as heirlooms of Paigah family. 12. As per Firman dated 5th Shaban 1347 H (17-1-1929-A.D), C H.E.H. the Nizam prevented the distribution of the two classes of Mathurka properties aforesaid and lists of properties belonging to category (a) including all accreations and additions thereto, so far as plaintiff is aware are set out in the schedule herewith filed and marked IV and IV(a) are of the approximate value of O.S.Rs.652058-2-0 and they are in the possession of persons D referred to in the said schedule. The plaintiff is not aware of the extent and value of precious stones, jewellery and rare articles referred to in category (b) mentioned in para 11 above. The last mentioned properties which ought to have been in the possession of the Defendant No.1 as Amir Paigah were left for safe-custody E in the Government Treasury during the days of police action and subsequently passed into the custody of Jagir Administrator the Defendant No. 43 herein. The plaintiff tentatively values the said properties mentioned in Category (b) aforesaid at O.S. Rupees one lakh and claims her legitimate share therein after the full extent and value thereof are ascertained. F 13. The Jagirs in Hyderabad State including Paigah having been abolished by Jagir Abolition Regulation No. 69 of 1358 F, with effect from 15thAugust 1949 the Said Firmans precluding the partition of the aforesaid two categories of Mathruka properties, ceased to be operative and plaintiff became entitled to claim her G legitimate share of Mathurka Estate of the late Nawab Khurshid. Jah viz, her 29/2944th share which she tentatively values at the aggregate sum of O.S. Rs 7408-1-1 as detailed in the Schedule IV and IV(a) para 12 referred to above of the aggregate tentative value of O.S. Rs. 752058-20. H 300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 14. The cause of action for this suit arose at Hyderabad-Dn, On 15thAugust 1949 when the Jagir Abolition Regulation came into force and the Firmans of H.E.H. the Nizam preventing the partition of the suit properties ceased to be operative.The suit is in time, in any event, as the bulk of the properties in Schedule IV And IV(a) are immovable properties and the other properties in category (b) B And referred to in para 13 were held by the Defendant No.