The position of law is well settled that when large extent of lands are acquired E and if the sale exemplar, also for the large extent is available on record it would be safer to rely on the same if they are comparable transactions. However, as already noted above, this Court in Atma Singh (supra) has also held that the sale instances of smaller extents cannot be ignored. Further, this Court has reiterated in many cases that the sale exemplars for smaller extent can be relied upon subject to appropriate deduction F being provided towards development charges. 14. In the instant case, though the acquisition Notification dated 11.01.2005 was issued in respect of the large extent of lands measuring 798 Kanals and 2 Marlas, the extent of lands which were owned by majority of land losers is a small extent. In fact, the details indicated in G the dated 10.01.2020 passed by the Reference Court has referred to about 69 appellants who were before it. Therefore, the extent to which each of the appellants is claiming compensation is a smaller extent. In that background, if the documents relied on by the respondents at Ex.R5 to R16 are noted, the largest extent sold is under Ex.R16 being 32 Kanals and 16 Marlas, while the least being under Ex.R8 measuring H RAVINDER KUMAR GOEL v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 925 [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] 3 Kanals and 8 Marlas. We have referred to this aspect of the matter to A indicate that while approving the procedure for placing reliance on the sale deeds of earlier sale transactions as exemplars, this Court starting from the case of Kakhot SinghJi Vajesinghji Vaghela (supra) and several other cases has emphasized that the basis for the same is that the value under such exemplars would represent the sale consideration B agreed upon between a willing seller and a willing purchaser and therefore would represent the true market value. 15. If the above-referred concept is kept in perspective, one cannot loose sight of the fact that when large extent of agricultural land is sold under a document and if the land is to be used for agricultural purpose, C the price agreed thereto would be based on the nature of the land and the purpose for which it is put to use. In cases, where the large extent of agricultural land belonging to a single owner is acquired, it would no doubt be safe to rely on such sale exemplars of large extents, more particularly, in circumstances where the land which is classified as agricultural land is also used for agricultural purposes. In such D circumstances, to arrive at the market value depending on the nature of the cultivation, the capitalisation method by applying the multiplier to the crop pattern and price derived can be adopted and the market value be determined or determine the market value based on such sale deeds which are comparable exemplars. E 16. However, the difficulty arises when a person holds a smaller extent of land which is classified as agricultural land but would have lost its character due to non-cultivation and urbanization when such land is more eminent and fit to be used for non-agricultural purposes.