We do not agree with the learned counsel. This Court while rejecting the petitions as withdrawn, granted liberty to the petitioner to approach the High Court and point out the case which was sought to be pleaded before this Court. In other words, this Court prima facie found the contentions F of the petitioner to be plausible and, as such, granted liberty to raise the same before the High Court. The High Court heard the parties at length and passed a reasoned running into 16 pages. In the facts and circumstances of this case, we are not inclined to agree with the learned counsel that the of the G High Court in writ appeals has achieved finality.” 22.1. Having regard to the above, and overall circumstances of the case we find no reason to treat the impugned dated 23.04.2021 as final and deem it appropriate to examine the challenge on merits. H 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 23. As regards the question of penalty, we find force and substance in the contentions urged on behalf of the appellant that such an imposition cannot be approved for two major factors: The first and foremost being that in the show-cause notice dated 26.11.2019, the appellant was put to notice only as regards the proposition of debarment and in the said notice, nothing was indicated about the proposed imposition of penalty. Though B in the cancellation s dated 19.11.2019 and 21.11.2019,the respondents purportedly reserved their right to take appropriate steps, those s cannot be read as show-cause notice specifically for the purpose of imposition of penalty. The submissions on behalf of the respondents in this regard that the said s dated 19.11.2019 and C 21.11.2019 have attained finality do not take their case any further. Finality attaching to the action of cancellation cannot be read as a due notice for imposition of penalty even if the respondents chose to employ the expression ‘cancelled with imposition of penalty’ in those s. Looking to the terms of contract, quantification of the amount of penalty (if at all the penalty is considered leviable) could not have been carried D out without affording adequate opportunity of response to the appellant. That being the position, the action of the respondents in imposing the penalty without even putting the appellant to notice as regards this proposed action cannot be approved. 23.1. Secondly, the authority concerned has proceeded to impose E the maximum of penalty to the tune of 10% of the deficit supply without specifying as to why the maximum of penalty was sought to be imposed. In this regard, the relevant factors as indicated by the appellant could not have been ignored altogether. Unfortunately, the High Court has totally omitted to consider this aspect of the grievance of the appellant. F 23.2. Though, ordinarily, for such an omission of the High Court, the course would have been to remit the issue for consideration but, we are of the view that no useful purpose would be served by remitting such an issue in this matter.