H BHIMASHANKAR SAHAKARI SAKKARE KARKHANE NIYAMITA v. 369 WALCHANDNAGAR INDUSTRIES LTD. (WIL) [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.13 Now, so far as the contention on behalf of the respondent A that present proceeding is “any Act or proceeding to which the Limitation Act applies” is a misconceived argument is concerned, it is submitted that the respondents have sought to rely on proviso to Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897. Relying upon Section 43(1) of the Arbitration Act to contend that the Limitation Act applies to the present proceedings, B it is submitted that Section 43(1) of the Arbitration Act merely states that “the Limitation Act, 1963 shall apply to arbitrations as it applies to proceedings in Court”. It is submitted that this cannot be interpreted to mean that the Limitation Act, in its entirety applies to proceeding under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act and that the present proceedings are an act or proceeding to which the Limitation Act applies. It is submitted C that in fact, in matters of limitation, Section 34 of the Arbitration Act is a complete code. It is submitted that the respondent’s entire case, on one hand, is that the benefit of Limitation Act, particularly Section 4 of the Limitation Act, cannot be given to the condonable period in the instant case. It is submitted that therefore on one hand, the respondent is arguing D that the benefit of Section 4 of the Limitation Act, as well as Section 5 of the Limitation Act has no application to the condonable period under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, i.e. the Limitation Act has no application in the present proceedings, at the same time, the respondent is contending that the benefit of Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 cannot be given to the appellant, as the present proceeding falls within the ambit E of the phrase “any act or proceeding to which the Indian Limitation Act, 1877, applies”. 4.14 It is further submitted by Shri Diwan, learned Senior Counsel that the reliance placed on the case of Sagufa Ahmed & Ors. vs. Upper Assam Polywood Products Private Limited and Others F reported in (2021) 2 SCC 317 is misconceived for the following two reasons: (1) The reference to Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 in the case of Sagufa Ahmed (Supra) is tangential at best; G (2) The facts of Sagufa Ahmed (Supra) are clearly distinguishable from the case at hand. In that case, the appellants had waited 5 months after the discretionary period had expired to file an appeal against the of the Ld. NCLT. In the present case, there was no undue delay on H 370 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the part of the Petitioner - appellant herein. The petitioner - appellant filed the petition under Section 34 of the very day of the reopening of the Ld. Court. 4.15 It is submitted that this Court in its dated 08.03.2021 in suo moto Writ Petition (Civil) No.3/2020, has put a quietus to the artificial B distinction between the ‘limitation period’ and ‘grace period’, wherein it extended the benefit of exemption due to COVID 19 to the limitation period as well as the condonable period.