E (iv) The Proceedings have to be live telecast, and appropriate arrangements are to be made to ensure the same. (v) The entire proceedings of the trust vote shall be videographed by the Vidhan Sabha Secretariat through an independent agency and shall be submitted to me. F (vi) The aforesaid proceedings shall be started on 30.06.2022 at 11:00 AM and no case shall be same be adjourned, delayed or suspended. (vii) Adequate arrangements shall be made for the security of the Members both outside and inside the Vidhan Bhavan to ensure G smooth conducting of the floor test.” The Governor also issued a communication dated 28 June 2022 to the Secretary, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly calling upon him to make necessary arrangements for the session of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly at which the floor test was to be conducted. H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 875 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 17. On the very next day (29 June 2022), Mr. Sunil Prabhu instituted A a Writ Petition before this Court for setting aside the communications dated 28 June 2022 issued by the Governor to the Chief Minister as also to the Secretary, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, on the ground that disqualification petitions against forty-two MLAs of the Shiv Sena were pending consideration before the Deputy Speaker. This Court declined B to stay the trust vote. The relevant portion of the dated 29 June 2022 passed by this Court is reproduced below: “8 … (i) We do not find any ground to stay convening of the Special Session of the Maharashtra Vidhan Sabha on 30-6-2022, i.e, C tomorrow at 11.00 a.m. with the only agenda of a trust vote; (ii) The proceedings of the trust vote to be convened on 30-6-2022 shall be subject to the final outcome of the instant Writ Petition as well the Writ Petitions referred to above; (iii) the Special Session of the Maharashtra Vidha Sabha shall be D conducted in accordance with the directions as contained in the communication dated 28-6-2022 of the Governor of Maharashtra.” Mr. Thackeray, resigned on the same day. 18. On 30 June 2022, Mr. Devendra Fadnavis wrote a letter to the Governor stating that one hundred and six MLAs from BJP and E eight independent and other MLAs were extending support to Mr. Eknath Shinde to form the government. On the same day, Mr. Shinde submitted a letter to the Governor along with a resolution by thirty-nine MLAs from the SSLP unanimously resolving to authorise Mr. Shinde to initiate proceedings to form the government in the State. In said letter, Mr. Shinde claimed the support of one hundred and six BJP MLAs and seventeen F independent and other MLAs. Moreover, Mr. Shinde claimed that he had the support of the majority and requested the Governor to invite him to take oath as the Chief Minister. On 30 June 2022, sixteen MLAs who were independent candidates or belonged to parties other than the Shiv Sena, BJP, INC, and NCP wrote to the Governor expressing their support for a government led by Mr. Shinde.