The reference made in Gian Singh case [(2010) 15 SCC 118] need not, there-fore, detain us. Till such time as the decisions cited at the Bar are not modifi ed or altered in any way, they continue to hold the fi eld.” (emphasis supplied) 34. On the other hand, when it was thought proper that other Benches of this Court, the High Courts and the Courts/Tribunals below stay their hands, the same was indicated in as many words, as was the case in State of Haryana v G D Goenka Tourism Corporation Limited,(2018) 3 SCC 5854 : “9. Taking all this into consideration, we are of the opinion that it would be appropriate if in the interim and pending a fi nal decision on making a reference (if at all) to a larger Bench, the High Courts be requested not to deal with any cases relating to the interpretation of or concerning Section 24 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013. The Secretary General will urgently communicate this to the Registrar General of every High Court so that our request is complied with. 10. Insofar as the cases pending in this Court are concerned, we request the Benches concerned dealing with similar matters to defer the hearing until a deci-sion is rendered one way or the other on the issue whether the matter should be referred to a larger Bench or not. Apart from 4 The reference was eventually answered in Indore Development Authority v Manoharlal, (2020) 8 SCC 129. 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. anything else, deferring the con-sideration would avoid inconvenience to the litigating parties, whether it is the State or individuals.” (emphasis supplied) 35. We are seeing before us s and s by High Courts not deciding cases on the ground that the leading of this Court on this subject is either referred to a larger Bench or a review petition relating thereto is pending. We have also come across examples of High Courts refusing deference to s of this Court on the score that a later Coordinate Bench has doubted its correctness. In this regard, we lay down the position in law. We make it absolutely clear that the High Courts will proceed to decide matters on the basis of the law as it stands. It is not open, unless specifi cally directed by this Court, to await an outcome of a reference or a review petition, as the case may be. It is also not open to a High Court to refuse to follow a by stating that it has been doubted by a later Coordinate Bench. In any case, when faced with confl icting s by Benches of equal strength of this Court, it is the earlier one which is to be followed by the High Courts, as held by a 5-Judge Bench in National Insurance Company Limited v Pranay Sethi, (2017) 16 SCC 6805 . The High Courts, of course, will do so with careful regard to the facts and circumstances of the case before it.