Considering this, we see no reason to deviate from the conclusion reached by the High Court that the product manufactured by the respondent was rightly assessed at the relevant point of time in the assessment years 1994-1995 and 1995-1996, as covered by B Entry 37 of Schedule-I of the APGST Act. 8. We once again make it amply clear that the view taken in these appeals is in the fact situation of this case and confined to the assessment years 1994- 1995 and 1995-1996 only and would not apply or be of any avail to the respondent for the subsequent C assessment years, in view of the amendment effected in the APGST Act.” 17. Before concluding this segment pertaining to the decided cases, we may also take note of the decision of the Tribunal in the case of Bakson Homeo Pharmacy (supra) which had all through been relied D upon by the respondent for the reason that therein, a substantially similar product was held to be a medicament. In fact, in the said decision, the Tribunal examined the questions relating to two products namely, “Sunny Arnica Hair Oil” and “Sunny Arnica Shampoo”. As regards the issue concerning the product shampoo, the Tribunal remanded the matter to the lower authority for decision afresh but, as regards hair oil, the Tribunal E upheld the contention of the assessee in terms of the opinion of the majority and held that the said product was answering to the description of Homeopathic medicine while predominantly applying the tests pertaining to the ingredients. In the leading opinion, the learned Member of the Tribunal extensively referred to the individual properties of F Homeopathic medicines as also the other natural ingredients of the product. The learned Member further underscored the connotations of Homeopathy system of medical treatment as also the therapeutic and prophylactic properties of the ingredients and observed as under: - “On a careful consideration and examination of the materials produced and referred to above, we notice that the ingredients G utilised in the manufacture of Arnica Hair Oil are exclusively natural substances and their reference has been found in Homoeopathic Pharmacopia of India. The manufacturers have obtained drug licence and the use of the Hair oil, as a medicament, has been recommended by the Homeopaths. The appellants have H 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A shown that the ingredients are homoeopathic in nature and having therapeutic and prophylactic. Therefore, their contention cannot be rejected in the light of the evidence produced……In the present case, we are concerned with Arnica Hair Oil, which is claimed to be medicament in terms of the ingredients having necessary antiseptic, antiphlogistic action for dermatological diseases. B It is also used for treatment of baldness and acts as an anti- dandruff agent and as cooling agent. In view of each of the ingredients having one or the other therapeutic or prophylectic functions in terms of homoeopathic science, therefore, it has to be held that the Arnica Hair Oil is not a C cosmetic preparation or for use on hair under sub-heading 3505.90 of the Central Excise Tariff, as they are not intended for cleansing, beautifying, promoting attractiveness or altering appearance in terms of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of B.P.L.