15.4. As per sub-section (4) (iv), Section 80-IA is applicable to an industrial undertaking which is set up in any part of India for the generation or generation and distribution of power if it begins to generate power at any time during the period commencing on the 1st day of April 1993 and ending on the 31st day of March, 2003; and starts transmission or distribution by laying a network of new transmission or distribution lines at any time during the period beginning on the 1st day of April, 1999 and ending on the 31st day of March, 2003. Proviso below clause (iv) says that such deduction shall be allowed only in relation to the profi ts derived from laying of such network of new lines for transmission or distribution. 15.5. Crucial to the present discourse is sub-section (8) of Section 80- IA. Sub-section (8) reads as under: 508 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (8) Where any goods held for the purposes of the eligible business are transferred to any other business carried on by the assessee, or where any goods held for the purposes of any other business carried on by the assessee are transferred to the eligible business and, in either case, the consideration, if any, for such transfer as recorded in the accounts of the eligible business does not correspond to the market value of such goods as on the date of the transfer, then, for the purposes of the deduction under this section, the profi ts and gains of such eligible business shall be computed as if the transfer, in either case, had been made at the market value of such goods as on that date: Provided that where, in the opinion of the Assessing Offi cer, the computation of the profi ts and gains of the eligible business in the manner hereinbefore specified presents exceptional difficulties, the Assessing Offi cer may compute such profi ts and gains on such reasonable basis as he may deem fi t. Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, "market value", in relation to any goods, means the price that such goods would ordinarily fetch on sale in the open market. 15.6. Sub-section (8) says that where any goods held for the purposes of the eligible business are transferred to any other business carried on by the assessee or where any goods held for the purposes of any other business carried on by the assessee are transferred to the eligible business but the consideration for such transfer as recorded in the accounts of the eligible business does not correspond to the market value of such goods as on the date of the transfer, then for the purposes of deduction under Section 80-IA, the profi ts and gains of such eligible business shall be computed as if the transfer had been made at the market value of such goods as on that date. The proviso says that if the assessing offi cer fi nds exceptional diffi culties in computing the profi ts and gains of the eligible business in the manner specifi ed in sub-section (8), then in such a case, the assessing offi cer may compute such profi ts and gains on such reasonable basis as he may deem fi t. The explanation below the proviso defi nes “market value” for the purpose of sub-section (8).