After being given employment however, the re evaluation of the authenticity of the documents of the Appellant have been kept pending for 19 years, dangling like a sword on the Appellants head. C 14. After serving the Respondent bank for 38 years, the Appellant, two days before his superannuation received his cessation without there being any proper enquiry. Further, on communication made to the respondent no.1, it was found that on the date of passing the cessation , no case was pending against the Appellant. To us, a very clear pattern of harassment is visible, and there appears to be a sinister motive D against the Appellant and his right to pensionary benefits. Even after 38 years of service, irrespective of the merits of the case, the fact that the Appellant has not been treated with any respect is sad to see, and the use of delayed procedure as a dangling sword can only be interpreted as harassment. E 15. In the case of Madhuri Patil and Another Vs Additional Commissioner, Tribal Development and Others3, this Court gave fifteen guidelines as to how the exercise of verification of community certificate ought to be completed. The relevant extract from the said are reproduced hereunder: F “The admission wrongly gained or appointment wrongly obtained on the basis of false social status certificate necessarily has the effect of depriving the genuine Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes or OBC candidates as enjoined in the Constitution of the benefits conferred on them by the , constitution. The genuine candidates are also denied G admission to educational institutions or appointments to office or posts under a State for want of social status certificate. The ineligible or spurious persons who falsely gained entry resort to dilatory tactics and create hurdles in completion of H 3 (1994) 6 SCC 241 R SUNDARAM v. THE TAMIL NADU STATE LEVEL 1045 SCRUTINY COMMITTEE [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] the inquiries by the Scrutiny Committee. It is true that the A applications for admission to educational institutions are generally made by a parent, since on that date many a time the student may be a minor. It is the parent or the guardian who may play fraud claiming false status certificate. It is, therefore, necessary that the certificates issued are scrutinised B at the earliest and with utmost expedition and promptitude. For that purpose, it is necessary to streamline the procedure for the issuance of social status certificates, their scrutiny and their approval, which may be the following: (emphasis supplied) C 9…The inquiry should be completed as expeditiously as possible preferably by day-to-day proceedings within such period not exceeding two months. If after inquiry, the caste Scrutiny Committee finds the claim to be false or spurious, they should pass an cancelling the certificate issued D and confiscate the same. It should communicate within one month from the date of the conclusion of the proceedings the result of enquiry to the parent/guardian and the applicant. 10. In case of any delay in finalising the proceedings, and in the meanwhile the last date for admission into an educational E institution or appointment to an officer post, is getting expired, the candidate be admitted by the Principal or such other authority competent in that behalf or appointed on the basis of the social status certificate already issued or an affidavit duly sworn by the parent/guardian/candidate before the competent officer or non-official and such admission or F appointment should be only provisional, subject to the result of the inquiry by the Scrutiny Committee.