Respondent no. 4, however, in our opinion had no case for his appointment since these two vacancies could not have been advertised earlier, as these vacancies did not exist at that time. Similarly, another writ petition was also fi led before the High Court claiming violation of reservation etc. due to the inclusion of two seats! Their case was that the two Schedule Tribe candidates should have been selected on the general seats, and the two seats vacated by them would have given to the reserved candidates. The claim of these appellants (in connected appeals) for their appointments on the posts is again based on the fact that these two vacancies ought to have been advertised earlier is again wrong. The High Court has allowed the writ petition fi led by respondent No.4 to the extent that it held that the appointment of the appellants was in violation of the law in as much as they were not appointed either on the existing vacancies or anticipated vacancies but they were appointed on “future vacancies” which were never advertised. It is true that the vacancies which were advertised were only 8, including those on the reserved posts. The High Court, however, did not grant any relief to the present appellants, or the other candidates in other connected petitions. Their writ petitions were dismissed. 31. In the preceding paragraphs of the present , we have already clarifi ed the position of law and therefore, in our opinion, the High Court was right in holding this position, which is the settled position of law. What the High Court missed was the context, the facts and the circumstances of the case. 32. A Judge is a Judge of facts, as much as he is a Judge of law. The position of law we have already explained in the preceding paragraphs, which VIVEK KAISTH & ANR v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL 639 PRADESH & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] has been correctly followed by the Himachal Pradesh High Court. Now let us see the context of the case and its facts. Today, when we are delivering this the two appellants have already served as Judicial Offi cers for nearly 10 years. Meanwhile, they have also been promoted to the next higher post of Civil Judge (Senior Division). In this process of their selection and appointment (which has obviously benefi tted them), nothing has been brought to our notice which may suggest any favouritism, nepotism or so- called blame as to the conduct of these two appellants, in securing these appointments. The High Court in fact notes this factor. While placing the blame on the State Commission it records that “………. there is nothing on record suggestive of the fact that any mala fi des were behind the selection of respondents Nos.4 and 6……….” 33. The two appellants had qualifi ed the examination and were in the merit list. Should we quash their appointment and unseat them from judicial service, is the question. The same question was there before the High Court and it expressed its inability to protect the appointment of the appellants for two reasons.