Along with the Union Legislature, the State Legislature is also competent E to enact laws in respect of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List, subject to the provisions of Article 246(1)… While the widest amplitude should be given to the language used in one entry, every attempt has to be made to harmonize its contents with those of other Entries, so that the latter may F not be rendered nugatory.” (emphasis supplied) The indicates that the law-making power of even Parliament and State legislatures under Article 245(1) is not absolute. It has to be within the confines of the Constitution. DD Basu, in the G Commentary on the Constitution of India discusses the constitutional limitations upon legislative power:21 20 [2019] 17 SCR 1089 21 Dr DD Basu, Commentary on the Constitution of India, 8th Edn., 2012, Vol. 8, pp. 8749-8753 H 540 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “As the opening words of Art. 245(1) say, the legislative powers of both the Union and State Legislatures are subject to the other provisions of the Constitution, even though their powers are plenary within the spheres assigned to them respectively by the Constitution… B Whether a law has transgressed any of these limitations is to be ascertained by the Court and if it is found so to transgress, the Court will declare the law to be void. These limitations fall under various categories: I. The first and foremost is the question of vires or legislative C competence… II. Apart from want of legislative competence, a law may be invalid because of contravention of some positive limitation imposed by the Constitution. In such cases, even though the Legislature had the competence to make a law with respect to the subject-matter D of the impugned law, it became invalid because of contravention of some specific prohibition or limitation imposed by the Constitution. Such limitations fall under two heads- (i) The Fundamental Rights contained in Part III. The effects E of the contravention of a Fundamental Right have been fully discussed under Art. 13. […] (ii) Not merely the provisions included in Part III, but any other F provision contained in the Constitution (even though it does not confer any fundamental right) constitutes a limitation upon legislative power on two conditions: (a) That the provision in question is justiciable, that is to G say, intended to be and capable of being judicially enforced. (b) That the provision is mandatory, e.g., Arts. 255: 286, 301, 303-4. III. In the case of State legislation, there are further limitations, viz., that (a) its operation cannot extend beyond the boundaries of H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 541 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the State, in the absence of a territorial nexus; Another limitation A on the legislative power or a ground of unconstitutionality is that the Legislature concerned has abdicated its essential legislative function as assigned to it by the Constitution and has made an excessive delegation of that power to some other body.