77. We are also of the view, having regard to all the facts on record that the undertaking in the case on hand could be said to have been given to the court. 78. The fi rst and the second question formulated by us are answered accordingly. ARE CONTEMPTUOUS TRANSACTIONS VOID? 79. We now proceed to answer the third question formulated by us as regards the power of the contempt court to declare any contemptuous transaction non est or void. 80. A Three-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of State Bank of India and Others v. Dr. Vijay Mallya reported in 2022 SCC Online SC 826, in clear terms said that apart from punishing the contemnor for his contumacious conduct, the majesty of law may demand that appropriate directions be issued by the Court so that any advantage secured as a result of such contumacious conduct is completely nullifi ed. The approach may require the Court to issue directions either for reversal of the transactions in question by declaring said transactions to be void or passing appropriate directions to the concerned authorities to see that the contumacious conduct on the part of the contemnor does not continue to enure to the advantage of the contemnor or anyone claiming under him. 81. It would be pertinent, in this context, to refer to the decision of the Chancery Division in Clarke and othersv. Chadburn and others reported in (1985) 1 All ER 211, wherein it was held that an act done in wilful disobedience of an injunction or court is not only a contempt of court, but also an illegal and invalid act which could not, therefore, eff ect any change in the rights and liabilities of others. Similar view was expressed by this Court in Satyabrata Biswas and Others v. Kalyan Kumar Kisku and Others reported in (1994) 2 SCC 266, wherein the contempt jurisdiction was invoked by the respondents against the appellants, and during the contempt proceedings, it transpired that a sub tenancy was created while the status BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1113 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] quo was in operation. This Court held that creation of sub-tenancy was in violation of the status quo and parties were relegated to the position as existed on the date of the status quo . This Court, interalia, observed thus: “23. … Such an cannot be circumvented by parties with impunity and expect the court to confer its blessings. It does not matter that to contempt proceedings Somani Builders was not a party. It cannot gain advantage in derogation of the rights of the parties, who were litigating originally. If the right of sub-tenancy is recognised, how is status quo as of 15.9.1988 maintained? Hence, the grant of sublease is contrary to the of status quo. Any act done in the teeth of the of status quo is clearly illegal. All actions including the grant of sub-lease are clearly illegal.”. (Emphasis supplied) 82.