The Speaker is left without a remedy in case of their improper removal, while a disqualified member may access the remedy of judicial review if they have been unlawfully disqualified; D c. By holding that the Speaker is disabled from proceeding with disqualification proceedings under the Tenth Schedule when a notice of intention to move a resolution fortheir removal is issued, Nabam Rebia (supra) has the effect of: i. Effacing the distinction between the role of the Speaker as E a Tribunal under the Tenth Schedule and the role of the Speaker as an Officer of the State Legislature; ii. Disrupting the continuity in the functioning of the Tribunal under Paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule; and iii. Creating a constitutional hiatus in the operation of the Tenth F Schedule. d. The decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) is based on the interpretation of the phrase “all the then Members of the Assembly” in Article 179(c) of the Constitution to mean that the composition and strength of the House cannot be G altered once a notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker is issued. This interpretation is contrary to: i. The plain language of Article 179; ii. The import of Article 181; and H 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A iii. The deliberations in the Constituent Assembly Debates. e. In terms of the decision of this Court in Rajendra Singh Rana v. Swami Prasad Maurya,11 the disqualification of an MLA relates back to the date on which they engaged in the conduct proscribed under the Tenth Schedule. The B scheme of the Constitution does not envisage the possibility of disqualified MLAs issuing a notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker after the date on which they engaged in the proscribed conduct. 36. The respondents opposed the submissions urged on behalf of C the petitioners. They submitted that the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) is not required to be referred to a Bench of seven Judges of this Court for the following reasons: a. The decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) is based on ethical and constitutional considerations. If an MLA is unjustly disqualified by the Speaker and their disqualification is set D aside by the courts, they would have been deprived of the opportunity to vote on the resolution for the removal of the Speaker as well as the opportunity to participate in other proceedings of the House. On the other hand, if the Speaker is unjustly removed from office, they do not lose E membership of the House and consequently retain the right to participate in the proceedings of the House. They may also be re-elected as the Speaker; b. The Speaker may act as a Tribunal under the Tenth Schedule only when they enjoy the confidence of the House; F c. Article 181(1) provides that the Speaker cannot preside in the Legislative Assembly when a motion for their removal is pending; d. The decision in Kihoto Hollohan (supra) is an exception and not a general rule.