He would also contend that story of the prosecution is that accused was an employee in the farmhouse of the F deceased which had not been proved. He would submit that prosecution had failed to prove the chain of circumstances including the last seen theory. He would contend that very fact of accused having denied all the allegations put against him when he was examined under Section 313 of Code of Criminal Procedure (for short ‘the Cr.P.C.’) including the recovery of the dead body and other material objects at his instance G was sufficient to accept the stand of the accused by arriving at a conclusion that prosecution had failed to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. 8.1He would contend that the case of the accused was that when he was brought to the spot by the police there were already some people H 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A standing exactly at the spot where the dead body was exhumed and accused had not pointed out the spot to the police and the spot was known to the police even before the arrest of the accused. Hence, High Court ought not to have put the burden to disprove the prosecution case. He would contend that the two employees who were working in the farmhouse of the deceased were missing and there was no explanation B whatsoever forthcoming from the prosecution in this regard and this cast a serious doubt with regard to the alleged act of the deceased. He would contend that the CDR of the accused’s mobile was not secured and produced by way of evidence by prosecution which was fatal to the prosecution case. C 8.2He would contend that the alleged confessional statement Ex. P-2 is to be segregated into two parts: namely recovery of dead body and articles and in which statement was undisputedly before the police and as such inadmissible. He would also elaborate the submissions by contending that when the findings of the trial court cannot be held as D perverse or not possible to be arrived at, necessarily the benefit should be extended to the accused as held by catena of s of this Court and as such he has prayed for affirming the of acquittal passed by the Trial Court which has since been reversed by the High Court. He would contend that on suspicion, conviction cannot be sustained and the prosecution had failed to prove the guilt of the accused beyond all E reasonable doubt and by relying upon the following s he prays for allowing of the appeal and restoring the passed by the Trial Court: (i) Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra(1984) 4 SCC 116, F (ii) Sheo Swarup v. King Emperor AIR 1934 PC 227, (iii) Chandrappa and others v. State of Karnataka (2007) 4 SCC 415, (iv) Murugesan v. State through the Inspector of Police (2012) G 10 SCC 383, (v) Naresh Chandra Das v. EmperorAIR 1942 (Cal) 593, (vi) Pohalya Motya Valvi v. State of Maharashtra (1980) 1 SCC 530, H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 409 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.]