The said Act was enacted in view of the political declaration adopted by the special session of United Nations General Assembly in June, 1998 calling upon the member states to adopt national money laundering legislation and programme. 8. Section 3 of the PML Act which pertains to the off ence of money laundering, reads as under: - “3. Off ence of money-laundering. - Whosoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime including its concealment, possession, acquisition or use and projecting or claiming it as untainted property shall be guilty of off ence of money-laundering. Explanation. —For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarifi ed that, — (i) a person shall be guilty of off ence of money-laundering if such person is found to have directly or indirectly attempted to indulge or knowingly assisted or knowingly is a party or is actually involved in one or more of the following processes or activities connected with proceeds of crime, namely: — (a) concealment; or (b) possession; or (c) acquisition; or 824 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (d) use; or (e) projecting as untainted property; or (f) claiming as untainted property, in any manner whatsoever; (ii) the process or activity connected with proceeds of crime is a continuing activity and continues till such time a person is directly or indirectly enjoying the proceeds of crime by its concealment or possession or acquisition or use or projecting it as untainted property or claiming it as untainted property in any manner whatsoever.” 9. Section 45 of the said Act being relevant for the purpose of the instant appeal is reproduced hereunder for ready reference: - “45. Offences to be cognizable and non-bailable. — (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), no person accused of an off ence [under this Act] shall be released on bail or on his own bond unless - (i) the Public Prosecutor has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release; and (ii) where the Public Prosecutor opposes the application, the court is satisfi ed that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such off ence and that he is not likely to commit any off ence while on bail: Provided that a person, who, is under the age of sixteen years, or is a woman or is sick or infi rm, or is accused either on his own or along with other co-accused of money-laundering a sum of less than one crore rupees may be released on bail, if the Special Court so directs: Provided further that the Special Court shall not take cognizance of any off ence punishable undersection 4 except upon a complaint in writing made by— (i) the Director; or (ii) any offi cer of the Central Government or a State Government authorised in writing in this behalf by the Central Government by a general or special made in this behalf by that Government.