While examining the question of delay in making the complaint, the courts must remain G alive to the fact that it is difficult for a woman to come forward and make a statement alleging rape or sexual assault. [Paras 33 and 34][171-B-F] H 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 1.5 Every criminal case, it is stated, is a voyage of discovery in which truth is the quest. Right from the inception of the judicial system, it has been accepted that discovery, vindication and establishment of truth are the primary purposes underlying the existence of the courts of justice. However, the supremacy of truth is easier to assert than to define. Often this task becomes B difficult when contradictory factual positions are asserted duly supported and affirmed on oath. In adversarial systems, the process of ascertaining truth requires compliance of procedures and rules of evidence, and limit the role of the adjudicator, in acting as an investigator to verify veracity of the allegations and C counter-allegations till evidence and material is laid and examined as per codified procedural law. Yet it is believed that clash of adversaries is best calculated to getting out the facts. In a well- designed system, judicial findings of formal legal truth should coincide with the substantive truth. This can happen when the facts as asserted by the contestants are skilfully explored in D accordance with the procedure prescribed by law. Abuse of law must be checked, if possible, at the very threshold, albeit when it is possible and also as per the procedure prescribed by law. [Para 35][171-F-H; 172-A-B] 1.6. When a complaint is presented before a Magistrate, E he has two options. One is to pass an contemplated by Section 156(3). The second one is to direct examination of the complainant on oath and the witness present, and proceed further in the manner provided by Section 202. An under Section 156(3) is in the nature of a peremptory reminder or intimation to F the police to exercise its plenary power of investigation under Section 156(1). However, once the Magistrate has taken cognizance under Section 190 of the Code, he cannot ask for an investigation by the Police. After cognizance has been taken, if the Magistrate wants any investigation, it will be under Section 202, whose purpose is to ascertain whether there is prima facie G case against the person accused of the offence and to prevent issue of process in a false or vexatious complaint intended to harass the person named. Such examination is provided, therefore, to find out whether there is or not sufficient ground for proceeding further. [Para 36][173-B-D] H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 139 AND OTHERS 1.7 The question of the merits of the allegations, and what A procedure the Magistrate should follow is not gone into as this is an aspect which the Magistrate must first consider and decide judiciously and as per the law. What is impermissible and contrary to law is an adjudication on merits of the allegations and determination of the facts as baseless, without further scrutiny B and examination.