25. Shri Poovayya further submitted that in view of the B of this Court in the case of Tata Power Company Limited Transmission v. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission4and MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra), an interference in the concurrent findings of fact would not be warranted. 26. It is further submitted by Shri Poovayya that the Bank C Guarantee furnished by APML was also returned by CIL, finding no fault on the part of APML thereby fortifying its claim for Change in Law benefit. 27. It is further submitted by Shri Poovayya that MSEDCL was a part of the Expert Committee, which was constituted by the MERC vide its dated 21st August 2013. Having participated in the said meeting D in which the Expert Committee held that APML was entitled for compensation on account of deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks, it does not lie in the mouth of MSEDCL to contend that APML is not entitled to ‘Change in Law’ compensation. 28. Out of the seven issues framed by APTEL, the 5th issue was E not pressed before the APTEL. 29. When we heard this batch of Electricity appeals, it was agreed between all the parties that this Court should first decide Civil Appeal No. 684 of 2021 (MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra)) and Civil Appeal No. 6927 of 2021 (Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution F Company Limited v. GMR Warora Energy Ltd. and Others) inasmuch as three of the issues involved in all the appeals in the batch were common. It was submitted that those two appeals could be decided by deciding the three common issues. However, insofar as the other appeals are concerned, it was submitted that, in addition to the three common issues, G certain additional issues were also involved and it was agreed that after those two appeals are decided, the other appeals should be heard for considering these additional issues. 30. The said three common issues are thus: H 4 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1615 MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 661 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ] (i) Whether ‘Change in Law’ relief on account of NCDP 2013 A should be on ‘actuals’ viz. as against 100% of normative coal requirement assured in terms of NCDP 2007 OR restricted to trigger levels in NCDP 2013 viz. 65%, 65%, 67% and 75% of Assured Coal Quantity (ACQ)? (ii) Whether for computing ‘Change in Law’ relief, the B operating parameters be considered on ‘actuals’ OR as per technical information submitted in bid? (iii) Whether ‘Change in Law’ relief compensation is to be granted from 1st April 2013 (start of Financial Year) or 31st July 2013 (date of NCDP 2013)? C 31. After extensively hearing all the learned counsel for the parties, vide the and dated 3rd March 2023 in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra), this Court decided those two appeals after considering the aforesaid three issues. 32. The first issue was answered by this Court, holding that the D ‘Change in Law’ relief for domestic coal shortfall should be on ‘actuals’ i.e.