It appeared that Respondent No. 1 had been specifically singled out and F targeted; vii) Respondent No. 1 had already spent significant amounts on the development of land, based on the supplementary lease deed and conversion that had been granted earlier. Hence, the doctrine of legitimate expectations and estoppel G would operate against the State and its authorities from reneging on this arrangement; viii) The workers unions had failed to put in an appearance during the arguments, and their submissions could not be considered as a result. H 3 (1978) 1 SCC 405. BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 267 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] Consequently, the High Court quashed the decision of the Cabinet A Committee and the steps taken by RIICO to cancel the allotment to Respondent No. 1. The Appellant Unions, RIICO, and the State, have now come before us in appeal in this batch of matters. B. ARGUMENTS B 32. We have heard submissions from learned Senior Counsels, Mr. Dushyant Dave and Dr. Manish Singhvi, representing the State of Rajasthan and RIICO, respectively. They sought to point out the flaws in the impugned through the following arguments:- i) The land allotted to Respondent No. 1 in LIA, Kota, always C remained with the State Government and was never allocated to RIICO despite the dated 18.09.1979 regarding industrial lands being moved under the control of RIICO. Various communications and activities by RIICO over the years indicate that it was also aware of this fact. Hence, RIICO had no authority to consider the proposal by D Respondent No. 1 for changing the usage of the land from industrial to commercial; ii) When the fresh set of lease were executed with Respondent No. 1 pursuant to the AAIFR scheme and rehabilitation plan for JKSL, the agreements were signed by the District E Collector, Kota. RIICO was not involved in this process. Respondent No. 1 had, in fact, acted all along in a manner which acknowledged the District Collector and the state revenue authorities were always managing the affairs of the subject - area; F iii) The land in question was to be regulated through the 1959 Rules rather than the 1979 Rules. This was because, as RIICO and Respondent No. 1 had already accepted through their conduct over decades, that the State Government retained control over LIA, Kota. Hence, only the State of Rajasthan through the District Collector, Kota, and not G RIICO, could have considered the proposal for conversion of the land and the execution of supplementary lease deeds. Rule 12 of the 1979 Rules clearly envisaged that the newly inserted provisions would be applicable only to leases that were signed prospectively. In this instance, JKSL had H 268 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A already been put in charge of the area in LIA, Kota, under the 1959 Rules; iv) Rule 8 of the 1959 Rules clearly states that the land in question is not to be used for any purpose other than the objective of industrial development.