It is submitted that therefore, aggressive provisions were brought G in for the recovery of dues and compound interests are given in MSMED Act which is not present in any other legislations and is in the nature of a beneficial legislation. It is submitted that therefore, in view of Section 24 of the MSMED Act which provides for an overriding effect over other prevailing laws, the provisions with respect to H 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A recoveries under MSMED Act shall prevail over the recoveries under SARFAESI Act. 3.2 It is submitted that the financial institutions have various other means of recovery including SARFAESI Act, IBC etc. as being a secured creditor to an extent of also taking B personal guarantee from the Directors of the company in certain cases. However, such liberty of taking personal guarantees etc. are not available to MSME and they completely rely on MSMED Act for recovery of dues and as such have only one method of recovery by virtue of the C award which is in the nature of a decree from the Facilitation Council. It is submitted that in the above said context, an overriding provision is provided under Section 24 of the MSMED Act. 3.3 It is submitted that Section 24 of the MSMED Act provides D for an overriding effect over other prevailing laws. It is submitted that the provisions of Sections 15 to 23 of the MSMED Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force. It is submitted that the entire scheme E of provisions under Chapter V – Sections 15 to 23 which includes delayed payments, recovery of amounts due, and establishment of Facilitation Council and its award has an overriding effect on all other legislations including SARFAESI Act. It is submitted that therefore, an award from the Facilitation Council will also have an overriding F effect by virtue of Section 24. It is submitted that the intention of the legislature is clear as the overriding provision is for a particular set of delayed payments recovery mechanism provided under MSMED Act which is also in consonance with object and purpose of the MSMED Act. G 3.4 It is further submitted that MSMED Act is a subsequent legislation and by providing Section 24 of the MSMED Act, the legislature has purposefully and knowingly superseded all the recovery procedures prevailing at that relevant point of time, by its non-obstante clause. It is submitted that if H KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. GIRNAR CORRUGATORS 881 PVT. LTD. & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] any contrary interpretation is to be given to the said position A of law, then the same would make Section 24 redundant, which by all means is not the intention of the legislature. It is submitted that if SARFAESI Act is given overriding effect over the MSMED Act, then it would render awards of the Facilitation Council as non-executable in all cases where B there is a secured creditor.