5. Disciplinary Action: Where such conduct amounts to misconduct in employment as defi ned by the relevant service rules, appropriate disciplinary action should be initiated by the employer in accordance with those rules. 6. Complaint Mechanism: Whether or not such conduct constitutes an off ence under law or a breach of the service rules, an appropriate complaint mechanism should be created in the employer’s organization for redress of the complaint made by the victim. Such complaint mechanism should ensure time bound-treatment of complaints. 7. Complaints Committee The complaint mechanism, referred to in (6) above, should be adequate to provide, where necessary, a Complaints Committee, a special counsellor or other support service, including the maintenance of confi dentiality. The Complaints Committee should be headed by a woman and not less than half of its member should be women. Further, to prevent the possibility of any undue pressure or infl uence from senior levels, such Complaints Committee should involve a third party, either NGO or other body who is familiar with the issue of sexual harassment. UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 519 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] The Complaints Committee must make an annual report to the Government Department concerned of the complaints and action taken by them. The employers and person-in-charge will also report on the compliance with the aforesaid guidelines including on the reports of the Complaints Committee to the Government department. 8. Workers’ initiative Employees should be allowed to raise issues of sexual harassment at workers’ meeting and in other appropriate forum and it should be affi rmatively discussed in employer-employee meetings. 9. Awareness: Awareness of the rights of female employees in this regard should be created in particular by prominently notifying the guidelines (and appropriate legislation when enacted on the subject) in a suitable manner. 10. Third-party Harassment: Where sexual harassment occurs as a result of an act or omission by any third party or outsider, the employer and person- in-charge will take all steps necessary and reasonable to assist the aff ected person in terms of support and preventive action. 11. The Central/State Governments are requested to consider adopting suitable measures including legislation to ensure that the guidelines laid down by this are also observed by the employers in private sector. 12. These guidelines will not prejudice any rights available under the Protection of Human Rights Act, 1993. 18. Accordingly, we direct that the above guidelines and norms would be strictly observed in all work places for the preservation and enforcement of the right to gender equality of the working women. These directions would be binding and enforceable in law until suitable legislation is enacted to occupy the fi eld. These writ petitions are disposed of, accordingly.” 520 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 35. This was followed by another decision of this Court in Medha Kotwal Lele and Others v. Union of India and Others reported in (2013) 1 SCC 297, decided on 19.10.2012, wherein this Court anguished by the failure of the Union & State Governments in complying with the Vishaka guidelines, more particularly, the constitution of the complaints committee, issued a writ of continuing mandamus to ensure due compliance of the guidelines.