The police personnel kept my husband for one day...” This negates one of the circumstances that there was tension between the deceased and E the accused, which was, the motive of commission of crime, i.e. issue of use of the shop inter se the parties. [Para 19][690-G-H; 691-A-C] 3. This Court noticed in respect of the next circumstance, which is the recovery of keys and the money, that there is no F independent corroborated material except for the confessional statement of the accused, which also is not proven on record. Even otherwise, the keys, the currency notes and the blood stained clothes were not sent for chemical analysis. There is only an unexhibited copy of the FSL Report of the alleged blood stained clothes of the Appellant which stands not proven by G anyone. Also none has come forward to depose that the accused had kept the keys of the shop with himself, for after all, it is not the case of the prosecution that the shop belonged to the accused. [Para 20][691-C-E] H 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 4. The substratum of the evidence, that is the extra judicial confessional statement of the Appellant, apart from being hit by Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, this Court finds it not to have been supported by PW-1 and PW-7, who as is evident, was himself a suspect. He admits it to be “...correct to say that the Inspector had detained me and some villagers where the dead B body was laying...” and “...it is correct to say that I did not disclose the statement made by accused-appellant to any other person before 4 o’clock...” We have already noticed his wife (PW-13) to have supported this statement. Now, if this witness was himself a suspect, his testimony cannot be said to be unimpeachable or C free from blemish. This witness, in this Court’s considered view, cannot be said to be reliable and trustworthy. [Para 21][691-E-G; 692-B] 5. Dealing with the star witness of the prosecution which is the Investigation Officer, (PW-19), this Court finds his testimony to be wholly unworthy of any credence: unbelievable; and the D witness to be unreliable. This we say so for the reasons that he did not record the statement of PW-10 or PW-7 in respect any prior animosity between the deceased and the accused. The evidence pertaining to the genesis of the crime was not collected by him. He also does not state as to what made him detain E accused-appellant on 3.10.2023. Be that as it may, he did not examine witnesses, who in considered view of this Court, perhaps may have thrown some light about regard to the actual occurrence of the incident. He admits that houses of few co-villagers are just at a distance of 30 to 70 meters from the spot of the crime. Yet, he did not examine any of them. Why so? No explanation is F forthcoming. Crucially, he admits that, “the investigation concluded having no direct evidence” indicating the time and the manner in which the crime took place.