Under what authority of law, the Secretary (Home) has transferred the investigation to another agency and/or ed further investigation by another agency is not pointed out and that too at the H BOHATIE DEVI (DEAD) THROUGH LR v. THE STATE OF 653 UTTAR PRADESH & ORS [M. R. SHAH, J.] instance of the accused on the grounds which as such can be said to be A the defences of the accused which are required to be considered at the time of trial. The case on behalf of the accused that as the Secretary (Home) is the head of the department and the further investigation was ed by another agency on administrative side and therefore, the Secretary (Home) is justified in ing further investigation by CBCID B cannot be accepted. So far as the investigation is concerned under the scheme of the Cr.PC, the Police Officer of the concerned Police Station, who is the investigating officer, has to investigate/further investigate the case under the supervision of Superintendent of Police. So far as the Secretary (Home) is concerned, he does not come into picture at all. If such powers are given to the Secretary (Home) in that case any accused C who is already chargesheeted may approach the Secretary (Home) and may get an of further investigation or reinvestigation by another agency and obtain the fresh report nullifying the earlier chargesheet and get himself discharged. If the accused is aggrieved by the chargesheet in that case, the remedy available to him would be either to file the D quashing petition under Section 482 of Cr.PC and/or to move an appropriate application for discharge before the learned Magistrate and it is for the High Court and/or the learned Magistrate as the case may be, to quash criminal proceedings or discharge the accused. The Secretary (Home) and/or any accused who is already chargesheeted cannot be permitted to circumvent such provision. It is to be noted that in the present E case, respondent No. 8 – accused earlier did file the quashing petition, but failed. 7.3 Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the accused relying upon Section 173(3) of Cr.PC is concerned, it provides how to submit/ send a report to the Magistrate and who shall send the report to the F Magistrate. It provides that where a superior officer of police has been appointed under Section 158, the report, shall be submitted through that officer, and he may, pending the s of the Magistrate, direct the officer in charge of the police station to make further investigation. Therefore, Section 173(3) read with Section 158 does not permit the G Secretary (Home) to for further investigation/reinvestigation by another agency, other than the officer in charge of the concerned Police Station and/or his superior officer. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by H 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the High Court is hereby quashed and set aside.