The Expert Committee also took into consideration the Report of the Heritage E Committee constituted by the Government of India under the chairmanship of His Excellency, the Administrator, UT Chandigarh and the approved letter of the Government of India dated 23rd December 2011. 66. Clause 1.9 of the CMP-2031 provides the guiding principles for comprehensive CMP-2031. Clause (v) thereof states that F Chandigarh’s architecture shall preserve the vitality of all public and private buildings. Public open spaces shall be created as vibrant community spaces, and the left-out monuments envisaged by Le Corbusier shall be completed. Urban design shall be the guiding principle for improving the quality of inner and outer spaces. It also considers that one of the challenges for Chandigarh was the high degree of traffic G congestion. 67. Clause 1.12 of the CMP-2031 would reveal that Chandigarh has a universally acclaimed rich ‘Heritage’ and ‘Green City’ character. 68. Clause 4.5 of the CMP-2031 states the salient features of the Chandigarh Plan. It states that the function of Living occupies primary H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 637 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] place and has been organized into a cellular system of sectors based on A the concept of a neighbourhood unit. Each sector, with the exception of some sectors, has a size of 800m × 1200m which was determined on the parameter of providing all amenities, i.e., shops, schools, health centres and places of recreation and worship within a 10-minute walking distance of the residents. The originally planned population of a sector varied B between 3000 and 20,000 depending upon the size of plots, the topography of the area, and the urban design considerations. Each sector is introvert in character and permits only four vehicular entries into its interior to provide a tranquil and serene environment conducive to the enrichment of life. It also emphasized on family life and community living. It states that Chandigarh is planned as a green city with abundance of open C spaces. It ensures that every dwelling has its adequate share of the three elements of Sun, Space and Verdure. The location of green belt was in the north- south direction to link all sectors with the Shivalik range of hills/mountains. The city was planned as a low-rise city and even after sixty years of its inception, it still retains the original concept D to a large extent. 69. Clause 5.3 of the CMP-2031 deals with density. It states that the population density during the last five decades has increased 9 fold, from 1051 to 9252 persons per sq. km. It states that Chandigarh shall continue to record higher densities with further population growth, which poses a challenge for maintaining the quality of life and providing basic E and essential services even to its poorest residents as visioned by the city’s planners. 70. Clause 5.3.2 of the CMP-2031 states that though Phase-I was planned to be low density development with 9000 acres of land housing 1,50,000 population, i.e., the density of 16 persons per acre, as F per 2001 Census, it was 26 persons per acre.