27. Proviso to clause (b) to Explanation 1 to Rule 3 states that consumption by a subsidiary, or holding company as defi ned in the Companies Act, 2013, when one of them is a captive user, shall be also admissible as 39 Supra note 18. M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 367 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] captive consumption by the captive user. Clause (b) to Explanation 1 to Rule 3 states that captive user is the end user of the electricity. Captive user is the actual consumer who uses electricity for his own use. 28. The fi rst proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules applies in case of a CGP set up by a registered cooperative society. In such cases, the requirements under paragraphs (i) and (ii) to Rule 3(1)(a) are treated as satisfi ed collectively by the members of the cooperative society. Therefore, if the members of the cooperative society consume more than 51% of the electricity generated collectively, the power plant is to be treated as a CGP and the members of the cooperative society as captive users. The cooperative society may supply 49% or less of the aggregate electricity generated to third parties. Any third party, who is not a member of the cooperative society, will be a non-captive user and a consumer, who will be liable to pay a cross-subsidy and an additional surcharge, as applicable. The members of the cooperative society when they collectively satisfy the consumption requirement will not be liable to pay cross-subsidy or additional surcharge, irrespective of whether they use dedicated transmission lines or exercise their right to open access using the distribution network of the distribution licensee. They will be liable to pay wheeling charges to the distribution licensee in case they use their distribution network. 29. The second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules applies in cases where the captive user(s) is an, “association of persons”. We will elaborate on the eligibility requirements for, “association of persons”, while interpreting the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) in Issue II. 30. Two secondary, but nevertheless important questions arise for our consideration. 31. First,a contention was raised before us that since Section 2(8) of the Act uses the expression,“power plant set up by any person”, the captive user under Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules must be the person who had participated in setting up the plant. It is submitted that, “set up”, does not include the acquisition of shares/ownership after the power plant has already been set up. Therefore, transfer of captive status through transfer of ownership is prohibited under the Act. 368 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 32. We should not accept this plea for several reasons. The expression, “set up” used in clause Section 2(8) of the Act should not to be read in a pedantic manner as referring to initial set up. We should recognise the practical reality and not ignore the impractical asinine consequences of this interpretation. Section 2(8) of the Act should not be read as impliedly incorporating a prohibition to transfer of ownership once the CGP has been set up.