It is unfortunate that in a democracy of this magnitude, criminalisation has always been a ubiquitous parasite aff ecting democratic principles and ideals. In this light, this Court has had the occasion to decide matters involving myriad forms of criminalisation of politics; however, in no manner can the mandate of the people be pitted against that of a statute simply to nullify such disqualifi cation. This essence of the appellant’s argument, when juxtaposed with the purpose of the RoP Act, pales into insignifi cance being a bizarre attempt to use the electorate as a shield to maintain incumbency against clear statutory intent. 61. In a functional democracy, the electorate’s right to have its elected representative voice its interests before the Parliament/Legislative Assemblies is a cornerstone of the system. This is why the factor of the electorate going unrepresented, in case a conviction recorded against an 23 (2021) 6 SCC 523 24 (2022) 12 SCC 273 101 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. elected representative is not stayed, assumes some importance. However, one cannot simply brush aside that those who voted in favour of the appellant must have reposed full faith and confi dence in him, with the thought that their interests would be best served if he were elected. Out of these electors, there could be some who may not be willing to have their interests represented by the appellant who has been convicted, not to speak of the cross-section of the electorate who voted against him and who, in all probability, would like to have the voice of such tainted member silenced for all intents and purposes. In such fact situation, should a convict merely because of his status as a member of the Lok Sabha/Legislative Assembly, particularly when only a few months remain for a new Lok Sabha to be formed, be given special treatment when in ordinary circumstances, such treatment may not be available to the common citizen? The answer to this question, I am inclined to think, is a simple “NO” unless, of course, it is shown that grave injustice and irreversible consequences would follow a refusal by the competent court to stay the conviction. 62. It has neither been shown from the application fi led before the High Court under section 389(1), Cr. PC that the appellant did specifi cally pray for stay of the conviction nor did I fi nd the same therein; hence, question of the appellant suffering grave injustice and irreversible consequences would have to take a back seat, considering the absence of any such specifi c prayer. This is the fi rst, though not the foremost, ground for not considering the prayer of the appellant favourably. 63. Moving on, it is paramount that sight is not lost of the fact of disqualifi cation arising under section 8 of the RoP Act which indeed is the ramifi cation – a statutory corollary of sorts – of the conviction and sentence imposed by the Trial Court. By the time the appellant approached the High Court with the application under section 389(1), Cr.