Turning next to the Tamil Nadu case, the legislative history of the entry is telling. Talcum powder, lipsticks, lip salve, nail polish, nail varnishes, nail brushes, toilet powders, baby powders, talcum powders, powder pads, etc. clearly showed that all manner of talcum powder fell within Entry, i.e. Item 1. After the amendment, with effect from 01.04.1994, the explanation was added. The explanation specifically D stated that items “listed above” “even if medicated or as defined in Section 3”(of the Drugs Act)”or manufactured on the license issued under the said Act will fall under this item”. The explanation included, in Item 1, Part F medicated talcum powder, regardless that the license to manufacture it, was under the Drugs Act. The pointed reference to E toilet powders, baby powders, talcum powders, powder pads, along with the additional words “even if medicated” again, like in the Kerala case, is decisive. 51. In a decision of this court, Oblum Electrical Industries Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad v Collector of Customs, Bombay30 the function of an explanation was stated to be thus: F “It is a well settled principle of statutory construction that the Explanation must be read so as to harmonise with and clear up any ambiguity in the main provision.” 52. In Union of India (UOI) and Ors. vs. Godfrey Philips India G Ltd.31 this court had to deal with an explanation that expanded the meaning of “packing”. The court observed that explanations are also used to widen terms: 301997 Supp (3) SCR 68 H 311985Supp (3) SCR123 HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 455 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “[..] The Explanation to Section 4(4)(d)(i) provides an A exclusive definition of the term “packing” and it includes not only outer packing but also what may be called inner packing. Ordinarily bobbin, pirl, spool, reel and warp beam on which yarn is wound would not be regarded as packing of such yarn, but they are brought within the definition of “packing” B by the Explanation. The Explanation thus extends the meaning of the word “packing” to cover items which would not ordinarily be regarded as forming part of packing. The Explanation then proceeds to say that “packing” means wrapper, container or any other thing in which the excisable goods are wrapped or contained. It is apparent from the wide C language of the Explanation that every kind of container in which it can be said that the excisable goods are contained would be “packing” within the meaning of the Explanation and this would necessarily include a fortiori corrugated fibre board containers in which the cigarettes are contained. When D Bombay Tyre International case was argued before us, it was at one stage sought to be contended, though rather faintly, that it is only the immediate packing in which the excisable goods are contained, that is primary packing alone, which would be liable to be regarded as “packing” within the meaning of the Explanation. But this argument was given up E when it was pointed out that even secondary packing would be within the terms of the Explanation, because such secondary packing would also constitute a wrapper or a container in which the excisable goods are wrapped or contained.