A supply of domestic coal which would be minimum of 65%, 65%, 67% and 75% of LoA for the remaining four years of the 12th Plan for the already concluded PPAs based on tariff based competitive bidding.” 81. Perusal of para 4 would clearly reveal that the higher cost of B import/market based e-auction coal was to be considered for being made a pass-through on a case to case basis by CERC/SERC to the extent of shortfall in the quantity indicated in the LoA/FSA. It further reiterates that CIL may supply domestic coal which would be minimum of 65%, 65%, 67% and 75% of LoA for the remaining four years of the 12th Plan for the already concluded PPAs based on tariff based competitive C bidding. 82. The MoP thereafter vide Resolution dated 28th January 2016 notified the ‘Tariff Policy’. It will be relevant to refer to clause 6.1 of the said Policy, which reads thus: “6.0 GENERATION D ……………… 6.1 Procurement of power As stipulated in para 5.1, power procurement for future requirements should be through a transparent competitive bidding E mechanism using the guidelines issued by the Central Government from time to time. These guidelines provide for procurement of electricity separately for base load requirements and for peak load requirements. This would facilitate setting up of generation capacities specifically for meeting such requirements. F However, some of the competitively bid projects as per the guidelines dated 19th January, 2005 have experienced difficulties in getting the required quantity of coal from Coal India Limited (CIL). In case of reduced quantity of domestic coal supplied by CIL, vis-a-vis the assured quantity or quantity indicated in Letter G of Assurance/FSA the cost of imported/market based e-auction coal procured for making up the shortfall, shall be considered for being made a pass through by Appropriate Commission on a case to case basis, as per advisory issued by Ministry of Power vide OM No. FU-12/2011-IPC (Voi-IJI) dated 31.7.2013.” H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 125 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 83. It is thus clear that the Tariff Policy dated 28th January 2016 A provided that the power procurement for future requirements should be through a transparent competitive bidding mechanism using the guidelines issued by the Central Government from time to time. It further provides the guidelines for procurement of electricity separately for base load requirements and for peak load requirements. It further notes that some B of the competitively bid projects as per the guidelines dated 19th January, 2005 have experienced difficulties in getting the required quantity of coal from CIL. It further provides that in case of reduced quantity of domestic coal supplied by CIL vis-à-vis the assured quantity or quantity indicated in LoA/FSA, the cost of imported/market based e-auction coal procured for making up the shortfall shall be considered for being made C a pass-through by Appropriate Commission on a case to case basis. This is in pursuance of the advisory issued by Ministry of Power dated 31st July 2013.