The preamble of this amending Act indicates that the same was intended to further amend the B SARFAESI Act, the RDDB Act, the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and the Depository Act, 1996 and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” Thereafter, the Bombay High Court considered in detail Section 18. After considering the decision of this Court in the case of Narayan C Chandra Ghosh v. UCO Bank, (2011) 4 SCC 548, it was observed and held that provisions of Section 18, more particularly the second and the third proviso thereto are mandatory in nature and that the DRAT has no power to grant full waiver of deposit. In paragraph 16, it is observed as under: D “16. Section 18(1) clearly stipulates, any person aggrieved by any made by the DRT under Section 17, may prefer an appeal to the DRAT within 30 days from the date of receipt of the of the DRT. The 2nd proviso to Section 18(1) stipulates that no appeal shall be entertained by the DRAT unless the borrower E has deposited with it 50% of the amount of debt due from him, as claimed by the secured creditors or as determined by the DRT, whichever is less. The 3rd proviso to Section 18(1) gives a discretion to the DRAT to reduce the aforesaid amount to not less than 25%, provided the DRAT gives reasons for the same which are to be recorded in writing. What becomes clear from the F aforesaid provisions is that there is a jurisdictional bar from entertaining an appeal filed by the borrower from an passed under Section 17, unless the borrower deposits 50% of the amount of debt due from him, as claimed by the secured creditors or as determined by the DRT, whichever is less. There is also a G discretion granted to the DRAT to reduce this amount to 25% provided it finds adequate reasons for doing so and gives reasons, that are recorded in writing. If this deposit is not made, then the DRAT has no jurisdiction to entertain the appeal of the borrower. The crucial words “debt due from him” have to be interpreted consistent with the object and purpose sought to be achieved by H M/S SIDHA NEELKANTH PAPER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. 571 PRUDENT ARC LIMITED & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] the SARFAESI Act. Unless the debt due is secured, the borrower A cannot be allowed the luxury of litigation. If that is permitted, the secured creditors would be engaged in a continuous and futile litigation. On a plain reading of the section, it is clear that the DRAT has no power or jurisdiction to reduce the deposit amount to less than 25%. This is ex-facie clear from the plain and B unambiguous language of Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act.” That thereafter the Bombay High Court considered the submission on behalf of the borrower that as the bank had already sold the secured assets for a consideration that fully secured their claim and therefore there was no requirement for the borrower to deposit any amount as C contemplated under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act.