So, the issue is better framed as one question, rather than two: is the activity, on the one hand, a trade, or an adventure in the nature of trade, producing a profi t, or is it on the other, a mutual arrangement which, at most, gives rise to a surplus. 8.9.2 On the facts of the said case, it was observed that the disparity between the member of the club and the guest of the hotel (hotel members) was substantial. In other words, the members of the club were trading, earning profi ts from the hotel which used to send their guests for using the club facilities, commensurate with their subscription. Therefore, any surplus income derived by the said Club from the hotel members was in the nature of profi ts and therefore the nature of the transaction being a trading transaction, the income thus generated was liable for tax. 8.9.3 Reference was made to the case of The Carlisle & Silloth Golf Club vs. Smith, (1912) 6 TC 48, which brings out the distinction between members, contributing on a mutual basis in to secure an amenity, and outsiders admitted to participate in amenities on payment, with whom the club is trading. At what point, does the relationship of mutuality end and that of trading begin? That is the critical and diffi cult question and the relevance of facts is to ascertain the nature of the activity. It was observed that it is SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1011 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] not an essential condition of mutuality that contributions to the fund and rights in it should be equal; but if mutuality is to have any meaning, there must be a reasonable relationship, contemplated or in result, between what a member contributes and what with due allowance for interim benefi ts of enjoyment, he may expect or be entitled to draw from the fund i.e., there ought to be a relationship between his liabilities and his rights. 8.9.4 In Revesby Credit Union Cooperative Ltd. vs. Federal Commissioner of Taxation, (1965) 112 CLR 564, the High Court of Australia considered the question, whether, principle of mutuality applies to deprive the dividend of the character of income. It was observed that the principle of mutuality seems to be settled in cases where a number of people contribute to a fund created and controlled by them for a common purpose. In such cases, any surplus paid to the contributors after the use of the fund for the common purpose is not income but is to be regarded as a mere repayment of the contributor’s own money vide Bohemians Club vs. Acting Federal Commissioner of Taxation, (1918) 24 CLR 334. Incorporation of the fund is not relevant vide Styles. What is required is that the fund must have been created for the common purpose and owned or controlled wholly by the contributors. If it is owned or controlled by anyone else the principle cannot apply vide Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States vs. Bishop, (1900) 1 QB 177.