Chapter VII of the Stamp Act indicates the penalties for non-compliance with its provisions and fi nally, Chapter VIII contains certain supplementary provisions in relation to the statute. 35 Section 31(1), Stamp Act 36 Section 32(1), Stamp Act 37 Section 32(2), Stamp Act 38 Section 32(3), Stamp Act 111 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. ii. The consequences of the failure to stamp an instrument a. The procedure under the Stamp Act 37. Section 17 of the Stamp Act provides that all instruments chargeable with duty and executed by any person in India shall be stamped before or at the time of execution. Section 62 inter alia penalises a failure to comply with Section 17. However, despite the mandate that all instruments chargeable with duty must be stamped, many instruments are not stamped or are insuffi ciently stamped. The parties executing an instrument may, contrary to the mandate of law, attempt to avoid the payment of stamp duty and may therefore refrain from stamping it. Besides this situation, there are other ways in which an instrument may not be properly stamped, including the following: a. The duty may have been paid under an incorrect description under Schedule I; b. The duty paid may be of a suffi cient amount but of improper description; c. The provisions of Section 5 which govern instruments relating to several distinct matters may not have been complied with; or d. The instrument may be written in contravention of Sections 13 and 14, and thereby deemed to be unstamped in terms of Section 15. 38. The legislature recognized that the mandate of the Stamp Act may not be complied with because of the reasons listed in the preceding paragraph or otherwise. It was in recognition of this fact that the provisions in Chapter IV were enacted. Section 33 provides that every person who has authority to receive evidence (either by law or by consent of parties) shall impound an instrument which is, in their opinion, chargeable with duty but which appears to be not duly stamped. The power under Section 33 may be exercised when an instrument is produced before the authority or when they come across it in the performance of their functions. Persons in charge of public offi ce except police offi cers are similarly empowered under Section 33, which is reproduced below: IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1115 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] “33. Examination and impounding of instruments.—(1) Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, and every person in charge of a public offi ce, except an offi cer of police, before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in the performance of his functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly stamped, impound the same. (2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every instrument so chargeable and so produced or coming before him, in to ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law in force in India when such instrument was executed or fi rst executed: Provided that— (a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require any Magistrate or Judge of a Criminal Court to examine or impound, if he does not think fi t so to do, any instrument coming before him in the course of any proceeding other than a proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (5 of 1898); (b) in the case of a Judge of a High Court, the duty of examining and impounding any instrument under this section may be delegated to such offi cer as the Court appoints in this behalf.