When the substantial majority of CoC was not in favour of such discussion which was proposed to be thrusted on them only a few hours before the meeting, their approach cannot be faulted at. In any case, an D application for withdrawal in terms of Section 12-A of the Code could have been made only if CoC approved the proposal with 90% voting share. When the creditors with substantial voting share were against any such proposal, any consideration was clearly ruled out and there could not have been any valid application for withdrawal. E 58. Thus, the Appellate Tribunal has erred in holding that the settlement offer of the promoter in terms of Section 12-A was not placed for consideration of CoC. Approval of resolution plan in question could not have been reversed on this count. However, as noticed hereinbefore, approval of the resolution plan in question could not have been endorsed F by the Appellate Tribunal because of other substantial reasons. Point G – Impact and effect of subsequent events 59. The discussion aforesaid would have been decisive of the matter but there had been several subsequent events in this matter, particularly of fresh invitation for EOI and then, approval of the settlement G offer of the promoter by the CoC in its nineteenth meeting held on 12.10.2022 by 100% majority of the voting share. Thus, the question is about the impact and effect of such subsequent events. For dealing with this question, we need to recapitulate the relevant background aspects of the case and the chronology of subsequent events. H 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 60. As noticed, in the impugned and dated 17.02.2022, the Appellate Tribunal had directed the CoC to reconsider the offer of the promoter within fifteen days from the date of its (i.e., within fifteen days from 17.02.2022). Prior to this, twice over the propositions of such settlement offer by the promoter had been dealt with disfavourably. The relevant parts of proceedings in the ninth CoC B meeting concerning such proposal have already been noticed hereinbefore. It is noticed that after approval of the resolution plan, the promoter again submitted a settlement proposal on 08.03.2021 which was followed by a letter dated 14.07.2021 from one Saveetha Institute of Medical and Technical Sciences as proof of funding, but the said C letter was subsequently withdrawn by the said Institute. The resolution plan was approved by the Adjudicating Authority on 15.07.2021, which was challenged by the promoter and the Appellate Tribunal granted stay over operation of the dated 15.07.2021. The Appellate Tribunal, ultimately, allowed the appeal and apart from disapproving the resolution plan in question, directed the resolution professional to call for the meeting D of CoC within 15 days from the date of and to proceed with CIRP from the stage of publication of Form G and put the proposal of promoter before CoC for consideration. In compliance of these directions of NCLAT, eleventh CoC meeting was held on 03.03.2022 where the settlement proposal of the promoter was put to vote in the CoC; the E voting continued until 25.03.2022; and ultimately, the said settlement proposal was voted against by 51.81% of the voting share.