6) That without prejudice to the above, my client is ready to make the payment of balance instalments as per the statement of account subject to the undertaking of proposed completion of the said flat and further production of written progress certificate from the E architect concerned of yours because my clientess shall not be kept in dark for period not known to her within which she is going to take possession of the flat. 7) That it is further to mention here that as per the various landmark pronouncements of National Commission as well as State F Commissions of various states, in the said facts and circumstances, you are certainly liable to be prosecuted and also liable to the damages and interest thereon. In light of the above facts and circumstances, I do hereby call upon you which I hereby do and call upon you, to furnish or produce G a written undertaking supported by a progress/completion certificate from your concerned architect within which the said flats shall be completed, within a period of 15 days from the date of the present legal notice, failing which I have clear instructions from my said clientess to invoke the proper forum under the relevant provisions of law against you. H 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Without prejudice to the above, my said clientess shall have other legal rights against you as advised in law.” 5.3. In reply to the aforesaid notice, the appellants stated details of payment made by the respondent and it was alleged that it had been a matter only of provisional allotment and no agreement as such was B executed between the parties; and the allotment had been cancelled due to default on her part. After tabulating the payment made and the alleged dues, it was also stated on behalf of the appellants that they were ready to refund the amount by way of cheque but the respondent was seeking refund in cash, which was unjustified. However, a cheque in the sum of Rs. 10,68,031/- was sent towards refund with the said reply dated C 08.11.2005 while stating, inter alia, as under: - “2. From the aforesaid it will be apparent that not only did your client not make the payments within time, but also failed to pay the interest and thereafter stopped making any payments whatsoever in spite of reminders. As in 2002 a sum of Rs D 8,22,682.00 (Rupees Eight Lacs Twenty Two Thousand Six Hundred Eighty Two only) was due from your Client and against which your Client sent in early Feb. 2002 total sum of Rs 30,000/ - (Rupees Thirty Thousand only) and again in end of Feb. 2002 a total sum of 45,000/- which was returned by my Clients since the E allotment stood cancelled due your Client is aware of the allotment having stood cancelled, at least since the year 2002 and the notice now got sent is with ulterior motives. No payments as falsely alleged were even tendered in January, 2004 or after Feb. 2002.