(confronted with portion A to A-1 of my statement mark PW9/A where it is so recorded). It is wrong to suggest that police have also recorded my statement and the same is mark PW9/B and I have stated in the statement that after marriage I came to know that accused G Prem Singh was in a habit of taking liquor. (Confronted from portion A to A-1 of statement mark PW9/B where it is so recorded). It is correct that initially my husband was in the business of transport and he was having two trucks but later on, both the trucks were sold out and he become unemployed. It is wrong to suggest that H 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A he was taking liquor during his unemployment. (confronted from portion B to B-1 of mark PW9/B wherein it is so recorded). It is wrong to suggest that accused used to abusing and beating me (Confronted with portion C to C of mark PW9/B wherein it is so recorded). It is wrong to suggest that two and half years before the incident, because of beating and ill behaviour of accused Prem B Singh, I alongwith my both sons went to the house of my maternal uncle and living in their house or that accused Prem Singh used to put filthy and dignatory allegations on me and stated to me ‘characterless’ (Idher Udher Ke Adamiyo se Muh Marvati Firthi Hai) (confronted with portion C to C-1 of Statement mark C PW9/B wherein it is so recorded. It is wrong to suggest that I have stated to the police officials that accused stated that both our children were not from him and were due to my illicit relationship. It is wrong to suggest that due to this reason I was much perturbed because of his such behaviour or that my husband do not have affection with my both the sons and hate them. D (confronted with portion D to D-1 of statement mark PW9/B wherein it is so recorded). It is wrong to suggest that after releasing my husband from Nasha Mukti Kender he has taunted me that I used to call different boys and committed wrong act/sexual act with them and both the sons are not his sons and threatened to kill E them or that he has gave beatings to me and thrown me from his house and when I requested him to take both the sons with me, he refused and stated that I will kill them as they were both illegal child. (Confronted with portion E to E-1 of my statement mark PW9/B where in it is so recorded). F On the same night, police has informed me on telephone that my both the sons has drown in the Haiderpur canal and have also stated that this fact was stated by the accused himself. I have also not stated to the police that I have suspicion over my husband that he has killed both my child and falsely stated to the police that they were drown themselves.