That was also done on the information of the mother of the prosecutrix. At the time of medical examination of the patient, no force seems to have been used against her. I cannot opine about the age of the patient on the basis of development of her public hairs and genitalia etc. The patient was habitual to sexual intercourse because her labia minora was hypertrophied and hymen admitted two fi ngers.” 4. At this stage, we must mention that at the relevant time i.e., in the year 2000 when the alleged off ence of rape is said to have been committed, the age of consent was sixteen years and above. It was only vide an amendment made in the year 20131 that this has been increased to eighteen years. The school register which was produced in the court shows the date of birth of PW-5 is 04.04.1987, which would make the age of the prosecutrix at the time of the incident to be only 13½ years. However, as per her medical examination and in the doctor’s report, the prosecutrix is sixteen years of age. Moreover, the version of the mother of the prosecutrix herself is that the prosecutrix was sixteen years of age. 1 Criminal Law (Amendment) Act No.13 of 2013 dated 03rd February, 2013. MANAK CHAND @ MANI v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 79 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 5. The evidence of a prosecutrix in a case of rape is of the same value as that of an injured witness. It is again true that conviction can be made on the basis of the sole testimony of the prosecutrix. All the same, when a conviction can be based on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix, the courts also have to be extremely careful while examining this sole testimony as cautioned in State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh, (1996) 2 SCC 384: “If evidence of the prosecutrix inspires confi dence, it must be relied upon without seeking corroboration of her statement in material particulars. If for some reason the court fi nds it diffi cult to place implicit reliance on her testimony, it may look for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony, short of corroboration required in the case of an accomplice. The testimony of the prosecutrix must be appreciated in the background of the entire case and the trial court must be alive to its responsibility and be sensitive while dealing with cases involving sexual molestations.” This was reiterated by this Court in Sadashiv Ramrao Hadbe v. State of Maharashtra and Another (2006) 10 SCC 92: “It is true that in a rape case the accused could be convicted on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix, if it is capable of inspiring confi dence in the mind of the court. If the version given by the prosecutrix is unsupported by any medical evidence or the whole surrounding circumstances are highly improbable and belie the case set up by the prosecutrix, the court shall not act on the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix.” Both the prosecutrix as well as the accused have a right for a fair trial, and therefore when the statement of the prosecutrix does not inspire confi dence and creates a doubt, the court must look for corroborative evidence.