18. Taking the pleadings as a whole and reading the same with H 510 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the evidence, it is clear that there had not been any such misdescription of the property which would amount to a material flaw in the case of the appellant or which could have caused prejudice to the respondents- tenants. 19. Noteworthy it is that it had not been the case of the respondents B that they were not the tenants in the premises in question. The only attempt on the part of the respondents had been to suggest that other properties and accommodations were available with the family. Such suggestion on the part of respondents had not been accepted by the Rent Controller as operating against the assertion of bona fide requirement of the appellant. Such findings of the Rent Controller had essentially C been the findings of facts on the basis of evidence on record. There was no scope for upsetting such findings on a rather vague ground of want of clarity about description of the property in question. 20. It is also noteworthy that the case of vast and extensive requirements, as stated by the appellant and accepted by the Rent D Controller has, as such, neither been negated nor rejected by the High Court. 21. In the aforesaid view of the matter, we need not elaborate on the other aspects as to whether the members of the family of the brother- in- law of the appellant could be taken as her dependents for the purpose E of the eviction in terms of Section 14(1)(e) of the Act of 1958. 22. It would, of course, appear from the material placed on record that the appellant as also her brother-in-law and the other referred members of the family might be having title or interest in some other properties too but, such an aspect would hardly operate against the F appellant, when her prayer for eviction had been accepted by the Rent Controller on valid grounds and with cogent reasons. 23. Upshot of the discussion is that the findings on bonafide requirement of the appellant in relation to both these cases could not have been disturbed by the High Court on a rather nebulous and vague G ground of want of clarity about identification of the property in question. Thus, the impugned s deserve to be set aside and the s of eviction deserve to be restored. 24. In view of the above, these appeals succeed and are allowed; the impugned s dated 17.04.2018 passed by the learned Single H KUSUM LATA SHARMA v. ARVIND SINGH 511 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Judge of the High Court in RC. REV. Nos.78 of 2015 and 80 of 2015 are A set aside and the respective s dated 21.11.2014 passed by the Rent Controller in eviction petitions bearing Nos. 02 of 2011 and 03 of 2011 are restored. 24.1. However, having regard to the circumstances of the case and looking to the length of this litigation and the old tenancies, the B respective respondents are granted time to vacate the suit premises by 31.12.2023 on the condition of their depositing the entire due rent before the Rent Controller within four weeks from today as also on their submitting usual undertaking before the Rent Controller to continue to make payment of rent/mesne profits and to vacate the suit premises C within the time granted by this Court and not to assign, sub-let or part with the same and not to cause prejudice to the appellant-landlord in relation to the premises in question in any manner.