An attempt was made by Mr Mahajan to distinguish this case on the ground that under the corresponding English statute the liability to tax in respect of income from property is not laid on the owner F of the property. It is true that Section 82 of the English Income Tax Act, 1952, is worded differently. But the principles underlying the two statutes are identical. This is clear from the various provisions in that Act. 17. Those observations have to be understood in the context in G which they were made. Therein, Their Lordships were considering whether the right of an evacuee in respect of the property left by him in the country from which he migrated was property right for the purpose of Article 19(1)(f) of the Constitution. No one denies that an evacuee from Pakistan has a residual right in the property that he left in Pakistan. But the real question is, can that right be H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 565 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] considered as ownership within the meaning of Section 9 of the A Act. As mentioned earlier that section seeks to bring to tax income of the property in the hands of the owner. Hence the focus of that section is on the receipt of the income. The word “owner” has different meanings in different contexts. Under certain circumstances a lessee may be considered as the owner of the B property leased to him. In Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary (3rd Edn. ), various meanings of the word “owner” are given. It is not necessary for our present purpose to examine what the word “owner” means in different contexts. The meaning that we give to the word “owner” in Section 9 must not be such as to make that provision capable of being made an instrument of oppression. C It must be in consonance with the principles underlying the Act. 18. Mr Mahajan next invited our attention to the observations in Pollock on Jurisprudence (6th Edn. 1929) pp. 178-80: “Ownership may be described as the entirety of the powers of use and disposal allowed by law .... The owner of a thing is not D necessarily the person who at a given time has the whole power of use and disposal; very often there is no such person. We must look for the person having the residue of all such power when we have accounted for every detached and limited portion of it; and he will be the owner even if the immediate power of control and E use is elsewhere”. [Emphasis supplied] 51. This Court formed the view that since Section 9 of the Income Tax Act, 1922 required that in that a person be assessed to tax in the form of income from house property, he should be the owner and as F the custodian in Pakistan was the owner, the High Court was right in the view it took. 52. In Late Nawab Sir Mir Osman Ali Khan v. Commissioner of Wealth Tax, Hyderabad13; the matter arose under the Wealth Tax Act, 1957.