Following the exception to the general principle that the court may not refer parties to arbitration when it is clear that the case is manifestly and exfacie non-arbitrable, in BSNL and Anr. v. Nortel Networks India D (P) Ltd.22 and Secunderabad Cantonment Board v. B. Ramachandraiah & Sons23, arbitration was refused as the claims of the parties were demonstrably time-barred. 25. Eye of the Needle: The above-referred precedents crystallise the position of law that the pre-referral jurisdiction of the courts under E Section 11(6) of the Act is very narrow and inheres two inquiries. The primary inquiry is about the existence and the validity of an arbitration agreement, which also includes an inquiry as to the parties to the agreement and the applicant’s privity to the said agreement. These are matters which require a thorough examination by the referral court. F The secondary inquiry that may arise at the reference stage itself is with respect to the non-arbitrability of the dispute. 26. As a general rule and a principle, the arbitral tribunal is the preferred first authority to determine and decide all questions of non- arbitrability. As an exception to the rule, and rarely as a demurrer, G the referral court may reject claims which are manifestly and ex- 19 (2021) 5 SCC 671, paras 29, 30. 20 (2021) 9 SCC 732. 21 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 896. 22 (2021) 5 SCC 738. (hereinafter ‘Nortel Networks’) H 23 (2021) 5 SCC 705. NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. 863 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] facie non-arbitrable24. Explaining this position, flowing from the A principles laid down in Vidya Drolia (supra), this Court in a subsequent decision in Nortel Networks (supra) held25: “45.1 ...While exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 as the judicial forum, the court may exercise the prima facie test to screen and knockdown ex facie meritless, frivolous, and B dishonest litigation. Limited jurisdiction of the courts would ensure expeditious and efficient disposal at the referral stage. At the referral stage, the Court can interfere “only” when it is “manifest” that the claims are ex facie time-barred and dead, or there is no subsisting dispute...” C 27.The standard of scrutiny to examine the non-arbitrability of a claim is only prima facie. Referral courts must not undertake a full review of the contested facts; they must only be confined to a primary first review26 and let facts speak for themselves. This also requires the courts to examine whether the assertion on arbitrability is bona fide or D not.27 The prima facie scrutiny of the facts must lead to a clear conclusion that there is not even a vestige of doubt that the claim is non-arbitrable.28 On the other hand, even if there is the slightest doubt, the rule is to refer the dispute to arbitration29. 28. The limited scrutiny, through the eye of the needle, is necessary E and compelling. It is intertwined with the duty of the referral court to protect the parties from being forced to arbitrate when the matter is demonstrably non-arbitrable30.It has been termed as a legitimate interference by courts to refuse reference in to prevent wastage of public and private resources31.