(India) Ltd., (2019) 17 SCC 786 H 84 (1976) 4 SCC 68 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 733 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] of “other relevant factors” since there was no genus of the enumerated A factors. Geographical position of the area and the nature and purpose of the supply were held not to be related to any common genus. 189. In the impugned Ecto Spinners, the Bombay High Court observed that the word “successor”, occurs in the collocation of other words “heir”, “legal representative”, “transferee” and “assignee”, B and its meaning must take colour from the preceding words in association with which it is used. It held that the word “successor” has to be understood to refer to an owner acquiring the right by way of voluntary transfer or on account of the right of inheritance. 190. We are unable to accept the reasoning of the High Court. C The dictionary meaning of some words and expressions, which have a bearing on this case, has been set out in Black’s law Dictionary as follows: “Heir: A person who, under the laws of intestacy, is entitled to receive an intestate decedent’s property85 Legal representative: A legal heir; or an executor, administrator D or other legal representative86 Transferee: One to whom a property interest is conveyed87 Assignee: One to whom property rights are transferred by another”88 E 191. It is clear from the plain meaning of the words that the expressions “heir”, “legal representative”, “transferee” and “assignee” do not fall into one single distinct category. According to the reasoning in the impugned , Condition 23 itself consists of more than one genus or category of transfer — acquiring the right to a property on F account of voluntary transfer, or on account of death of the owner. The word “successor”, which was interpreted by the High Court in a restricted manner, is itself of wide amplitude and will have to be given a plain meaning. The expression “successor” has been defined in Black’s Law Dictionary as “a person who succeeds to the office, rights, responsibilities, or place of another; one who replaces or follows a G predecessor.”89 The category of a “universal successor” is further 85 Black’s Law Dictionary (WEST: Thomson Reuters 9th edition), Pg 791 86 Black’s Law Dictionary (WEST: Thomson Reuters 9th edition), Pg 1416 87 Black’s Law Dictionary (WEST: Thomson Reuters 9th edition), Pg 136 88 Black’s Law Dictionary (WEST: Thomson Reuters 9th edition), Pg 1636 H 89 Black’s Law Dictionary (WEST: Thomson Reuters 9th edition), Pg 1569 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A understood to mean “someone who succeeds to all the rights and powers of a former owner, as with an intestate estate or an estate in bankruptcy”.90 192. The wide compass of the expression “any person claiming to be heir, legal representative, transferee, assignee or successor of the B defaulting consumer” can be understood with regard to the former corresponding phrase “dies, or transfers, assigns or otherwise dispenses of the undertaking or the premises”.