Regulation 5 of the said REC Regulations 2010 provides for the required eligibility for the renewable generators for participating in the RE Certificates: “5. Eligibility and Registration for Certificates: (1) A generating company engaged in generation of electricity D from renewable energy sources shall be eligible to apply for registration for issuance of and dealing in Certificates if it fulfills the following conditions: a. it has obtained accreditation from the State Agency; b. it does not have any power purchase agreement for the E capacity related to such generation to sell electricity at a preferential tariff determined by the Appropriate Commission; and c. it sells the electricity generated either F (i) to the distribution licensee of the area in which the eligible entity is located, at a price not exceeding the pooled cost of power purchase of such distribution licensee, or (ii) to any other licensee or to an open access consumer at a mutually agreed price, or through power exchange at market G determined price. Explanation. - for the purpose of these regulations ‘Pooled Cost of Purchase’ means the weighted average pooled price at which the distribution licensee has purchased the electricity including cost of self generation, if any, in the previous year H 682 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A from all the energy suppliers long-term and short-term, but excluding those based on renewable energy sources, as the case may be.” 6. The objective of the REC Regulations 2010 was to separate the physical electrical component and the environmental (renewable) B component of the energy for issuance of RECs. This was an alternate mechanism developed for the sale of renewable energy at a preferential tariff to any licensee or directly to any consumer. The REC Regulations 2010 aimed at selling the renewable component through the RE Certificates containing promotional benefits of renewable energy while the physical electrical component was sold as any other conventional C electricity. The REC Regulations 2010 also provided that generators based on the REC mechanism had the option to sell physical energy to the distribution licensee at a “price not exceeding the Average Pooled Power Purchase Cost” (hereinafter as “APPC”) of the distribution licensee9. This was to ensure that generators did not benefit twice over, D by selling RECs and also selling physical energy at higher promotional tariffs or taking concessional benefits from the concerned distribution licensee. 7. Under the REC Regulations 2010, distribution licensees were not obliged to purchase the physical component of electricity from E renewable energy generators set up under the REC mechanism since such REC based generators had alternative options with regard to the physical component of electricity, namely, (i) sale of electricity power exchanges (ii) wheeling of power for sale to third parties at mutually agreed rates or (iii) wheeling of power for their own consumption. In the case of the sale of the physical component of electricity, the price for F the electrical component could not exceed average pooled cost of the distribution licensees. The regulations also provided that the generators (of renewable energy) were not eligible for any benefits including banking facilities, exemption from payment of cross subsidy surcharge etc.