It is pertinent to note that there is no provision either in Chapter XII or Chapter XVI of CrPC which makes it obligatory to fi le charge sheets/ reports in the language of the Court. 12. Interestingly, the provision regarding the language of Courts in the form of Section 272 fi nds a place in Chapter XXIII having the heading “Evidence in inquiries and Trials”. The provision is incorporated under the sub-heading “A.—Mode of taking and recording evidence”. Section 272 reads thus: “272. Language of Courts.—The State Government may determine what shall be, for purposes of this Code, the language of each Court within the State other than the High Court.” Thus, the power of the State Government is to determine for the purposes of CrPC what shall be the language of the Courts within the State other than the High Court. The power under Section 272 is not a power to decide which language shall be used by the investigating agencies or the police for the purposes of maintaining the record of the investigation. At the highest, for that purpose, the provisions regarding the law governing the Offi cial Language of the State may apply subject to the provisions contained in such enactment. In a given case, while prescribing a form as required by Sub-section (2) of Section 173, the State Government may provide that the charge sheet must be fi led in the offi cial language of the State. Therefore, Section 272 deals with only the language of the Courts under CrPC. 13. It is interesting to note that wherever legislature intended, specifi c provisions have been made incorporating the requirement using the language of the Court. Some of these provisions also deal with situations when the accused is unable to understand the language of the Court CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. NAROTTAM 315 DHAKAD & ANR. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 14. We are giving a summary of the relevant provisions of CrPC which have some bearing on the issue of the language of the Court: a. Sub-section (6) of Section 211 provides that the charge shall be written in the language of the Court. However, Section 215 provides that no error in the charge shall be regarded at any stage of the case as material unless the accused was in fact misled due to error or omission and it has occasioned a failure of justice. Therefore, in a given case, even if the charge is not framed in the language of the Court, the omission to frame the charge in the language of the Court shall not be material unless it is shown that the accused was misled and it resulted in failure of justice. b. Section 228 forms part of Chapter XVIII, which deals with trial before a Court of Sessions. Sub-section (2) of Section 228 mandates that the Court must read over and explain the charge to the accused. It follows that if the accused does not understand the language in which the charge is framed, the Court will have to explain the charge to him in the language which he understands.