H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 957 AND SELLS LLP Therefore, section 140(5) cannot be said to be discriminatory A and/or violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. [Para 13][1011-C-E] 9. It was submitted that penalty in the form of automatic disqualification of auditors and of the entire firm including partners and that too for a period of five years to become the auditor of B any other company is highly disproportionate. However, it is ultimately for the legislature/Parliament to provide the debarment. On the principle of joint and severe liability, the auditors and the entire firm including partners shall be liable and therefore can be subjected to section 140(5) and the consequences mentioned in C section 140(5) of the Act, 2013. Nobody can be permitted to say that despite acting fraudulently, directly or indirectly, they had a right to continue and/or carrying on their profession. Acting in a fraudulent manner, directly or indirectly, by an auditor is a very serious misconduct and therefore the necessary consequence of indulging into such fraudulent act shall follow. Section 140(5) of D the Act has been enacted with the specific object and purpose and the same has been enacted after due deliberations and taking into consideration the recommendations of the Standing Committee as well as the respective stakeholders. Therefore, taking into consideration the object and purpose for which section E 140(5) of the Act is enacted, the same cannot be said to be arbitrary, excessive and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India and/or violative of fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India, as alleged. [Para 14][1011- E-H; 1012-A-C] F 10.1. The High Court set aside the direction under section 212(14) terming the same as non-application of mind since it was improbable that report of about 750 pages and 32000 pages of annexures could have been considered in 30 hours. The observations made by the High Court cannot be accepted. Merely because the direction to prosecute was issued within 30 hours, G by that itself, it cannot be presumed that there was a non- application of mind. A detailed note was prepared by the officer which was ultimately placed before the final authority who ultimately took a decision and issued a direction to prosecute. What was required to be considered was, whether there was any H 958 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A material to prosecute or not and whether the direction to prosecute was properly given or not. During the trial, the accused shall be given ample opportunity to put forward their case. Therefore, on the aforesaid ground, the High Court has materially erred in setting aside the direction to prosecute issued under section 212(14) of the Act. [Paras 15.1 and 15.2][1012-F-H; 1013- B A-B] 10.2. The High Court has not properly appreciated that the SFIO Report was a report prepared on the completion of the investigation into the IFIN – one of the companies under investigation. IFIN was one of the subsidiaries in the IL&FS C group and the financial services arm.