100. Apart from this, the concept of mental cruelty cannot remain static; it is bound to change with the passage of time, impact of modern culture through print and electronic media and value 878 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. system, etc. etc. What may be mental cruelty now may not remain a mental cruelty after a passage of time or vice versa. There can never be any straitjacket formula or fi xed parameters for determining mental cruelty in matrimonial matters. The prudent and appropriate way to adjudicate the case would be to evaluate it on its peculiar facts and circumstances….” (emphasis supplied) 7. We would like to emphasize that an element of subjectivity has to be applied albeit, what constitutes cruelty is objective. Therefore, what is cruelty for a woman in a given case may not be cruelty for a man, and a relatively more elastic and broad approach is required when we examine a case in which a wife seeks divorce. Section 13(1) of the Act of 1955 sets contours and rigours for grant of divorce at the instance of both the parties. Historically, the law of divorce was predominantly built on a conservative canvas based on the fault theory. Preservation of marital sanctity from a societal perspective was considered a prevailing factor. With the adoption of a libertarian attitude, the grounds for separation or dissolution of marriage have been construed with latitudinarianism. 8. Even with such a liberal construction of matrimonial legislations, the socio-economic stigma and issues attached to a woman due to divorce or separation are raised. Justice O.Chinnappa Reddy, in his concurring opinion in Reynold Rajamani and Another v.Union of India and Another, (1982) 2 SCC 474 (see paragraph 14), took note of the position of women in a marital relationship and the consequent social and economic inequalities faced by the female spouse in view of divorce. The resultant stigmatization hinders societal reintegration, making a woman divorcee socially and economically dependent. Courts must adopt a holistic approach and endeavor to secure some measure of socio-economic independence, considering the situation, case and persons involved. An empathetic and contextual construction of the facts may be adopted, to avert the possibilities of perpetuating trauma - mental and sometimes even physical - on the vulnerable party. It is needless to say that the courts will be guided by the principles of equity and may consider balancing the rights of the parties. The Court, while applying these provisions, must adopt ‘social-context thinking’, cognisant of the social and economic realities, as well as the status and background of the parties. SMT. ROOPA SONI v. KAMALNARAYAN SONI 879 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] 9. This concept of “social justice adjudication” has been elaborately dealt with by this Court in Badshah v. Urmila Badshah Godse and Another, (2014) 1 SCC 188: “14. Of late, in this very direction, it is emphasised that the courts have to adopt diff erent approaches in “social justice adjudication”, which is also known as “social context adjudication” as mere “adversarial approach” may not be very appropriate.