ii. That in the present case, the respondent-assessees had obtained the licence in the year 1994 and had thereafter set up the telecommunication infrastructure and started operating telecommunication services. The payment of licence fee under the fi xed regime, i.e., prior to migration to the Policy of 1999 was for obtaining the licence, thereby resulting in the acquisition of the right to operate telecommunication services. Therefore, the fi xed licence fee upto 31 July, 1999 was amortised and allowed in terms of Section 35ABB of the Act. On the other hand, the variable licence fee payable w.e.f. 01 August, 1999, is a percentage of the AGR. The same is not in the nature of capital expenditure as it is not incurred with a view to acquire the right to operate telecommunication services. The said services were already being operated by the respondents by virtue of a licence which had been obtained in the year 1994. The variable licence fee was, thus, for continuing the right to operate telecommunication services, which were already being operated and provided by the respondent- assessees. iii. Referring to the salient features of the Policy of 1999, it was submitted that the said policy made a paradigm shift by making qualitative changes in licence conditions. It facilitated the entry of new players on payment of one-time entry fee and variable revenue share. The policy document highlights and emphasises the distinction between a one-time fee which is the payment for obtaining the licence, on the one hand and the variable licence fee, which is payment made on a recurring basis based on revenue share, for continuing the right to operate telecommunication C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 395 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] services. Therefore, the one-time entry fee to be paid by a new entrant obtaining a licence post 31 July 1999 is required to be amortised under section 30ABB of the Act while the variable licence fee payable as a revenue share would be admissible business expenditure or revenue deduction. iv. That the Policy of 1999 has not only changed the mechanism of payment but also modifi ed the rights accruing under the licence already obtained vide the original agreement dated 29 November 1994, in lieu of the payment of variable licence fee. The tenure of the licence was increased from ten to twenty years; the licence fee was bifurcated into two parts, i.e., fi xed entry fee paid for obtaining the licence and variable annual licence fee paid for continuing with the licence. Thereby the whole complexion of the consideration provided under the original agreement, was changed. That, since the restriction of the number of players or operators in each region was completely lifted, coupled with the fact that variable licence fee was to be paid on an annual basis, in to continue with the right to operate telecommunication services, no enduring benefi t was accruing to the respondent-assessees. Neither was there any monopoly right, nor would the licence remain valid and subsist for an indefi nite period of time.