Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited, a multi-state cooperative society registered in India. As per the accounts, Kribhco-Muscat is in receipt of dividend income from Omifco, a joint stock company registered in Oman, and that dividend income is connected with the investment of Kribhco-Muscat. The dividend income is, however, exempt from tax in accordance with Article 8(bis) (1) of the Company Income Tax Law. The tax exemption on dividend is granted with the objective of promoting economic development within Oman by attracting investments.” It is, thus, apparent that the assessee’s establishment in Oman has been treated as PE from the very inception up to the year 2011. There is no reason as to why all of a sudden, the assessee’s establishment in Oman would not be treated as PE when for about 10 years it was so treated, and tax exemption was granted basing upon the provisions contained in Article 25 read with Article 8 (bis) of the Omani Tax Laws. 19. Learned senior counsel for the appellant has also raised an issue to the eff ect that the letter dated 11.12.2000 issued by the Secretary General for Taxation, Ministry of Finance, Sultanate of Oman has no statutory force as per Omani Tax Laws, hence, the same cannot be relied upon to claim exemption. In our view, the above letter, as has been reproduced in the preceding paragraph of this , is only a clarifi catory communication interpreting the provisions contained in Article 8 and Article 8 (bis) of the Omani Tax Laws. The letter itself has not introduced any new provision in the Omani Tax Laws. In this view of the matter, the argument raised by the learned senior counsel would not convince us to deny exemption to the assessee. 20. In our considered view, the appellant has not been able to demonstrate as to why the provisions contained in Article 25 of DTAA and Article 8 (bis) of the Omani Tax Laws would not be applicable and, consequently, we hold that the appeals have no substance and deserve to be dismissed which are hereby dismissed. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals dismissed. Ankit Gyan