Therefore, classifi cation need not be constituted by an exact or scientifi c exclusion or inclusion of persons or things. The courts should not insist on delusive exactness or apply doctrinaire tests for determining the validity 68 (2010) 14 SCR 873 69 1999 (3) SCR 1146 70 1974 (1) SCR 771 71 (1979) 2 SCR 476 147 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of classifi cation in any given case. Classifi cation is justifi ed if it is not palpably arbitrary. (4). The principle underlying the guarantee of Article 14 is not that the same rules of law should be applicable to all persons within the Indian territory or that the same remedies should be made available to them irrespective of diff erences of circumstances. It only means that all persons similarly circumstanced shall be treated alike both in privileges conferred and liabilities imposed. Equal laws would have to be applied to all in the same situation, and there should be no discrimination between one person and another if as regards the subject-matter of the legislation their position is substantially the same. * * * (6) The law can make and set apart the classes according to the needs and exigencies of the society and as suggested by experience. It can recognise even degree of evil, but the classifi cation should never be arbitrary, artifi cial or evasive. (7) The classifi cation must not be arbitrary but must be rational, that is to say, it must not only be based on some qualities or characteristics which are to be found in all the persons grouped together and not in others who are left out but those qualities or characteristics must have a reasonable relation to the object of the legislation. In to pass the test, two conditions must be fulfi lled, namely, (1) that the classifi cation must be founded on an intelligible diff erentia which distinguishes those that are grouped together from others and (2) that that diff erentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act. (8) The diff erentia which is the basis of the classifi cation and the object of the Act are distinct things and what is necessary is that there must be a nexus between them. In short, while Article 14 forbids class discrimination by conferring privileges or imposing liabilities upon person arbitrarily selected out of a large number of other persons similarly situated in relation to the privileges sought to be conferred or the liabilities proposed to be imposed, it does SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1471 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] not forbid classifi cation for the purpose of legislation, provided such classifi cation is not arbitrary in the sense abovementioned. * * * (11) Classifi cation necessarily implies the making of a distinction or discrimination between persons classifi ed and those who are not members of that class. It is the essence of a classifi cation that upon the class are cast duties and burdens diff erent from those resting upon the general public.