The contention that the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties is also raised based on the same reason. Hence, these questions are to be considered jointly. Obviously, the courts below declined to uphold the said E contentions of the defendants. It is to be noted that the appellants have also raised a contention that SMS which is an organization and SVR ought to have been impleaded as parties to the suit and in view of their non impleadment, the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties. When that be the position and when the subject suit is one based on prior possession the appellants are F not justified in contending that the suit is bad for non-joinder of SM Sangha and SVR. [Para 32][386-F-H; 387-A, D] 1.11 The appellants have also contended that the suit ought to have been held as abated against all the defendants owing to non-substitution of all the legal representatives of the deceased G defendant No. 3 upon his death. This contention is bereft of any basis and merits and was rightly repelled by the courts below. In that regard it is to be noted that the first appellant and deceased H 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A second appellant as also their father were all arrayed in the suit as defendants and they were jointly defending the suit. Upon the death of original third defendant, the original defendants No.1 and 2, who are sons of the original defendant No.3 fully and substantially representing the joint interest contested the suit and, thereafter, after suffering an adverse and decree B in the suit diligently preferred the appeal before the High Court which ultimately culminated in the impugned and decree. Even thereafter, obviously they are diligently prosecuting the joint interest, even if the contention of joint interest is taken as correct, by filing the captioned appeal. [Para 33][387-E-H] C 1.12 The same analogy is applicable in a case where even in the event of death of one of the defendants, when the estate/ interest was being fully and substantially represented in the suit jointly by the other defendants along with deceased defendant and when they are also his legal representatives. In such cases, D by reason of non-impleadment of all other legal heirs consequential to the death of the said defendant, the defendants could not be heard to contend that the suit should stand abated on account of non-substitution of all the other legal representatives of the deceased defendant. In this case, it is to be noted that along with the deceased 3rd defendant the original E defendant Nos. 1 and 2 were jointly defending their joint interest. Taking into account the fact that the appellants/ the original defendants No. 1 and 2 despite the death of original defendant No.3 defended the suit and preferred and prosecuted the first appeal. Upon the death of the second appellant the joint interest F is being fully and substantially taken forward in this proceeding as well by the first appellant along with the substituted legal representatives of the deceased second appellant, there is no reason to disagree with the conclusions and findings of the courts below for rejecting the contention that suit ought to have held abated owing to the non-substitution of all the legal heirs of G deceased third defendant against all defendants.