Such application of mind must be visible or manifest in the rejection itself. As this Court has emphasized the importance and necessity of furnishing reasons while taking a decision aff ecting the rights of parties, it is incomprehensible that an administrative authority can take a decision without disclosing the reasons for taking such a decision. 892 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 35. It follows therefore that though para 1(11A) has been inserted in Schedule I to the Regulations w.e.f. 30.9.20221, it only recognizes the need and necessity for giving reasons in the event of rejecting the highest bid. It is an acknowledgment of the fundamental principle. Thus, intimation of the reasons for rejection of the highest bid would also be the requirement prior to 30.09.2021. 36. In so far the present case is concerned, we have already noted the language employed by the Liquidator at the end of the bidding process. Vide the e-mail dated 21.07.2021 the appellant was informed that it had won the auction and that its winning had been prepared. The language of this e-mail clearly indicates fi nality of the decision making by the Liquidator. 37. As per para 1(12) of Schedule-I, on the close of the auction the highest bidder shall be invited to provide balance sale consideration within 90 days of the date of such demand. As per the fi rst proviso, payments made after 30 days shall attract interest @ 12%. The second proviso says that the sale shall be cancelled if the payment is not received within 90 days. 37.1 Para 1(13) says that on payment of the full amount the sale shall stand completed. The Liquidator shall execute the certifi cate of sale or sale deed to transfer such assets and the assets shall be delivered to the successful bidder in the manner specifi ed in the terms of sale. 38. Therefore, if we read the provisions of Schedule-I, more particularly paras 1(11) to (13) thereof, in a conjoint manner a view may reasonably be taken that ordinarily the highest bid may be accepted by the Liquidator unless there are statutory infi rmities in the bidding or the bidding is collusive in nature or there is an element of fraud in the bidding process. 39. In Valji Khimji and Company Versus Offi cial Liquidator of Hindustan Nitro Product (Gujarat) Limited and Others6, this Court deprecated entertaining objections after confi rmation of sale. Entertaining of objections after the sale is confi rmed should not ordinarily be allowed, except on very limited grounds like fraud. Otherwise, no auction-sale will ever be complete. In the facts of that case, this Court noted that it was an open auction after wide publicity. There was no allegation of fraud in the auction. 6 (2008) 9 SCC 299 EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 893 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] Therefore, there was no justifi cation to set aside the confi rmation of sale. It was opined that if every confi rmed sale can be set aside the result would be that no auction-sale will ever be completed because always somebody can come after the auction or its confi rmation off ering a higher amount.