Delay condoned. F 2. Leave granted. 3. The present appeals are directed against the impugned and dated 20.12.2019 in RFA No. 392 of 2012 (DEC) and impugned and dated 15.07.2022 in Review Petition No. 365 of 2022 passed by the High Court of Karnataka at Bengaluru, G (hereinafter referred to as “High Court”), whereby, both, the Appeal and the review preferred by the appellants herein were dismissed. 4. The relevant facts necessary for the adjudication of the present appeals, for the sake of convenience, are being mentioned herein. H 1012 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 5. One Late Arosji Rao was the original owner of the suit property and had two daughters. The said Late Arosji Rao, before his death, executed a Will dated 17.07.1945, bequeathing the suit property to both of his daughters in equal share. In the said Will, among other things, it was stated that both the legatees were to enjoy the suit property during their entire lifetime, and thereafter, the same was to be transferred to B their respective male heirs. The said late Arosji Rao subsequently died on 30.09.1945, and the abovementioned Will was probated. 6. The two daughters of the original owner Lt. Arosji Rao, Smt. Kamala Bai and Smt. Anusuya Bai, as joint owners of the bequeathed suit property, executed a lease deed in favour of one M/s Rajatha Trust C for a period of 45 years. During the tenure of the said lease, on 07.07.1988, Smt. Kamala Bai passed away, and as per the Will of the original suit owner, part of the suit property was to flow to the heirs of Smt. Kamala Bai. 7. After the death of Smt. Kamala bai, a dispute arose between D her heirs and Smt. Ansuya Bai, on account of which, Smt. Ansuya Bai, filed a suit for partition and possession of her part of the bequeathed suit property. The matter was however settled by both the parties, and a compromise decree was passed. It was agreed upon by both the parties to divide the suit property in equal shares. E 8. Subsequent to the compromise decree, the sons of Smt. Ansuya Bai, who are the respondent No.1 and respondent No.2 herein, filed a suit against their mother and the sons of Late Smt. Kamala Bai, seeking mandatory injunction. 9. During the said suit, Smt. Ansuya Bai leased the suit property F to the appellants herein for a period of 51 years. The appellants then started construction of a commercial complex on the suit property, however, the respondents, as against the said construction, got a stay in their favour. 10. In the aforesaid suit, the Trial Court, apart from framing other G relevant issues, also framed five additional issues which are as under :- I. Whether the plaintiffs prove that the defendant no. 1 has only life interest in the suit property? II. Whether the plaintiffs prove that the defendant no. 1 has no right to deal with the suit property beyond her life time?