However, Section 40A grants immunity in certain cases. As per Section 40A, notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (2) and (4) of Section 40 of the Act, 1972, the Central Government may, by H 1088 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A notification, require any person to declare to the Chief Wild Life Warden or the authorised officer, any captive animal, animal article, etc., in his control, custody or possession, in respect of which no declaration had been made under sub-section (1) or sub- section (4) of Section 40 and in exercise of powers conferred under Section 40A, the Central Government has framed the Rules, 2003. As per Rule 4(2), application/declaration B under sub-rule (1) of Rule 4 for ownership certificate has to be made within a period of 180 days from the date of commencement of the Rules, 2003. Looking to the object and purpose of Sections 40 and 40A and the object and purpose for which Rules, 2003 has been enacted the period of 180 days prescribed under Rule 4(2) has to be construed and C considered as mandatory, otherwise the object and purpose of the Act, 1972 and the Rules, 2003 shall be frustrated. 5.1 At this stage, it is required to be noted that as per Rule 3 of the Rules, 2003, the Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government was duty bound to give wide publicity to the intent of D this notification in the regional language through electronic or print media or such other means. The sub-rule (2) of Rule 3 cast duty upon such officer to take necessary action to assist the local communities and individuals especially the poor and illiterate in the declaration of their possession, filling up the specified form and any other requirement prescribed under Rule 4(1). Thus, nobody can plead any ignorance and/ E or nobody can plead that he had no knowledge to make such declaration and/or application for ownership certificate and that too, within a period of 180 days as per Rule 4(2) of the Rules, 2003. Therefore, once a person in control, custody or possession of any wildlife animal or wildlife animal article, fails to file such declaration and/or fails to make any F application within the stipulated time mentioned in Rule 4(2) then the bar/rigour under Section 40 shall be applicable and the ownership of such wildlife animal article of which the declaration is not made shall vest in the Government/forest department. 6. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, the Division G Bench of the High Court has rightly observed that the application submitted by the appellant herein which was made beyond the period prescribed under Rule 4(2) was liable to be rejected and was rightly rejected by the appropriate authority/Chief Wild Life Warden. We are in complete agreement with the view taken by the Division Bench of the High Court. H VISHALAKSHI AMMA v. STATE OF KERALA & ORS. 1089 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 6.1 Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of the A Madras High Court in the case of C.D.