Even if an intangible property is derived as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence, it becomes proceeds of crime under Section 2(1)(u). In view of the above, we are not impressed with the contention that the investigation by ED was triggered D without any foundational/jurisdictional facts. In our view, the allegations in the FIR point out to (i) involvement of persons in criminal activity relating to scheduled offences; (ii) the generation as well as (iii) laundering of the proceeds of crime within the meaning of Section 3. This is in view of the fact that wherever there are allegations of corruption, there is acquisition of E proceeds of crime which itself tantamount to money-laundering. [Paras 102, 104][1089-G-H; 1090-A, E-F] 8.4 Once an information relating to the acquisition of huge amount of illegal gratification in the matter of public employment has come into the public domain, it is the duty of the ED to register F an Information Report. This is because “acquisition” is an activity amounting to money-laundering and the illegal gratification acquired by a public servant represents “proceeds of crime,” generated through a criminal activity in respect of a scheduled offence. Therefore, it does not require any expedition, much less G a fishing expedition for someone to say that the receipt of bribe money is an act of money-laundering. The contention that there was no explanation for the delay on the part of the ED in registering the Information Report, is a self-serving argument. If the ED registers an Information Report immediately upon the H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1037 registration of a FIR for a predicate offence, ED will be accused A of acting in haste. If they wait until the drama unfolds up to a particular stage, ED will be attacked as guilty of delay. The accused should be thankful to ED for giving a long rope from 2016 till 2021. Therefore, all the arguments on facts and all the legal contentions emanating from some portions of the B in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary, to challenge the validity of the proceedings initiated by ED are completely unsustainable. [Paras 112-114][1092-B-F] 9. A notice ed in the review petition being Review Petition (Crl.) No.219 of 2022, will not destroy or diminish the C precedential value of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary. The argument of the learned counsel for the accused, if accepted, will not only destroy the principles of judicial discipline and the doctrine of stare decisis, but also bring to a grinding halt, all pending investigation in the country. In fact, the dated 25.08.2022 passed in Review Petition (Crl.) No.219 of 2022 discloses that D prima facie the Court was of the view that at least two of the issues raised in the review petition require consideration. Though it is not precisely spelt out in the , those two issues relate to (i) not providing the accused with a copy of the ECIR; and (ii) reversal of the burden of proof and presumption of innocence.