The Indian jurisprudence on the equality code is an apt example of how constitutional identity has evolved through dialogue between various stakeholders to advance the conception of factual equality. This Court has been using both the above mentioned approaches to identify unenumerated rights. For example, this Court in Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) held that the Constitution guarantees the right to privacy by using both the specifi c rights approach and the identity approach. This Court grounded the right to privacy in the concepts of liberty,154 freedom,155 dignity,156 and the idea of individual self-development which runs through the provisions of the Constitution.157 vii. The scope of the State’s regulation of the ‘intimate zone’ 162. The learned Solicitor General made the following two arguments: (i) Intimate relationships, whether between homosexual or a heterosexual couples cannot be subject to State regulation because it falls in the ‘intimate 151 (1970) 1 SCC 248 152 Gary Jeff rey Jacobson, Rights and American Constitutional identity, (2011) Vol. 43 (4) 409 153 ibid 154 Opinion of Justice Chelameshwar 155 Opinion of Justice DY Chandrachud 156 Opinion of Justice Bobde 157 Opinions of Justice RF Nariman and Justice Sapre 133 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. zone of privacy’; (ii) The State regulates heterosexual marriages only because there is public interest in sustaining the human population through procreation. 163. For this Court to determine if the State has a duty to confer recognition upon all relationships, it must fi rstly delineate the contours of the State’s regulation of intimate relationships vis-à-vis privacy concerns. The plurality opinion authored by one of us (Justice D.Y. Chandrachud) in Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra), while discussing the scope of the right to privacy, refers to an article titled “A typology of privacy”158 which classifi es privacy into nine categories. 164. In addition to listing various forms of privacy, the authors have also classifi ed the forms of privacy based on those which are necessary for the fulfi lment of the freedom to be let alone and the freedom to self-development. The intimate zone of privacy subsumes spatial privacy (which corresponds to the freedom to let alone) and decisional privacy (which corresponds to the freedom of self-development). The formation of human relationships falls within the intimate zone because relationships are relegated to the sphere of the home or the private zone and they involve intimate choices. 165. The intimate zone is shielded from State regulation because relationships operate in a ‘private space’ and decisions taken in a private space in exercise of an individual’s autonomy (such as the choice of partner, or procreation) are ‘private activities.’ This Court in Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra) held that privacy is intrinsic to the realization of constitutional values and entrenched fundamental rights. The emphasized the importance of being left alone and the autonomy of individuals to take crucial decisions aff ecting their personhood, such as procreation and abortion.159 166. At this juncture, it must be noted that the Indian Constitution does not recognize family or partnerships as a unit for securing rights.