14. Mr. Banerjee submits that so far as the scope and ambit of Section 11 is concerned, it is only to fill the gap and the Court is merely functioning as an appointing authority where the parties fail to appoint an Arbitrator. After the insertion of Section 11(6A)(2015 Amendment), F the legislative policy and purport are essentially to minimize the Court’s intervention at the stage of appointing the Arbitrator and with this intention, Section 11(6A) has been incorporated which ought to be respected. 15. Mr. Banerjee further submits that the scope of the Court should be circumscribed to confine to the examination, prima facie, of the formal G existence of the arbitration agreement at the stage of contract formation, including whether the agreement is in writing and the core contractual ingredients qua the formation of the agreement are fulfilled. On rare occasions, if a question is being raised by the parties, to some extent, the Court may examine the subject matter of dispute as arbitrable but that too as an exception. At the same time, so far as theAct, 1899 is concerned, H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 393 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] it is only a fiscal measure enacted to secure revenue of the State in A certain classes of instruments but that may not be invoked to arm a litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of his/her opponent. Once the object of the revenue is secured according to law, the party staking his claim in the instrument will not be defeated on the ground of the initial defect in the instrument. B 16. Mr. Banerjee further submits that even non-payment of stamp duty is a curable defect and this defect can be cured at any stage before the instrument is admitted into evidence by the Arbitral Tribunal. If the insufficiency of stamp or unduly stamped is being examined/adjudicated at the pre-referral stage by the Court under Section 11, it would be C nothing but to encourage parasitical challenges and dilatory tactics in resisting reference to arbitration. The natural solution inevitable is to appoint the Arbitrator and to allow the dispute resolution proceedings to commence and permit the Arbitral Tribunal to fulfil its duty under the Act, 1996. There is no reason why the Arbitral Tribunal cannot prevent D the evasion of stamp duty. 17. It is also brought to our notice that at the time of submitting an application under Section 11 at the pre-referral stage, the parties are not under an obligation to file an original arbitration agreement and since the copy of the arbitration agreement is to be annexed with the application, E in true sense,it is not an instrument as being contemplated under Section 2(14) of the Act, 1899, particularly at the pre-referral stage, the question of invoking Sections 33 or 35 of the Act, 1899is not available to be invoked. In support of submissionMr. Banerjeehas placed reliance on the of this Court reported in Jupudi Kesava Rao v. Pulavarthi Venkata Subbarao and Others6 which has been later followed by this Court in F Hariom Agrawal v. Prakash Chand Malviya7.