; and it did not claim to F cure any particular diseases like alopecia or insomnia but only claimed to be able to prevent and control such diseases. 6.7. The analysis of the learned Adjudicating Authority in relation to the ingredients of the product in question and its properties, leading to the finding that it cannot be categorised as medicament, read as under: - G “11.6 I have perused the labels of the product which are on record. The contents are declared on the label as follows: 10 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Act of 1940’. H 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A i) Arnica Mont Q 0.5 ml ii) Cantharis Q 0.5 ml iii) Cinchona Q 0.2 ml iv) Piocarpine Q 0.2 ml B (Q= lX in pure coconut oil q.s. Alcohol 0.9°/o V/V) 11.7 On perusal of the label of AHAHO, it was observed that the front side of the label, there is a caption which reads “controls hair fall”; “prevents dandruff”. On the reverse of the label i.e. the bottle hind side, it is mentioned that “Indication: Improves blood , C circulation to the hair roots, thereby stops hair fall and promotes hair growth. Also controls dandruff, removes headache, induces good sleep and maintains natural color of the hair; “Contra Indications: NIL”. “Directions for use: Massage directly on the scalp, for best results leave it on overnight.” The label also reads “Aswini Homeo Arnica Hair Oil”. It does not contain any condition D like “to be sold by authorized medical distributor or retailer under prescription from medical practitioner” even though such mention is a mandatory requirement under Section 97(1) of the Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940. Secondly, it does not contain any specification regarding the dosage to be used and the duration for which it is to E be used, which is the norm for a medicament. In case of a drug or medicament, we certainly find a direction with regard to prescribed amount of dosage to be used and in addition a direction that “ ... or as directed by the physician”. These specifications are not to be found on the product labels in this case. Thirdly, it does not claim that it can cure any particular disease like Alopecia (loss of F hair). Medical conditions like Alopecia actually tend to happen all of a sudden with patches of baldness not only on the head but anywhere on the body. Similarly lack of sleep i.e. Insomnia is a medical condition which results in sleeplessness emanating from stress and other neurological diss. Non-mention of Alopecia G or Insomnia on the labels indicates that the product is not meant for any substantial curative purpose. Further, the kind of prevention or control claimed by AHAHO indicates a clear non-connection between the diseases and the product in question. Moreover, by mentioning that there are no contra indications, it implies that irrespective of the quantum or duration of usage, there is no H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 305 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.]