H 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (c) No exemption is available on purchases of any goods such as building materials, equipments or any other goods to be purchased for setting up of tourism project. 8.1 Period of Eligibility\ The quantum of incentives shall not exceed 100% of eligible B capital investment. If the limits of incentives expire before the eligible period, the unit cannot avail of any further benefit. The eligible units will be made available a tax holiday for the period mentioned against each category of tourism unit as tabulated below: C D 5. This Scheme was embodied in Exemption Notification dated 14.02.1997, the relevant portion of which reads as follows: E “NOW, THEREFORE, in exercise of the powers conferred by Sub-Section (1) of Section-29 of the Gujarat Entertainments Tax Act, 1977 (Guj.16 of 1977), (hereinafter referred to as “the said Act”) and in supersession of Government Notification, Information, 133 Broadcasting and F Tourism Department No. (GHT.91.45) MNR-1391-285-E, dated 24th December, 1991 the Government of Gujarat hereby exempt wholly the tax on the entertainments which fulfils the criteria laid down in Appendix-B of the said resolution (hereinafter referred to as the eligible entertainment) during the eligible period or upto the period of expiry of the limits of G incentives, whichever is earlier, to the extent referred to in para 8.1 of the said resolution, subject to the following conditions:- …. H THE STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. v. MULTIPLEX ASSN. OF 119 GUJARAT THROUGH ITS PRESIDENT [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] … A 15. The proprietor of a eligible entertainment shall be liable to pay tax as soon as the quantum of exemption availed of towards sales tax, turnover tax, electricity duty, luxury tax and entertainment tax equals the amount specified in the eligibility certificate issued by the Appropriate Authority or B on expiry of the time limit mentioned in the. said certificate, whichever is earlier.” 6. Neither the package nor the Scheme indicated the mechanism for calculating how the exemption limits (100% capital investment) was calculable. The rate of tax at the relevant time was 50% of the entrance C or ticket value. 7. The appellants’ contention was that the calculation of total exemption to be done based upon a notional exercise. Such determination was explained in the pleadings in the writ petition as follows: “In case of the new units which has invested an amount of D Rs. 10 crores towards eligible capital investment. This amount of eligible capital investment is required to be adjusted against the amount of Tax exemption available under the present scheme/policy. If this unit is charging an amount of Rs. 100/- by way of admission fee to the multiplex theatre; and the E amount of entertainment tax which it is liable to pay to the Government is Rs.50/-. This would mean that the owner of the unit is entitled to retain Rs. 50/- to enable him to defray the expenditure incurred by him for providing the facilities in the unit.