Proviso (b) which is extracted hereinbefore, would only permit a Judge of the High Court for delegation of the duty of examining and impounding any such instrument to such officer as the Court may appoint in that behalf. Thus, it only gives discretion to a Judge of the High Court to delegate the duty of examining F and impounding any such instrument in the manner mentioned under the said proviso if he chooses not to proceed in the manner provided for impounding the instrument in accordance with the relevant provision, by himself. When that be the provision under Section 33 (1) and (2), a conjoint reading of which obviously makes it mandatory for the Court G exercising the power under Section 11 (6) to proceed in terms of the mandate under Section 33 when the circumstances legally invites its invocation. A contra view, according to me, would render Sub-section (2) of Section 33 and proviso (b) redundant and would defeat the very soul of the provisions as relates their application in respect of application filed under Section 11(6) of the Act. H 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 6. The Bar under Section 35 of the Stamp Act on admission of instruments not duly stamped in evidence, as is evident from proviso (a) to it, is not permanent and is curable by following procedures provided thereunder and making an endorsement as provided under Section 42(1) of the Stamp Act. Sub-section (2) of Section 42 makes it clear that every such instrument so endorsed shall thereupon be admissible in B evidence and be acted upon and authenticated as it had been duly stamped. The upshot of the discussion is that being unstamped or insufficiently stamped, the agreement would not be available to be ‘admitted in evidence’ and ‘to be acted upon’, till it is validated following the procedures prescribed under the provisions of the Stamp Act and till C then, it would not exist ‘in law’. 7. Another point which I intend to make in addition to the opinion of my learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, is with respect to the meaning ascribable to the expression ‘certified copy’ which is permissible to be produced along with the application for appointment of Arbitrator(s) in D terms of paragraph 2 (a) of the scheme framed by the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India, in exercise of power under Section 11(10) of the Act, namely, the Appointment of Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996. Paragraph 2 and sub-paragraph (a) thereof read thus:- 2. Submission of Request:- The request to the Chief Justice E under Sub-section (4) or Sub-section (5) or Sub-section (6) of Section 11 shall be made in writing and shall be accompanied by – (a) the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy thereof. 8. In the opinion of my learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph this F issue has been elaborately considered from paragraphs 77 to 89. While concurring with the conclusions and findings thereof, I would like to give my own reasons as to why the expression ‘certified copy’ should be understood with reference to Section 74 and 76 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, (hereinafter referred to as ‘Evidence Act’) and why the said form of secondary evidence is available to be ‘acted upon’ without formal G proof of existence and execution of the original document.