The aforesaid observation has been reiterated in the second impugned and noting the fact that the respondent No.2/accused had reported to the investigating officer, his medical examination had been conducted and the mobile phone had G been seized, the interim passed earlier, was made absolute16. 11.1. We propose to take a quick look at the considerations that ought to govern grant of anticipatory bail. There are a line of decisions 15 As sworn in Para 8 of counter affidavit filed by the Investigating Officer H 16Vide second impugned dated 21st September, 2022 MS. X v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA AND ANOTHER 1125 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] of this court that have underscored the fact that while deciding an A application for bail, the court ought to refrain from undertaking a detailed analysis of the evidence, the focus being on the prima facie issues including consideration of some reasonable grounds that would go to show if the accused has committed the offence or those facts that would reflect on the seriousness of the offence. The self- imposed restraint on B delving deep into the analysis of the evidence at that stage is for valid reasons, namely, to prevent any prejudice to the case set up by the prosecution or the defence likely to be taken by the accused and to keep all aspects of the matter open till the trial is concluded. 12. In Prasanta Kumar Sarkar’s case (supra), a Division Bench C of this Court had highlighted the factors that ought to be borne in mind while considering the anticipatory bail application and had stated that :- “9. We are of the opinion that the impugned is clearly unsustainable. It is trite that this Court does not, normally, interfere with an passed by the High Court granting or rejecting bail D to the accused. However, it is equally incumbent upon the High Court to exercise its discretion judiciously, cautiously and strictly in compliance with the basic principles laid down in a plethora of decisions of this Court on the point. It is well settled that, among other circumstances, the factors to be borne in mind while considering an application for bail are: E (i) whether there is any prima facie or reasonable ground to believe that the accused had committed the offence; (ii) nature and gravity of the accusation; (iii) severity of the punishment in the event of conviction; F (iv) danger of the accused absconding or fleeing, if released on bail; (v) character, behaviour, means, position and standing of the accused; G (vi) likelihood of the offence being repeated; (vii) reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being influenced; and (viii) danger, of course, of justice being thwarted by grant of bail. H 1126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A [See State of U.P. through CBI v. Amarmani Tripathi17, Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT, Delhi and Another18 and Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh and Others19] “ 13. In Masroor v. State of Uttar Pradesh And Another20, speaking for the Division Bench, Justice D.K.