The loss G in such a case may be said to fall on the assessee not as a person carrying on business but as owner of funds. This distinction, though fine, is very material as on it will depend whether deduction could be made under s. 10(1) or not.” (emphasis supplied) H 110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 20. Haji Aziz & Abdul Shakoor Bros. v. CIT,(1961) 2 SCR 651 20.1 Thethree-Judge bench of this Court in the aforesaid case was concerned with two principal issues which we are dealing with at present.In clear terms it has been held that an expenditure is not B deductible unless it is a commercial loss in trade. A penalty incurred for an infraction of law could never be termed as a commercial loss in carrying on business, apart from being an abnormal incident, consequently, it cannot be deducted. It falls on the assesse in some character other than that of a trader. A mere connection between the loss and the business of the assesseper se can never be the sole factor. To put it simply, this C Court has made the position abundantly clear that a penalty can never be understood as a commercial expenditure/loss for the purpose of the business nor a disbursement made to earn profit. It was further noted that a confiscation is a proceeding in rem, and therefore, the penalty is imposed on the goods. That being the position, in any case, an assessee D cannot claim deduction of loss in a case of confiscation/penalty, as arising out of carrying on of the business or incidental to it. 20.2 Relevant paragraphs: “In support of his argument counsel for the appellant firm referred to Maqbool Hussain v. State of Bombay etc. [(1953) E SCR 730] and to the following passage at p. 742 where Bhagwati, J., said: “Confiscation is no doubt one of the penalties which the Customs Authorities can impose but that is more in the nature of proceedings in rem than proceedings in personam, the object F being to confiscate the offending goods which have been dealt with contrary to the provisions of the law and in respect of the confiscation also an option is given to the owner of the goods to pay in lieu of confiscation such fine as the officer thinks fit. All this is for the enforcement of the levy of and safeguarding the recovery of the sea customs duties.” G Similar observations were made by S.K. Das, J., in ShewpujanraiIndrasanrai Ltd. v. Collector of Customs&Ors. [(1959) SCR 821 at p. 836] where it was said that a distinction must be drawn between an action in rem and proceeding in personam and that confiscation of the goods is a H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 111 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] proceeding in rem and the penalties are enforced against the goods A whether the offender is known or not. The view taken by this Court in the other two cases cited by counsel for the appellants i.e.