The general law should yield to the special law—generalia specialibus non derogant. In such a situation, the approach shall not be to see whether there is still jurisdiction in the civil court under the general law. Such approaches would only delay the resolution of disputes and complicate the redressal of grievance and of course unnecessarily increase the pendency in the court.” 169. The following position of law emerges from these precedents: a. The principal subject-matter as well as the particular perspective or focus illuminate the path to ascertain whether a law is a general law or a special law; and b. The court should examine whether its jurisdiction has been ousted in terms of the procedure prescribed by a special law. 170. To determine which of the three statutes that this Court is faced with is a special law, it is necessary to fi rst refer to their subject-matter: 157 (1981) 1 SCC 315 158 (2015) 14 SCC 444 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1173 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] a. The Stamp Act is a law governing the payment of stamp-duty for all manner of instruments. Schedule I to the Stamp Act sets out various types instruments which fall within the ambit of the said legislation; b. The Contract Act, as the name suggests, sets out the rules in relation to contracts in general. An arbitration agreement is one of the many diff erent types of contracts to which it is applicable; and c. The Arbitration Act contains the law relating to domestic arbitration, international commercial arbitration, the enforcement of foreign arbitral awards, and conciliation. 171. Second, the “particular perspective” of this case pertains to whether an unstamped arbitration agreement is rendered unenforceable pending the payment of stamp-duty so as to interpose a bar on the referral court to refer parties to arbitration. The issue is not whether all agreements are rendered unenforceable under the provisions of the Stamp Act but whether arbitration agreements in particular are unenforceable. 172. The Arbitration Act is a special law in the context of this case because it governs the law on arbitration, including arbitration agreements – Section 2(1)(b) and Section 7 of this statute defi ne an arbitration agreement. In contrast, the Stamp Act defi nes ‘instruments’159 as a whole and the Contract Act defi nes ‘agreements’160 and ‘contracts.’161 173. It is not only the defi nition of ‘arbitration agreement’ but also the other provisions of the Arbitration Act and the purpose for which it was enacted that makes it a special law. As observed by this Court in Bhaven Construction. (supra), “the Arbitration Act is a code in itself.”162 It provides for a detailed mechanism by which arbitration may be conducted, with a view to ensuring its success as a speedy and effi cacious alternative to the courts. The Statements of Objects and Reasons of the Arbitration Act 159 Section 2(14), Stamp Act 160 Section 2(e), Contract Act 161 Section 2(h), Contract Act 162 Ibid at paragraph 12 117 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.