They were formulated thus: “(i) Whether the fetus is suff ering from any abnormality as provided by subsection 2(b) of Section 3 of the Act. Though the earlier report mentions that the fetus is normal, nonetheless, in to place the matter beyond doubt, we request a further report to be submitted on the above aspect; (ii) Whether the continuance of the pregnancy of the petitioner to full term would be jeopardised by the drugs which may be prescribed for thealleged condition from which the petitioner is stated to be suff ering; and (iii) The medical professionals at AIIMS would be at liberty to carry out their own diagnosis in regard to the alleged medical condition and to indicate their own independent evaluation of the mental and physical condition of the petitioner. Upon doing so, we request the doctors to apprise this Court if the petitioner is found to be suff ering X v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. 453 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] from post partum psychosis and whether any alternate administration of medication consistent with the pregnancy would be available so as to neither jeopardise the well-being of the petitioner or the fetus in that regard. This exercise shall be carried out during the course of the day.” 10. The Medical Board constituted by AIIMS comprised of nine doctors, including in the fi elds of obstetrics and gynaecology, paediatrics, and psychiatry. The conclusions in the report submitted by the Medical Board to this Court are extracted below: “1. As assessed by USG and Fetal Echo, the fetus does not have any structural anomaly at the present time. (Report attached).Here the board would also like to put on record that all abnormalities cannot be picked up on USG scans. 2. The continuation of pregnancy to full term while the woman is on the revised medications (as advised by the psychiatrist on the board) is not likely to signifi cantly increase the risk of adverse outcomes for the mother and fetus as compared to other pregnant woman. 3. On a psychiatric assessment the board is of the opinion that she has a past history of postpartum psychosis, currently controlled on medications. Her medications have been reviewed and revised for an optimal management. It is felt that with proper care and treatment under appropriate medical supervision, the mother and baby can be managed well during pregnancy and postpartum as has been previously evidenced by her response to medications in case of worsening of symptoms, she may be admitted and treated.” 11. Hence, the points put to the Medical Board for determination were answered in the following terms: a. No abnormality has been detected in the foetus; b. The continuation of the pregnancy would not be jeopardised by the medication which the petitioner is currently taking; and c. The petitioner has a history of postpartum psychosis which is currently being controlled on medication. 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. A revised medication regime was prescribed for optimal management of the postpartum psychosis.