42. The NCDRC carefully observed that Mrs. Sunita was responding well to her treatment until the removal of the existing ‘TT’ or until the ‘NI’ procedure was conducted. However, it failed to appreciate the medical projections that there was a need to remove ‘TT’ precisely because Mrs. Sunita had been responding well to the treatment. In to enable the patient’s return towards normalcy i.e., to breathe without assistance, the removal of ‘TT’ was necessitated. In fact, there was a potential risk of infection and development of complications like stenosis from long-term ‘TT’ intubation as well. The immediate medical crisis from the vehicular accident whereafter she was admitted to Suretech Hospital in a semi- M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 135 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] comatose state was resolved with steady recovery. On 08.05.2004, the patient was weaned off ventilator support. Three days later, a Mandibular Bracing Surgery was undertaken successfully fi xing her lower jaw as well. Therefore, Dr. Madhusudhan submitted that ‘TT’ decannulation was undertaken only after due care and consideration was given to the decision. 43. On 11.05.2004, decannulation failed. Subsequently, on 13.05.2004 when decannulation was achieved, the desired results were not attained. Even though it was expected that Mrs. Sunita would be able to breathe normally after decannulation, a stridor i.e., a high-pitched respiratory noise which indicates abnormal airfl ow was discovered. The NCDRC failed to appreciate that a reexamination conducted upon observing breathing diffi culty faced by Mrs. Sunita revealed trauma in her tracheal wall. It was due to this trauma that the anterior fl ap of the tracheal wall was getting sucked during inspiration thereby obstructing tracheal lumen. The said trauma was potentially attributable to the severe injuries sustained by Mrs. Sunita in the road accident and/or during the emergency ‘TT’ procedure conducted at Gondia hospital on 05.05.2004. Dr. Madhusudhan indicated the need to conduct tracheoplasty which could not be conducted immediately. Of the available treatment options to treat the stridor, doctors could either opt for a long-term ‘TT’ with inner cannula or the placement of an airway stent for tracheomalacia/stenting. Opting for an ‘NI’ stent provided the advantage of the stent being able to hold the anterior fl ap of the trachea as well as to provide support to weakened trachea walls, thereby preventing lumen collapse, while at the same time provide breathing assistance. In such a situation, the ‘NI’ procedure was chosen as a temporary stent. 44. After the diffi culties faced during the ‘TT’ decannulation process and the discovery of a stridor, opting for the ‘NI’ procedure as an alternative course of treatment to aid respiration could be medically justifi ed as well. The expert medical report by RML hospital stated that tracheal trauma, fractures and injuries in the laryngeal framework, leading to subsequent medical complications such as subglottic stenosis were common after severe injuries sustained in a serious road accident. After diffi culties arising out of ‘TT’ decannulation, reinserting the ‘TT’ might have resulted in the similar or worse diffi culties as well.