(ii) The obligation to provide electricity to consumers under Section 43 of the 2003 Act is not hedged by a condition H 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to discharge the arrears incurred by the previous consumer; iii. (iii) The phrase “price as determined by the appropriate commission” in Section 43(2) of the 2003 Act could only be the price at which electricity is supplied to the B distribution licensee. Thus, ‘price’ under Section 43 cannot include the arrears of the previous consumer; (iv) The payment of necessary “charges” and “other compliances” contemplated under Section 43 relates to the application fees, and cannot be stretched to include C a power to require the payment of third-party arrears; (v) The statutory duty of a licensee to supply power on an application by the owner or occupier of any premises within one month is contained in Section 43(1) of the 2003 Act. The only exception to this statutory obligation is provided by Section 44 where the licensee is D prevented from giving supply due to cyclone, floods, storms or other circumstances beyond his control; and (vi) The legislature has consciously inserted all the substantive requirements which the person making an application for supply of electricity is required to meet, E which has been primarily captured under Sections 43(2), 45, 46, 47, and 48 of the 2003 Act. Therefore, no power has been endowed upon the State Commission to impose any other substantive condition in the form of providing a precondition of clearance of a previous owners’ dues F on a subsequent owner who seeks a fresh connection. Any such condition would be in conflict with Section 43. b. Supply of electricity is with respect to consumer (i) The reference to “premises” in the definition of G “consumer” under Section 2(15) as well as under Section 43 of the 2003 Act is only to fix a situs, that is, to identify a licensee operating in the area vis-à-vis the property. The emphasis under Section 2(15) is therefore on the “person” who is the owner or occupier of the premises; H and K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 665 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (ii) Sections 2(15), 43, and 44 refer to “premises” because A while an ordinary manufacturer or distributor may insist on the consumer to come to this factory or warehouse to take the supply of goods, the distribution licensee is obliged to take the supply to the consumer’s premises. Therefore, the premises where the supply is to be made B had to be necessarily identified. c. Regulatory regime to recover arrears of electricity dues a. The provisions of the 1910 Act and 1948 Act do not empower the Electricity Board to recover the electricity dues of the previous owner or occupier from the new C owner or occupier of such premises. The liability to pay electricity dues is only on the person to whom the supply of electricity is made. It is a contractual liability; b.