In appropriate cases, the court may C appoint a Receiver and direct the person who is holding over the property to act as an agent of the Receiver with a direction to deposit the royalty amount fixed by the Receiver or pass such other which may meet the interest of justice. This may prevent further injury to D the plaintiff in whose favour the decree is passed and to protect the property, including further alienation.” 184. In Ouseph Mathai v. M. Abdul Khadir [Ouseph Mathai v. M. Abdul Khadir, (2002) 1 SCC 319] this Court reiterated the legal position that : (SCC p. 328, para 13) E “13. … [the] stay granted by the court does not confer a right upon a party and it is granted always subject to the final result of the matter in the court and at the risks and costs of the party obtaining the stay. After the dismissal, of the lis, the party concerned is relegated to F the position which existed prior to the filing of the petition in the court which had granted the stay. Grant of stay does not automatically amount to extension of a statutory protection.” ’ ” There are other decisions as well, which iterate and apply the G same principle. [Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India, (2011) 8 SCC 161; Grindlays Bank Ltd. v. CIT, (1980) 2 SCC 191 : 1980 SCC (Tax) 230; Ram Krishna Verma v. State of U.P., (1992) 2 SCC 620. Also Marshall Sons & Co. (India) Ltd. v. Sahi Oretrans (P) Ltd., (1999) 2 SCC 325.] H BHUPINDER SINGH v. UNITECH LIMITED 967 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 338. A wrongdoer or in the present context, a litigant who A takes his chances, cannot be permitted to gain by delaying tactics. It is the duty of the judicial system to discourage undue enrichment or drawing of undue advantage, by using the court as a tool. In Kalabharati Advertising v. Hemant Vimalnath Narichania [Kalabharati Advertising v. Hemant Vimalnath Narichania, (2010) B 9 SCC 437 : (2010) 3 SCC (Civ) 808] , it was observed that courts should be careful in neutralizing the effect of consequential s passed pursuant to interim s. Such directions are necessary to check the rising trend among the litigants to secure reliefs as an interim measure and avoid adjudication of the case on merits. Thus, the restitutionary principle recognizes and gives C shape to the idea that advantages secured by a litigant, on account of s of court, at his behest, should not be perpetuated; this would encourage the prolific or serial litigant, to approach courts time and again and defeat rights of others — including undermining of public purposes underlying acquisition proceedings. A different D approach would mean that, for instance, where two landowners (sought to be displaced from their lands by the same notification) are awarded compensation, of whom one allows the issue to attain finality — and moves on, the other obdurately seeks to stall the public purpose underlying the acquisition, by filing one or series of litigation, during the pendency of which interim s might inure E and bind the parties, the latter would profit and be rewarded, with the deemed lapse condition under Section 24(2).