Capital punishment – Aggravating circumstances – D Consideration of, while deciding upon the sentence – Held: Sex of the child cannot be in itself considered as an aggravating circumstance – Murder of a young child is a grievous crime and the young age of the victim as well as the trauma caused to the entire family is in itself, an aggravating circumstance – It does not and E should not matter for a constitutional court whether the young child was a male child or a female child – Courts should not indulge in furthering the notion that only a male child furthers family lineage or is able to assist the parents in old age – Such remarks involuntarily further patriarchal value s that courts should avoid. Evidence Act, 1972 : s. 65 B – Electronic evidence in the F form of Call detail records-CDRs – Production of a certificate u/ s.65 B, if mandatory for admitting any electronic evidence – Held: s. 65B certificate is mandatory – On facts, the review petition to be considered eschewing the electronic evidence in the form of CDRs as they are without the appropriate certificate u/s. 65B. G Contempt of Court : Non-disclosure of material facts – Petitioner-convict tried to escape from prison – Inspector of Police in the affidavit filed, materially withheld information regarding conduct of the petitioner in the prison from the Court – Thus, initiation of Suo Motu contempt proceedings against the convict. H 1018 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Disposing of the review petitions, the Court HELD: 1.1 The evidence in the form of CDRs-Call Detail Record was merely to corroborate the evidence that had been given through the depositions of PW1 and PW8. Both of their testimonies stand corroborated not only through the CDRs but B also through the recovery of the mobile phone on the basis of the confessional statement of the petitioner. Even if Ex. P5, being the CDR, is not relied upon by this Court, the case of the prosecution is not weakened as it merely corroborates the documentary evidence and witness testimonies that remain unblemished regardless. In view thereof, it is clear that there is C no reason to doubt the guilt of the petitioner. Therefore, even though none of the grounds raised by the petitioner amount to errors apparent on the face of the record, in view of thereof, it can also be conclusively said that all the grounds on merits fail to raise any reasonable doubt in the prosecution’s case. There is D no reason in the review jurisdiction to interfere with the concurrent findings of the trial court, High Court and this Court vis–à–vis the guilt of the petitioner for kidnapping and murdering the victim. [Para 52-54][1048-E-F; 1049-F-H] 1.2 The counsel for the petitioner submitted that the E sentence of death cannot be imposed in such cases where the conviction is based on circumstantial evidence as a ‘lingering doubt’ regarding the guilt of the accused persists. The argument of residual or lingering doubt does not come to the rescue of the petitioner.