Therefore, the contrary argument of the appellants on this aspect is rejected. EFFECT OF NON-OBSTANTE CLAUSE 36. In a similar vein, the appellants contend that the ‘non-obstante clause’ in S. 109A of the Companies Act, 1956 confers overriding eff ect to the nomination over any other law and disposition, testamentary or otherwise, and entitles the nominee absolute rights over the shares/ securities. Such a clause was also found in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 and the Government Savings Certifi cate Act, 1959. However, while interpreting the provision concerning nomination in those enactments, this Court in Talwar (supra) rejected the argument that the nominee would be the absolute owner of the subject matter, to the exclusion of the legal heirs, because of the non obstante clause. In addition, in Vishin N. Khanchandani v. Vidya Lachmandas Khanchandani19, it was held that the non-obstante clause is to be applied in view of the scheme and object of the enactment in question. The relevant extract on the ruling is reproduced herein: 19 (2000) 6 SCC 724 SHAKTI YEZDANI & ANR. v. JAYANAND JAYANT 719 SALGAONKAR & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] “11. It is contended on behalf of the appellants that the non obstante clause in Section 6 excludes all other persons, including the legal heirs of the deceased holder, to claim any right over the sum paid on account of the National Savings Certifi cates, to the nominee. There is no doubt that by the non obstante clause the legislature devises means which are usually applied to give overriding eff ect to certain provisions over some contrary provisions that may be found either in the same enactment or some other statute. In other words, such a clause is used to avoid the operation and eff ect of all contrary provisions. The phrase is equivalent to showing that the Act shall be no impediment to the measure intended. To attract the applicability of the phrase, the whole of the section, the scheme of the Act and the objects and reasons for which such an enactment is made have to be kept in mind.” (Emphasis supplied) 37. It is settled law that general words and phrases used in a statute, regardless of their wide ambit, must be interpreted taking into account the objects of the statute. The clauses & sections within a statute are not to be read in isolation, but their textual interpretation is determined by the scheme of the entire statute.20 Notably, a non-obstante clause is to be considered on the basis of the context within which it is used, as has also been observed in R.S. Raghunath v. State of Karnataka.21 Applying the aforestated rule of interpretation, the non-obstante clause in S. 109A of the Companies Act, 1956 should also be interpreted keeping in mind the scheme of the Companies Act, 1956 and the intent of introduction of nomination facility under S. 109A & S.109B of the Companies Act, 1956 vide the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1999 wherein emphasis was laid on building investor confi dence and bringing the company law in tune with policies of liberalisation & deregulation.