If the phrase “insofar as such matter is applicable to Union Territories” was C not included in Article 239AA, Parliament and the Legislature of States would have been required to amend all entries in the Seventh Schedule where the term “State” is used to “State and Union territories”. This would have required a special majority. It was to avoid this time consuming process that the expansive phrase of “insofar as such matter is applicable to Union Territories” was used in Article 239AA. D 62. Article 239AA expressly excludes entries 1,2, and 18 of List II from the ambit of the legislative competence of the Legislative Assembly of NCTD. Article 239AA also stipulates that the legislative power of NCTD is excluded with respect to entries 64,65, and 66 of List II insofar as they relate to entries 1,2, and 18. Entry 1 deals with public E , Entry 2 deals with police, and Entry 18 deals with Land. Entry 64 deals with “offences against laws with respect to any of the matters in this List”, Entry 65 states “jurisdiction and powers of all courts, except the Supreme Court, with respect to any of the matters in this List”, and Entry 66 states “fees in respect of any of the matters in this List, but F not including fees taken in any court”. The exclusion of entries 64,65, and 66 to the extent that it relates to entries 1,2, and 18 from the legislative competence of NCTD indicates that the governance structure envisaged in Article 239AA for NCTD was only to exclude the specific entries 1,2, and 18 from its legislative competence. To read the phrase “insofar as such matter is applicable to the Union Territories” as introducing an G implied exclusion of the legislative powers of NCTD with respect to certain other entries would be contrary to the plain meaning of the provision. 63. Article 239AA establishes a Legislative Assembly for NCTD. The seats in the Assembly are filled by a direct election from the H 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A constituencies of NCTD. The Legislative Assembly of NCTD embodies the constitutional principle of representative democracy similar to the Legislative Assembly of the State. The members of the Legislative Assembly of NCTD are selected by the electorate of Delhi to represent their interests. Article 239AA must be interpreted to further the principle of representative democracy.16 To interpret the phrase “insofar as any B such matter is applicable to Union territories” in a restrictive manner would limit the legislative power of the elected members of the assembly. The members of the Legislative Assembly have been chosen by the electorate to act in their stead. Thus, the legislative competence of NCTD must be interpreted to give full impetus to the will of the electorate. C 64. We find that the phrase ‘insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories’ in Article 239AA(3) cannot be read to further exclude the legislative power of NCTD over entries in the State List or Concurrent List, over and above those subjects which have been expressly excluded by the provision.