As an eff ect of the Amendment, the fi elds of taxation in Entries 84 of the Union List (List I) of the Seventh Schedule to 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the Constitution of India and Entries 54 and 62 of the State List, too were amended. The revamping of these fi elds of taxation resulted in such powers getting pooled or collected as a sovereign taxation power, shared by the state and the centre. This became the subject matter of a separate entry, i.e. Article 246A. Article 246A is expressed in overriding terms and begins with a non-obstante clause and overrides Article 246 which deals with the distribution of legislative powers vis-à-vis the Union and the States in terms of Lists 1 and 2, and of Article 254 which deals with the subject matter of Concurrent List, i.e. List III and the resolution of any confl ict (in terms of repugnancy) between laws enacted by the States and the Parliament. 20. The eff ect of Article 246A is that both the Parliament and the State legislatures have the power to enact laws with respect to goods and service imposed by the Union or such State. Article 246A (2) states that Parliament has the overriding power to enact laws with respect to goods and services taxes qua supply of goods and services and both of them in the course of inter-state trade and commerce. Another substantial provision is Article 269A which authorizes the Union to collect GST on supplies in the course of inter-State trade or commerce which “shall be apportioned between the Union and the States in the manner as may be provided by the Parliament on the recommendations of the GST Council”. The other provisions of Article 269A clarify the nature of the collections which are not to form the Consolidated Fund of India. Article 279A provides for the GST Council and elaborately deals with its structure to ensure balanced decision making, ensure democratic participation of the Union and the States. 21. It was also submitted that consequent to these amendments, Article 366 [12(A)]was introduced, which defi ned GST, astax on supply of goods and Services or both, excluding alcoholic liquor for human consumption It was urged on behalf of the States that with the coming into force of the amendment, Parliament and the states realized that any changes in the law or the practical application of the existing law would become impossible. As a consequence, to cater to these eventualities, certain constitutional provisions were made, i.e. Section 19 which provided fi rstly that laws relating to tax on goods or services or both “in force in any state immediately before the commencement of the amendment Act shall continue to be in force until amended or repealed by a competent legislature or other THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 161 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] competent authority.” The other eventuality was that with or without such amendments such laws were to be in force only for a period of one year from the commencement of the amendment.