and the financial implications were also not very big. (vi) The essential qualifications in the Recruitment Rules for F CTO (Design) and in the Recruitment Rules for JDO were also more or less same and the promotional avenues in both the cadres were also similar. 9. Before adverting to the rival contentions raised by the learned counsels for the parties, it deserves to be noted that the power of judicial G review of the High Courts in the matter of classification of posts and determination of pay scale is no more res integra. It has been consistently held by this Court in plethora of decisions that equation of posts and equation of salaries is a complex matter which is best left to an expert body unless there is cogent material on record to come to a firm conclusion that a grave error had crept in while fixing the pay scale for H UNION OF INDIA v. INDIAN NAVY CIVILIAN DESIGN 537 OFFICERS ASSOCIATION [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] a given post and the interference of the Court was absolutely necessary A to undo the injustice. 10. In State of U.P. and Others Vs. J.P. Chaurasia and Others1, while answering the questions as to whether the Bench Secretaries in the High Court of Allahabad were entitled to pay scale admissible to the Section Officers and whether the creation of two grades with different B scales in the cadre of Bench Secretaries who were doing the same and similar work was violative of the right to have “equal pay for equal work”. This Court observed as under: - “18. The first question regarding entitlement to the pay scale admissible to Section Officers should not detain us longer. The C answer to the question depends upon several factors. It does not just depend upon either the nature of work or volume of work done by Bench Secretaries. Primarily it requires among others, evaluation of duties and responsibilities of the respective posts. More often functions of two posts may appear to be the same or D similar, but there may be difference in degrees in the performance. The quantity of work may be the same, but quality may be different that cannot be determined by relying upon averments in affidavits of interested parties. The equation of posts or equation of pay must be left to the executive Government. It must be determined by expert bodies like Pay Commission. They would be the best E judge to evaluate the nature of duties and responsibilities of posts. If there is any such determination by a Commission or Committee, the court should normally accept it. The court should not try to tinker with such equivalence unless it is shown that it was made with extraneous consideration.” F 11. The afore-stated ratio was followed by this Court in Union of India and Others Vs. Makhan Chandra Roy2. Again, in Secretary, Finance Department and Others Vs. West Bengal Registration Service Association and Others3, the claim of Sub-Registrars of West Bengal Registration Service claiming parity in pay scale with Munsiffs G on the basis that Sub-Registrars were conferred gazetted status, was examined by this Court.