3.3 Taking us to the relevant provisions of UAPA on declaration of any organization/association as “unlawful” namely Sections 3 to 6, learned Solicitor General has submitted that from a perusal of the C aforesaid provisions/sections, it is clear that the declaration of an organization as an “unlawful organization” is not on the basis of an executive diktat. It is submitted that such designation is actually a product of a robust adversarial process wherein ample opportunity is given to the organization to appeal to the better senses of a judicially trained mind in to justify its aims, objectives and activities being legal and not D “unlawful” within the constitutional setup. It is submitted that the same must have a bearing whilst deciding any question of criminalization of “mere membership”. 4. Now so far as the correctness of the observations made by this Court in the case of Raneef (supra) and Arup Bhuyan (supra) that E while considering the offences under Sections 10(a)(i) the prosecution has to prove the “active membership” of any person accused of being a member of a banned organization, it is submitted that in the case of Arup Bhuyan (supra) this Court has just followed the observations made in the earlier decision in the case of Raneef (supra) in which this Court F just accepted and followed the American decisions referred to on the freedom of speech applicable in America and considering the American doctrine on freedom of speech. It is submitted that as such this Court ought not to have straight way followed and/or accepted the American doctrine on freedom of speech without taking into consideration the Constitutional provisions so far as the India is concerned, more particularly G Article 19(1)(c) and 19(4) of the Constitution. It is submitted that this Court in the case of Babulal Parate vs. State of Maharashtra, (1961) 3 SCR 423 has specifically rejected the importing of the American doctrine on freedom of speech and specifically rejected the said importing in the context of ‘determining criminality’ by way of two Constitution H 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Bench s which have not even been considered by the learned Benches hearing the case in Raneef (supra) and Arup Bhuyan (supra). The learned Solicitor General has heavily relied upon paragraphs 23 to 28 of the decision in the case of Babulal (supra) and paragraphs 16 & 17 of the decision in the case of Madhu Limaye vs. Sub-Divisional Magistrate, (1970) 3 SCC 746. B 4.1 Learned Solicitor General has also relied upon the decisions of this Court in the case of Supdt., Central Prison vs. Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia, (1960) 2 SCR 821 (paragraphs 9 to 11) and in the case of Ramlila Maidan Incident, In re, (2012) 5 SCC 1 on the reliance to be placed on American constitutional position in context of public C and free speech. It is submitted that in the aforesaid it is specifically observed that the American doctrine adumbrated in Schenck case cannot be imported or applied.