19. Before adverting to the merits, we may at once highlight the incongruity that has crept in the Rules (supra) due to passage of time, legally and in fact. To a judicially or legally trained mind, it is obvious that ‘review’ carries a specific connotation, but the same is not the case herein. Put simply, review is a re-look at an passed by the same D authority which passed the original , be it a Court or an executive officer. The heading to the rule above is a misnomer inasmuch as no power of ‘review’ is created or conferred, as manifest from a reading of (1), (2) and (3) of Rule 16.28. For completeness, Rule 16.29 is entitled “Right of appeal” and Rule 16.32 is labelled “Revision”. This is one E part of the issue. 20. The next part is that the Rules, originally framed in 1934, contemplated the authorities as “The Inspector-General, a Deputy Inspector-General, and a Superintendent of Police”. The “Inspector- General” of that time [when the service was called Imperial/Indian F Police] headed the State Police, but is today known as, in most States and Union Territories, barring a handful, in the hierarchy of the State Police, as the Director-General of Police, an officer drawn from the Indian Police Service, who sits at the apex of the state police machinery. In fact, today the Inspector-General of Police is administratively subordinate to the Director-General of Police and the Additional Director- G General of Police. 21. The Rules were also framed at a time when the system of Ranges and Commissionerates had not been established. Indubitably, the Rules, for better or for worse (worse, we hazard) have not kept pace with the times. We do not appreciate why the authorities concerned H AISH MOHAMMAD v. STATE OF HARYANA AND ORS. 415 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] are unable to update/amend the Rules with at least the correct official A description of posts to obviate confusion. 22. In the case at hand, the Director General of Police, Haryana, had never passed any earlier and for the first time when the issue was brought to his notice, a Show-Cause Notice was issued to the appellant as to why the adverse remarks be not reconstructed; as due to B such expunction, he had escaped from being retired from service compulsorily. Thus, the passed by the learned co-ordinate Single Judge in CWP No.9973 of 2007 and CWP No.12095 of 2007 dated 23.03.2009 had no applicability in the facts and circumstances of the present case. Be that as it was, the State of Haryana moved in appeal C against the of the learned Single Judge herein, which was allowed in favour of the respondent-State. 23. This Court finds that the learned Division Bench has not approached the issue in the manner it was required to. The reason given for interference with the learned Single Judge’s view is that it was highly D improbable and unwarranted for the Inspector General of Police to have expunged the adverse remarks when there was a judicial verdict by the learned Civil Court refusing to do so.