BACHPAN BACHAO ANDOLAN v. 667 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (2) The CWC will also facilitate any procedure for opening a bank account, arranging for identity proofs, etc., with the assistance of DCPU and support person.” 5. In addition to maintaining confi dentiality of all information, and addressing the concerns of the child and family, the support person is responsible for accompanying the child during recording of statement, medical examination, depositions3, and to assist in all other interactions at the investigation, pre-trial, and trial stage. The support person is to make available public or private emergency and crisis services; ensure availability of free legal aid; provide assistance with navigating the victim compensation scheme; track the status of investigation, arrest, and fi ling of charges of the accused person; follow the dates of the court proceedings to enable the victim or family to attend as required; and be abreast of any other developments such as grant of bail, detention status, etc. of the accused. 6. A support person – whether involved from the early stages of lodging a report or brought on board shortly thereafter - can play a tremendous role in off ering encouragement, reassurance, and guidance, merely from their knowledge of the legalese, armed with a compassionate child-friendly approach. Their potential in providing moral support and guidance, which directly translates to better and more just outcomes both in terms of prosecution, and rehabilitation, cannot be overstated. To fulfi l their role as envisaged, their primary focus, must be the child’s immediate care and protection, and to play the role of a helpful intermediary between the child, its family/guardian, and the various institutional stakeholders and authorities. In these interactions, the support person, should bear in mind the principles enunciated in Section 3 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 while engaging with the child victim, and their families. These include – the principles of dignity and worth, participation, best interest, safety, positive measures, non-stigmatising semantics, non-waiver of rights, equality and non-discrimination, and right to privacy and confi dentiality. 7. There are numerous aids prepared, to help in understanding the role of the support person, and how to maximise their impact. The Ministry of Women and Child Development released the Model Guidelines under 3 The importance of a support person accompanying the child victim at the time of recording statement and deposition, has also been recognised in the Witness Protection Scheme, 2018. 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Section 39 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Act, 20124 (hereafter ‘Model Guidelines’) which off ers detailed guidance for the use of professionals and experts under the POCSO Act (albeit issued in 2013, i.e., prior to the POCSO Rules, 2020). Similarly, another useful resource tailored specifi cally for the use of support persons, is the ‘Handbook for Support Persons 2021 – Assisting Child Victims of Sexual Violence’5 which is a handy open access resource, available for download from the internet. These resources, comprehensively elucidate child-friendly best practices, and explain what not do, as a support person, in a lucid and accessible manner.