This Court held as under: “37. We fi nd from a reading of the of the Commission that it proceeded on the basis that whatever had been alleged in the complaint by the respondent was in fact the inviolable truth even though it remained unsupported by any evidence. As already observed in Jacob Mathew case [(2005) 6 SCC 1] the onus to prove medical negligence lies largely on the claimant and that this onus can be discharged by leading cogent evidence. A mere averment in a complaint which is denied by the other side can, by no stretch of imagination, be said to be evidence by which the case of the complainant can be said to be proved. It is the obligation of the complainant to provide the facta probanda as well as the facta probantia.” 33. In another reported as Kusum Sharma v. Batra Hospital and Medical Research Centre[(2010) 3 SCC 480], a complaint was fi led attributing medical negligence to a doctor who performed the surgery but while performing surgery, the tumour was found to be MRS. KALYANI RAJAN v. INDRAPRASTHA APOLLO 109 HOSPITAL & ORS. [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] malignant. The patient died later on after prolonged treatment in diff erent hospitals. This Court held as under: “47. Medical science has conferred great benefi ts on mankind, but these benefi ts are attended by considerable risks. Every surgical operation is attended by risks. We cannot take the benefi ts without taking risks. Every advancement in technique is also attended by risks. ××× ××× ××× 72. The ratio of Bolam case [[1957] 1 WLR 582 : (1957) 2 All ER 118] is that it is enough for the defendant to show that the standard of care and the skill attained was that of the ordinary competent medical practitioner exercising an ordinary degree of professional skill. The fact that the respondent charged with negligence acted in accordance with the general and approved practice is enough to clear him of the charge. Two things are pertinent to be noted. Firstly, the standard of care, when assessing the practice as adopted, is judged in the light of knowledge available at the time (of the incident), and not at the date of trial. Secondly, when the charge of negligence arises out of failure to use some particular equipment, the charge would fail if the equipment was not generally available at that point of time on which it is suggested as should have been used. ××× ××× ××× 78. It is a matter of common knowledge that after happening of some unfortunate event, there is a marked tendency to look for a human factor to blame for an untoward event, a tendency which is closely linked with the desire to punish. Things have gone wrong and, therefore, somebody must be found to answer for it. A professional deserves total protection. The Penal Code, 1860 has taken care to ensure that people who act in good faith should not be punished. Sections 88, 92 and 370 of the Penal Code give adequate protection to the professionals and particularly medical professionals.” 110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.