The underlying idea is that securing justice to the weaker and the poorer section could make them equal with the rest of the society. In a case where the weaker section is involved in a combat with the stronger section and the scales are even, to rise to the challenge for securing ‘social justice’, the Courts of law ought to lean in favour of the E former so that justice is ensured. If persons with disabilities are denied the rights and privileges conferred by law of equal opportunities, protection of rights and full participation, inter alia, in the field of public employment, the disservice to such persons would inevitably be grave causing erosion of constitutional idealism and respect for human rights apart from extreme F mental agony and pain of the deprived. Where such situations emerge, the courts should not remain mute and dumb. No court, far less this Court, should condone the breaches and violations by employers/ establishments arising out of treading of the illegal path by them. 45.It is noted that the version of the RBI before the High Court G was that there is no provision for reservation in promotional posts in Grade - ‘A’ for persons with disabilities; hence, benefit of promotion on a reserved vacancy could not be granted to Mr. Nair. This was indeed the ostensible reason for which the relaxed standards of assessment available for SC/ST candidates was not extended to persons with disabilities, a fortiori, to Mr. Nair. In other words, Mr. Nair’s claim for H 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A promotion on a reserved vacancy for persons with disabilities, upon application of relaxed standards, could not have been considered in the absence of any identified Group ‘A’ post. That the appropriate Government must make available reservation in the matter of appointment of persons with disabilities in identified posts of Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’ had been conclusively and authoritatively decided by this Court in Ravi B Prakash Gupta (supra) and National Federation of the Blind (supra) by the time the impugned and was rendered. That being the position, no valid contention could have been advanced that reservation for persons with disabilities is not available for appointment on Group – ‘A’ posts. What remained was whether reservation for persons with C disabilities is available for promotional appointment on Group – ‘A’ posts. That issue has also been given a quietus by Rajiv Kumar Gupta (supra), Siddaraju (supra) and Leesamma Joseph (supra). The two big impediments in the path of Mr. Nair, thus, stand removed by reason of a pragmatic and reasonable interpretation of the PwD Act, 1995 by this Court. D 46. It cannot, however, be gainsaid that when Mr. Nair had participated in the Panel Year 2003 examination, no decision had been rendered by this Court that reservation in promotion is permissible in respect of Group ‘A’ posts. It is equally true that this Court while interpreting sections 32 and 33 of the PwD Act, 1995 did not declare the E law laid down by it to have prospective application.