Procedure before the High Court.— (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and of any rules made thereunder, every election petition shall be tried by the High Court, as nearly as may be, in accordance with the procedure applicable under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) to the trial of D suits: Provided that the High Court shall have the discretion to refuse, for reasons to be recorded in writing, to examine any witness or witnesses if it is of the opinion that the evidence of such witness or witnesses is not material for the decision of the petition or that E the party tendering such witness or witnesses is doing so on frivolous grounds or with a view to delay the proceedings. (2) The provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), shall subject to the provisions of this Act, be deemed to apply in all respects to the trial of an election petition.” F 15. The grounds on which the High Court could declare the election of the returned candidate to be void are enumerated in Section 100 which reads as under:- 100. Grounds for declaring election to be void. - (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) if the High Court is of opinion- G (a) — (b) — (c) — H KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 811 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (d)that the result of the election, in so far as it concerns a returned A candidate, has been materially affected- (i) — (ii) — (iii) — B (iv) by any non-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of this Act or of any rules or s made under this Act, the High Court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.” 16. In the instant case, the respondent-election petitioner has C challenged the election of the appellant on the ground that the result of the election, insofar as it concerned the appellant, was materially affected by non-compliance with Article 324 of the Constitution and by non- compliance with Rule-4Aof the said Rules read with Section 33 of the Act. It may be noted that Section 33 of the Act pertains to the presentation D of nomination paper and the requirements for a valid nomination. Section 36 pertains to the scrutiny of nominations by the Returning Officer. Sub- section(2) thereof empowers the Returning Officer, either on the objections made to any nomination or on his own motion, to reject any nomination on the grounds mentioned therein. One of the grounds to reject the nomination is, when there has been failure to comply with any E of the provisions of Section 33. Sub-section(4) of Section 36 states that the Returning Officer shall not reject any nomination paper on the ground of any defect which is not of a substantial character. 17. Part-II of the Conduct of Election Rules, 1961 deals with the General Provisions. Rule-4 and Rule-4A which pertain to the submission F of nomination paper and the Form of affidavit to be filed at the time of delivering nomination paper read as under:- “4.