The element of sale fructifies when the option to purchase is exercised by the intending purchaser after fulfilling the terms of the agreement. Till then, the goods are given on hire. One can argue that in a hire-purchase, an element of interest is inbuilt, but what is payable is the hire amount and not interest per se. The hirer has D an option to return the vehicle or the goods taken on hire. It is not a simple transaction of giving a loan or advance on which interest is payable. The transaction(s) in commercial and legal sense are far more complex with corresponding rights of the parties. Even if the hirer is recorded as the owner of the vehicle under Section 51 of the MV Act, the name of the appellant – assessee is also recorded in the registration book, which E is in recognition of the hire-purchase agreement. The registered owner under the MV Act may be liable in case of accidents/traffic challans, etc. But this, in no way, dilutes the right of the appellants – assessees in respect of the title of the property, that is, the vehicle. Any transfer or sale made by the hirer or any violation of the hire-purchase agreement F can lead to civil as well as criminal consequences. Given the dictum and ratio in Sahara India Savings and Investment Corporation Limited (supra) and State Bank of Patiala Through General Manager (supra), the view taken by the High Court of Delhi in M/s G.E. Capital Transportation13 (supra), as followed by the High Court of Delhi in G Commissioner of Interest Tax v. M/S G.E. Capital Transportation14, is correct and the view taken by the High court of Kerala in the impugned is not in consonance with the above decisions of this court. 13ITA 1275 of 2006. 14ITA 1280 of 2006. H 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 15. However, the learned counsel for the Revenue has relied on Sundaram Finance Limited (supra), which decision had also been relied upon by the High Court of Kerala in the impugned . The submission is that there is a conflict in the ratios. Before we consider the ratio of the in Sundaram Finance Limited (supra), we would refer to the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in K.L. B Johar and Co. (In Both Appeals) v. Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, Coimbatore III (In Both Appeals)15. In the decision, this Court had referred to the concept of hire-purchase in the context of sales tax liability under the Madras General Sales Tax Act, 1939, to observe that the hirer can exercise the option of purchase only when he fulfils the terms of the C agreement, and till then there is no sale at all. The argument, which was accepted by the High Court of Madras, that because in most cases such option is exercised by the hirer, the tax was leviable immediately, was flawed, as the taxable event had not taken place. In the said case also, one of the contentions raised was that only one rupee had to be paid as D the price for the transfer of the vehicle since the entire amount was paid as hire.