12) The learned Counsel for the Insurance-Company vehemently opposed these submissions and prayed for dismissal of the Appeal. It is argued by him that, while in Nitin Khandelwal (supra) and in Amalendu B Sahoo (supra) the cause of repudiation was not germane to the theft, in the present case, the cause was germane to the theft. The learned Counsel supported the findings as recorded in the impugned. 13) A reading of the facts of the case in Nitin Khandelwal (supra), reveal that the repudiation was on the ground that the vehicle was being C used as a taxi and in Amalendu Sahoo (supra), it was on the ground that the vehicle was being used on hire. In our view, that would not make any difference to the ratio that is deducible from those s. 14) It is well settled in a long line of s of this Court that any violation of the condition should be in the nature of a fundamental breach so as to deny the claimant any amount. [see Manjeet Singh vs. D National Insurance Company Limited and Another, [(2018) 2 SCC 108]; B.V. Nagaraju vs. Oriental Insurance Co. Ltd., Divisional Officer, Hassan, [(1996) 4 SCC 647], National Insurance Co. Ltd. Vs. Swaran Singh and Others, [(2004) 3 SCC 297]and Lakhmi Chand vs. Reliance General Insurance, [(2016) 3 SCC 100]] E 15) It is an admitted position in the Repudiation Letter and the Survey Report that the theft did happen. What is alleged is that the Claimant was negligent in leaving the vehicle unattended with the key in the ignition. Theft is defined in Section 378 of the IPC as follows:- “378. Theft.—Whoever, intending to take dishonestly any F moveable property out of the possession of any person without that person’s consent, moves that property in to such taking, is said to commit theft.” As will be seen from the definition, theft occurs when any person intended to take dishonestly any moveable property out of the possession G of any person without that person’s consent, moves that property in to such taking. It is not the case of the Insurance Company that the Claimant consented or connived in the removal of the vehicle, in which event that would not be theft, in the eye of law. Could it be said, as is said in the repudiation letter, that the theft of the vehicle was totally H the result of driver Mam Chand leaving the vehicle unattended with the ASHOK KUMAR v. NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. 1257 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] key in the ignition? On the facts of this case, the answer has to be in the A negative. It is noticed in the repudiation letter that the driver Mam Chand had, after alighting from the vehicle, gone to enquire about the location of Mittal’s Farm and that after he went some distance, he heard the sound of the starting of the vehicle and it being stolen away. The time gap between the driver alighting from the vehicle and noticing the theft, B is very short as is clear from the facts of the case.