[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Involves or implies, injury to the person or property of another; or A The Court regards it as immoral, or opposed to public policy. In each of these cases, the consideration or object of an agreement is said to be unlawful. Every agreement of which the object or consideration is unlawful is void.” B 56. The last part of the first limb of Section 10 provides that all agreements are contracts ‘which are not hereby declared to be void’. Sections 24 to 30 are the remaining provisions in Chapter II, which deal with agreements, which are declared to be void within the meaning of Section 10. This is apart from Section 20 as we shall notice later. Also, C the second part of Section 10 provides that peremptory requirements may still have to be met to constitute a contract a law. 57. Further, we have already noticed that free consent is indispensable for making an agreement, a contract, under Section 10. Free consent has been defined in Section 14 and it must be read in conjunction with Sections 15 to 18 as Sections 15 to 18 define coercion, D undue influence, fraud and misrepresentation, respectively. Now, the result of there being coercion, fraud or misrepresentation in securing the consent of a party, is provided for in Section 19 of the Contract Act. The presence of the three elements results in what is described as a contract voidable at the option of the party, whose consent was so caused. The E effect of misrepresentation has been dealt with by this Court in the reported in Ganga Retreat & Towers Ltd. v. State of Rajasthan22, as follows: “28. According to Section 19 of the Contract Act when consent to an agreement is caused by misrepresentation, the agreement is F a contract voidable at the option of the party whose consent was so caused. The latter may, if he thinks fit, insist that the contract shall be performed and that he shall be put in the position in which he would have been if the representations made had been true. According to Section 2 clause (i), an agreement which is enforceable by law at the option of one or more of the parties G thereto, but not at the option of the other or others, is a voidable contract. It is not necessary for us to record a clear finding whether there was a misrepresentation on the part of the respondents or 22 (2003) 12 SCC 91 H 340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A not. Suffice it to observe that a voidable contract confers the right of election on the party affected to exercise its option to avoid the legal relations created by the contract or to stand by the contract and insist on its performance. However, his election to stand by the contract once exercised would have the effect of ratification of the contract with the knowledge of misrepresentation on the B part of the other party and that would extinguish its power of avoidance.