IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1127 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] scepticism towards arbitration proceedings mainly stemmed from the attitude of judges that “every activity that occurred within a jurisdiction should be within the purview of state law and court.”58 65. As cross-b commerce and transactions proliferated, companies and businesses sought diff erent ways to resolve their commercial disputes. The formality, customs, and legal traditions of national courts were at variance with the intention of the parties to achieve a speedy and effi cient resolution of their disputes. The internationalization of trade and commerce in the middle of the nineteenth century necessitated the regulation and institutionalization of arbitration. In the process, arbitration was also detached from the national legal systems, with the growth of arbitral institutions such as the London Chamber of Arbitration and International Chamber of Commerce. This new regime of arbitration law paved the way for greater recognition of the mutual intention of parties and the authority of arbitral tribunals to resolve disputes without being bogged down by the intricacies of national legal systems. This was commended and refl ected in various international instruments such as the New York Convention and the UNCITRAL Model Law. Accordingly, national laws were changed to refl ect the principle of judicial non-interference in arbitration proceedings. The demands of commerce and business effi ciency meant that control by national courts became subordinate to the intention of the parties and the authority of the arbitral tribunal.59 66. The principle of arbitral autonomy is an integral element of the ever-evolving domain of arbitration law. Arbitral autonomy means that the parties to an arbitration agreement can exercise their contractual freedom to bestow the arbitral tribunal with the authority to decide disputes that may arise between them. The basis of arbitral autonomy is to give eff ect to the true intention of parties to distance themselves from the “risk of domestic judicial parochialism.”60 58 Julian D M Lew, ‘Achieving the Dream: Autonomous Arbitration’ (2006) 22(2) Arbitration International 179, 183. 59 Ibid, at 185 60 Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration (7th edn, Oxford University Press, 2023) 388 112 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 67. The principle of judicial non-interference refl ects the autonomy of arbitral tribunals. Arbitral tribunals are autonomous in the sense that they are constituted to give eff ect to the mutual intention of the parties to settle their disputes through a neutral and expert authority of their choice. Moreover, the competence of an arbitral tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, also indicates that the arbitral tribunal enjoys suffi cient autonomy from the national courts. 68. Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 provides that the courts shall have jurisdiction to try all suits of a civil nature excepting suits of which cognizance is either expressly or impliedly barred.