To avoid any charge of being branded as a mirror image of the First Award insofar as Claim No.12 is concerned, the Second Award appears to have been expressed in language and form diff erent from the earlier one without, however, there being any change in substance. 14. It is elementary, though it has to be restated, that a judicial decision of a superior court, which is binding on an inferior court, has to be accepted with grace by the inferior court notwithstanding that the decision of the superior court may not be palatable to the inferior court. This principle, ex proprio vigore, would be applicable to an arbitrator and a multi-member arbitral tribunal as well, particularly when it is faced with a judicial decision (either under section 34 or section 37 of the Act) ing a limited remand. In the wake of authority of judicial determination made by the Courts of law, any award of an arbitrator or a tribunal that seeks to overreach a binding judicial decision, in our opinion, does confl ict with the fundamental public policy and cannot, therefore, sustain. 15. Considering the aforesaid reasons, even though little else remains to be decided, we would like to briefl y address the appellant’s claim of loss of profi t. In Bharat Cooking Coal (supra), this Court reaffi rmed the principle that a claim for such loss of profi t will only be considered when supported by adequate evidence. It was observed: M/S UNIBROS v. ALL INDIA RADIO 697 DIPANKAR DATTA, J. “24. ... It is not unusual for the contractors to claim loss of profi t arising out of diminution in turnover on account of delay in the matter of completion of the work. What he should establish in such a situation is that had he received the amount due under the contract, he could have utilised the same for some other business in which he could have earned profi t. Unless such a plea is raised and established, claim for loss of profi ts could not have been granted. In this case, no such material is available on record. In the absence of any evidence, the arbitrator could not have awarded the same.” (emphasis ours) 16. To support a claim for loss of profi t arising from a delayed contract or missed opportunities from other available contracts that the appellant could have earned elsewhere by taking up any, it becomes imperative for the claimant to substantiate the presence of a viable opportunity through compelling evidence. This evidence should convincingly demonstrate that had the contract been executed promptly, the contractor could have secured supplementary profi ts utilizing its existing resources elsewhere. 17. One might ask, what would be the nature and quality of such evidence? In our opinion, it will be contingent upon the facts and circumstances of each case. However, it may generally include independent contemporaneous evidence such as other potential projects that the contractor had in the pipeline that could have been undertaken if not for the delays, the total number of tendering opportunities that the contractor received and declined owing to the prolongation of the contract, fi nancial statements, or any clauses in the contract related to delays, extensions of time, and compensation for loss of profi t. While this list is not exhaustive and may include any other piece of evidence that the court may fi nd relevant, what is cut and dried is that in adjudging a claim towards loss of profi ts, the court may not make a guess in the dark; the credibility of the evidence, therefore, is the evidence of the credibility of such claim.