Factual Matrix 3. As these appeals arise from multiple proceedings, a disclosure of relevant facts in a chronological would be apposite. These facts are set out below: (A) On 24.12.2014, Himachal Pradesh, Department of Personnel, Junior Office Assistant (Information Technology), Class-III, (Non-Gazetted), Ministerial Services, Common Recruitment and Promotion Rules, 20145, framed under the proviso to Article 309 of 1 dated 31.12.2021 2 High Court of Himachal Pradesh 3 JOA 4 Govt. 5 2014 Rules ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 817 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] the Constitution of India6, were notifi ed with a view to have common recruitment and promotion rules for the post of JOA in various departments of the Government. Relevant provisions of the 2014 Rules are detailed below: (1) Rule 7 prescribed qualifi cations for the post of JOA as follows: “(a) Essential Qualifi cation: (i) 10 + 2 from a recognized Board of School Education/University, (ii) One year diploma in Computer Science/ Computer Application/ Information Technology from a recognized University/Institution and (iii) Computer typing speed of 30 words per minute in English or 25 words per minute in Hindi OR (i) 10 + 2 from a recognized Board or School Education/University. (ii) ‘O’ or ‘A’ level Diploma from National Institute of Electronics & Information Technology (NIELIT) (iii) Computer typing speed of 30 words per minute in English or 25 words per minute in Hindi OR (i) 10 + 2 from a recognized Board or School Education/University. (ii) Diploma in Information Technology (IT) from a recognized ITI/Institution. (iii) Computer typing speed of 30 words per minute in English or 25 words per minute in Hindi 6 Constitution 818 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (b) Desirable Qualifi cation(s): Knowledge of customs, manners and dialects of Himachal Pradesh and suitability for appointment in the peculiar conditions prevailing in the Pradesh.” (2) Rule 15 prescribed the mode of selection for appointment to the post by direct recruitment as follows: “Rule 15. Selection for appointment to the post by direct recruitment – Selection for appointment to the post in the case of direct recruitment shall be made on the basis of viva-voce test, if Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission or other recruiting authority, as the case may be, so consider necessary or expedient by a written test or practical test, the standard/ syllabus, etc. of which will be determined by the Commission or other recruiting authority, as the case may be.” (3) Rule 18 conferred power on the State Govt. to relax any of the provisions of the Rules in following terms: “Rule 18. Power to Relax – Where the State Govt. is of the opinion that it is necessary or expedient to do so, it may, by for reasons to be recorded in writing and in consultation with the Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission, relax any of the provision (s) of these rules with respect to any class or category of person (s) or post(s).” (B) On 13.02.2015, Himachal Pradesh Subordinate Services Selection Board7 vide Advertisement No.