The reason being, the Central Government would view the entire scheme of D demonetisation in a larger perspective, having several objects in mind and in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of the India, the security of the State, the financial health of the economy, etc. The Central Board of the Bank may not be in a position to visualize such objectives. Under E such circumstances the Central Government must consult the Bank but need not mandatorilyobtain the imprimatur of the Central Board of the Bank to its proposal. What if the Central Board of the Bank, when consulted by the Central Government, gives a negative opinion? Would it mean that the Central Government would then not resort to F demonetisation in deference to the opinion of the Central Board of the Bank? It may do so if it finds that the opinion tendered by the Bank is just and proper, but the Central Government may have its own reasons for not accepting the opinion of the Central Board of the Bank and therefore, G in such a situation the Central Government will have to resort to initiate the proposal for demonetisation through a plenary legislation, by way of introduction of a Bill in the Parliament resulting in an Act of Parliament. 15.23 Therefore, the sum and substance of the discussion is that when the Central Board of the Bank initiates or originates H 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the proposal for demonetisation of any series of bank notes of any denomination, it has to make a recommendation to the Central Government as per sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. The Central Government may act on such recommendation by issuing a gazette notification. On the other hand, when the Central Government is the originator B of the proposal for demonetisation of any currency note as in the instant case, it has to seek the advice of the Central Board of the Bank, for, it cannot afford to proceed in isolation and without bringing the said proposal to the notice of the Central Board of the Bank having regard to the important C position the Bank holds in the Indian economy. Irrespective of the opinion of the Central Board of the Bank to the Central Government’s proposal, the legislative route would have to be taken by the Central Government for furthering its objective/s of demonetisation of bank notes.Thus, the same cannot be carried out by the issuance of a simple D notification in the Gazette of India declaring that all bank notes or currency notes are demonetised. This is because when the Central Government is the originator of a proposal for demonetisation, it is acting de hors sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. E 15.24 Such an interpretation is necessary as it is the contention of the Union of India that the Central Government has the power to demonetise “all” series of bank notes of “all” denominations which would mean that every Rs.1/-, Rs.5/-, Rs.10/-, Rs.20/-, Rs.50/-, Rs.100/-, Rs.500/-, F Rs.1,000/-, Rs.5,000/-, Rs.10,000/-, could be demonetised.