All those other states have agreed to integrate themselves in that way and accept the constitution provided.” (emphasis supplied) 139. On 25 November 1949, a Proclamation was issued for the State of Jammu and Kashmir by Yuvraj Karan Singh. The Preamble to the Proclamation notes that the Constituent Assembly which was drafting the Constitution of India included representatives of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The Preamble states that: 84 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “Whereas with the inauguration of the new Constitution for the whole of India now being framed by the Constituent Assembly of India, the Government of India Act, 1935 which now governs the constitutional relationship between this State and the Dominion of India will stand repealed; And Whereas, in the best interests of this State, which is closely linked with the rest of India by a community of interests in the economic political and other fi elds, it is desirable that the constitutional relationship established between this State and the Dominion of India, should be continued as between this State and the contemplated Union of India; and the Constitution of India as drafted by the Constituent Assembly of India, which included duly appointed representatives of this State, provides a suitable basis for doing so; …” 140. The Proclamation stated that the provisions of the Constitution shall govern the constitutional relationship between the State and Union of India, and that it shall supersede all other constitutional provisions which are inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution: “I now hereby declare and direct- That the Constitution of India shortly to be adopted by the Constituent Assembly of India shall in so far as it is applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, govern the constitutional relationship between this State and the contemplated Union of India and shall be enforced in this State by me, my heirs and successors in accordance with the tenor of its provisions That the provisions of the said Constitution shall, as from the date of its commencement, supersede and abrogate all other constitutional provisions inconsistent therewith which are at present in force in this State.” (emphasis supplied) 141. The Proclamation by the ruler made it abundantly clear that: a. The constitutional relationship between the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the Union of India would be governed by IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 85 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the Constitution of India upon its adoption by the Constituent Assembly; b. The Constitution would be enforced in the State of Jammu and Kashmir in accordance with its provisions; and c. The Constitution would upon its commencement supersede and abrogate all other constitutional provisions of the State which were inconsistent with it. The Proclamation is of particular signifi cance in addressing the argument of the petitioners that Jammu and Kashmir retained sovereignty because it did not enter into an agreement of merger with the Union of India. The declaration that the Constitution of India would not only supersede all other constitutional provisions in the State which were inconsistent with it but also abrogate them achieves what would have been attained by an agreement of merger.