It will suffice to examine one of the attesting witnesses to prove the same. We may hasten to add and emphasize here that well-founded suspicious circumstance(s) if made out by any contestant opposing the Will concerned will shift the onus on the propounder to dispel such circumstance(s) to the satisfaction of the Court. In the case on hand, there is no dispute with respect to the fact that one of the attesting witnesses, namely, Gregory Paris was examined and as such, there can be no case that the mandate under Section 68 of the Evidence Act was not complied with. There can also be no dispute that the witness had signed the Will in the presence of the testatrix after she had executed the same, going by the evidence on record. 1 2023 SCC Online SC 1488 DEREK A C LOBO & ORS. v. 1553 ULRIC M A LOBO (DEAD) BY LRS. & ORS. 11. Evidently, the trial Court had taken into account the entire evidence on record to conclude that legal requirements in terms of the provisions under Section 63 of the Succession Act and under Section 68 of the Evidence Act have been complied with by the plaintiffs and ultimately to hold that the plaintiffs have succeeded in proving the execution of the Will. 12. On the question of execution of the Will dated 10.11.1992, paragraph 21 of the impugned itself would reveal that the High Court after appreciating the pleadings as also the oral evidence including that of PW-1 and PW-2, and the documentary evidence observed and found that defendant Nos.1 to 4 and 6 had decided not to contest execution of the Will and further that it was only defendant No.5 (the appellant therein) who had contested the execution of the Will, while considering the question whether acknowledgment given by defendant No.1 and others as also the letters written by defendant No.1 would help in proving the due and valid execution of the Will. The relevant recital in that regard in paragraph 21 of the impugned reads thus: “21. ......... It is clear from the evidence of PW.2 as also PW.1 that the defendants 1 to 4 and 6 have decided not to contest execution of the will and they were supporting the plaintiffs and it was only defendant No.5 who has contested execution of the will and therefore, any letter written by the said parties who are not contesting the case and supporting the plaintiff would not in any way be helpful to the plaintiffs and therefore, the conduct of the plaintiff and defendants 1 to 4, 6 and 7 has to be considered in that behalf and much importance could not be attached to the documents which have come into existence at the instance of defendants who are supporting the plaintiffs......” 13. In view of the indisputable position thus obtained and that despite the grant of probate by the trial Court the 5th defendant alone had chosen to file appeal against the and decree of the trial Court and further that defendant No.5 is no more, only the legal representatives of the deceased defendant No.5 can be permitted to contest on the execution of the Will.