RAVINDER SINGH v. THE STATE GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI 489 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 13. Notably, the law laid down in Swamy Shraddananda (supra) A and V. Sriharan (supra), with regard to special category sentencing, was in the context of cases where death sentence had been imposed and the same was commuted to imprisonment for life. The question would then arise as to whether the power of the High Courts and this Court to impose a modified punishment, specifying the term of life B imprisonment in excess of 14 years, can be exercised even in cases where the death sentence is not imposed. Reference may be made to Gouri Shankar Vs. State of Punjab5, wherein the Trial Court passed a sentence of life imprisonment, directing that it shall be for the remainder of the convict’s natural life. Noting that such a direction could not be passed by the Trial Court, this Court considered it fit to that the C sentence of imprisonment for life in that case should mean till the remainder of the natural life of the convict. Pertinent to note, this was not a case where death sentence was imposed and thereafter commuted to life imprisonment, as was the case in Swamy Shraddananda(supra)and V. Sriharan(supra). On similar lines, in Shiva Kumar @ Shiva @ D Shivamurthy Vs. State of Karnataka6, this Court was considering a case involving Section 302 IPC, where the Trial Court had sentenced the appellant to undergo rigorous imprisonment for the rest of his life. While noting that the power to impose a modified punishment providing for a specific term of incarceration or till the end of the convict’s life, as an alternate to death penalty, can be exercised only by the High Courts E and the Supreme Court and not by any other Court, in terms of the law laid down in V. Sriharan(supra), this Court observed: “12. In a given case, while passing an of conviction for an offence which is punishable with death penalty, the Trial Court may come to a conclusion that the case is not a ‘rarest of F the rare’ case. In such a situation, depending upon the punishment prescribed for the offence committed, the Trial Court can impose other punishment specifically provided in Section 53 of the IPC. However, when a Constitutional Court finds that though a case is not falling in the category of ‘rarest of the rare’ case, considering G the gravity and nature of the offence and all other relevant factors, it can always impose a fixed-term sentence so that the benefit of statutory remission, etc. is not available to the accused. The majority view in the case of V. Sriharancannot be construed to 5 (2021) 3 SCC 380 6 Criminal Appeal No. 942 of 2023, decided on 28.03.2023 = 2023 SCC OnLine SC 345 H 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A mean that such a power cannot be exercised by the Constitutional Courts unless the question is of commuting the death sentence.