7. The misuse of government properties/public properties, B puramboke lands has become a matter of concern and when it is done by religious bodies or congregational institutions, there will not be any person to challenge the same before a competent court, especially when such bodies constitute a deciding factor in the election of members to the Assembly and Parliament. This might be the reason why there is massive and large scale encroachment C over the government land, public property and puramboke land at the instance of religious and charitable unincorporated bodies. It is also a matter that can be taken note of judicially by this court. I am afraid such misuse and encroachment of puramboke lands are not being properly dealt with. Necessarily, there should be a D separate government agency at the central level akin to other central agencies dealing with public matters, investigation etc. to initiate action against encroachment over government and public properties. 8. The Registry is directed to implead the Union of India, E represented by Additional Solicitor General of India as an additional party to the main case-Crl.M.C.No.8936/2019 so as to express their view on the issue and to enact a comprehensive law dealing with the abovesaid issue, besides the formation of a central agency. 9. The Officer, who conducted the enquiry shall submit a detailed report addressing all the issues raised and directed by this Court F on or before 02/03/2022. Call on 03/03/2022” 25. Thereafter on 03.03.2022, following was passed by the High Court: “Assistant Solicitor General of India appeared and wanted time G to file reply. No second report or additional report was submitted by the State in spite of the direction issued by this Court. Hence, there will be a direction to the concerned official to appear in person and to show cause why the of this Court is flouted. Under such circumstances, it is necessary to implead the Central Bureau of Investigation as an additional respondent in the main H CARDINAL MAR GEORGE ALENCHERRY v. STATE OF 1035 KERALA & ANR. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] case. The Registry is directed to implead the Central Bureau of A Investigation represented by its Director, New Delhi as additional respondent. There will also be a direction to the Registry to send a copy of the dated 12.08.2021 along with the dated 08.02.2022 to the Assistant Solicitor General of India for information. Call on 21.03.2022.” B 26. Again on 10.06.2022, following was passed by the High Court - “Several postings have been given to the Central Government and the Assistant Solicitor General of India to take instructions. So far there is no positive response on the part of Assistant Solicitor C General and as such, there will be a direction to file an affidavit as to whether they are actually interested in the matter or not. There will be a direction to the State Government to address the issue in reference to Article 296 of the Constitution of India and submit a detailed report.