D 17. Learned counsel submitted that electricity dues did not enjoy any priority, and cited High Court rulings, especially the of the Calcutta High Court in The West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited v. Sri Vasavi Industries Limited & Anr.12 It was submitted that creation of charge under a law was a matter of fact E which had to be proved. In the present case, the statute (the 2005 Code) merely enabled recovery of electricity dues as though they were recovery of arrears of revenue. That did not result in the creation of ‘security interest’ in favour of the appellant. Moreover, such interest was not registered in accordance with the Liquidation Regulations and Section F 77 of the Companies Act, 2013. 18. Learned counsel urged that in case of apparent overlapping between the two entries, the doctrine of ‘pith and substance’ had to be applied to find out the true nature of the legislation and the entry within which it fell – reliance was placed on the decisions of Union of India G & Ors. v. Shah Goverdhan L. Kabra Teachers’ College13 and UCO 11 Jalgaon Janta Shakari Bank Ltd. v. Joint Commissioner of Sales Tax, Nodal 9, Mumbai & Anr., 2022 SCC OnLine Bom 1767. 12The West Bengal State Electricity Distribution Company Limited v. Sri Vasavi Industries Limited & Anr.,2022 SCC Online Cal 1918 13Union of India & Ors. v. Shah Goverdhan L. Kabra Teachers’ College, (2002) Supp H (3) SCR 220. PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1237 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Bank & Anr. v. Dipak Debbarma & Ors.14. Having regard to this A principle, IBC was thus a special law dealing with the entire subject matter of insolvency, bankruptcy and winding up of companies. Its provisions were later than those of the 2003 Act. Despite Sections 173 and 174 of the 2003 Act, by virtue of Section 238 of IBC, the provisions of the latter would prevail and have overriding effect. It was submitted B that the law under IBC was constantly evolving since its inception in 2016. Reliance was placed on Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank & Anr.,15 and Swiss Ribbons (P) Ltd. v. Union of India16 which upheld the IBC, and emphasized the overriding nature of the enactment, by virtue of Section 238. C IV. ANALYSIS A. SCHEME OF THE IBC 19. The IBC was enacted with the objective of unifying the legal regime on commercial insolvency. Upon a corporate debtor’s default17 in repayment of a debt,18 the insolvency resolution process can be D triggered when the value of the default crosses the statutory threshold (Section 4); or it may be initiated by the corporate debtor itself or a financial creditor or operational creditor (Section 6). IBC makes a distinction between debts owed to both these classes of creditors. A financial creditor has been defined under Section 5(7) as, “A person to E whom a financial debt is owed”. A “financial debt” is defined by Section 5(8) as a debt which is disbursed against consideration for the time value of money.