Mr. Kolah B says that the two powers-of-attorney go to show that whatever legal or juridical control and management the company might have had, in fact the actual management was exercised by the two managers in Ceylon. In our opinion this is not a case where the company did nothing with regard to the actual management and control of its affairs and left it to some other agency. As we said C before, the two managers were the employees of the company acting throughout the relevant period under the control and management of the company, and therefore in the case we are considering there was not only a dejure control and management, but also a de facto control and management.” D That thereafter, Justice Kania, as His Lordship then was, after referring to the decision in the case of B.R. Naik v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay, (1945) 13 ITR 124 has observed and held that the expression “control and management” means where the central control and management actually abides. E iv) The Calcutta High Court in the case of Bank of China (supra) has specifically held that a company may be simultaneously resident in more than one place, but the control and management is where the head and brain is situated. While holding so, in paragraphs 7 to 9, it is observed and held as under: F “7. Under s. 6(3), a non-Indian company is said to be resident in India in any previous year if during that year the control and management of its affairs is situated wholly in India. The determination as to at what place or places the control and management of a particular company is situated is essentially a G question of fact to be determined on the facts and circumstances of the particular case. A company can be simultaneously resident in more than one place but the question is whether the control and management is situated wholly in India during the relevant previous year. The expression “control and management” signifies the controlling and directive power, “the head and brain”, H 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A as it is sometimes called, and “situated” implies the functioning of such power at a particular place with some degree of permanence. The word “wholly” as used in s. 6(3) would indicate that the seat of such power may be divided between two distinct and separate places. The expression “control and management” means de facto control and management and B not merely the right or power to control and manage. In to hold that a non-Indian company is resident in India during any previous year, it must be established that such company de facto controls and manages its affairs in India. The principles are by now well settled. C 8. Lord Loreburn L.C. in De Beers Consolidated Mines Ltd. v. Howe, [1906] 5 TC 198 (HL) at page 212, observed as follows: “Mr. Cohen propounded a test which had the merits of simplicity and certitude. He maintained that a company D resides where it is registered, and nowhere else…… I cannot adopt Mr. Cohen’s contention.