It was argued that though the competing entries were in Heading 90, nevertheless, the article was LC Displays, but used in meters. This clearly undermined the revenue’s argument that LCD sets were meant principally for TVs. They have multiple uses; if the revenue is correct, each such use would G then be a “principal” use. In that event, the Chapter Heading would be rendered redundant. 19. Mr. V. Lakshmikumaran, learned counsel appearing in Harman, adopted the submissions made by Mr. Vivek Singh. He additionally relied on Rule 1 of the General Rules of Interpretation, which provides that: H CCE, AURANGABAD v. M/S VIDEOCON INDUSTRIES LTD. 269 THR. ITS DIRECTOR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “Classification of goods in this Schedule shall be governed A by the following principles: The titles of Sections, Chapters and Sub-Chapters are provided for ease of reference only; for legal purposes, classification shall be determined according to the terms of the headings and any relative Section or Chapter Notes and, provided such B headings or Notes do not otherwise require, according to the following provisions.” It was argued that in terms of Rule 1, since classification of a ‘Liquid Crystal Device’ is specifically provided for by nomenclature under tariff item 9013 8010, the LCDs imported by the assessee were C correctly classifiable under tariff item 9013 8010, in terms of the nomenclature of the item. 20. It was argued that Tariff Item 9013 8010 prescribes a more specific description and is to be preferred over any other heading, whereas tariff heading 8522 provides a general description, as parts and accessories D suitable for use, “solely or principally” with the apparatus of CH 8519 or 8521. The further submission of Mr. Laxmikumaran is that the expression “parts and accessories” used in CH 8522 excludes articles covered under Chapter 90 of the Tariff, whether or not they are identifiable as for the goods falling under Section XVI of the Tariff and that even if any article E is identifiable as a “part or/and accessories for the goods of Section XVI, it shall be excluded from the term “parts and accessories”. Learned counsel relied upon the reported in Collector of Central Excise v Delton Cables Ltd & Anr8 where, the court dealt with section Notes 2 (a) and 2 (b) to Chapter 85 and held that Note 2 (b) applies only if the item is not specifically classifiable under their respective headings. It F was argued, therefore, in the present case, that Note 1 (m) to Chapter 85 specifically excluded from its operation, goods falling in Chapter 90. In such circumstances, LCD panels were complete articles capable of multiple uses, and not solely or principally in some articles. It was additionally urged that the facts found, clearly showed that the PCBs G attached to the LCD panels imported by the assessee were meant to act as voltage stabilizers. 8 2005 (12) SCC 284 H 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A The provisions 21. First, it would be necessary to refer to the relevant norms of interpretation under First Schedule of the CTA, i.e.