The appellant submits that recovery of arrears of the previous owner could be effected in execution of the F decree. From the perusal of the facts, it is true that the respondent had already instituted a money suit against the previous consumer and obtained a decree. However, the respondent has stated before the High Court that the execution could not be carried out successfully. In these proceedings, we are not concerned with the validity of the execution G proceedings initiated by the respondent against the previous owner. 312. The respondent has submitted that before purchasing the premises, the appellant was required to undergo due-diligence and verify that there were no electricity dues in relation to the premises. The respondent has also questioned the validity of the sale in favor of the H appellant on the ground that there was a subsisting money decree in K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 775 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] favour of the respondent and the premises were under Court attachment. A The respondent also referred to a State Government dated 29 November 2004 directing Deputy Commissioners and Sub-divisional Officers to not issue sale/ transfer permission of land without clearance of the electricity dues. On 26 June 2006, the electricity distribution companies also issued a public notice requiring new consumers to clear B the dues of the previous consumer. The relevant extract of the said public notice is hereunder: “It is observed that some electricity consumers having outstanding dues payable against energy consumption are trying to sale or lease out their premises (including land and building) without C clearing the electricity dues. Govt. of Assam has already prohibited such transfer of premises and made it mandatory to obtain electricity dues clearance certificate from the concerned officers before applying for permission of transfer. D All prospective buyers or lessee are hereby requested to satisfy themselves regarding clearance of electricity dues before taking over the possession of such premises. In the event of non discharge of liabilities of electricity dues by the previous owner, the purchaser/ lessee will be liable to clear E the said dues before power supply provided to them in accordance with provision of Terms and Condition regulation notified by Assam Electricity Regulatory Commission.” 313. Therefore, it has been contended by the respondent that the appellants were put to sufficient notice regarding the requirement of F clearing dues before purchasing the property. In the present proceedings, the validity of the auction sale of the premises to the appellant does not arise for consideration, as it is a matter to be decided in separate proceedings. We are only concerned with whether the appellant, being a new owner of the premises, is liable to clear the dues of the previous consumer before getting a supply of electricity. G 314. By the impugned dated 2 June 2010, the High Court has upheld the validity of Regulation 3.6.4 of the AERC Electricity Supply Code. It held that the stipulation contained in the said regulation is reasonable and within the ambit of the powers conferred by Section 50 of the 2003 Act.