It cannot be denied that CIL is an instrumentality of the Government of India and its s, insofar as price of fuel are concerned, are binding on all its subsidiaries. E 97. It will further be relevant to refer to Clause 9.0 of the CSA, which reads thus: “9.0 PRICE OF COAL: The “As Delivered Price of Coal” for the Coal supplies pursuant to this Agreement shall be the sum of Base Price, Other Charges F and Statutory Charges, as applicable at the time of delivery of Coal.” It is thus clear that price of coal includes the sum of base price, other charges and statutory charges as applicable at the time of delivery of coal. G 98. As discussed herein above, the term ‘Law’ would also include all applicable rules, regulations, s, Notifications issued by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality. 99. It would thus be clear that all such additional charges which are payable on account of s, directions, Notifications, Regulations, H 220 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A etc., issued by the instrumentalities of the State, after the cut-off date, will have to be considered to be ‘Change in Law’ events. The Generators would be entitled to compensation on the restitutionary principle on such changes occurring after the cut-off date. 100. Having held thus, we will now consider some of the B components which are common in most of these appeals. Busy Season Surcharge, Development Surcharge And Port Congestion Surcharge 101. Insofar as increase in Busy Season Surcharge, Development Surcharge on transportation of coal, and Port Congestion Surcharge by C the Indian Railways are concerned, the learned APTEL had found that the Indian Railways is an instrumentality of the State. It has been found that the Busy Season Surcharge, Development Surcharge and Port Congestion Surcharge were increased from time to time vide Circulars/ Notifications issued by the Ministry of Railways, through the Railway Board. D 102. A Constitution Bench of this Court, in the case of Railway Board, Government of India v. M/s Observer Publications (P) Ltd.6, has held the Railway Board to be a State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution of India. 103. As such, no error could be found in the finding of the learned E APTEL that the revision of charges to be paid on Busy Season Surcharge, Development Surcharge and Port Congestion Charges from time to time by the ‘Railway Board’ would come within the ambit of ‘Change in Law’. MoEF Notification on Coal Quality F 104. Insofar as MoEF notification on coal quality is concerned, the MoEF, vide Notification dated 2nd January 2014, i.e. subsequent to the particular cut-off date, i.e. 1st June 2012, has mandated power projects to use beneficiated coal with ash content lower than 34%. The draft notification of MoEF dated 11th July 2012 culminated into the final G Notification dated 2nd January 2014. By no stretch of imagination, can it be said that MoEF is not an instrumentality of the State. 105. By the said Notification, MoEF has mandated power projects to use beneficiated coal with ash content lower than 34%.