5.3 It is further noticed and held by the Division Bench of the F High Court that for imposing sales tax on works contract there is charging section in the TST Act which is not there in case of persons involved in transfer of right to use any goods for any purpose. 5.4 It is further submitted that the respondents herein – suppliers who had given vehicles for use were not the dealers and were not G registered under the Sales Tax Act and had not sold any goods in course of their work and transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose having been done without being a dealer registered under the TST Act and the transfer of goods being not that of any taxable goods the deduction of sales tax amount at 4% would not be made under the TST Act or under the Rules and thus the deducted amount have rightly been refunded H THE STATE OF TRIPURA & ANR. v. CHANDAN DEB & ORS. 1143 [M. R. SHAH, J.] by the State Government/Companies to most of the vehicle suppliers A during the pendency of present cases here. 5.5 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents – suppliers that during the pendency of the present appeals and as there was no stay against the impugned and passed by the High Court, in many cases the State Government/ B respective companies have refunded the amount due and payable to the respondents herein – original suppliers and therefore now as the impugned and passed by the High Court has been implemented by the State Government/respective Companies the impugned and passed by the High Court may not be interfered with now. C 5.6 It is submitted that in absence of any charging section in the Act for deduction/levy of sales tax on those who were giving vehicles on hire for use of staff of companies, the same could not have been provided under the Rules. It is submitted that as rightly observed and held by the High Court what cannot be done under the provisions of the D Act for want of charging section in the Act cannot be done indirectly by taking help of Rules as the Rules cannot supersede the provisions of the Act. It is submitted that therefore sub-rule 2 of Rule 3A of the TST Rules is rightly held to be ultra vires of TST Act. 6. Heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective E parties at length. 7. At the outset, it is required to be noted that while granting the leave to appeal this Court has framed the following question of law which reads as under: “Whether Sub-rule (2) of the Rule 3A of the TST Rules can be F declared ultra vires being contrary to the provisions of the ‘TST Act’, though there is express proviso in Section 3(1) for levy of 4% Sales Tax on any transfer of the right to use any goods for any purpose?” 8.