[Para 40][640-B-E] B 6. The grounds lined up in Article 19(2) for restricting the right to free speech are exhaustive. Under the guise of invoking other fundamental rights or under the guise of two fundamental rights staking a competing claim against each other, additional restrictions not found in Article 19(2), cannot be imposed on the C exercise of the right conferred by Article 19(1)(a) upon any individual. [Para 45][652-B-D] 7. Wherever Constitutional rights regulate and impact only the conduct of the Government and Governmental actors, in their dealings with private individuals, they are said to have “a vertical D effect”. But wherever Constitutional rights impact even the relations between private individuals, they are said to have “a horizontal effect”. [Para 47][652-E-F] 8. After defining the expression “the State” in Article 12 and after declaring all laws inconsistent with or in derogation of E the fundamental rights to be void under Article 13, Part -III of the Constitution proceeds to deal with rights. There are some Articles in Part- III where the mandate is directly to the State and there are other Articles where without injuncting the State, certain rights are recognized to be inherent, either in the citizens of the country or in persons. In fact, there are two sets of F dichotomies that are apparent in the Articles contained in Part III. One set of dichotomy is between (i) what is directed against the State; and (ii) what is spelt out as inhering in every individual without reference to the State. The other dichotomy is between (i) citizens; and (ii) persons. The Articles of Part-III are in the G form of a directive to the State, while others are not. This is an indication that some of the rights conferred by Part -III are to be honored by and also enforceable against, non--State actors. [Para 73, 74][664-C-D; 667-A] H 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 9. The original thinking of this Court that these rights can be enforced only against the State, changed over a period of time. The transformation was from “State” to “Authorities” to “instrumentalities of State” to “agency of the Government” to “impregnation with Governmental character” to “enjoyment of monopoly status conferred by State” to “deep and pervasive B control” to the “nature of the duties/functions performed”. Therefore “A fundamental right under Article 19/21 can be enforced even against persons other than the State or its instrumentalities “. [Para 78][678-F-G; 679-A] 10. The expression “the State” is not used in Article 21. C This Article 21 guarantees every person that he shall not be deprived of his life and liberty except according to the procedure established by law. Going by the scheme of Part -III it is clear that the State has two obligations, (i) not to deprive a person of his life and liberty except according to procedure established by D law; and (ii) to ensure that the life and liberty of a person is not deprived even otherwise. Article 21 does not say “the State shall not deprive a person of his life and liberty”, but says that “no person shall be deprived of his life or personal liberty”.