Now, coming to the evidence on record, according to the D prosecution, the direct evidence is in the form of evidence of PW-5 – Mr. S.K. Awasthi. In this case, the complainant had died and therefore, he could not be examined. The raiding party consisted of PW-5, Mr. S.K. Awasthi, an Officer in Irrigation Department; PW-6, Mr. O.D. Yadav, Traffic Inspector and PW-7, Mr. Niranjan Singh, ACP. Going by E the complaint which could not be proved through the complainant, it is the case of the prosecution that the first demand was made by the appellant to the complainant in the morning of 17th April 2000 when he met her at her residence. There was no charge framed on the basis of this demand. According to the prosecution’s case, the second demand was made during the trap. There is absolutely no evidence about the F first demand made in the house of the appellant as no one except the complainant was present there. According to the prosecution’s case, PW-5 was the witness to the second demand made by the appellant on 17th April 2000 at around 5:20 p.m. PW-5 stated in his evidence that though the complainant had informed the trap party that the appellant G will be visiting his shop at about 3:50 p.m., the appellant did not turn up. Subsequently, a telephone call was received by the complainant informing that she would come by 5:30/6:00 p.m. Ultimately, according to the case of PW-5, at about 5:20 p.m., the appellant along with the co-accused came to the Complainant’s shop. The version of PW-5, which according to the prosecution constitutes demand, reads thus: H NEERAJ DUTTA v. STATE (GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI) 1011 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] “Mrs. Neeraj Dutta asked the complainant to give papers A regarding his electricity meter and Rs.10,000/- to her as she was in a hurry. Complainant handed over the documents of his electricity meter and treated GC Notes of Rs.10,000/- to Mrs. Neeraj Dutta in her right hand after taking the same out of left pocket of his shirt. Mrs. Neeraj Dutta handed over said GC Notes B to his associate Yogesh Kumar to count and she told the complainant that his work would be done.” (emphasis added) 16. Rest of the examination-in-chief deals with the acceptance by the appellant and recovery. Now the question is whether, on the basis C of the evidence on record, the prosecution has proved the demand of gratification by the accused. When we consider the issue of proof of demand within the meaning of Section 7, it cannot be a simpliciter demand for money but it has to be a demand of gratification other than legal remuneration. All that PW-5 says is when the appellant visited the shop D of the complainant, she asked the complainant to give papers regarding the electricity meter and Rs.10,000/- to her by telling him that she was in a hurry. This is not a case where a specific demand of gratification for providing electricity meter was made by the appellant to the complainant in the presence of the shadow witness.