Under the Act, 2019, the pecuniary jurisdictions of the District and State Commissions are enhanced substantially. However, there is no substantial change in the scheme with respect to the adjudication of the consumer disputes. Therefore, consumer commissions are quasi-judicial authorities empowered to C discharge judicial functions with the adequate powers of the court, including civil and criminal. 4.6 It is submitted that under Section 71 of the Act, 2019, the Commissions are empowered with the powers of the civil court and under Section 72, the Commissions are empowered with the powers of D JMFC. It is submitted that despite the above when the Rules, 2020 are framed by the Central Government in exercise of powers under Section 101 of the Act, 2019 which provides for the impugned Rule 3(2)(b) and Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) made the things worse than the prevailing, prior to Rules, 2020. E 4.7 It is further submitted that therefore, when the State and the District Commissions are performing the quasi-judicial functions and judicial functions and exercising the powers of the Court, to test the competence of the candidate written examination and viva-voce would be necessary. Only interviews of the aspiring candidates would lead to political interference and undeserving results through such a selection F process. 4.8 It is further submitted that Rule 6(9) provides uncontrolled discretion to the Selection Committee. Uncontrolled discretion in the matter of recommendations of candidates to be appointed to discharge judicial functions is in clear violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of G India. It is submitted this Court in the case of Madras Bar Association (supra) declared that “Article 14 clearly includes a right to have the person’s rights adjudicated by a forum which exercises judicial powers in an impartial and independent manner, consistent with the recognized principles of adjudication.” It is submitted that in the present case under Rule 6(9) the Central Government has granted complete discretion to H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 309 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] determine the selection procedure without laying down criteria and A standards and the same is unreasonable and arbitrary. 4.9 It is further submitted that even the said provision is also unreasonable on the ground that there is no check and balance under Rules, 2020 over the Selection Committee. The Selection Committee has absolute discretion in the recommendations of the candidates. B 4.10 It is further submitted that there are four sources of candidates to be appointed as president and members of the Commissions, viz., serving judicial officers, retired judicial officers, advocates, or any other individuals having certain knowledge and experience. It is submitted that the Rules direct the selection committee to take into account suitability, C a record of past performance, integrity and adjudicatory experience. The selection committee may consider the suitability of the retired or serving judicial candidates based on available record, however, the suitability of the candidates coming from non-judicial sources, cannot be determined without testing the overall competency. It is submitted that D the appointments with bias and without transparency would frustrate the object of the Consumer Protection Act.