Clause 5, thus, deals with ‘continuation of appointments’, taxes, budget estimates, assessments etc.’ and its Sub-Clause (C) specifically says that all officers and servants under the employment of a municipality E or local authority immediately before the appointed day shall be officers and servants employed by the Corporation under this Act and shall, subject to other provisions made in accordance with the provisions of this Act, receive salaries and allowances and be subject to the conditions of service which were operative on such date. The first proviso provides, crucially, that service rendered by such officers and servants before the F appointment date shall be deemed to be service rendered in the service of the Corporation itself. 21. There is no dispute regarding the fact that Clause 5(c), including its first proviso, occupies this field of law till date. The provision explicitly deals with protection of conditions of service of the officers and servants G who were earlier employed in a local authority like a ZP, and who have been subsequently absorbed into a Municipal Corporation. It expressly protects their service rendered by them in the local authority before the appointed day and further provides that it shall be considered as service rendered in the Municipal Corporation itself. Given the existence of this H 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A unambiguous provision, the only logical conclusion is that the service rendered by Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 in the ZP has to be treated as service rendered in the PMC. Such service, therefore, has to be counted towards the determination of their seniority as well. There is no infirmity in the view taken by the High Court in this regard. B 22. Additionally, Clause (5) of Appendix IV starts with the expression ‘continuation’ of appointments. The word ‘continuation’ connotes ‘without interruption’. It is an unbroken and consistent state of affairs or operation of something. In other words, the service rendered by Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 in the ZP is consistent and unbroken and it remains in existence even after their absorption into the PMC as a result C of the statutory protection embodied under Clause (5) of Appendix (IV) read with Section 493 of the MMC Act. 23. The appellant’s attempt to invoke estoppel against Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 for their failure to challenge the report of the PMC Committee does not assist its case. Firstly, the PMC Committee was not D competent to make any administrative recommendation dehors the Government Resolution dated 13.08.1990. Secondly, the cause of action to launch the challenge arose in the first place only when final seniority list was issued on 20.02.2018. Soon thereafter, Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 approached the High Court, thus, dispelling any notion of them having E slept on their rights. They cannot be said to have acquiesced to the adverse decision taken against them and neither there is any delay or latches on their part. Appellant’s objection on this ground is untenable and must be rejected. CONCLUSION: F 24.