Jayasree Deb Roy (Dutta) vs. The Union of India & Ors. Para 4 of the in the appellant’s case is important, which we extract herein below: “4. We have examined the question of regularization of substitute teachers in detail in our on O.A. No. 149(G) of 1989 passed today. We have come to the conclusion that the substitute teachers cannot claim regularization as a matter of right. We have also held that selection by the Railway Recruitment Board is essential for regular appointment. For the same reasons we hold that the applicant is not entitled to be granted any relief of regularization. More-over, in the instant case although the applicant had appeared before the Recruitment Board he was not selected. That does not entitled him to ask for any relief of regularization on the basis of his earlier service as substitute teacher.” 6. O.A. No. 149(G) of 1989 was carried in Appeal to this Court by way of Civil Appeal No. 9424 of 1995 along with the batch of matters of similarly situated candidates, which was disposed of on 13.10.1995. The operative portion of the said reads as under:- “… The appellants were, therefore, entitled to the benefit conferred under para 5.1 of the circular (Circular R.B. No. 12/91 M.C. No. 20/91 E(NG)/90/SC/Master) dated January 29, 1991, and on that basis the appellants are entitled to absorption on regular basis through the process of screening by the screening committee in accordance 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. with the said provision and they are not re-quired to face selection by the Railway Recruitment Board for the purpose of regular absorption. The of the Tribunal holding otherwise cannot, therefore, be upheld and has to be set aside. After the impugned of the Tribunal, the services of the appellants have been terminated. In case the appellants are found suitable for absorption by the Screening Committee, they should be appointed on regular basis on the post that was held by them and they would also be en-titled to continuity of service. The appeals are, therefore, allowed, the s of the Tribunal dated October 31,1994 in the applications fi led by the appellants are set aside and the said applications are allowed with the direction that the appellants shall be considered for absorption on regular basis on the post of Assistant Teacher by the Screening Committee in accordance with para 5.1 of the master circular dated January 29, 1991, and in case the appellants are found suitable for such absorption by the Screening Committee, they shall be restored to the post held by them with continuity of service. The process of selection by the Screening Committee as per directions in this shall be completed within a period of three months from the receipt of the copy of this . A copy of this be sent to the Chief Personnel Offi cer, North East Frontier Railway, Maligaon, Guwahati. By our dated March 27, 1995, we had directed that appointment may not be made on six posts of school teachers.