The judge must ensure stability with change, and change with stability. Like the eagle in the sky, which maintains its stability only when it is moving, so too is the law stable only when it is moving. Achieving this goal is F very difficult. The life of the law is complex. It is not mere logic. It is not mere experience. It is both logic and experience together. The progress of case law throughout history must be cautious. The decision is not between stability or change. It is a question of the speed of the change. The decision is not between rigidity or G flexibility. It is question of the degree of flexibility.” (Emphasis Supplied) 147. In S.R. Chaudhuri v. State of Punjab and Others,44, this Court had to deal with the question whether the person who was not a 44(2001) 7 SCC 126 H 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Member of the Assembly and who failed to get himself elected during the period of six consecutive months, after appointment as Minister, could be reappointed as Minister without being elected after the expiry of the period of six consecutive months.The decision involved the interpretation of Article 164, and in particular, Article 164 (4) of the Constitution of India. Article 164 reads as follows. B “164. Other provisions as to Ministers. — (1) The Chief Minister shall be appointed by the Governor and the other Ministers shall be appointed by the Governor on the advice of the Chief Minister, and the Ministers shall hold office during the pleasure of the Governor: C Provided that in the States of Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa, there shall be a Minister in charge of tribal welfare who may in addition be in charge of the welfare of the Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes or any other work. (2) The Council of Ministers shall be collectively responsible to D the Legislative Assembly of the State. (3) Before a Minister enters upon his office, the Governor shall administer to him the oaths of office and of secrecy according to the forms set out for the purpose in the Third Schedule. E (4) A Minister who for any period of six consecutive months is not a member of the Legislature of the State shall at the expiration of that period cease to be a Minister. (5) The salaries and allowances of Ministers shall be such as the Legislature of the State may from time to time by law determine F and, until the Legislature of the State so determines, shall be as specified in the Second Schedule.” A Bench of three Learned Judges of this Court disapproving of the resort to repeated appointments without the Minister getting elected held as follows: G “21. Parliamentary democracy generally envisages (i) representation of the people, (ii) responsible government, and (iii) accountability of the Council of Ministers to the Legislature. The essence of this is to draw a direct line of authority from the people through the Legislature to the executive.