Moreover, the plaintiff had not impleaded M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal D Limited as a party to the civil suit. 26. Counsel for the appellant-plaintiff has also drawn our attention to the letter marked as Exhibit-C dated 11.04.1968 purportedly sent by Maharaja Durjoy Kishore Debbarma as an attorney of Maharani Chandratara Devi. It is highlighted that Maharaja Durjoy Kishore E Debbarma had expired in 1962, which has been accepted by Maharani Chandratara Devi, who had deposed as PW-1 in her cross-examination in the Civil Suit T.S. No. 95/72, marked as Exhibit-13. The plaintiff could be correct that this letter is forged, and we would not rely upon the 5We have taken these dates from the translated copy of the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-A), F assuming them to be correct. 6Section 90: Presumption as to documents thirty years old.- Where any document, purporting or proved to be thirty years old, is produced from any custody which the Court in the particular case considers proper, the Court may presume that the signature and every other part of such document, which purports to be in the handwriting of any particular person, is in that persons handwriting, and, in the case of a document executed or attested, that it was duly executed and attested by the persons by whom it purports G to be executed and attested. Explanation.- Documents are said to be in proper custody if they are in the place in which, and under the care of the person with whom, they would naturally be; but no custody is improper if it is proved to have had a legitimate origin, or if the circumstances of the particular case are such as to render such an origin probable. This explanation applies also to section 81. H 7For short, “Evidence Act”. SMRITI DEBBARMA (DEAD) THROUGH LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE 371 v. PRABHA RANJAN DEBBARMA [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] same. However, it is also a matter of record that M/s. Hotel Khosh A Mahal Limited has been recorded as the owner and possessor of the Schedule ‘A’ property in the revenue records vide entry of 1974, marked as Exhibit-15. The revenue entries were challenged by the plaintiff only in the year 1994 in Revenue Case No. 4 of 1994. As noted above, Maharani Chandratara Devi had filed a Civil Suit T.S. No. 95/72 in 1972 B after having cancelled the power of attorney in favour of Bidurkarta for cancellation of gift deeds executed by Bidurkarta. Given the fact that she doubted the intent and acts of Bidurkarta, she would have known and should have pressed her claim in respect of the Schedule ‘A’ property, more so when she was admittedly not being paid any rent since 1968. The gap of 18 years in the filing of the present civil suit has not been C explained by the appellant-plaintiff8. 27. The plaintiff has relied upon the deposition of Kishalaya Kishore Debbarma, son of Bidurkarta, who had deposed as DW-1, and accepted that rent received from M/s. Indian Airlines Corporation Limited till 1968 was paid to Maharani Chandratara Devi.