We fi nd no force in the contention. PASA was made in exercise of the power under entry 3 of concurrent List III of 7th Schedule and reserved for consideration of the President and received his assent. So it is a valid law. It envisages that the State Govt. under S. 3(1) would exercise the power of detention or authorise an offi cer under S. 3(2) to detain bootlegger, dangerous person, drug off ender, immoral traffi c off ender and property grabber. The PASA was made to provide for preventive detention of aforestated persons whose activities were satisfied to be prejudicial to the maintenance of public . Sub-section (4) of S. 3 declares that a person shall be deemed to be “acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public ” when such person is engaged in or is making preparation for engaging in any activities, whether as a bootlegger, dangerous person, drug off ender, immoral traffi c off ender and property grabber, which aff ect adversely or are likely to aff ect adversely the maintenance of public . Explanation thereto postulates that public shall be deemed to have been aff ected adversely or shall be deemed likely to be aff ected adversely inter alia if any of the activities by any person referred to in the sub-section (4) directly or indirectly, is causing or is likely to cause any harm, danger or alarm or feeling of insecurity among the general public or any section thereof or a grave or widespread danger to life, property or public health. Therefore, the Act postulates satisfaction on the part of the State Govt. that the dangerous and antisocial activities of any of the aforestated persons shall be deemed to be acting prejudicial to the maintenance of public whether the person is engaged in or is making preparation for engaging in any activities enumerated in the defi nition clauses and the public shall be deemed to have been aff ected adversely or shall be deemed likely to be aff ected adversely if the activities directly or indirectly, causing or is likely to cause any harm, danger or alarm or feeling of insecurity among 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the general public or any section thereof or a grave or widespread danger to life, property or public health. In the counter affi davit fi led on behalf of the State in the High Court and consideration thereof the High Court held that”the situation was found prevailing in the State in the year 1985 where the impact of the activities of various persons mentioned in the preamble with reference to their respective activities has heightened from being anti-social and dangerous activities to be prejudicial to the maintenance of public .” It is, with a view, to curb those dangerous or anti-social activities, the Govt. considered it appropriate to delegate the power under sub-sec. (2) of S. 3 to the “authorised offi cer” and the Govt. has stated in the notifi cation that “having regard to the circumstances prevailing or likely to prevail in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of each of the District Magistrate specifi ed in the Schedule annexed thereto,the Govt.