8. It is pertinent to mention that the POCSO Rules, also contain ‘Form-A’ which as per Rule 4(14) is to be handed over to the child victim, parents/ guardian, or any other person in whom the child trusts, to inform them of the entitlements the child victim must receive as information and services. This form re-emphasises the importance of a support person in each case, and is also indicative of the stages at which such a support person can play a role in: FORM-A Entitlement of children who have suff ered sexual abuse to receive information and services 1. To receive a copy of the FIR. 2. To receive adequate security and protection by Police. 3. To receive immediate and free medical examination by civil hospital/ PHC etc. 4. To receive Counseling and consultation for mental and psychological well being 5. For Recording of statement of child by woman police offi cer at child’s home or any other place convenient to child 6. To be moved to a Child Care Institution where off ence was at home or in a shared household, to the custody of a person whom child reposes faith. 4 <https://wcd.nic.in/sites/default/fi les/POCSO-ModelGuidelines.pdf >(last accessed on 15.08.2023). 5 Published by Enfold, Prerana and UNICEF, this handbook was launched on 10.03.2022, and is available on open access terms: <https://enfoldindia.org/wp-content/ uploads/2022/03/Handbook-for-Support-Persons-2021-Released-on-10_3_2022.pdf> (last accessed on 15.08.2023). BACHPAN BACHAO ANDOLAN v. 669 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 7. For Immediate aid and assistance on the recommendation of CWC. 8. For being kept away from accused at all times, during trial and otherwise. 9. To have an interpreter or translator, where needed. 10. To have special educator for the child or other specialized person where child is disabled. 11. For Free Legal Aid. 12. For Support Person to be appointed by Child Welfare Committee. 13. To continue with education. 14. To privacy and confi dentiality. 15. For list of Important Contact No.’s including that of the District Magistrate and the Superintendent of Police. (emphasis supplied) 9. The specifi c Rules discussed hereinabove, read with ‘Form – A’, confi rm that the availability of services of a support person is not merely directory or suggestive – but a legal entitlement. While this framework created by the Rules, in furtherance of supporting victims of child abuse under the POCSO Act, is truly laudatory, it also requires proactive action from the State to shore up infrastructure and train human resources, accordingly – to bridge the gap between this entitlement on paper, and on-ground reality. This court in Alarming Rise in the Number of Reported Child Rape Incidents, In re6, recorded that as per the Supreme Court Registrar’s report prepared in November 2019, a support person had been appointed only in 4% of POCSO cases. Much is yet to be done, therefore, for a declaration by this court of the mandatory nature of the appointment of support person (subject only to the consent of the child, guardian, or the person in whom the child trusts, as the case may be), to carry any weight.