In the second place, our economic welfare is bound of with our arts and crafts. The traditional markets for these precious goods, for which we are justly known all over the world, have been centered in India. The volume of our trade, inspite of the dislocation of the last few years, shows this, industry is also highly important to us. Potentially we are rich in minerals, and in the raw materials of industry; we need help to develop our resources. India, being more highly industrialized than Pakistan, can give us equipments, technical services and materials. She can help us too in marketing. Many goods also which it would not be practical for us to produce here for instance, sugar, cotton, cloth and otherwise essential commodities can be got by us in large quantities from India. It is around the suffi cient supply of such basic necessities that the standard of living of the man-in-the- street depends. … The most powerful argument which can be advanced in her favour is that Pakistan is a Muslim State, and a big majority of our people being Muslim the State must accede to Pakistan. This claim of being a Muslim state is of course only a camoufl age. It is a screen to dupe the common man, so that he may not see clearly that Pakistan is a feudal State in which a clique is trying by these methods to maintain itself in power. In addition to this, the appeal to religion constitutes a sentimental and a wrong approach to the question. Sentiment has its own place in life, but often it leads to irrational action. Some argue, IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 351 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] supposedly natural corollary to this that our acceding to Pakistan our annihilation or survival depends. Facts have disproved this; right thinking man would point out that Pakistan is not an organic unity of all the Muslims in this subcontinent. It has on the contrary, caused dispersion of the Indian Muslims for whose benefi t it was claimed to have been created. There are two Pakistan at least a thousand miles a port from each other. The total population of western Pakistan which is contiguous to our State is hardly 25 million, while the total number of Muslims resident in India is as many as 40 million. As one Muslim is as good as another, the Kashmiri Muslim if they are worried by such considerations should choose the 40 million living in India. Looking at the matter too from a more modern political angle, religious affi nities alone do not and should not normally determine the political alliances of State. We do not fi nd a christan bloc, a Buddhist block or even a Muslim block, about which there is so much talk now-a-days in Pakistan. These days economic interests and a community of political ideals more appropriately infl uence the policies of state. We have another important factor to consider, if the State decides to make this the predominant consideration.