Therefore, being citizen of India, settled in Sikkim, all are to be treated at par. It is contended that therefore, there is no reasonable justification and/or classification to exclude those Indians, who have settled in E Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim with India on 26.04.1975 solely on the ground that their names were not registered as “Sikkim Subjects” due to non-surrender of Indian citizenship at the relevant time; (ix) It is submitted that as such, the object and purpose of Section F 10(26AAA) is to grant exemption from payment of tax under the Income Tax Act to the locals/residents of Sikkim and that is the object sought to be achieved by providing exemption under Section 10(26AAA) of the Income Tax Act. It is submitted that therefore, there shall not be any G further classification between the locals/residents of Sikkim, whose names have been registered as “Sikkim Subjects” in the Register maintained under the Sikkim Subjects Regulations, 1961 and those whose names could not be and/ or were not registered as “Sikkim Subjects” due to non- surrender of their Indian citizenship; H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 309 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] (x) It is submitted that as such all the residents of Sikkim, who A have settled in Sikkim prior to the merger of Sikkim with India are all to be treated at par as they are all similarly situated and therefore the classification into different groups though similarly situated is discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. It is submitted that B the classification into groups should be based on identifiable criteria, which sets apart one group from the other. It is submitted that the second condition which has to be satisfied is that such a classification of a separate and identifiable group should bear a reasonable nexus with the object and purpose sought to be achieved by that law. That in the C present case, none of the above two conditions are satisfied and therefore, the classification between the two groups similarly situated would be arbitrary and hit by Article 14 of the Constitution. In support of above submission that classification between the two groups similarly situated D would be arbitrary and hit by Article 14 of the Constitution, Shri Vishwanathan, learned Senior Advocate, has heavily relied upon the decisions of this Court in the case of D.S. Nakara Vs. Union of India, (1983) 1 SCC 305 (paras 9 to 15). He has also relied upon the observations made by this Court in paragraph 4 of the decision of this Court in the E case of State of Rajasthan Vs. Manohar Singhji, 1954 SCR 996 : AIR 1954 SC 297. 7.1 Shri Vishwanathan, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the petitioner has further submitted that Court can remove discrimination and put the petitioners in the same class so as to do away F with discrimination. It is submitted that in the present case, in to remove the arbitrary discrimination against Indian settlers in Sikkim, the definition of “Sikkimese” in Section 10(26AAA) ought to be read to include Indians, who had settled there as on 26.04.1975.