[Paras 7.2-7.4][630-F-H; 631-A-H; 632-A-C] 1.2 In a case where, for reasons of prolonged delay, either on the part of the applicant in claiming compassionate appointment or the authorities in deciding such claim, the sense of immediacy G is diluted and lost. Further, the financial circumstances of the family of the deceased, may have changed, for the better, since the time of the death of the government employee. In such circumstances, Courts or other relevant authorities are to be guided by the fact that for such prolonged period of delay, the H 614 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A family of the deceased was able to sustain themselves, most probably by availing gainful employment from some other source. Granting compassionate appointment in such a case would amount to treating a claim for compassionate appointment as though it were a matter of inheritance based on a line of succession which is contrary to the Constitution. Since compassionate appointment B is not a vested right and the same is relative to the financial condition and hardship faced by the dependents of the deceased government employee as a consequence of his death, a claim for compassionate appointment may not be entertained after lapse of a considerable period of time since the death of the government C employee. [Para 7.5][632-C-G] Haryana State Electricity Board vs. Hakim Singh, (1997) 8 SCC 85 : [1997] 4 Suppl. SCR 377 – relied on. 1.3 There is no period of limitation provided for filing a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution, ordinarily, a D writ petition should be filed within a reasonable time. The Respondents-Writ Petitioners, upon submitting their applications in the year 2005-2006 did nothing further to pursue the matter, till the year 2015 i.e., for a period of ten years. Notwithstanding the tardy approach of the authorities of the Appellant-State in E dealing with their applications, the Respondent-Writ Petitioners delayed approaching the High Court seeking a writ in the nature of a mandamus against the authorities of the State. In fact, such a prolonged delay in approaching the High Court, may even be regarded as a waiver of a remedy, as discernible by the conduct of the Respondents-Writ Petitioners. Such a delay would disentitle F the Respondents-Writ Petitioners to the discretionary relief under Article 226 of the Constitution. Further, the of the High Court whereby the writ petition filed by some of the Respondents herein was disposed of with a direction to the Director of Local Bodies, Government of West Bengal to take a decision as to the G appointment of the Respondents-Writ Petitioners, cannot be considered to have the effect of revival of the cause of action. The operation of a policy/scheme for compassionate appointment is founded on considerations of immediacy. A sense of immediacy is called for not only in the manner in which the applications are H THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. DEBABRATA TIWARI & 615 ORS. ETC. ETC. processed by the concerned authorities but also in the conduct A of the applicant in pursuing his case, before the authorities and if needed before the Courts.