395 of 2010. E Ms. Eliza Barr, Sidhhant Saroha, Tushar Bathija, Praveer Singh, Abhimanyu Tewari, Advs. for the Appellant. R Bala, Sr. Adv., A K Kaul, Ms. Rukhmini Bobde, Shiv Mangal Sharma, Ms. Priyanka Das, Rajan Kumar Chourasia, Ms. Sweksha, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Advs. for the Respondents. F The of the Court was delivered by ABHAY S. OKA, J. FACTUAL ASPECTS 1. The appellant who was at the relevant time Lance Naik in the G Indian Army was convicted by the Court Martial for the offence punishable under Section 302 of the IPC (for short, ‘IPC’) read with Section 69 of the Army Act, 1950 (for short, ‘the Army Act’). The Court Martial sentenced the appellant to suffer imprisonment for life. The Court Martial also dismissed the appellant from service. Thereafter, the H 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A appellant filed pre-confirmation and additional pre-confirmation petitions which were rejected by the Major General Officer Commanding by his dated 28th September 2005. Thereafter, the appellant filed a petition to the Chief of the Army Staff who rejected the same by his dated 12th June 2006. Thereafter, the appellant filed a Petition under Article 226 read with Article 227 of the Constitution of India and Section 482 of B the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short ‘CrPC’) before the Hon’ble High Court of Punjab and Haryana. The High Court transferred the matter to the Armed Forces Tribunal, Chandigarh. By the impugned , the Armed Forces Tribunal, Chandigarh dismissed the Petition and confirmed the conviction and sentence of the appellant. Against the C impugned of the Tribunal, the Appellant again filed a Writ Petition before the Hon’ble High Court of Punjab and Haryana and by dated 10.10.2018, the High Court while dismissing the Writ Petition granted liberty to the appellant to avail remedy under Section 30 of the Armed Forces Tribunal Act, 2007. D 2. On 4th December 2004, the appellant and deceased (Lance Naik Kala Singh) were posted for duty with the 13 Field Regiment at Ferozepur Cantonment. On the date of the incident, the appellant and the deceased were a part of the guard headed by Guard Commander Naik Amrik Singh (PW-13). Gunner Gurtej Singh (PW-14) was a sentry who was also a part of the guard. E 3. It is alleged that on the night of 4th December 2004, the deceased brought a bottle of country liquor. The appellant, the deceased and the Guard Commander Naik Amrik Singh consumed liquor. Thereafter, there was an altercation between the appellant and the deceased on the issue of inter-se seniority. At that time, the Guard commander intervened. F The deceased replaced gunner Gurtej Singh (PW-14) for guard duty outside the guard room. Thereafter, the appellant went out when there were heated arguments between the appellant and the deceased again on the issue of seniority. At that time, the appellant snatched the rifle from the hands of the deceased and fired one bullet at the deceased. The appellant accompanied others for taking the deceased to a hospital G where he was declared dead.