B 10. As stated earlier, complainant PW-2 has not supported the prosecution. He has not said anything in his examination-in-chief about the demand made by the appellant. The public prosecutor cross-examined PW-2. The witness stated that there was no demand of a bribe made by the appellant. According to him, he filed a complaint as the return of the C sale deed was delayed. Though PW-2 accepted that he had filed the complaint, in the cross-examination, he was not confronted with the material portions of the complaint in which he had narrated how the alleged demand was made. The public prosecutor ought to have confronted the witness with his alleged prior statements in the complaint and proved that part of the complaint through the concerned police officer D who had reduced the complaint into writing. However, that was not done. 11.Now, we turn to the evidence of the shadow witness (PW-3). In the examination-in-chief, he stated that the appellant asked the PW-2 whether he had brought the amount. PW-3 did not say that the appellant E made a specific demand of gratification in his presence to PW-2. To attract Section 7 of the PC Act, the demand for gratification has to be proved by the prosecution beyond a reasonable doubt. The word used in Section 7, as it existed before 26th July 2018, is ‘gratification’. There has to be a demand for gratification. It is not a simple demand for money, but F it has to be a demand for gratification. If the factum of demand of gratification and acceptance thereof is proved, then the presumption under Section 20 can be invoked, and the Court can presume that the demand must be as a motive or reward for doing any official act. This presumption can be rebutted by the accused. 12.There is no circumstantial evidence of demand for gratification G in this case. In the circumstances, the offences punishable under Section 7 and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) have not been established. Unless both demand and acceptance are established, offence of obtaining pecuniary advantage by corrupt means covered by clauses (i) and (ii) of Section 13(1)(d) cannot be proved. H 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A EFFECT OF THE FAILURE TO FRAME A PROPER CHARGE 13. We must deal with another argument made by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant. That is about the failure to frame a proper charge for the offence punishable under Section 7. The B relevant portion of the charge reads thus: “You, working as the Sub Registrar at Kannivadi, Dindigul District from 27.10.2003 to 27.10.2003 and as such you are a public servant you registered the sale deed of 16.05 cents of land purchased by Sundaramoorthy on 12.07.2004 and demanded a sum of Rs.500/- C from Sundaramoorthy as gratification other than legal remuneration for returning the registered document and also received Rs.500/- as bribe, hence you disclosed the offences punishable u/s. 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and triable by this Court.” D 14.Thus, the Special Court omitted to frame a specific charge on demand allegedly made by the appellant on 6th and 13th August 2004 and acceptance thereof on 13th August 2004.