Provided that where there is a complaint of sexual F harassment within the meaning of rule 3 C of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964, the Complaints Committee established in each Ministry or Department or Office for inquiring into such complaints, shall be deemed- to be the inquiring authority appointed by the disciplinary authority for G the purpose of these rules and the Complaints Committee shall hold, if separate procedure has not been prescribed for the Complaints Committee for holding the inquiry into the complaints of sexual harassment, the inquiry as far as practicable in H 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A accordance with the procedure laid down in these rules.” - [emphasis supplied] 49. As can be seen from the above, when the misconduct relates to a complaint of sexual harassment at the work place, the Complaints B Committee constituted by the respondent no.2-University to examine such a complaint, dons the mantle of the inquiring authority and is expected to conduct an inquiry in accordance with the procedure prescribed in the rules, as far as may be practicable. The use of the expression “as far as is practicable” indicates a play in the joints available C to the Complaints Committee to adopt a fair procedure that is feasible and elastic for conducting an inquiry in a sensitive matter like sexual harassment at the workplace, without compromising on the principles of natural justice. Needless to state that the fact situation in each case will vary and therefore no set standards or yardstick can be laid down for conducting the inquiry in complaints of this nature. However, having D regard to the serious ramifications with which the delinquent employee may be visited at the end of the inquiry, any discordant note or unreasonable deviation from the settled procedures required to be followed, would however strike at the core of the principles of natural justice, notwithstanding the final outcome. E K. JOURNEY FROM “VISHAKA” CASE TO THE PoSH ACT (a) VISHAKA GUIDELINES : FILLING IN THE VACUUM : 48. The occasion to amend Rule 14 (2) of the CCS (CCA) Rules F and append a proviso thereto was a direct consequence of judicial intervention by this Court in the case of Vishaka (supra), where the powers vested under Article 32 of the Constitution of India were exercised by a three-Judge Bench to enforce the fundamental rights of women to “gender equality and right to life and liberty”, bestowed under Articles G 14, 15, 19(1)(g) and 21 of the Constitution of India. Treating a set of writ petitions filed by some social activists and NGOs, who were agitating the brutal gang rape of a social worker in a village of Rajasthan as a class action, this Court worked towards filling in the vacuum in the existing legislation. Noting the absence of any Statute enacted to provide for effective enforcement of the basic human right of gender equality and H AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 809 [HIMA KOHLI, J.]