It defi nes an arbitration agreement as an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not. The provision also mandates that an arbitration agreement shall be in writing. An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in: (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telexes, telegrams, or other means of telecommunication including communication through electronic means which provide a record of the agreement; or (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defense in which the existence of the agreement in alleged by one party and not denied by the other. Section 7(5) further stipulates that the reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if two conditions are satisfi ed. These conditions are fi rst, that the contract is in writing; and second, that the reference is such as to make the arbitration clause part of the contract. 20. An arbitration agreement, being a creature of contract,13 is based on the consent of parties to submit their disputes to an alternate dispute resolution mechanism. Generally, a party to an arbitration agreement is determined on the basis of persons or entities who are signatories to the arbitration agreement or the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement. However, over the past two decades the law on joinder of non- signatory parties has evolved substantially. The evolution could roughly be classifi ed into two stages: before Chloro Controls (supra) and after Chloro Controls (supra). 21. In the pre Chloro Controls (supra) era, this Court construed “parties” by limiting it only to the signatories to the arbitration agreement. In Sukanya Holdings (supra) the applicant fi led an application under Section 13 Bhaven Construction v. Executive Engineer, Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd, (2022) 1 SCC 75 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 649 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 8 of the Arbitration Act before the High Court and sought to enforce the arbitration agreement against both the signatories and non-signatories to the agreement. The High Court rejected the application on the ground that the non-signatories were not parties to the arbitration agreement. In appeal, this Court upheld the decision of the High Court by observing that there is no provision under the Arbitration Act stipulating what is required to be done where some parties to the suit are not parties to the arbitration agreement. In Sumitomo Corporation v. CDC Financial Services (Mauritius) Ltd,14 this Court, while dealing with an international commercial arbitration held that a “party” to an arbitration agreement means a party to the judicial proceedings. This was expressly held to be erroneous in Chloro Controls (supra), where it was held that “party” has to be construed in view of Section 2(1)(h) to mean a party to an arbitration agreement. 22. The interpretation of the expression “party” as defi ned under Section 2(1)(h) came up for the consideration of this Court in Indowind Energy Ltd (supra).