noted that out of the total land covered under the scheme, i.e., 332.616 A hectares (277.853 hectares of land acquired through award plus 44.763 hectares of the land owned by the Authority), land has been released for various purposes to the extent of 54.660 hectares and still the remaining land would be to the extent of 267.956 hectares out of which the land involved in the present appeals would be to the extent of 85.430 hectares. B According to the Development Authority, 111.156 hectares of the land covered under the scheme was released in favour of Housing Cooperative Societies because the object of the housing societies and the scheme was the same. According to the Development Authority, the Authority/ State Government had released the land only of those societies who had either developed or started development of colonies or had acquired the C title to the land or had obtained exemption under section 20 of the Urban Land (Ceiling & Regulation) Act, 1976 before publication of the final scheme under section 50(7) of the Adhiniyam. According to the Development Authority, 104.524 hectares of land covered under the scheme which was released from the scheme, the land use of the said D land was either agricultural or regional park. Release of the land having area of 46.116 hectares of land was in response to objections under section 5A of the Act because of certain reasons like existing houses, religious places, different land use etc. 13.1 Thus, from the above, it cannot be said that the release of E the land was arbitrary and/or with an object of undue favour to those persons whose lands have been released. As rightly submitted that even otherwise such lands were to be acquired for residential, park and industrial purposes, release of the land which according to the authority was for valid reasons or valid grounds has not prejudiced or affected the integrity of the scheme. The end result of the release of some land is F that the total area of the scheme is lesser to that extent but the integrity of the scheme remains the same. At this stage, it is required to be noted that some of the lands have already been used by the authority for the purpose of a park which is used for the benefit of local people. Under the circumstances, the third ground on which the scheme and the entire G acquisition proceedings have been quashed by the High Court does not stand on its legs and the said finding is unsustainable. 14. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeals are allowed and the impugned common and passed by the High Court dismissing the writ appeals and the H 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A common and passed by the learned Single Judge declaring Scheme No. 97 as having lapsed under section 54 of the Adhiniyam and quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings with respect to the lands in question, are unsustainable and the same deserve to be quashed and set aside and accordingly are hereby quashed and set aside.