C Nagaraja (supra) it was inter-alia held on the point of tradition and culture of Jallikattu:- “54. The PCA Act, a welfare legislation, in our view, overshadows or overrides the so-called tradition and culture. Jallikattu and bullock cart races, the manner in which they D are conducted, have no support of Tamil tradition or culture. Assuming, it has been in vogue for quite some time, in our view, the same should give way to the welfare legislation, like the PCA Act which has been enacted to prevent infliction of unnecessary pain or suffering on animals and confer duties and obligations on persons in charge of animals. Of late, E there are some attempts at certain quarters, to reap maximum gains and the animals are being exploited by the human beings by using coercive methods and inflicting unnecessary pain for pleasure, amusement and enjoyment. We have a history of doing away with such evil practices in society, assuming F such practices have the support of culture and tradition, as tried to be projected in the TNRJ Act. Professor Salmond states that custom is the embodiment of those principles which have commended themselves to the national conscience as the principles of justice and public utility. This Court, in N. Adithayan v. Travancore Devaswom Board [(2002) 8 SCC G 106] (2002) 8 SCC 106, while examining the scope of Articles 25(1), 26(a), 26(b), 17, 14 and 21, held as follows: (SCC p. 125, para 18) “18. … Any custom or usage irrespective of even any proof of their existence in pre-constitutional days cannot be H THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 459 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] countenanced as a source of law to claim any rights when A it is found to violate human rights, dignity, social equality and the specific mandate of the Constitution and law made by Parliament. No usage which is found to be pernicious and considered to be in derogation of the law of the land or opposed to public policy or social decency can be B accepted or upheld by courts in the country.” 55. As early as 1500-600 BC in Isha-Upanishads, it is professed as follows: “The universe along with its creatures belongs to the land. No creature is superior to any other. Human beings should C not be above nature. Let no one species encroach over the rights and privileges of other species.” In our view, this is the culture and tradition of the country, particularly the States of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. 56. The PCA Act has been enacted with an object to safeguard D the welfare of the animals and evidently to cure some mischief and age old practices, so as to bring into effect some type of reform, based on eco-centric principles, recognising the intrinsic value and worth of animals. All the same, the Act has taken care of the religious practices of the community, E while killing an animal vide Section 28 of the Act.” 16.On this basis, arguments have been advanced on behalf of the petitioners that the Amendment Act of Tamil Nadu having regard to its Preamble seeks to invalidate conclusive judicial opinion without curing the defects specified in that decision in the conduct of Jallikattu.