Society continues to consider a marriage to be a marriage even if, say, a married couple decides to live apart because they work in diff erent cities or countries or if they do not have children. This is equally true of the other facets of marriage discussed in this paragraph. The exercise of defi ning the content of the institution of marriage as well as delineating its purpose is a subjective exercise undertaken by the couple in question. 104. The respondents suggested that an ‘ideal marriage’ has many or all of the components discussed in the preceding paragraphs. This argument acknowledges that many of these components are not necessarily present in the institution of marriage but places them in the realm of normative or aspirational values. In other words, the argument is that marriages ought to fi t with these components even if a given marriage does not fi t with them. The answer to this argument is straightforward – there is no legal basis to elevate these personals ideals to the status of normative requirements. To the contrary, every eff ort must be made to practice and inculcate constitutional ideas – the ideals of human dignity, liberty, equality, and fraternity – in our everyday lives. These constitutional ideals demand that we respect the autonomy and dignity of each person. We must respect their decisions and 130 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. choices. It is only when a particular decision or action is contrary to the law or an aff ront to constitutional values that this Court may step in. In all other instances, citizens are empowered to defi ne the content of their lives and fi nd meaning in their relationships. 105. Diff erent religions may have diff erent understandings of marriage, for instance, whether marriage is a sacrament or a contract. There may be diverse social constructs of marriage within a religious grouping. Similarly, there may be diff erent conceptions of marriage within a particular community. This is best understood with the aid of an example. Section 5(iv) of the HMA stipulates that a marriage may be solemnised between two persons if they are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship, unless a custom or usage governing the parties permits their marriage. One of the degrees of prohibited relationship is an uncle and his niece.101 In many communities, an uncle cannot marry his niece because the community does not have a custom or usage which permits such a marriage. Yet, in many other communities such a marriage is customary and therefore permitted in terms of the HMA. The customs of many tribes of the country similarly permit an uncle to marry his niece. Many tribal communities are governed by their own customs and usages. Such marriages are valid and recognised by tribal customs although they are not recognised by the law governing other communities in the country. The solemnisation of a marriage, too, takes diff erent forms in diff erent communities. What may be customary, and therefore not only accepted but encouraged in a particular religion or community may not have a parallel in another religion or community.