KAMAL PRASAD & ORS. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 815 (NOW STATE OF CHHATTISGARH) [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 10. Here only we may record that the Courts below have concurrently found the witnesses to have deposed truthfully, their testimonies to be entirely inspiring in confi dence. 11. Further that the death of the deceased Chetram and Kapildeo is undisputed, with medical and scientifi c evidence including the post-mortem reports conducted by two doctors referred to supra (PW-10 and PW-11), confi rm such fact. Deceased Chetram having sustained multiple injuries upon vital parts of the body as a result of the bombs being thrown at him also stands proved. 12. It is also a matter of record that PW-3 had sustained lacerated wounds the causation of which could well have been the country made bombs used in the commission of off ence. Such fact is evident from the medical opinion of Dr. Ghanshyam (PW-20) who conducted his medical examination. 13. Before proceeding to the four contentions advanced, fi rstly it would be necessary for us to appreciate the principles of law in respect of delay in registration of FIR as evolved over time. 13.1 This Court in Apren Joseph v. State of Kerala2, has observed that “Undue unreasonable delay in lodging the FIR”, “inevitably gives rise to suspicion which puts the Court on guard to look for the possible motive and the explanation for the delay and consider its eff ect on the trustworthiness or otherwise of the prosecution version.” The Bench of three learned Judges further observed that no time duration, in the abstract could be fi xed as the ‘reasonable time’ to give information to the police and therefore, the same is a question to be determined as per facts and circumstances of each case. 13.2 Further, referring to Ram Jag v. State of U.P.3, this Court in State of M.P. v. Ratan Singh4 observed that Courts when faced with the question of delay in registration of FIR are duty-bound to determine whether the explanation aff orded is plausible enough based on the given facts and circumstances of each case. 2 (1973) 3 SCC 114 3 (1974) 4 SCC 201 4 (2020) 12 SCC 630 816 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 13.3 This Court recently in Bhagwan Singh v. Dilip Singh alias Depak & Anr5 has observed that if the prosecution attempts to ‘improvise its case stage by stage and step by step’ during the intervening period, it would be open for the accused to contend that the delay was fatal to the proceedings and the same was done to ‘stave off proceedings against the accused’. 14. In respect of the fi rst contention put forth by the convict-appellants it is seen from the record that the FIR was registered about two hours after the incident having taken place on 17.04.1988 at about 08.00 a.m. The document itself records the time of incident as being 8.15 a.m. and the time of report as being 11.00 a.m. The testimony of PW-3 at whose instance the FIR was recorded, shows that out of fear and having sustained numerous injuries, he ran from the place of occurrence and hid in the house of Baisakhu Kewat and only emerged therefrom two hours later.