The decision in (1995) 5 SCC 482 LIC Vs. Consumer Education and Research Centre was relied on to contend that every activity of public authority must be informed by reasons and guided by public interest and the exercise of discretion or power by public authority D must be judged by that standard. Para 24 and 30 of the decision relied upon is as hereunder: “24. In Dwarkadas Marfatia & Sons v. Board of Trustees of the Port of Bombay [(1989) 3 SCC 293 : (1989) 2 SCR 751] it was held that the Corporation must act in accordance with certain E constitutional conscience and whether they have so acted must be discernible from the conduct of such Corporations. Every activity of public authority must be informed by reasons and guided by the public interest. All exercises of discretion or power by public authority must be judged by that standard. In that case when the building owned by the port trust was exempted from the F Rent Act, on terminating the tenancy for development when possession was sought to be taken, it was challenged under Article 226 that the action of the port trust was arbitrary and no public interest would be served by terminating the tenancy. In that context, this Court held that even in contractual relations the Court cannot G ignore that the public authority must have constitutional conscience so that any interpretation put up must be to avoid arbitrary action, lest the authority would be permitted to flourish as imperium in imperio. Whatever be the activity of the public authority, it must meet the test of Article 14 and judicial review strikes an arbitrary action. H 272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 30. The contention of the appellants is that the offending clause is a valid classification. The salaried group of lives from the Government, semi-Government or reputed commercial institutions form a class. With a view to identify the health conditions, the policy was applied to that class of lives. No mandamus would be issued to declare the classification as unconstitutional when it bears B reasonable nexus to the object and there is intelligible differentia between the salaried lives and the rest. The High Court, therefore, was wrong in declaring the offending clause as arbitrary violating Article 14. It is true that the appellant is entitled to issue the policy applicable to a particular group or class of lives entitled to avail C contract of insurance with the appellant but a class or a group does mean that the classification meets the demand of equality, fairness and justness. The doctrine of classification is only a subsidiary rule evolved by the courts to give practical content to the doctrine of equality, overemphasis on the doctrine of classification or anxious or sustained attempt to discover some D basis for classification may gradually and imperceptibly erode the profound potency of the glorious content of equality enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution. The overemphasis on classification would inevitably result in substitution of the doctrine of classification to the doctrine of equality and the Preamble of the Constitution E which is an integral part and scheme of the Constitution.