It was urged that since India had entered into DTAAs with other countries which were members of OECD, the lower rate or the restricted scope in the DTAA executed between India and such a country automatically applied to the India-Netherlands DTAA. This was based on the provision made in the preface of the Protocol which inter alia stated that the Protocol “shall form part an integral part of the Convention” i.e., the subject DTAA. It was argued that application of provisions of the DTAA (which followed subsequent to the India- Netherlands DTAA), contrary to the revenue’s stand, no fresh notifi cation was required. In support, reliance was placed upon the rulings in Court in Steria (India) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-Tax3, the of the Karnataka High Court in Apollo Tyres Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, 3 [2016] 386 ITR 390 (Delhi) 114 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. International Taxation,4 and of another of the Delhi High Court in EPCOS Electronic Components S.A. v. Union of India5. 5. By the impugned , the Delhi High Court, allowed the writ petitions, inter alia, reasoning that: “15. A bare perusal of Clause IV (2) shows that it incorporates the principle of parity between the subject DTAA and the Conventions/ DTAAs executed thereafter qua the rate of withholding tax or the scope of the Conventions in respect of items of income concerning dividends, interest, royalties, fees for technical services, or payments for use of equipment [in short “subject remittances”]. 16. However, the principle of parity kicks-in, only if the following conditions are fulfi lled: i. First, the third State with whom India enters into a Convention/ DTAA should be a member of the OECD. ii. Second, India should have, in its Convention/DTAA, executed with the third State, limited its rate of withholding tax, on subject remittances, at a rate lower or a scope more restricted, than the rate or scope provided in the subject Convention/DTAA. 17. Once the aforementioned conditions are fulfi lled, then, from the date on which the Convention/DTAA between India and a third State comes into force, the same rate of withholding tax or scope as provided in the Convention/DTAA executed between India and the third State would necessarily have to apply to the subject DTAA. 17.1. Therefore, the argument advanced on behalf of the revenue, that the benefi cial provisions contained in the Conventions/DTAAs, executed both prior to or after the coming into force of the subject DTAA, i.e., 21.01.1989, could not be made applicable to the recipients of remittances covered under the subject DTAA even though the concerned third State was a member of the OECD is, to our minds, 4 [2018] 92 Taxmann.com 166 (Karnataka) 5 2019 SCC OnLine Del 9113 ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1149 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] completely misconceived and contrary to the plain terms of Clause IV (2) of the protocol appended to the subject DTAA. 17.2. Although it must be said in favour of the revenue, the construct of Clause IV (2) is such that in certain cases there could be a hiatus between the dates on which the Convention/DTAA is executed between India and the third State and the date when such third State becomes a member of OECD.