As noticed hereinbefore, the State Commission, while reproducing two E passages from the decision of COMPAT, further reproduced a part of written submissions of the claimant-respondent claiming compound interest. The State Commission did not elaborate much on the principles governing its powers and those governing awarding compound interest; and rather considered the decision in Dr. Monga’s case to be decisive of the matter. In the revision petitions before the National Commission, F the appellants seriously contested the applicability of the decision in Dr. Monga’s case to the facts of the present case, albeit on a different ground that the decision rendered in the proceedings under MRTP Act cannot be applied to the present proceedings under the Act of 1986. 12.1. We shall be dealing with the relevant aspects concerning G applicability of Dr. Monga’s casea little later but suffice it would be to observe that in the given set of circumstances, the respondent does not appear justified in suggesting that the appellants had consciously given up their contest to the claim of compound interest. The other side of the matter is that looking to the prayers in the complaints, the complainant- respondent could not have been denied the proper relief, if available on H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1125 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the facts of the case and permissible on the applicable legal principles. A Thus, the contentions as regards the matter of form and pleading are left at that and without further discussion on the decision cited on behalf of the appellant in the case of Manohar Lal (supra) as also the decisions cited on behalf to the respondent in the cases of Transmission Corp. of AP Ltd. and Balram Prasad (supra). B The cited decisions on award of interest in real estate dealings 13. Reverting to the rival submissions concerning the question as to whether the Consumer Fora had been justified in awarding and approving compound interest at the rate of 14% and a vast variety of C alternative methods for computing damages with reference to the loss said to have been suffered by the respondent and the punitive measures against the appellants, as noticed, strong reliance has been placed by the State Commission and the National Commission as also by the respondent on the decision in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga (supra), which arose out D of the case for compensation under the provisions of MRTP Act. The main plank, rather substratum, of the decision of State Commission in awarding compound interest had been the view taken and relief granted against the appellants in relation to the very same project and in relation to a similar grievance of the said other prospective buyer, Dr. Monga, who was also deprived of the fruits of her deposits. E 14. However, before adverting to the decision in the case of Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga (supra) in necessary details, we may usefully refer to the other decisions cited on behalf of the appellants in support of the contention that usually in such matters against the builders, this Court has awarded simple interest in the range of 6% to 9% p.a., which has F been countered on behalf of the respondent that the said decisions more or less related to the cases of delayed delivery of possession and not deprivation of flat altogether and retention of money for over three decades.