He has stated that when they reached near the house of Rashid son of Mustafa, the accused persons including the present appellants carrying rifl es, guns etc. in their hands, came behind them. They shouted that they would kill these people today. After saying this, all the people started fi ring indiscriminately with their weapons. Due to those injuries, Satendra and Sunil fell down on the spot. He stated that Ram Kishan and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) were also shot but they fl ed away to save their lives. He further stated that in the meantime, Masooq Ali came out of his house near the spot. The accused persons also shot him and he also fell down. 29. Lokendra (PW-1) further stated that Ram Kishan entered into Rizwan’s house to save his life and the accused persons also entered Rizwan’s house after him. When Rizwan and Rihan were trying to stop them from entering their house, they also fi red shots at both of them. The said witness cannot be said to be an eye witness as to what has happened inside the house of Rizwan. However, insofar as the fi rst incident is concerned, he is an eye witness to the same. 30. In his examination-in-chief, Lokendra (PW-1) has stated about Vimla Devi, mother of deceased Ram Kishan contesting the election of village Pradhan in the previous election. Lokendra (PW-1) was also a member of the Gram Panchayat and he supported Vimla Devi. He stated MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 787 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] that because of this, appellant Madan and others started keeping internal enmity with them. 31. Lokendra (PW-1) also deposed that Mahipal, a witness to this incident, was also murdered about two and half months ago in the vicinity of the Jwalapur Police Station, Haridwar, in which, Rajveer, Ramvir, Rambhajan, sons of Ishwar and Ishwar were made the accused persons. He further stated that because Rambhajan, Rajveer, Ramveer, Ompal and Devendra alias Neetu were absconding from their homes since the incident, they could not be caught. In his cross-examination, it was put to him that in his Tehrir, it was not mentioned that he was going with the other persons to the place of Rizwan. However, the FIR is not an encyclopaedia of the entire incident. There are certain omissions in his evidence but they are not material. 32. Irshad Khan (PW-7) is the father of deceased Rizwan and Rihan. Rizwan was Deputy Pradhan of the village at that time. Irshad Khan (PW- 7), in his deposition, has stated that, on the date of the incident, when he along with his wife Mehmoona Begum and his sons Rizwan and Rihan were present in his house, suddenly Ram Kishan entered his house in an injured condition. He stated that Ram Kishan was followed by Ishwar, Madan, Rajveer, Ramveer, Rambhajan, Kunwar Pal. He further stated that Madan’s brother-in-law (sala) Ompal, Madan’s brother-in-law (Sadhu) Neetu, along with Madan’s nephew had also entered in his house. He stated that these people were carrying rifl es, guns and pistols in their hands.