v. UNION 1355 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the fundamental groups of society.194 The need and ability to be a part of a family forms a core component of our humanity. These relationships which nourish the emotional and spiritual aspects of our humanity are important in and of themselves. Further, they are as important to self-development as the intellectual (and eventually, fi nancial) nourishment we receive through education. Self-development cannot be measured solely in terms of educational qualifi cations and fi nancial capabilities. Such a description is to forget what makes as human. 218. It is insuffi cient if persons have the ability and freedom to form relationships unregulated by the State. For the full enjoyment of the such relationships, it is necessary that the State accord recognition to such relationships. Thus, the right to enter into a union includes the right to associate with a partner of one’s choice, according recognition to the association, and ensuring that there is no denial of access to basic goods and services is crucial to achieve the goal of self-development. b. The rights under Article 19 I. The right to freedom of speech and expression and to form intimate associations 219. Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution recognizes the right to freedom of speech and expression. Freedom postulates within its meaning, both, an absence of State control as well as actions by the State which create the conditions for the exercise of rights and freedoms. Article 19(1)(c) of the Constitution recognizes the freedom to form associations or unions or co-operative societies. The freedom of speech and expression is not limited to expressive words. It also includes other forms of expression such as the manifestation of complex identities of persons through the expression of their sexual identity, choice of partner, and the expression of sexual desire to a consenting party. Earlier s of this Court have held that expression 194 The Preamble of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child recognizes the importance of the family in the following terms: “…Convinced that the family, as the fundamental group of society and the natural environment for the growth and well-being of all its members and particularly children, should be aff orded the necessary protection and assistance so that it can fully assume its responsibilities within the community…” 135 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of gender identity is a protected freedom under Article 19(1)(a). In NALSA (supra), this Court held that the expression of gender identity is a form of protected expression under Article 19(1)(a). In Navtej (supra), this Court held that Section 377 of the IPC infringes upon the freedom of expression of queer persons, protected under Article 19(1)(a). 220. Courts have traditionally interpreted the right to form an association guaranteed under Article 19(1)(c) to mean associations formed by workers or employees for collective bargaining to attain equitable working conditions. However, the entire gamut of the freedom protected under Article 19(1)(c) cannot be restricted to this singular conception. The ambit of the freedom under Article 19(1)(c) is much wider.