There is no explanation as to what occasioned the E delay in serving the legal notice on the defendants and why such steps were not adopted soon after the expiry of the six month period stipulated in the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. 34. Therefore, it is held that the plaintiff, having paid no more than 4% of the sale consideration, and having not done even as much as getting the property measured within the period of six months F stipulated under the agreement, cannot, at a belated date, claim specific performance of the agreement dated 7th August, 2005 to the disadvantage and hardship of the defendants. 35. Learned counsel for the plaintiff has sought to rely on the decision of this Court in Pratap Lakshman Muchandi and Ors. vs. G Shamlal Uddavadas Wadhwa and Ors., (2008) 1 SCC 67 wherein it was held that in cases where specific performance of a contract is sought in relation to property, the market value of which has increased since the date on which contract of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights was entered into, it would be justified to award an additional amount of H 280 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A consideration to the seller, at the discretion of the Court. While I am mindful of the fact that Courts may grant such a relief to balance equities, such a decree would be warranted only in cases where the plaintiff satisfactorily establishes compliance with Section 16 of the Act. That the measure of enhancement of compensation may be awarded at the discretion of the Court only if insufficiency of compensation is the only B impediment to ensuring equity and preventing undue gain to one party. In the absence of compliance with the elementary requirements of Section 16 of the Act, enhancement of compensation cannot be employed as a device to allow specific performance in cases where the plaintiff has not performed his obligations under the contract as in the instant case. C 36. In my view, this appeal must fail on the sole ground that the conduct of the plaintiff was not reflective of his readiness as well as willingness on his part to pursue the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights, in terms of Section 16(c) of the Act. Accordingly, the present appeal is dismissed. D 37. At this juncture, it is clarified that the result of this appeal has been arrived at having regard to the conduct of the plaintiff, which does not reflect his willingness to comply with the terms of the agreement of sale dated 7th August, 2005. The suit for specific performance of the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights would fail on the E sole ground that the plaintiff has failed to comply with the essential requirements of Section 16(c) of the Act. Although it is acknowledged that the defendants would be put through hardship if the suit for specific performance was decreed in favour of the plaintiff, the appeal has been decided dehors considerations of hardship to the defendants, or of other circumstances under which the contract was entered into which could F give the plaintiff an unfair advantage over the defendants, which are considerations in equity as the relief of specific performance is essentially an equitable remedy though crystalised in the form of a legislation as per the Act.