112 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P OS.RCT.RS. 112 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A THE STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. v. MULTIPLEX ASSN. OF GUJARAT THROUGH ITS PRESIDENT (Civil Appeal No. 13977 of 2015) B FEBRUARY 02, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Tax/Taxation – Scheme to boost tourism sector, granted tax holiday for 5-10 years to entities (including multi-cinema theatre complexes or multiplexes) in respect of exemption from sales tax, C turnover tax, electricity duty, luxury tax, and entertainment tax upto 100% capital investment – No discerning method or mechanism of calculating exemption limits mentioned in scheme – Assessee contended that it was based on notional exercise, revenue contended that element of tax had to be added to actual amount collected – D Held: High Court had rightly considered the issue and developed a reasonable workable method of notional calculation of quantified limit – Since assessee was not collecting any amounts as tax, no question of addition of further amount – Notional determination based on actual ticket collection for relevant period to be used to determine whether specified ceiling limit in scheme for exemption E was achieved. Tax/Taxation – Tax exemption notification unambiguous w.r.t grant of exemption, and the terms of such relief (in terms of time, and monetary limits), but clear gap in the manner how tax exemption limits can be discerned, which if not construed appropriately, would F defeat the intention of the notification – Interpretation of – Discussed. Doctrines/Principles – Doctrine of ‘substantial compliance’ – Discussed. G Interpretation of Statutes – Rules of procedure are meant to facilitate and not supplant justice. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 Neither the package nor the scheme (as embodied in the exemption notification) indicated the mechanism H 112 THE STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. v. MULTIPLEX ASSN. OF 113 GUJARAT THROUGH ITS PRESIDENT for calculating how the exemption limits (100% capital A investment) was calculable. The rate of tax at the relevant time was 50% of the entrance or ticket value. The assessee contended that calculation of total exemption was to be done based on a notional exercise, while the state’s contention was that since the assessee had the benefit of tax exemption, the element of tax B had to be added to the actual amount collected. [Para 6-7 and 9][119-C; 120-G-H] 1.2 The High Court held that as multiplexes which availed of the exemption had in fact not collected amounts as tax, there was no question of addition of any further amount but rather that to reckon whether the ceiling limit in the scheme for exemption C (100% capital investment) was achieved, was to be done by notional determination based on actual ticket collection for the relevant period. [Para 10][122-B-C] 1.3 It is evident from the terms of the Scheme and exemption notification that the exemption is fixed to limits i.e. D (1) a time limit and (2) quantification. The latter could be subject to the first i.e., in the event, the amount reached the exemption limit were achieved, before the expiry of the period in question (5-10 years), no further exemption could be claimed.