She would submit that first respondent is a private limited company. Section 81 of the Act did not, as such, apply to the company. Nevertheless, this is a case where the appellants have made an offer to all the existing shareholders and, what is more, in the ratio of 1:1. All that happened was since the company was advised that the authorised capital must be increased so that its H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 251 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] capital requirements could be considered, the appellants decided to go in A for increase in the authorised capital. The authorised capital was increased from Rs.1 crore to Rs.2 crores. She reminds us that this is a case where the Sheth Group quit in April, 2009 by resigning from the Board of Directors. They took away nearly 90 lakhs. On account of their activities, the company had run into rough weather. It was, in such circumstances, B the need for increase in the authorised capital was felt. It is further pointed out that though the Sheth Group and the V.P. Patel Group attempted to impugn the decision to increase the authorised capital as an act of mismanagement and oppression, significantly, the NCLT and NCLAT have found no merit in the same. Therefore, once the increase in the capital was not found illegal or malafide, it is inexplicable, it is C submitted, as to how the actual allotment of the shares could be found tainted. The rationale in the reasoning, viz., that the allotment was ‘defective’, was insupportable, it is contended. All the shareholders were given an equal opportunity to apply for shares in proportion to their existing shareholdings (1:1). They could apply for lesser number of shares. They D could also apply for more number of shares. Lastly, they could exercise the choice to not apply for any shares at all. This choice was made available to all the shareholders across the Board falling in the three Groups. The fact of the matter is the Sheth group and the V.P. Patel Group did not apply. Without finding any illegality otherwise, the NCLT and NCLAT, it is contended, clearly erred. E 6. Per contra, Shri Nitin Rai, learned Senior Counsel, would point out that the Court must bear in mind that the first respondent is a closely held company. It is more or less a quasi-partnership and it ran on trust. The authorised capital of the company was Rs.1 crore. Without the company, in the General Body Meeting, resolving to increase the F authorised capital, there were no shares, which could have been allotted by the Board of Directors. In this regard, he sought support from of this Court reported in Nanalal Zaver and another v. Bombay Life Assurance Company Limited and another1. In other words, the authorised capital was increased by the decision of the General G Body, only on 27.01.2010. However, the Board of Directors decided to allot shares, which were non-existent, prior to 27.01.2010. The action of the Board of Directors was unauthorised and impermissible in law.