[2023] 4 S.C.R. 1109 1109 MUNICIPAL COMMISSIONER, JAMNAGAR MUNICIPAL A CORPORATION AND ANR. v. R. M. DOSHI (Civil Appeal No. 6069 of 2012) B MAY 02, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Gujarat Civil Services (Disciplinary and Appeal) Rules, 1971 – Rule 6 – Respondent was discharging his duty as city engineer of C the appellant-Municipal corporation – Respondent was charged with irregularities in the execution of work and construction of roads – Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation passed a dismissal against the respondent – Respondent challenged the dismissal before the High Court, arguing that the Commissioner lacked the authority and jurisdiction – Appellant corporation submitted D that under Resolution No.51, the commissioner had passed the final and his was ratified by the General body of corporation – Single Judge of the High Court quashed the dismissal based on the lack of authority of the Commissioner – The Division Bench upheld the decision of the Single Judge – On appeal, held: The E High Court have rightly observed that the Resolution No.51 did not authorize and confer any power upon the Commissioner to take action with respect to any other lapses other than the purchases – However, the General Board had the power to pass an of dismissal and the decision of the Commissioner was placed before the General Board and the decision was ratified – Therefore, the F dismissal can be said to be an passed by the General Board – of High Court quashed and set aside – of dismissal restored. Allowing the appeal, the Court G HELD: 1. The submission on behalf of the appellant Corporation that vide Resolution No. 51 dated 20.11.1998, the Commissioner was authorized to take action against any officer with regard to the lapses and/or negligence on the part of the officers in various works and purchases is concerned, on going through the Resolution No. 51, it appears that though the issue H 1109 1110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A raised was with regard to the lapses and negligence on the part of the officers in various works and purchases and was discussed, however, ultimately, what was resolved was to empower the Commissioner to take proper and necessary action against those erring officers, who committed lapses and carelessness in various works in purchases and take action as per the rules and B regulations, wherever, necessary. Therefore, the Commissioner was authorized to take action against the erring officers with respect to the lapses and carelessness with various works in purchases only. Therefore, both the Single Judge as well as the Division bench of the High Court have rightly observed and held C that the Resolution No. 51 did not authorize and/or confer any power upon the Commissioner to take action with respect to any other lapses other than the purchases. However, at the same time, it is required to be noted that the decision of the Commissioner was placed before the General Board and the General Board vide its Resolution No.56 dated 15.12.1998 as D amended by subsequent Resolution dated 30.12.1998, ratified the decision of the Commissioner dismissing the respondent from service.