It is obvious that the three corporate entities involved in that case were incorporated under the Companies Act that prevailed prior to coming into operation of 2013 Act. The position 510 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of law to guide the subject proceeding should be the same. In the event a fi nancial creditor wants to pursue a recovery certifi cate as a deemed decree, he would get twelve years’ time. We are of this view as the extent of operation of a recovery certifi cate has been construed by this Court in Kotak Mahindra I (supra) to go beyond fi ling of winding-up petition alone. It would retain the character of a decree to lodge a claim in an IBC proceeding. But this point has not been examined by the Appellate Tribunal. We have already expressed our opinion on the reasons that weighed with the Appellate Tribunal as also the NCLT in entertaining the application. But since the fi rst two fora did not test the legality of the 2015 certifi cate as a deemed decree, we are of the opinion that this question also ought to be addressed by the Appellate Tribunal. We are otherwise not satisfi ed with the argument of the appellant about maintainability of the application out of which this appeal arises on the ground of the application being barred under limitation. The application with respect to the two recovery certifi cates issued in the year 2017 is maintainable. In the event the Appellate Tribunal is of opinion that the CIRP could not lie so far as the recovery certifi cate of 2015 is concerned, as the decree would be still alive, the claim based on the said recovery certifi cate could be segregated from the composite claim and the Committee of Creditors shall, in that event, treat the sum refl ected in the said recovery certifi cate as part of the claims made in pursuance of the public announcement. This direction we are issuing in exercise of our jurisdiction under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. 16. With these observations and directions, the appeal is dismissed. Interim s, if any, shall stand dissolved. 17. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. 18. There shall be no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Nidhi Jain