This Court has said in paragraph 45 of the decision dated 08.09.2022 in Criminal Appeal Nos.1514-1516 of 2022 “We are constrained to say that even a novice in Criminal Law would not have left the offences under D the PC Act, out of the final report.” Ignoring the said opinion of this Court, the High Court has directed the Investigating Officer to find out afresh whether the offences under the PC Act are made out or not. Therefore, the problem with the impugned is not merely one of improper usage of language, as sought to be diluted by the learned senior counsel for the accused and the E complainant, but something more. [Paras 19-22, 25][1054-B-G; 1055-D; 1056-C-D] 2. It is true that criminal jurisprudence recognizes a limited role for victims and it is the State which is entrusted with the onerous responsibility of prosecuting the accused and getting F them punished. But we must remember that certain theories of law were developed at a time when the process of administration of the criminal justice system was in the hands of honest and responsible Police officials and the stream remained largely unpolluted. Today the situation is different. In cases of this nature, G where some of the complainants and the accused have come together to form an unholy alliance, the victims of crime cannot be left at the mercy of such partnerships. We have seen in this case, persons aspiring to secure public employment, paying illegal gratification, through persons who are public servants, to persons H 1032 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A in power and later coming to the Court supporting the accused on the basis of an out of Court settlement. What was compromised between the complainant and accused is not just their disputes, but justice, fair-play, good conscience and the fundamental principles of criminal jurisprudence. In fact, the case on hand is one where there are two teams just for the purpose of record, B but no one knows who is playing for which team and where the match was fixed. As a matter of fact, very vocal submissions were made on the question of locus in the previous round of litigation in P. Dharamaraj vs. Shanmugam in Criminal Appeal Nos.1514- 1516 of 2022. But the objections relating to maintainability were C rejected by this Court in the very same proceedings in the first round. Therefore, the accused cannot raise the question of locus again and again. [Paras 33, 34][1060-D-H; 1061-A] 3. It is clear from Rule 207(12) that a confession statement is a confidential document till the time investigation is complete D and Final Report filed. The relevant portion of Rule 207(12) states “… not to make its contents public until the investigation is completed and final report filed”. Rule 210 extracted above enables “third parties to apply to the Court for the grant of copies of or or any proceeding or document in the custody of a Court”. Therefore, it is not as though the appellants E have filed something to which they could have never had any access.