Going by the above provisions, the relevance, efficacy and reliability of the confessional statement of appellant Nasir when examined on the touchstone of Sections 10 and 30 of E the Evidence Act, it will have to be stated that the confession of a co-accused cannot be treated as substantive evidence to convict other than the person who made the confession on the evidentiary value of it. It is, however, well established and reiterated in several decisions of this Court that based on the consideration of other evidence on record and if such F evidence sufficiently supports the case of the prosecution and if it requires further support, the confession of a co-accused can be pressed into service and reliance can be placed upon it. In other words if there are sufficient materials to reasonably believe that there was concert and connection between the G persons charged with the commission of an offence based on a conspiracy, it is immaterial even if they were strangers to each other and were ignorant of the actual role played by them of such acts which they committed by joint effort. Going by Section 30 of the Evidence Act, when more than one person are being tried jointly for the same offence and a confession H B. S. HARI COMMANDANT v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 445 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] made by one of such persons is found to affect the maker as A well as the co-accused and it stands sufficiently proved, the Court can take into consideration such confession as against other persons and also against the person who made such confession from the above proposition, we can make reference to the decisions of this Court in Natwarlal Sakarlal Mody v. B State of Bombay [(1963) 65 Bom LR 660 (SC)] and Govt. (NCT of Delhi) v. Jaspal Singh [(2003) 10 SCC 586 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 933].” (emphasis supplied) 45. As emphasised hereinbefore, save and except Subedar Didar C Singh’s statement, roping in the appellant, there is no material against him. Hence, ceteris paribus, without other material(s) incriminating the appellant or pointing to his guilt, the statement of a single person alone, ought not to have, in this instance, resulted in his conviction. 46. This Court is mindful that at the proximate time, the search of D the appellant’s house, did not result in recovery of any incriminating documents/articles. Such non-recovery would obviously enure to the appellant’s benefit. 47. While declining to consider the plea raised of insufficiency of evidence, the learned Single Bench, at page 13 (of 19) of the Impugned E , has commented: “The finding by a Security Force Court on the basis of appreciation of evidence would be beyond the purview of a writ Court as has been consistently held by various Courts including the Hon’ble Supreme Court.” F 48. The High Court ought to have been cognizant that, considering the seriousness of the issue(s) raised, it was not denuded of the power to sift through the evidence, even in a criminal writ petition.