It is a principle, well- settled in law, that the interpretation of a provision of law relates back to the date of the law itself. This is essentially for the reason that the duty of the Court is not to legislate but to interpret the law. However, such principle is subject to the exception that this Court may, in a given case, F declare that its interpretation would have effect prospectively. That is not the express intention of this Court in any of the decisions referred to above.This being the position in law, we have no doubt that Mr. Nair did have a statutorily conferred right all through to claim that reservation in promotional appointment in Group ‘A’ posts is ingrained in the PwD Act, 1995. G 47. Thus held, the remaining impediment is with regard to condonation of shortfall of marks at par with the relaxed standards applicable to SC/ST candidates. We now proceed to examine whether the RBI was justified in not condoning the shortfall of 3 (three) marks pertaining to the 2003 examination taken by Mr. Nair to enable him H secure promotion. RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 803 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 48.We have noted from the communication dated 18th October, A 2006 issued by the Banking Division, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, GoI that the same surfaced as a follow-up step to comply with this Court’s dated 19th March, 2002 in A.I. Confederation of the Blind (supra). Even otherwise, to reach out to persons with disabilities and grant them the facilities and benefits that B the PwD Act, 1995 envisaged, it was rather harsh to apply standards which are applicable to general candidates to Mr. Nair while he competed with such general candidates for securing his promotion. RBI, as a model employer, ought to have taken an informed decision in this regard commensurate with the aspirations of persons with disabilities. C 49.We did not hear any serious argument from Mr. Gupta or Ms. Divan, and rightly so, that persons with disabilities are not entitled to be judged by the same relaxed standards that are applied to assess candidature of SC/ST candidates. 50.In such circumstances, the omission or failure of the RBI in D condoning the shortfall in marks coupled with the neglect to identify a Group ‘A’ post suitable for reservation to accommodate Mr. Nair on promotion appears to us to be indefensible. 51.Question (a) is answered accordingly. 52. In considering question (b), concededly there was no E authoritative pronouncement of this Court interpreting the PwD Act, 1995, making available reservation in promotional appointments for persons with disabilities in Group ‘A’ posts, when Mr. Nair took the examination for promotion to the post of Assistant Manager, Grade – I in 2004. The first time it came to be so declared was when the decision in Rajeev Kumar Gupta (supra) was pronounced. Should the RBI, in F the circumstances, be directed to relax the standard of assessment and grant promotion to Mr. Nair with retrospective effect?