X. Independence of Election Commissioners 119. In to allow independence in the functioning of the Election Commission as a Constitutional body, the office of Chief Election G Commissioners as well as the Election Commissioners have to be insulated from the executive interference. This is envisaged under the proviso to Article 324(5) which reads: “Provided that the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court and the conditions of H 242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A service of the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment: Provided further that any other Election Commissioner or a Regional Commissioner shall not be removed from office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner.” B 120. There are two procedural safeguards available regarding the removal of the CEC: (i) shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court; (ii) the conditions of service of the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment. However, second proviso to Article 324(5) postulates that the removal of the Election C Commissioners could be made only on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. The protection available to the Chief Election Commissioners is not available to other Election Commissioners. Various reports have recommended that the protection against removal available to the Chief Election Commissioner should be made available to the other Election Commissioners to ensure the independence of the Election D Commission. 121. A note titled “Proposed Electoral Reforms” (2004)75 prepared and published by the Election Commission of India itselfrecommended that: “In to ensure the independence of the Election Commission E and to keep it insulated from external pulls and pressures, Clause (5) of Article 324 of the Constitution, inter alia, provides that the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court. However, that Clause (5) of Article 324 does not provide similar protection to the Election Commissioners and it F merely says that they cannot be removed from office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. The provision, in the opinion of the Election Commission, is inadequate and requires an amendment to provide the very same protection and safeguard in the matter of removability of Election G 75 Election Commission of India Proposed Reforms (2004), Pg. 14, 15, available at: https://prsindia.org/files/bills_acts/bills_parliament/2008/ bill200_20081202200_Election_Commission_Proposed_Electoral_Reforms.pdf 76 Background Paper on Electoral Reform, Ministry of Law & Justice (2010), 6.3 Measures for Election Commission, pg. 19, Available at: https://lawmin.gov.in/sites/ default/files/bgp_0.doc H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 243 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] Commissioners from office as is available to the Chief Election A Commissioner.” (emphasis added) 122. The above recommendation was reiterated in the Background Paper on Electoral Reform (2010)76 prepared by the Union Ministry of Law and Justice, in co-sponsorship of Election Commission of India states: B “Recommendation Clause (5) of Article 324 of the Constitution, inter alia, provides that the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court.