of the Code seeking approval of the Resolution plan before the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT on 16.08.2019. In terms of the Resolution Plan, for which approval was being sought, ACIL would be allowed the benefi t of carrying forward its losses in terms of Section 796 of the Income Tax Act, 1961. Provided that the Adjudicating Authority shall, before passing an for approval of resolution plan under this sub-section, satisfy that the resolution plan has provisions for its eff ective implementation. (2) Where the Adjudicating Authority is satisfi ed that the resolution plan does not confi rm to the requirements referred to in sub-section (1), it may, by an , reject the resolution plan. (3) After the of approval under sub-section (1),— (a) the moratorium passed by the Adjudicating Authority under Section 14 shall cease to have eff ect; and (b) the resolution professional shall forward all records relating to the conduct of the corporate insolvency resolution process and the resolution plan to the Board to be recorded on its database. (4) The resolution applicant shall, pursuant to the resolution plan approved under sub- section (1), obtain the necessary approval required under any law for the time being in force within a period of one year from the date of approval of the resolution plan by the Adjudicating Authority under sub-section (1) or within such period as provided for in such law, whichever is later: Provided that where the resolution plan contains a provision for combination, as referred to in Section 5 of the Competition Act, 2002 (12 of 2003), the resolution applicant shall obtain the approval of the Competition Commission of India under that Act prior to the approval of such resolution plan by the committee of creditors.’ 6 ‘79. Carry forward and set off of losses in case of certain companies.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Chapter, where a change in shareholding has taken place during the previous year in the case of a company, not being a company in which the public are substantially interested, no loss incurred in any year prior to the previous year shall be carried forward and set off against the income of the previous year, unless on the last day of the previous year, the shares of the company carrying not less than fi fty-one per cent. of the voting power were benefi cially held by persons who benefi cially held shares of the company carrying not less than fi fty-one per cent. of the voting power on the last day of the year or years in which the loss was incurred: Provided that even if the said condition is not satisfi ed in case of an eligible start up as referred to in Section 80-IAC, the loss incurred in any year prior to the previous year shall be allowed to be carried forward and set off against the income of the previous year if all the shareholders of such company who held shares carrying voting power on the last day of the year or years in which the loss was incurred, continue to hold those shares on the last day of such previous year and such loss has been incurred during the period of ten years beginning from the year in which such company is incorporated.