The findings recorded in the impugned C Award are based only on the certificate dated 8th November 2005 and the minutes of the meeting dated 5th April 2007. None of the documents suggests that the contractual term of the downrating was either done away with or complied with. This is not a case of either reappreciation of the evidence on record or a case of D insufficiency of evidence. This is a case of no evidence. This is a case of ignoring the contractual provision by incorrectly assuming that such provision was amended or deleted. The tentative findings to the contrary are, therefore, ex facie perverse and suffer from patent illegality on the face of the record. The impugned Award, to the extent it rejects the defence of the Appellant on the issue of E downrating and proceeds to make an award of Rs. 18.53 crores in favour of the Respondent is liable to be set aside on the ground of perversity and patent illegality.” 24.1. In regard to this issue, in our view, the High Court has again travelled beyond its jurisdiction under Section 37 and rather than remaining F within the confines of consideration under Section 34 of the Act, has entered into the arena which is exclusively within the Arbitrator’s domain. What the Arbitral Tribunal has held in regard to this item had exclusively been its view on the evidence on record and the relevant surrounding facts/factors. The view so taken by the Arbitral Tribunal cannot be said G to be wholly perverse or suffering from patent illegality so as to be interfered with. Needless to observe that even if two views are possible, the Court cannot substitute its own view with that of the Arbitral Tribunal. 25. The questions raised by the learned Attorney General, in relation to the issue concerning downrating, that adverse inference ought to be drawn against the claimant for failure to produce OEM H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 443 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] recommendations, are only pertaining to the principles of appreciation of A evidence. Of course, in the regular adjudicatory process, the Court may presume existence of certain facts under Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872; and in terms of Illustration (g) thereof, the Court is entitled to draw an inference that the evidence which could be but not produced would, if produced, be unfavourable to the person who withholds B it. However, in a given case, while determining the dispute by way of arbitration, whether the Arbitrator draws such adverse inference or not, is essentially a matter of appreciation of evidence; and if not drawing of adverse inference is also permitted to be raised as a ground of challenge under Section 34, it would open the confines of limited interference in an award; and would carry the propensity of converting the proceedings C under Section 34 and under Section 37 into the proceedings of regular appeal/revision against the award and thereby, again violating the principles that re-appreciation of evidence is not envisaged in the proceedings under Section 34 of the Act of 1996.