There is a substantial risk that if the child were born, it would suff er from any serious physical or mental abnormality.9 Where any pregnancy is alleged by the pregnant woman to have been caused by rape, the anguish caused by the pregnancy is presumed termination of pregnancy at diff erent gestational age shall be such as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act. (2B) The provisions of sub-section (2) relating to the length of the pregnancy shall not apply to the termination of pregnancy by the medical practitioner where such termination is necessitated by the diagnosis of any of the substantial foetal abnormalities diagnosed by a Medical Board. (2C) Every State Government or Union territory, as the case may be, shall, by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette, constitute a Board to be called a Medical Board for the purposes of this Act to exercise such powers and functions as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act. (2D) The Medical Board shall consist of the following, namely:-- (a) a Gynaecologist;(b) a Paediatrician; (c) a Radiologist or Sonologist; and (d) such other number of members as may be notifi ed in the Offi cial Gazette by the State Government or Union territory, as the case may be. (3) In determining whether the continuance of a pregnancy would involve such risk of injury to the health as is mentioned in sub-section (2), account may be taken of the pregnant woman’s actual or reasonably foreseeable environment. (4) (a) No pregnancy of a woman, who has not attained the age of eighteen years, or, who having attained the age of eighteen years, is a mentally ill person, shall be terminated except with the consent in writing of her guardian. (b) Save as otherwise provided in clause (a), no pregnancy shall be terminated except with the consent of the pregnant woman.” 5 “RMP” as defi ned under Section 2(d) of the MTP Act 6 Section 3(2)(a), MTP Act 7 Section 3(2)(b)(i), MTP Act 8 Explanation 1 to Section 3(2), MTP Act 9 Section 3(2)(b)(ii), MTP Act 456 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. to constitute a grave injury to the mental health of the woman.10 The presumption adverted to in (a) above makes it evident that the MTP Act recognizes the autonomy of the pregnant woman and respects her right to choose the course of her life. 14. Where the length of the pregnancy exceeds twenty weeks but does not exceed twenty-four weeks, two RMPs must be of the opinion discussed in the preceding paragraph.11The categories of women where a pregnancy beyond 20 weeks and up to 24 weeks may be terminated are permitted to be prescribed by rules made by the delegate of the legislature. Rule 3B of the MTP Rules (as amended in 2021) provides grounds for the termination of a pregnancy up to twenty-four weeks. The termination may be allowed in the following cases or for the following persons: a. Survivors of sexual assault or rape or incest; b. Minors; c. Change of marital status during the ongoing pregnancy (widowhood and divorce); d. Women with physical disabilities with a major disability in terms of the criteria laid down under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016; e. Mentally ill women including mental retardation; f. Foetal malformation that has a substantial risk of being incompatible with life or where in the event of birth, the child may suff er from physical or mental abnormalities and be seriously handicapped; and g. Women with pregnancy in humanitarian settings or disaster or emergency situations as may be declared by the Government.12 10 Explanation 2 to Section 3(2), MTP Act 11 Section 3(2)(b), MTP Act 12 Rule 3B, MTP Rules: 3-B.