As noticed, the Rent Controller accepted the case of the appellant regarding her bona fide requirement and ed eviction of the respective tenants. The s so passed by the Rent Controller E were questioned by the tenants in respective revision petitions before the High Court. The High Court dealt with the said revision petitions in terms of Section 25-B(8) of the Act of 1958. The said Section 25-B provides special procedure for disposal of the applications for eviction on the ground of bona fide requirement and the revision petition in such F matters is governed by Sub-section (8) thereof. The relevant provision could be usefully extracted as under: - “25-B. Special procedure for the disposal of applications for eviction on the ground of bona fide requirement.— G *** *** *** (8) No appeal or second appeal shall lie against an for the recovery of possession of any premises made by the Controller in accordance with the procedure specified in this section: H 508 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Provided that the High Court may, for the purpose of satisfying itself that an made by the Controller under this section is according to law, call for the records of the case and pass such in respect thereto as it thinks fit.” 14. The contours of the limited jurisdiction under the said Section B 25- B(8) have been delineated and explained by this Court in the case of Abid-ul-Islam (supra) with reference to several of the past decisions and in the following terms: - “22. We are, in fact, more concerned with the scope and ambit of the proviso to Section 25-B(8). The proviso creates a C distinct and unequivocal embargo by not providing an appeal against the passed by the learned Rent Controller over an application filed under sub-section (5). The intendment of the legislature is very clear, which is to remove the appellate remedy and thereafter, a further second appeal. It is a clear omission that is done by the legislature consciously through a covenant removing the right of D two stages of appeals. 23. The proviso to Section 25-B(8) gives the High Court exclusive power of revision against an of the learned Rent Controller, being in the nature of superintendence over an inferior court on the decision-making process, inclusive of procedural E compliance. Thus, the High Court is not expected to substitute and supplant its views with that of the trial court by exercising the appellate jurisdiction. Its role is to satisfy itself on the process adopted. The scope of interference by the High Court is very restrictive and except in cases where there is an error apparent on the face of the record, which would only mean that in the F absence of any adjudication per se, the High Court should not venture to disturb such a decision. There is no need for holding a roving inquiry in such matters which would otherwise amount to converting the power of superintendence into that of a regular first appeal, an act, totally forbidden by the legislature.” G 15.