Thus, the political process can correct itself and any diff erences that have arisen between the democratic will of the people exercised through their 196 S.R. Bommai v. Union of India 1994 (3) SCC 1 [108]. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 129 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] elected representatives in the State, and the decisions taken by the President and Parliament, can be ironed out upon a return to normalcy. For these reasons, we do not believe that the Court ought to sit in appeal over every decision taken by the President during the imposition of Article 356. 208. When a Proclamation under Article 356 is in force, there are innumerable decisions which are taken by the Union Government on behalf of the State Government for the purpose of day-to-day administration. Every decision and action taken by the Union Executive on behalf of the State is not subject to challenge. Opening up challenge to every decision would lead to chaos and uncertainty. It would in eff ect put the administration in the State at a standstill. This Court would enter into the question of whether it was a valid exercise of power only when the petitioner makes a prima facie case that exercise of power is mala fi de or extraneous. After the petitioner makes a prima facie case, the onus shifts to the Union to justify that the exercise of power had a reasonable nexus with the object of the Proclamation. III. The argument of ‘irrevocability’: Interpreting Article 357(2) and Krishna Kumar Singh 209. The petitioners submitted that the power under Article 356 does not extend towards making fundamental, permanent and irrevocable changes, which an eventually reconstituted elected assembly and government would be constitutionally unable to reverse. According to the submission, the power under Article 356 must be limited to restorative actions, alongside directions or s that are necessary for the purpose of daily administration. To buttress this point, reference was made to Article 357(2) by which any law made in exercise of the power of the Legislature of the State (which Parliament would not have otherwise had the competent to enact) shall not cease to operate until altered, repealed or amended by a competent Legislature which is the Legislative Assembly of the State. It was argued that if irreversible changes are made then the Legislative Assembly of the State would be unable to undo or alter the changes in terms of Article 357(2). 210. Article 357(1)(a) stipulates that it shall be competent for Parliament to confer on the President the ‘power to make laws’ as well as the power to delegate this law-making power to any other authority. Before the Constitution (Forty-second Amendment) Act 1976, the text of Article 357(2) 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. stated that any law made by Parliament or the authority authorised by it which the authority would not have had the competence to enact but for the Proclamation under Article 356, shall to the extent of incompetency cease to have eff ect within one year from the Proclamation ceasing to exist, unless the law is repealed, modifi ed or re-enacted by the Legislative Assembly of that State before that period.