47. In all the cases cited, the contest, by and large was whether the product was a cosmetic, or a drug, under Chapters 30 and 33, CETA. G The phraseology of the articles grouped together, in one chapter differs from the phraseology of the other chapters, in that statute. Moreover, to avoid ambiguity, General Rules of Interpretation, besides chapter notes have been prescribed. The court went by those rules, and also adopted the common parlance test. A noteworthy feature is that the court had no H 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A occasion to consider an entry which was as specific as “medicated Talcum Powder”. Undeniably, talcum powder is made from talc27, which is a “common silicate material that is distinguished from almost all other minerals by its extreme softness” According to the literature made available to the court, there are medicinal ingredients in Nycil prickly powder, which is also manufactured under a Drug License. Yet, B the State Legislature, in Entry 127, thought it fit to include, while dealing with cosmetics, such as shampoos, “talcum Powder including medicated talcum powder.” There can be no two opinions that talcum powder ipso facto is classifiable as a cosmetic. Yet, the expression “including” used in Entry 127 has the effect of bringing in [or “pulling C in”] an entirely different product, which ordinarily may not have been in the same class, i.e. medicated powder. To rule out any ambiguity, the legislature specifically referred to a sub class of medicated powders, i.e. medicated talcum powder. Such specific entries have not come up for consideration, before this court; as noticed, predominantly, the courts have ruled that in the context of broad descriptions such as cosmetics or D medications, if there are medical ingredients, in a product, which is meant as a curative or prophylactic product, it would be classifiable as drugs or medicines. However, the specificity employed by the legislature in this case, rules out that possibility. Besides, “includes” has been construed as broadening the sweep of a provision, and at the same time restricting E its amplitude to the meanings ascribed in the statute. This proposition was enunciated in Hamdard (Wakf) Laboratories (supra), where it was held that: “34. When an interpretation clause uses the word “includes”, it is prima facie extensive. When it uses the word “means and F includes”, it will afford an exhaustive explanation to the meaning which for the purposes of the Act must invariably be attached to the word or expression.” The court, in Hamdard (Wakf) Laboratories relied on N.D.P. Namboodripad (Dead) by LRs. v. Union of India &Ors.28: G “15. The word “includes” has different meanings in different contexts. Standard dictionaries assign more than one meaning to the word “include”. Webster’s Dictionary defines the word “include” as synonymous with “comprise” or “contain”. 27https://www.britannica.com/science/talc(last accessed on 02 May 2023 at 9.30 PM) H 28 2007 (3) SCR769 HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 453 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Illustrated Oxford Dictionary defines the word “include” as: A (i) comprise or reckon in as a part of a whole; (ii) treat or regard as so included.