(iii) That the marks for the interview were fi xed by the Selection Committee as 30 per cent of the total marks on the day of the interview itself. Instead of conducting a single interview for each candidate particularly, since all of them had applied and submitted separate applications for seeking appointment in the four constituent colleges under the respondent No.1 – University, the Committee decided to conduct four sets of interviews in respect of each of the candidates who had applied for appointment in diff erent colleges. A close look at the marks assigned in the interviews showed the erratic assessment made by the Members of the Selection Committee. 15. In view of the above facts and circumstances, the learned Single Judge rightly concluded that the entire process adopted by the Selection Committee was vitiated and could not withstand judicial scrutiny. 16. As for the respondent No.6, besides the observations made above, we may additionally note that the maximum age limit for appointment to the subject post as prescribed by the State Government for General category male candidates, which in the instant case all the private respondents before the Court fall under, was 37 years and for the unreserved Category (Women) was 40 years. In the counter affi davit fi led by the respondent No.3, Registrar, University of Bihar, it has been stated in paragraph 14 as follows:- “That in reply to paragraph 5(c) of ground it is stated that as contained in advertisement, the age limit for the post will be applicable as per Government Rule or . It is stated that the Government has provided the cut off date to be 1st of August, of the each year for determination of age.” 17. In the light of the aforesaid categorical stand taken by the respondent No.1 - University that the cut-off date for determining the age limit of the NUTAN KUMARI v. B.R.A. BIHAR UNIVERSITY 717 applicants in terms of the applicable rules was to be taken as the fi rst day of August of each year, which in the present case would mean 1st August, 2008, quite evidently, the respondent No.6 was not qualifi ed for even applying for the subject post, having crossed the maximum age prescribed for a general category (Male) candidate, i.e., 37 years. In any event, the Government Rule/ mentioned in the advertisement having been elaborated by the respondent No.3 in the counter affi davit, any reliance sought to be placed by the respondents No.5 to 8 on the internal fi le notings of the University that too, much after the date of issuance of the advertisement (25th October, 2008 to 27th October, 2008), would not be of any consequence. 18. As a result of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the opinion that the impugned cannot be sustained and the same is accordingly quashed and set aside. The of the learned Single Judge dated 10th February, 2011 is restored. As a sequitur to the aforesaid , the appointment s in respect of the respondents No.5, 7 and 8 are quashed and set aside.