In such a case there should not be any bar for the accused producing the relevant documents and materials which will be ipso facto admissible, for adjudication of the question as to whether in fact Section 197 has any application in the case in hand. It is no longer in dispute and has been B indicated by this Court in several cases that the question of sanction can be considered at any stage of the proceedings.” The Court had further observed: (SCC pp. 218-19, para 24) “The question of applicability of Section 197 of the Code and the consequential ouster of jurisdiction of the court to take C cognizance without a valid sanction is genetically different from the plea of the accused that the averments in the complaint do not make out an offence and as such the of cognizance and/or the criminal proceedings be quashed. In the aforesaid premises we are of the considered opinion that an accused is D not debarred from producing the relevant documentary materials which can be legally looked into without any formal proof, in support of the stand that the acts complained of were committed in exercise of his jurisdiction or purported jurisdiction as a public servant in discharge of his official duty thereby requiring sanction of the appropriate authority.” E 9. Coming to the second question, it is now well settled by the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in MatajogDobey v. H.C. Bhari [AIR 1956 SC 44 : (1955) 2 SCR 925] that in the matter of grant of sanction under Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure the offence alleged to F have been committed by the accused must have something to do, or must be related in some manner, with the discharge of official duty. In other words, there must be a reasonable connection between the act and the discharge of official duty; the act must bear such relation to the duty that the accused could lay a reasonable claim, but not a pretended or fanciful claim, that he did G it in the course of the performance of his duty. In the said case it had been further held that where a power is conferred or a duty imposed by statute or otherwise, and there is nothing said expressly inhibiting the exercise of the power or the performance of the duty by any limitations or restrictions, it is reasonable to hold that H 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A it carries with it the power of doing all such acts or employing such means as are reasonably necessary for such execution, because it is a rule that when the law commands a thing to be done, it authorises the performance of whatever may be necessary for executing its command. This decision was followed by this Court in Suresh Kumar Bhikamchand Jain case [(1998) 1 SCC B 205 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 1] and in a recent of this Court in the case of Gauri Shankar Prasad v. State of Bihar [(2000) 5 SCC 15 : 2000 SCC (Cri) 872] .