and C) whether Pankaj Singh has been found in possession of two 9mm pistols, their magazines and thirty-three live cartridges without possessing the requisite licence thereof. 5. The Learned Additional District Judge disposed of both the C cases with a common judgement dated 25.03.2013. by which out of the seven persons named above, one, namely, Akhileshwar Pratap Singh, was acquitted, and others were convicted and sentenced under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and in certain cases under provisions of the Arms Act, 1959. D 6. A total of five appeals were filed before the High Court. The status of all accused persons is as under: Accused Charge Trial Court High Court E F G 7. The High Court, vide Impugned judgement dated 14.01.2016, acquitted all the accused save and except Maghavendra Pratap Singh @ Pankaj Singh, the present appellant. 8. This Court has therefore been called upon to examine the H correctness of the conviction decision and sentence rendered by the MAGHAVENDRA PRATAP SINGH @ PANKAJ SINGH v. 837 STATE OF CHHATTISGARH [SANJAY KAROL, J.] learned First Additional Sessions Judge, Ambikapur, District Sarguja, A Chhattisgarh, and as partly confirmed by the High Court. The Impugned 9. In the appeal preferred by the convicts (five in number) in terms of the impugned , the High Court, while acquitting all the B other convicts, namely, Satish Tripathi, Ganesh Datt Mishra, Mannu Singh, and Sunil Paswan, has confirmed the conviction and sentence awarded to Pankaj Singh as reproduced above. In doing so, the Court found the testimonies of Ashish Agrawal (PW-1), Naresh Mandal (PW- 6), Avinash Tirki (PW-7) and Inspector J.S. Saggu (PW-23), Investigation Officer sufficient enough to prove the guilt of Pankaj Singh warranting conviction C and sentence. In paragraph 49 of its , the High Court observed as under: “49. On due consideration, the prosecution has proved entire circumstantial evidence against the appellant Madvendra. The circumstances are fully established consistent only with the D hypothesis of the guilt of the accused and that is not explainable by any other circumstances except that appellant Madhvendra is guilty and evidence collected by the prosecution is of the conclusive nature and tendency. The chain of evidence is complete, it shows in all human probability the act must have been done by the E accused. The Prosecution has duly proved that appellant Madhvendra had killed Gowardhan Agrawal and was also in possession of fire arm and cartridges in contravention of relevant provisions of Arms Act and had caused disappearance of evidence of offence committed by concealing the pistol, cartridges and other articles. The conviction awarded to accused Madhvendra does F not call for any interference. The same is well founded.” Consideration of the Evidence on Record 10. It is pertinent to note that the prosecution’s case rests solely on circumstantial evidence, as none was found present at the scene of the incident. G 11. Further, it is also not the case of the prosecution that the present appellant had either used or shot the deceased with the gun allegedly recovered based on his statement (Ex.