A resolution was issued appointing Mr. Eknath Shinde as the Group Leader of SSLP and Mr. Sunil Prabhu as the Chief Whip. On 21 June 2022, some members of the C SSLP held a meeting under the chairmanship of the president of the Shiv Sena, Mr. Uddhav Thackeray. In the meeting, it was resolved to remove Mr. Shinde as the Group Leader of the SSLP, and appoint Mr. Ajay Choudari. The resolution was signed by Mr. Uddhav Thackeray in his capacity as the party president on the official letterhead of the office of D the SSLP. 116. It is the case of the respondents that on the same day, that is, 21 June 2022, a separate meeting of the “real” SSLP was held. At this meeting, thirty-four members of the SSLP issued a resolution (i) reaffirming that Mr. Shinde who was appointed as the Leader of the E SSLP on 31 October 2019 continued to be Leader; and (ii) cancelling the appointment of Mr. Sunil Prabhu as the Chief Whip and appointing Mr. Gogawale in his place. The resolution inter alia stated that (i) there was enormous discontent amongst the cadre and party workers of Shiv Sena for breaking the pre-poll alliance with BJP and forming the Government with INC and NCP; and (ii) the leaders of the Shiv Sena F had compromised on the principles of the Shiv Sena party to attain power. The petitioners contend that this letter was issued on 22 June 2022 and has been back dated as 21 June 2022. 117. By an dated 21 June 2022, the Deputy Speaker (who was at the time discharging the functions of the Speaker) approved the G request to appoint Mr. Ajay Choudari as the Leader of SSLP. Meanwhile, on 3 July 2022, the election for the post of Speaker was held. Mr. Rahul Narwekar, the candidate of BJP was elected as the Speaker. On the same day, the Speaker took cognizance of the resolution passed by thirty- four MLAs belonging to the faction led by Mr. Shinde and appointed Mr. Shinde as the Leader and Mr. Gogawale as the Chief Whip. The Deputy H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 935 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] Secretary of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly issued a A communication that the Speaker has recognised a new Whip and a new Leader of the SSLP: “With reference to your abovementioned letter, I have been ed to inform you that you have been replaced from the post of Leader of Legislative Party by nominating the name of Shri Ajay B Choudhari. In this regard, you have raised the objection by addressing the letter on 22nd June. In this regard, after deliberation on provision in the law, Hon’ble Speaker, Maharashtra Legislative Assembly has cancelled the approval granted to Shri Ajay Choudhari as leader, ShivSena Legislature Party and approves & C recognizes the nomination of Shri Eknath Shinde as Leader, ShivSena Legislative Party as per the letter dated 31 October 2019.