450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. basis for awarding and computing the amounts. We are not commenting or examining the merits of the computation, but complete absence of any justifi cation and reason to allow the claim and quantifi cation of the sum awarded. We would subsequently examine the chart furnished by BEEL in support of the said computation, albeit at this stage we would like to highlight the apparent contradiction in the award, which is the third ground to uphold the decision of the Division Bench of the High Court. 9. We begin our substantiation of the third ground, by referring to the fi rst paragraph of the award quoted above, under the heading ‘Claim No. 1 - Compensation for loss of overhead and profi t and also profi tability’. BEEL had based Claim No.1 for loss on account of overheads and profi ts/ profi tability upon 48 months delay as on 27.08.1997. BEEL for computation had considered 10% of the contract value towards overheads and other 10% towards profi ts/profi tability for arriving at the fi gure of Rs. 3,38,38,460/-, after taking into “account the same percentages from the payments already received by them”. In the subsequent portion of the award, dealing with Claim No. 1, the learned arbitrator has held that the total contract period was 49 months. The original contract period being 18 months, the extended period being 31 months. However, BEEL in the claim statement had accepted that it had provided for 22 months towards overheads in the estimates. Further, the learned arbitrator has allowed additional 3 months for internal administrative process, and for unforeseen delays, such as strikes, red alerts, and as force majeure events. In other words, the learned arbitrator, for the purpose of default, had excluded the period of 18 months, i.e., the original contract period, plus 4 months as provided by BEEL, and another 3 months on account of internal administrative process and force majeure events. Thus, the default period for which BEEL as per the award is entitled to claim damages/compensation towards overheads and loss of profi ts/profi tability is 24 months. 10. BEEL had, as observed above, accepts the position that the loss towards overheads and profi ts/profi tability has to be arrived at by applying the percentage formula, variant with the execution of the work. Thus, in our opinion, the loss towards overheads and profi ts/profi tability is to be computed on the payments due for the un-executed work, and should exclude the payments received/receivable for the work executed. In other words, based on the value of the work executed by BEEL, the proportionate BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 451 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] amount has to be reduced for computing the damage/compensation as a percentage of expenditure on overheads, and damages for loss of profi t/ profi tability. Damages towards expenditure on overheads and loss of profi t are proportionate, and not payable for the work done and paid/payable. Delay in payment on execution of the work has to be compensated separately.