Therefore, on true interpretation of clause 2 of the sale agreement, the learned Trial Court as well as the B First Appellate Court as such rightly refused to pass the decree for specific performance of the sale agreement and rightly passed the decree for recovery of Rs. 4 lakhs being double the amount given as an advance which as such was in consonance with the clause 2 of the sale agreement. 6.4 An identical question came to be considered by this Court in C the case of P. D’souza (supra) and after considering the earlier decision of this Court in the case of M.L. Devender Singh Vs. Syed Khaja (1973) 2 SCC 515, this Court observed and held that where the sum named is an amount the payment of which may be substituted for the performance of the act at the election of the person by whom the money is to be paid or the act done, the Court may refuse to pass the decree for D specific performance. In the present case, the condition specifically stipulates that in case of failure on the part of the seller to execute the sale deed within the stipulated time the buyer shall be entitled to double the amount given as an advance. Therefore, the sum is specifically named i.e., double the amount of advance paid. Though, the High Court has E relied upon the decision in the case of P. D’souza (supra), the aforesaid aspect has not been considered by the High Court, more particularly, the observations made in paragraph 31 in its true perspective. 7. In view of the above, the High Court has materially erred in setting aside the concurrent (s) of the learned Trial Court as F well as the First Appellate Court refusing to pass the decree for specific performance and passing the decree for recovery of Rs. 4 lakhs being double the amount of advance paid. Under the circumstances, the impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, present G appeal(s) arising out of rejecting the review application and the and passed by the High Court in second appeal are allowed. Consequently, passed in review application and the and passed by the High Court in second appeal granting relief for specific performance of the sale agreementdeserve to be quashed and set aside and is/are accordingly quashed and set aside. Consequently, H 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A the and decree passed by the learned Trial Court affirmed by the First Appellate Court stands restored. The appeal arising out of the dismissal of the cross objection stands disposed of. Ankit Gyan Appeal disposed of. B (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Aarsh Choudhary, LCRAs) C D E F G H