A electricity, fuel, used in the execution of the works contract, the property in which is not transferred in the course of execution of works contract; (vi) cost of establishment of the contract relatable to supply of labour and services; (vii) other similar expenses relatable to supply of labour and services; and (viii) profit earned by the service provider relatable to supply of labour and service; B 9.4 If the gross amount charged for the works contract is inclusive of VAT or sales tax, the value for the purposes of service tax shall be computed as follows: [Gross amount charged – (value of transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of works contract and VAT or sales tax paid, if any, on the said transfer of C property in goods involved in the execution of said works contract)]. 9.5 As a trade facilitation measure and also for ease of administrative convenience, the service provider has been given an option to adopt the composition scheme for payment of service tax on works contract service. The Works Contract (Composition D Scheme for Payment of Service Tax) Rules, 2007 has accordingly been notified vide Notification No.32/2007-Service Tax, dated 22.05.2007. 9.6 The scheme provides that the service provider shall have an option to pay an amount equivalent to 2% of the gross amount E charged for the works contract instead of paying service tax at the rate specified in section 66. Gross amount charged for the works contract shall not include VAT or sales tax paid on transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of the said works contract. The provider of taxable service opting to pay service tax under the said composition scheme is not entitled to take F CENVAT Credit of duty on inputs, used in or in relation to the said works contract, under the provisions of CENVAT Credit Rules, 2004. 9.7 The provider of taxable service who opts to pay service tax under these rules shall exercise such option in respect of a works G contract prior to payment of service tax in respect of the said works contract and the option so exercised shall be applicable for the entire works contract and cannot be withdrawn until the completion of the said works contract.” H CC AND CE AND ST, NOIDA v. M/S INTERARCH BUILDING 991 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.9 Relying upon the above provisions, rules and regulations and A the circulars, it is submitted that works contract is contract involving supply of goods and services together. A composite works contract gets vivisected into transfer of property into goods liable to sales tax/VAT in terms of Article 366 (29A)(b) of the Constitution of India and the service portion liable to service tax w.e.f. 01.06.2007. Reliance is placed on the B decision of this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro (supra) (paragraphs 14 to 16). 4.10 It is submitted that the ratio of this Court in Larsen and Toubro (supra) would be that the list of service elements as found in Gannon Dunkerly and Co. vs. State of Rajasthan, (1993) 1 SCC C 364 case will suffer service tax and the goods portion would suffer VAT or sales tax.