As per the amended Section 8(1), 170 (2019) 12 SCC 751 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1185 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] the judicial authority has only to consider the question “whether the parties have a valid arbitration agreement?” The Court cannot refuse to refer the parties to arbitration “unless it fi nds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists”. The amended provision, thus, limits the intervention by judicial authority to only one aspect i.e. refusal by judicial authority to refer is confi ned to only one aspect, when it fi nds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists.” 203. In Emmar MGF Land (supra), this Court clarifi ed that the expression “notwithstanding any ” referred to in Section 8(1) relates to those judicial precedents which explained the discretion and power of judicial authority to examine various aspects while exercising powers under Section 8. In a similar vein, Section 11(6A) intended to minimize judicial interference to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement. Accordingly, the non-obstante clause contained in Section 11(6A) pertains to those judicial precedents which delved into the discretion and power of referral courts to intervene and examine the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement at the Section 11 stage. This includes SMS Tea Estates (supra) considering the fact that it mandated the referral court to judicially intervene in the arbitration process by impounding the unstamped instrument containing the arbitration agreement. Therefore, we hold that Section 11(6A) also legislatively altered the basis of SMS Tea Estates (supra) to the extent that it dealt with judicial intervention at the Section 11 stage. ii. Garware Wall Ropes 204. In Garware Wall Ropes (supra), a Bench of two Judges of this Court was called upon to decide the eff ect of an arbitration clause contained in a contract which requires to be stamped. Since SMS Tea Estates (supra) was decided before the introduction of Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act, another pertinent issue before this Court was whether introduction of this provision removed the basis for the decision in SMS Tea Estates (supra) to the extent that an unstamped instrument could be impounded not by the referral court under Section 11 but by the arbitrator. This Court held that the referral court under Section 11(6A) would be bound by the mandatory provisions of the Stamp Act to examine and impound the unstamped instrument. It was further observed that since the Stamp Act applied to the 118 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. instrument as a whole, it was not possible to bifurcate the arbitration clause contained in such instrument and give it an independent existence. 205. This Court in Garware Wall Ropes (supra) further analysed the purport of the word “existence” contained in Section 11 of the Arbitration Act. It was held that an arbitration agreement contained in an unstamped instrument would not exist in law. The relevant paragraph is extracted below: “22.