5.21 It is submitted that in the present case, the ‘Core Committee’ C constituted by the Department of Higher Education, Government of Orissa vide the notification dated 17.08.2007, was setup for the expressly stated purpose of “coordinating activities relating to lease of Government land and acquisition of private land, facilitating rehabilitation of displaced families as per policy, expediting accreditation from relevant statutory bodies as UGC AICTE, MCI, BCI etc. enactment of an Act for the D University, facilitating issues of no objection certificate from State Pollution Control Board and other bodies and expediting provision of road, water, electricity and telephone connectivity required for the University, etc.” It is submitted that the scope, composition and purpose for establishment of the aforesaid Core Committee is completely different E from the scope. composition and purpose of the Land Acquisition Committee envisaged under Rule 3 of the Rules, 1963. This is because while the Land Acquisition Committee is required to be established for assisting the government in evaluating the feasibility and desirability of the proposal from a company for land acquisition, the Core Committee was set out with the objective of facilitating the land acquisition process F with the Government of Orissa having already pre- determined the feasibility and desirability of the acquisition in clear contravention of the statutory provisions. 5.22 It is submitted that the appellant’s argument that enquiry under Rule 4 of the Rules, 1963 was not required / relevant in the present G case as the land was identified by the Government and not by the company, does not hold water. It is submitted that in the present case, the land had clearly been identified by the appellant company since the very inception. It is submitted that even otherwise, whether the land is identified by the company or the Government, the statutory Rule 4 cannot be dispensed with at all and the collector is bound to inquire into all the H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 995 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] things mentioned in Rule 4 of the Rules, 1963, otherwise the whole purpose A of the Rules, 1963 and Part VII of the Act, 1894 will be defeated. It is further submitted that even the declarations under Section 6 of the Act, 1894, for most of the villages were made prior to the agreement under Section 41 of the Act was executed. It is submitted that the same is in complete contravention and breach of Rule 4 (4)(ii) of the Rules, 1963, B which provides that no declaration shall be made by the appropriate Government under Section 6 of the Act unless the agreement under section 41 of the Act has been executed by the company. It is submitted that even the same is also in clear violation of Section 39 of the Act, 1894 which stipulates that the provisions of Sections 6 of the Act, 1894 shall not be put in force in to acquire the land for any company C unless the Company has executed the agreement under Section 41 of the Act, 1894.