What will be the fate of the one million of non-Muslims now in our State? As things stand at present, there is no place for them in Pakistan. Any solution which will result in the displacement or the total subjugation of such large number of people will not be just or fair, and it is the responsibility of this House to ensure that the decision that it takes on accession does not militate against the interests of any religious group. As regards the economic advantages, I have mentioned before the road and river links with Pakistan. In the last analysis, we must however remember that we are not that concerned only with the movement of the people but also with the movement of goods and the linking up of markets. In Pakistan there is a chronic death of markets for our products. Neither, for that matter, can she help us with our industrialization, being herself industrially backward.” 58. The Instruments of Accession signed by the various erstwhile princely states were to be refl ected in the Constitution of India itself. However, insofar as Jammu and Kashmir State was concerned, Article 370 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. was a special procedure contemplated due to the ‘special conditions’ in the State and hope was expressed that in times to come, ‘Jammu & Kashmir will become ripe for the same sort of integration as had taken place in the other States’. 59. Thus, the intent was clear: of complete integration but taking place over a period of time. Article 370 was envisaged as an interim system till the State’s Constituent Assembly came into being and for a limited period, on account of the special circumstances of the State. 60. If we were to turn to the wording of Article 370, we will fi nd that it refl ects this intent. The provision was placed in Part XXI, which was titled ‘Temporary and Transitional Provisions’ at the time. The marginal note to the provision was titled ‘Temporary Provisions with Respect to the State of Jammu and Kashmir’. Although the law is settled that a marginal note to a provision cannot dictate its meaning, the note can certainly be a guide to the provision’s drift and purpose. The meaning as a matter of course would have to be derived from a reading of the provision as a whole. 61. Article 370 opens with a non obstante clause, which implies that the contents of the provision remain unaff ected by the other provisions of the Constitution. Clause (1)(a) specifi ed that Article 238 shall not apply to the State. As a consequence, Part VI did not apply. Clause (1)(b) enabled the Parliament to make laws for the State predicated on a specifi cation made by the President of the subjects comprising in the Union and Concurrent Lists. Sub-clause (b)(i) provided for consultation whereas (b)(ii) provided for concurrence by the State Government. 62. Article 370(1)(c) states that Articles 1 and 370 shall apply in relation to the State.