20.1. From the aforesaid, we fi nd that no reasons were assigned by the Liquidator for cancellation of the E-auction held on 20.07.2021. Appellant was simply informed that the E-auction was cancelled in terms of Clause 3(k) of the E-Auction Process Information Document. Clause 3 (k) as discussed above only declares that the Liquidator has absolute right to accept or reject any or all bids or adjourn/postpone/cancel the E-auction etc., at any stage without assigning any reason therefor. We will advert to this clause a little later. 21. To complete the narrative, we may mention that aggrieved by such cancellation, appellant had fi led an application under Section 60 of the Code before the Tribunal assailing such cancellation. Issue before the Tribunal was whether the Liquidator was justifi ed in cancelling the E-auction. Tribunal noted that the Liquidator had cancelled the auction without assigning any 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. reason. Though a contention was advanced by the Liquidator before the Tribunal that the other assets (at Lucknow) of the corporate debtor put up for auction fetched a higher price and therefore, the Liquidator chose to cancel the auction expecting a higher price in future auction process, the same was not accepted by the Tribunal. It would amount to comparing apples with oranges. Tribunal further noted that there was no material on record to support the perception of the Liquidator that cancelling the present auction and going for further auction would result in better price for the assets in question and that there cannot be an endless wait to obtain a better price. Holding that there was no reason for the Liquidator to cancel the E-auction when the earlier round of auction process did not fructify resulting in decrease in reserve price, Tribunal vide the dated 12.08.2021 directed the Liquidator to send a communication to the appellant for depositing the balance sale consideration within the time specifi ed in the E-auction notice. 21.1. It has come on record that following the aforesaid of the Tribunal, Liquidator i.e. Respondent No.2 had called upon the appellant to pay the balance sale consideration and on payment of the same by the appellant, issued the sale certifi cate to the appellant in respect of the subject property. 22. We may further mention that Respondent No.2, i.e. the Liquidator did not assail the of the Tribunal before the Appellate Tribunal. One of the fi nancial creditors i.e. Respondent No.1 had fi led the appeal before the Appellate Tribunal assailing the of the Tribunal. Appellate Tribunal by the and dated 30.11.2021 observed that appellant was the sole bidder, its bid being equal to the reserve price. Liquidator invoked Clause 3(k) of the E-Auction Process Information Document and decided to cancel the auction. There was no concluded contract till that point of time; it is only after the total amount is paid that the sale is concluded. Before the sale can be successfully concluded, Liquidator had the right to cancel the sale. Successful bidder in the auction sale does not acquire any vested right in law to enforce the auction.