The respondent is a tenant in a room on first floor. The tenant Ghansar Singh is tenant in one room on first floor and one H 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A room on second floor. It is correct that there was a tenant namely Ram Kewal in one room on second floor. It is also correct that I had filed an eviction petition against Ram Kewal alongwith present two eviction petitions against the tenants. It is also correct that Ram Kewal has vacated the said room and has given its possession to me. B xxx xxx xxx I do not have any residential accommodation except the suit property. Along with me, my brother in law and his wife two daughters and one son are residing in the suit property. I prepare C the food along with other family members in one kitchen. The second kitchen which I have stated as before is being used as a store as I am sharing the food with my brother in laws family. One property bearing no. 587 belongs to my brother in law, it is adjoining to the suit property and the accommodation as I have stated is under both the property which are jointly constructed... D xxx xxx xxx” 4.6. The appellant led further evidence in support of her case and her brother-in-law, sister-in-law, niece and nephew were also examined as PW-2 to PW-5 respectively, who were duly cross-examined by the respondents. E 4.7. The respondent, in his evidence, denied the allegations of lack of accommodation with the appellant and the alleged requirement of the suit premises. 5. In the dated 21.11.2014, after thoroughly examining the F material on record, the learned Rent Controller observed that the appellant was residing in a joint family consisting of her brother-in-law and the wife, two unmarried daughters and son of her brother-in-law and proceeded to hold that the assertions about bona fide requirement of the appellant were duly established. While referring to a decision of this Court in the case of Dwarkaprasad v. Niranjan & Anr. : (2003) 4 G SCC 549, the Rent Controller also observed that the question of bona fide requirement could not be confined to the landlord alone and it would include the requirement of the family members, which would include appellant’s brother-in-law, his wife and children as well. The relevant aspects of the findings of the Rent Controller could be usefully extracted H KUSUM LATA SHARMA v. ARVIND SINGH 501 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] as follows: - A “17. Reverting back to the facts of the present case, the petitioner is residing in a joint family consisting of her brother-in-law, his wife, two unmarried daughters and a son. As discussed in the of Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter of Dwarka Prasad v. Niranjan & Anr. (Supra) the term “family”, of the B landlord includes brother, sister and other near relatives. The bonafide requirement of the landlord cannot be confined to the landlord alone and it includes the requirement of the family member of the petitioner, which includes his brother-in-law, his wife, son and daughter of brother-in-law as well.