Sessions Judge, Bhagalpur was not voluntary. It was made under duress and intimidation while she was fully under control of the accused. What this court fi nds indescribably regrettable is that the subversion of the trial was made possible only with the abetment, by acts of omission and commission, of those who were primarily responsible to ensure that it should be held independently, fairly and impartially. The unholy drama that took place in the Trial Court was not possible without the inaction and connivance of the Chapra Police, the active help and co-operation by the P.P. conducting the trial and the defence lawyer appearing for the accused. The saddest part in the entire episode is that the Presiding Judge turned a Nelson’s eye to what was happening in the Court room. He not only remained a silent spectator in the Court room but did not even report the matter to this Court. When an enquiry was directed there was an apparent attempt to cover up by all concerned...” 29. Towards the end, the Division Bench recorded that the Advocate General by the said time, having perused the material which was placed, became fully alive to the seriousness of the matter. He gave up his earlier stand which was similar to the stand of the counsel for the accused Prabhunath Singh that the petition had been rendered infructuous and 420 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. further proceeded to give some useful suggestions. It would be worthwhile to reproduce the stand of the Advocate General, as recorded by the Division Bench, which reads as follows: “…Here, I am pleased to note that the Advocate General was fully alive to the gravity of the matter. He completely gave up his earlier stand that with the appearance of Lalmuni Devi, the writ petition had become infructuous and gave some useful suggestions to the Court. The Advocate General submitted that though there was an apparent connection between the abduction of Lalmuni Devi at Chapra and the trial taking place at Bhagalpur, the two matters were required to be dealt with separately as one was still at the stage of police investigation while the other was a trial before a Court. With regard to the abduction case at Chapra, he stated that the Government is willing to accept investigation by any mode and by any agency as may be directed by the Court. With regard to the trial at Chapra, he submitted that the Government was willing to change the P.P. and to appoint a Special P.P. to conduct the trial in his place. He also submitted that prima facie the statement made by Lalmuni Devi before the Trial Court on 03.11.2006 was not free and voluntary and hence, she was required to be re-examined. He also said that there was need to change the Presiding Judge by transferring the case to another Court.…” 30. Here an apt Latin Maxim which means he who acts through another, acts himself, may be quoted “qui facit per alium facit per se”.