08. Reliance for the issuance is based on ER-1 returns furnished by the assessees during the period from December, 2013 to November, 2014 and Labels affixed to the containers cleared by the assessees.” C 5. The respondent-assessee, in its reply dated 07.04.2015, stated that the product was classified as ‘medicament’ under Chapter 30 by two successive Commissioner (Appeals) and two subordinate officers during 1994-2004; and the said s were accepted by appellant, which had attained finality. D 5.1. The respondent, inter alia, stated the following reasons for which its product, AHAHO, was required to be, and had rightly been, classified as ‘medicament’: (i) That the manufacturing process would indicate the presence of four homeopathic drugs namely, Arnica Montana, Cantharis, E Pilocarpine and Cinchona in its preparation, which is to be applied to the scalp and not consumed orally. (ii) That its label indicated the words “Homeopathic Medicine” under Schedule K to the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 19458; that the product would cure/prevent the lack of blood circulation to the hair roots, F hair fall (alopecia), dandruff, headache and lack of sleep (insomnia); and that healing from the said diseases would lead to good health in terms of growth and maintenance of natural colour in the hair. (iii) That AHAHO was a medicament in terms of market parlance, evidenced by its use over a period of nearly 19 years; by its G manufacturing license issued by the Drug Controller and by the Directorate of Ayush; and from listing of the drugs used, in authoritative text books like Materia Medica of Homeopathic Drugs. Thus, the twin tests as accepted by this Court for classification of the product as ‘medicament’ were duly satisfied. 8 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Rules of 1945’. H 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 5.2. The respondent further elaborated in its reply that the product was not ‘cosmetic’, as the ingredients used had prophylactic properties and it was not applied for cleansing or beautifying or promoting attractiveness or altering the appearance. The depiction of a lady with long flowing hair on its label was only subjective and could be interpreted as indicative of good health evidenced by the long flowing hair upon B being treated for hair fall and dandruff. 5.3. It was further submitted that a close look at Circular No.333/ 49/97-CX dated 10.09.1997 would show that in popular parlance, AHAHO was a medicament in the light of its advertisement, marketing and claims on the label and, therefore, the said circular did not justify C revising its classification to that of ‘cosmetic or toilet preparations’. The respondent asserted that due to the absence of any change in its tariff description, ingredients, process of manufacture and use, the question would not arise of re-classification of the product in question. The respondent also requested that the proceedings be dropped or be kept D pending until the Tribunal had adjudicated on the pending issues concerning classification of the product in question. 5.4. The respondent, in to support its assertion that AHAHO is a medicament, placed reliance on a decision of the Tribunal in Bakson Homeo Pharmacy (P) Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise, New Delhi: E (2001) 136 ELT 485, wherein a similar product named “Sunny Arnica Hair Oil” was held to be a medicament.