The award of government contracts through public auction/public tender is to ensure transparency in the public procurement, to maximise economy and efficiency in government procurement, to promote healthy competition among the tenderers, to provide E for fair and equitable treatment of all tenderers, and to eliminate irregularities, interference and corrupt practices by the authorities concerned. This is required by Article 14 of the Constitution. However, in rare and exceptional cases, for instance during natural calamities and emergencies declared by the Government; where the procurement is possible from a single source only; where the F supplier or contractor has exclusive rights in respect of the goods or services and no reasonable alternative or substitute exists; where the auction was held on several dates but there were no bidders or the bids offered were too low, etc., this normal rule may be departed from and such contracts may be awarded through G “private negotiations”. (See Ram and Shyam Co. v. State of Haryana [(1985) 3 SCC 267 : AIR 1985 SC 1147] .” 20. Inviting tenders and conducting public auctions are considered to be preferred methods of allocation for two reasons: firstly procurement can be made at the best price; and secondly, allocation is through a transparent process. However, if the purpose of allocation by the State H M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 493 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] is not revenue maximization, the State could award contracts through A other methods, provided it is non-arbitrary and meets the requirements of Article 14. 21. The appellant-State contends that since in the present case, there is no involvement of ‘State largesse’ and no disposal of State property, it was not bound to grant the contract to IMPCL through tender. B It is argued that in such a situation, the High Court on a perusal of the relevant material, ought to have only scrutinised if there was an oblique motive involved in purchasing medicines from IMPCL. Government contracts involve expenditure out of the public exchequer. Since they involve payment out of the public exchequer, the moneys expended must C not be spent arbitrarily. The State does not have absolute discretion while spending public money. All government actions includinggovernment contracts awarded by the State must be tested on the touchstone of Article 14. 22. The following principles emerge from the discussion above: D (i) Government action must be just, fair and reasonable and in accordance with the principles of Article 14; and (ii) While government can deviate from the route of tenders or public auctions for the grant of contracts, the deviation must not be discriminatory or arbitrary. The deviation from the E tender route has to be justifiedand such a justification must comply with the requirements of Article 14. 3.3 Interpretation of paragraph 4(vi)(b) of the Operational Guidelines 23. Before interpreting paragraph 4(vi)(b) of the Operational F Guidelines, it is necessary that we refer to the circulars on the procurement of Ayurvedic drugs. In 1994, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued a communication stating that Ayurvedic medicines are to be procured only from IMPCL because it is the only entity which manufactures quality medicines.