25 Bombay 202. They are as under:- “The word “intent” by its etymology, seems to have metaphorical allusion to archery, and implies “aim” and thus D connotes not a casual or merely possible result-foreseen perhaps as a not improbable incident, but not desired-but rather connotes the one object for which the effort is made- and thus has reference to what has been called the dominant motive, without which, the action would not have been taken.” E (Emphasis supplied) 23. In the case of Basdev v. State of Pepsu, AIR 1956 SC 488, at page 490, the following observations have been made by Chadrasekhara Aiyar J.:- “6. ...Of course, we have to distinguish between motive, F intention and knowledge. Motive is something which prompts a man to form an intention and knowledge is an awareness of the consequences of the act. In many cases intention and knowledge merge into each other and mean the same thing more or less and intention can be presumed from knowledge. G The demarcating line between knowledge and intention is no doubt thin but it is not difficult to perceive that they connote different things. Even in some English decisions, the three ideas are used interchangeably and this had led to a certain amount of confusion.” (Emphasis supplied) H 1106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 24. In para 9 of the , at page 490, the observations made by Coleridge J. in Reg. v. Monkhouse, (1849) 4 COX CC 55(C), have been referred to. They can be referred to, with advantage at this stage, as they are very illuminating:- “The inquiry as to intent is far less simple than that as to B whether an act has been committed, because you cannot look into a man’s mind to see what was passing there at any given time. What he intends can only be judged of by what he does or says, and if he says nothing, then his act alone must guide you to your decision. It is a general rule in criminal law, and one founded on common sense, that juries are to presume a C man to do what is the natural consequence of his act. The consequence is sometimes so apparent as to leave no doubt of the intention. A man could not put a pistol which he knew to be loaded to another’s head, and fire it off, without intending to kill him; but even there the state of mind of the D party is most material to be considered. For instance, if such an act were done by a born idiot, the intent to kill could not be inferred from the act. So if the defendant is proved to have been intoxicated, the question becomes a more subtle one; but it is of the same kind, namely; was he rendered by intoxication entirely incapable of forming the intent E charged?” (Emphasis supplied) 25. Bearing in mind the test suggested in the aforesaid decision and also bearing in mind that our legislature has used two different F terminologies ‘intent’ and ‘knowledge’ and separate punishments are provided for an act committed with an intent to cause bodily injury which is likely to cause death and for an act committed with a knowledge that his act is likely to cause death without intent to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, it would be proper to hold that ‘intent’ and ‘knowledge’ cannot be equated with each other.