H 3 State of U.P. v. Zahoor Ahmad (1973) 2 SCC 547. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 963 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] i.Did the Respondents’ predecessor-in-interest purchase A ownership rights or leasehold rights from Mr. John Vaughan? ii. In case of the latter, the next question that arises is whether the leasehold rights stood legally transferred to the predecessor of Respondents as per the conditions of the 1924 Lease deed, which was governed under the Government Grants Act of 1885? B iii. If the leasehold rights cannot be held to be validly transferred under the 1924 Lease Deed, whether the same stood determined at the time of execution of Sale Deed because of violation of the stipulated conditions? C iv. If the abovementioned question is answered negatively, did the 1924 Lease Deed stand determined at the expiration of the initial lease period of thirty years? v. If the 1924 Lease Deed stood determined after the initial lease period of thirty years, whether the Respondents are entitled to seek protection of holding over of the lease under Section 116 of D the Transfer of Property Act of 1882? vi. Alternatively, could the lease ever deemed to have been subsisted because of the doctrine of acquiescence and through the conduct of Respondents? Furthermore, if the same could accord them any benefit under the Zamindari Notification? E vii. Regardless of the fact that the lease deed is deemed to have subsisted, was it possible for predecessor of Respondents to be accorded the status of ‘Occupancy Tenant’ under the 1939 Act, which resulted in them being subsequently accorded the status of ‘Sirdar’ under the Zamindari Notification? F viii. Furthermore, could the predecessor of Respondents have been accorded the status of ‘Sirdar’ through any other alternate method as indicated under the Zamindari Notification? In other words, did the Respondents’ predecessor obtain status as ‘Sirdar’ on account of being recorded as a ‘hereditary tenant’ or a G ‘government lessee’ as per Section 131 of the Zamindari Notification? C.1 SALE OF OWNERSHIP RIGHTS OR LEASEHOLD RIGHTS H 964 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 35.At the outset, it is iterated that during the oral arguments, the Respondents have taken the stand that the Sale Deed actually pertained to sale of leasehold rights and not of title per se. However, it is pertinent to mention that their stand has been inconsistent regarding this issue in the courts below and even the High Court vide its impugned decisions have given parallel findings regarding the nature of the Sale Deed. B 36.In the impugned judgement 07.05.2005, which arose from the Expunction Proceedings, the High Court noted – “The respondents are the recorded Bhumidhar of the land in question which is evident from the khatauni of 1401 F- C 1406 F. The land was leased out to Mr. John Vaughan on 20.6.1924 who sold the land to Sri Manohar Lal vide sale deed dated 117 .11.194 7 and thereafter the land was recorded in the name of Sri Manohar Lal and on his death his successor Sri Ravi Kumar and Virendra Kumar.