The petition of petitioner No.1– Sanjit Saha has been restored. The petition insofar as petitioner No.2 – Anil Saha has abated. Liberty under Section 394 CrPC and/or principle analogous thereto for the relatives is reserved. 27. Recurrence of the unfortunate scenario, that has happened in the present case, ought to be prevented. One option could be for the Registry in cases where surrender proof is not fi led by the counsel and there is no information as to whether the convict has surrendered or not surrendered, (in spite of time being given to surrender), to call for a report from the Trial Judge. Additionally, the Judge In-Chambers can appoint an amicus curiae in cases where counsel is absent to coordinate with the Registry and the trial Court to fi nd out about the actual state of aff airs with regard to the factum of surrender. 28. A cue can be taken from Sunil Batra (II) vs. Delhi Administration, (1980) 3 SCC 488 wherein Krishna Iyer, J. in para 78 (3) recorded the following:- 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. “78 (3) Lawyers nominated by the District Magistrate, Sessions Judge, High Court and the Supreme Court will be given all facilities for interviews, visits and confi dential communication with prisoners subject to discipline and security considerations. This has roots in the visitatorial and supervisory judicial role. The lawyers so designated shall be bound to make periodical visits and record and report to the concerned court results which have relevance to legal grievances.” 29. Even if there is a default in reporting compliance by the party or counsel for whatever reason, the right to have a constitutional remedy under Article 136 of the Constitution of India or remedies by way of statutory appeals ought not to be defeated. The trial Judge may, like in the present case, with appropriate directions to the concerned police and the Jail Authorities report the actual state of aff airs. The trial judge may avail the services of the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) and the Duty counsels of the jails. Calling for information would also ensure that if the convict has not surrendered and is evading surrender, steps are taken to bring the convict to justice. 30. The long-term option would be in the digital era to evolve a mechanism whereby, the Jail authorities are vested with an obligation to upload on a customised web portal, the surrender and custody particulars of the convicts with the corresponding numbers of the Criminal Appeals/ Special Leave Petitions. This will ensure that on a click of a button, all up to date information are available for the Court. 31. Let the papers along with this be placed before Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India. Headnotes prepared by: Papers alongwith this be placed Nidhi Jain before Hon’ble CJI