The relevant observations made by the High Court are reproduced hereinbelow: “6. In terms of the amended provisions of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, the right of redemption given to the borrower would expire upon publication of such a notice. However, Rule 8(6) of the Rules of 2002, as interpreted by the Supreme Court in Mathew Varghese v. M. Amritha Kumar [(2014) 5 SCC 610], stipulates that the thirty day notice period mentioned therein is for the purpose of enabling the borrower to redeem his property. Signifi cantly, this CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 105 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] provision remains unaltered. Therefore, this statutory notice period of thirty days is sacrosanct and deviation therefrom would curtail the statutory right of redemption available to the borrower. However, in terms of the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, once the notice under Rule 9 of the Rules of 2002 is published, the said right stands extinguished. xxx xxx xxx 20. In the light of the aforestated changes in the statutory scheme, certain crucial aspects may be noted. As per the unamended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, the right of the borrower to redeem the secured asset was available till the sale or transfer of such secured asset. Case law consistently held to the eff ect that a sale or transfer is not completed until all the formalities are completed and there is an eff ective transfer of the asset sold. In consequence, the borrower’s right of redemption did not stand terminated on the date of the auction sale of the secured asset itself and remained alive till the transfer was completed in favour of the auction purchaser, by registration of the sale certifi cate and delivery of possession of the secured asset. The recent of the Supreme Court in ITC LIMITED v. BLUE COAST HOTELS LIMITED also affi rmed this legal position. 21. However, the amended provisions of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act bring in a radical change, inasmuch as the right of the borrower to redeem the secured asset stands extinguished thereunder on the very date of publication of the notice for public auction under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002. In eff ect, the right of redemption available to the borrower under the present statutory regime stands drastically curtailed and would be available only till the date of publication of the notice under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002 and not till completion of the sale or transfer of the secured asset in favour of the auction purchaser. … xxx xxx xxx 23. Therefore, even after the amendment of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, a secured creditor is bound to aff ord to the borrower a clear thirty day notice period under Rule 8(6) to enable him to exercise 106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. his right of redemption. In consequence, a notice under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002 cannot be published prior to expiry of this thirty day period in the new scenario, post-amendment of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, as such right of redemption would stand terminated immediately upon publication of the sale notice under Rule 9(1) of the Rules of 2002.