It is against the anti- discriminatory ethos which forms a part of Constitutional morality. Therefore, the Constitutional Court ought not to tolerate anything which takes away the right and privilege of any person to live with dignity as the concept of Constitutional morality does not permit the Court to do so. Therefore, in E our view, the protection under Article 26(b) granted by the decision in the case of Sardar Syedna1to the power to ex-communicate a member of the Dawoodi Bohra community, needs reconsideration as the said right is subject to morality which is understood as Constitutional morality. This issue will require examination by a larger Bench. F 29. The concurring opinions rendered by Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J. and Mr. R.F. Nariman, J. extensively refer to the case of Sardar Syedna1. In paragraph 164, Nariman, J. records that there is a need to look into the finding recorded by the majority view in the case of Sardar Syedna1on the applicability of clause (2)(b) of Article 25 in some future cases. G INTERPLAY BETWEEN THE OTHER FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS UNDER PART III AND ARTICLE 26 30. We have already referred to the opinion of D.Y. Chandrachud, J. (as then he was) in Sabrimala Temple– 5 JJ 6. It was held that H 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A though Article 26 is not specifically made subject to other fundamental rights, there would still be a ground to read both together so that they can exist in harmony. The freedom of religious denominations cannot exist in isolation. Nariman, J. in his opinion has also dealt with this issue. In note 59 appended to paragraph 176.7, he observed that: B “(59). We were invited by the learned Amicus Curiae, Shri Raju Ramachandran, to read the word “morality” as being “constitutional morality” as has been explained in some of our recent s. If so read, it cannot be forgotten that this would bring in, through the back door, the other provisions of Part III of the Constitution, C which Article 26 is not subject to, in contrast with Article 25(1). In any case, the fundamental right under Article 26 will have to be balanced with the rights of others contained in Part III as a matter of harmonious construction of these rights as was held in Shri Venkataramana Devaru, AIR 1958 SC D 255 : 1958 SCR 895. But this would only be on a case-to-case basis, without necessarily subjecting the fundamental right under Article 26 to other fundamental rights contained in Part III.” (emphasis added) E Thus, Nariman, J. was of the view that there may be a need to balance rights under Article 26(b) with the other fundamental rights under Part III of the Constitution without necessarily subjecting the fundamental rights under Article 26 to other fundamental rights contained in Part III. F 31. Even assuming that the ex-communication of members of the Dawoodi Bohra community is always made on religious grounds, the effect and consequences thereof, on the person ex- communicated needs to be considered in the context of justiciable Constitutional rights.