viii) Portions of Sy. No.3 being sold to two different parties, a dispute between the two parties became imminent and, in fact, triggered O.S. 506/1995 (“the suit” hereafter) instituted by the plaintiff , inter alia, praying for declaration of title and permanent injunction with respect to Schedules ‘A’ and ‘B’ property, against the defendant. The prayers in the plaint are reproduced hereinbelow for the sake of clarity: “a) declaring that the plaintiff is the absolute owner of the schedule property? (sic) P. KISHORE KUMAR v. VITTAL K. PATKAR 803 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] b) for permanent injunction restraining the defendant or his henchmen, person from in any way interfering with the plaintiff ’s lawful peaceful possession in both A and B schedule property. c) and for the costs and such other reliefs as this Hon’ble Court deems fi t to grant in the circumstances of the case, in the interest of justice and equity.” The property schedules are extracted hereinbelow: “Schedule – A 15 Acres of land situated in Sy No. 93, Old No. 3 in Navarathna Agrahara, Jala Hobli Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore District** Schedule – B All the piece and parcel of the 5.28 guntas of land in Re. S. No. 93, Old No. 3, situated at Eastern side of by passing mud road situated in Navarathna Agrahara, Jala Hobli Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore**” ix) The learned Civil Judge (“Trial Court”, hereafter) after extensive examination of revenue records adduced by the plaintiff , and the Commissioner’s , held that the ownership of the suit property vested in the plaintiff ’s vendor. In arriving at such a conclusion, the court was predominantly persuaded by Ext. P8 (Record of Rights), which recorded that vide dated 24th March 1959 passed by the Special Deputy Commissioner, Inam Abolition, occupancy rights had been conferred on the plaintiff ’s vendor. However, no or endorsement of the said date was actually exhibited before the Trial Court. The decree passed by the Trial Court is quoted below for facility of understanding: “After contest, it is ed and decreed that the suit of the plaintiff is hereby decreed. It is declared that the plaintiff is the absolute owner of the B Schedule property and the defendant or any persons claiming through him are hereby permanently restrained from interfering with the peaceful 804 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. possession and enjoyment of the plaintiff over the suit schedule A and B properties.” x) Aggrieved by the decree, the defendant carried it in an appeal under section 96 of the CPC before the learned District Judge. The fi rst appellate court overturned the fi ndings of the Trial Court, on the premise that revenue records alone could not aid the plaintiff in establishing his title, especially in the glaring absence of any Inam grant in favour of the plaintiff ’s vendor. It was noted by the appellate court that though the plaintiff referred to the dated 24th March, 1959, the same was not led in evidence. xi) A second appeal carried by the plaintiff before the High Court succeeded vide the and impugned herein.