However, Section 140(5) of the Act empowers the Tribunal (NCLT), either suo motu or on an application made to it by the Central Government or by any person concerned, to take action against the auditor who has C acted in a fraudulent manner or is abetting or colluding in fraud with the management of a company. If on completion of an enquiry it is found by the Tribunal that an auditor of a company has, whether directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted or colluded in any fraud by, or in relation to, the company or its directors or officers, it may by direct the company to change its auditors. Therefore, powers of the D NCLT in first part of Section 140(5) is quasi-judicial in nature and the Tribunal would have the powers of a civil court to examine the role of auditors and adjudicate on their fraudulent conduct and abdication of their function. The first proviso to Section 140(5) confers power upon the Tribunal on the application made by the Central Government and if E the Tribunal is satisfied that any change of the auditor is required, to remove such auditor and/or pass an that such an auditor shall not function as an auditor (within 15 days of receipt of such application) and the Central Government may appoint another auditor in his place. Thus, the powers under the first proviso to Section 140(5) can be said to be interim or pro tem measure to prevent an existing auditor from continuing F and substitute him with an auditor based on a prima facie satisfaction that a fraud has been perpetrated and when circumstances warrant the substitution. Such an can be said to be an interim akin to a temporary suspension during the pendency of the detailed enquiry as provided in Section 140(5) of the Act and before any final is passed G by the Tribunal. 5.3 Second proviso to section 140(5) of the Act further provides that an auditor, whether individual or firm, against whom final has been passed by the Tribunal under section 140(5) shall not be eligible to be appointed as an auditor of any company for a period of five years H 1006 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A from the date of passing of the and the auditor shall also be liable of such action under section 447 of the Companies Act. Therefore, as such, second proviso to Section 140(5) can be said to be a substantive provision and it operates on the final passed by the Tribunal under Section 140(5) (first part). At this stage, it is required to be noted that after taking into consideration the recommendations made by the previous B Standing Committee in respect of Companies Bill, 2009 and the recommendations from various stakeholders, the Companies Bill, 2011 came to be introduced. The suggestion of the Standing Committee to clause 123(1) of the 2009 Bill (which provided for removal of an auditor by the NCLT on finding that there is a fraud) was to make the provision C more stringent; and to provide for consequences for an auditor when such auditor is found to have been perpetrating a fraud and is removed by the NCLT for such fraud.