It eliminates the requirement of the signature of parties or an exchange of messages between the parties. 77. Article II paragraph 2 of the New York Convention defi nes “agreement in writing” to include an arbitral clause in a contract or an arbitration agreement, signed by the parties or contained in an exchange of letters or telegrams. Article 7 of the UNCITRAL Model Law establishes a more favourable requirement for a written arbitration agreement. In 2006, UNCITRAL recommended that the circumstances described in Article II paragraph 2 of the New York Convention “be applied recognizing that the circumstances described therein are not exhaustive.”64 Additionally, it also recommended that Article 7 paragraph 1 of the UNCITRAL Model Law should be applied “to allow any interested party to avail itself of rights it may have, under the law or treaties of the country where an arbitration agreement is sought to be relied upon, to seek recognition of the validity of such an arbitration agreement.” The Arbitration Act is largely based on the UNCITRAL Model Law. Therefore, the UNCITRAL Model Law could be referred to while construing the provisions of the Arbitration Act.65 Although the amended Section 7 of the UNCITRAL Model Law has not been adopted in the Indian law, it refl ects the modern commercial reality where substance is given precedence over technical legal formalities.66 78. Reading Section 7 of the Arbitration Act in view of the above discussion gives rise to the following conclusions: first, arbitration agreements arise out of a legal relationship between or among persons or entities which may be contractual or otherwise; second, in situations where the legal relationship is contractual in nature, the nature of relationship can 64 UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, Recommendation regarding the interpretation of article II, paragraph 2, and article VII, paragraph 1, of the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, done in New York, 10 June 1958, (adopted by the UNCITRAL on 7 July 2006) 39. 65 Sundaram Finance Ltd v. NEPC India Ltd, (1999) 2 SCC 479, para 9; P Manohar Reddy and Bros v. Maharashtra Krishna Valley Development Corporation, (2009) 2 SCC 494, para 27. 66 Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration (7th edn, Oxford University Press, 2023) para 2.23. 676 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. be determined on the basis of general contract law principles; third, it is not necessary for the persons or entities to be signatories to the arbitration agreement to be bound by it; fourth, in case of non-signatory parties, the important determination for the courts is whether the persons or entities intended or consented to be bound by the arbitration agreement or the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement through their acts or conduct; fi fth, the requirement of a written arbitration agreement has to be adhered to strictly, but the form in which such agreement is recorded is irrelevant; sixth, the requirement of a written arbitration agreement does not exclude the possibility of binding non-signatory parties if there is a defi ned legal relationship between the signatory and non-signatory parties; and seventh, once the validity of an arbitration agreement is established, the court or tribunal can determine the issue of which parties are bound by such agreement.