Section note 2 (b) applies in this case because the item in question was not specifically classifiable under its headings, because it is principally meant for use in television sets. 12. In the second appeal7 concerning import by Harman C International, the revenue argues that the items are LCD attached with inseparable PCBs. Both were part of one equipment, though it was declared as LCDs. Counsel pointed out that Harman, in its letter (dated 19.08.2016) stated that it manufactured Car Audio/infotainment items and supplied them to auto manufacturers; the shipment contained LCDs D used in its manufacturing process of car audio assembly. Further, it was stated that the items were assembled with the importer’s assembled PCBs to give different outputs on car audio screen and was designed specifically to suit end product requirements and could not be used separately as an accessory but was an essential part of its manufactured product. Thus, LCD panels were specifically designed in a particular E manner to be used only in car audio/infotainment systems. They were, consequently, specific parts of car audio/infotainment systems and cannot be used otherwise. 13. Counsel urged that the goods were articles described specifically as parts of ‘Sound Recording and Reproducing F Apparatus’ covered under CTH 8522 and because they are constituting articles described more specifically in other headings, there was no scope of their being covered under CTH 9013 8010. It was urged, that like in Videocon, the manufacturer’s literature described the goods specifically as ‘LCD Module’. G 14. Mr. Vivek Singh, learned Senior counsel (appearing in the Videocon appeal), submitted that the view taken by CESTAT is correct. Goods are admittedly liquid crystal device; they are specifically covered 6 [2015] 6 S.C.R. 219: 2015 (14) SCC 239 7 CA 8026/2022 H CCE, AURANGABAD v. M/S VIDEOCON INDUSTRIES LTD. 267 THR. ITS DIRECTOR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] by the entry heading 90.13 as it is not described more specifically in any A other heading. The entry referred to by the revenue i.e., Chapter Heading 8529 relates to parts suitable for use solely or principally with the parts of heading nos.85.25 to 85.28, which inter alia includes LCD TV, cannot be considered as a specific heading. 15. It was argued that Section Note 1(m) to Section XVI clearly B excludes articles of Chapter 90. Therefore, first, it has to be specifically held that the LCD panels are not covered by Chapter 90. The revenue does not deny that LCD panels are covered by Chapter Heading 90.13. This heading, according to the revenue, covers only LCD panels meant for general use and are interchangeable and not what are principally C meant for use in TVs. It is argued that tariff entry 90.13 refers to LCDs which do not constitute articles provided for more specifically in other headings. The entry relied on by the revenue is 8529, which deals with parts suitable for use “solely or principally with the apparatus” of Heading 8525 to 8528. This entry is not confined to LCD panels meant for use in TVs only but to several other parts which go into D the making of LCD TV like TV tuners, PCB boards, switches, connectors, speakers, etc., all of which will be classifiable under heading 8529.