The latter is hereby directed to consolidate the various reports, identify any lapses in the compliance by the State and try to remedy it, before fi ling a consolidated affi davit of compliance – detailing the States’ compliance, and the Union Government’s action taken in regard to the direction within 12 weeks from the date of this . B. Appointment of public authorities iii. The concerned Principal Secretary of the State/UT Ministry of Women and Child [or any other Department, subject to amendment of the Rules as per direction (vii) below], will personally ensure 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. appointment of a district offi cer in each district within their territorial jurisdiction, as contemplated under Section 5 within four weeks from the date of this . iv. Thereafter, each appointed district offi cer (a) must in compliance of Section 6(2) appoint nodal offi cers in every block, taluka and tehsil in rural or tribal area and ward or municipality in the urban area; (b) must constitute a LC, as contemplated under Section 6 and 7 of the Act; and (c) ensure the contact details of these nodal offi cers, and LCs, shall be forwarded to the nodal person within the State Government Ministry of Women and Child Development within 6 weeks from the date of this . v. Thereafter, a circular/bulletin containing names of all district offi cers, and their contact details (phone, address, and email), along with a district wise chart of the various nodal offi cers and their contact details, must be uploaded on the department’s website (or in the absence of one, on the main State government website) in a conspicuous location, along with a compiled version of the Act, Rules, and simple charts/explainers on the basics of the Act, within 6 weeks from the date of this . C. Amendments and gaps in Rules that State must fi ll vi. The Union Government ought to consider amending the Rules, so as to operationalise Section 26 of the Act, by recognising a reporting authority, and/or a fi ne collecting authority. This direction must be read in light of the discussion in paragraph 8 (role of district offi cer with regards to annual compliance reports) and paragraph 21 (on the penalty regime contemplated in the Act and resulting lacunae in the Rules) above. vii. The Union Government may also consider amending the Rules so as to identify one Department (preferably the Women and Child Department), and creating a ‘nodal person’ post within the said Department to be responsible for the coordination required in the INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.697 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] implementation of the Act [see direction (i)]. This will ensure greater uniformity in the implementation of the Act across the country. D. Training and capacity building viii. The District Officers and LCs should be mandatorily trained regarding their important responsibilities. Given their position in the redressal framework contemplated in the Act, they must first be sensitised to the nature of sexual harassment, the gendered interactions that occur in the workspace, etc.