2.02(b), the relevant stipulation for measurement and payment are Clause 305.8 and Clause 305.2.2.3.3 of additional technical specifi cations, respectively. The said clauses are extracted below. The MoRTH specifi cation reads as follows: “305.8 Measurements of Payment Earth embankment/subgrade construction shall be measured separately by taking cross sections at intervals in the original position before the work starts and after its completion and computing the volumes of earthworks in cubic metres by the method of average end areas…….” Clause 305.2.2.3.3- relatable to Item No. 2.02(b) reads as under: “Measurement for payment: Same as Clause 305.8 of MoRTH specifi cations.” The relevant stipulation for contract rate units for diff erent items in rate contracts is clause 114.1; it reads as follows: “114.1. - For item rate contracts, the contract unit rates for diff erent items of work shall be payment in full for completing the work to the requirements of the specifi cations including full compensation for all the operations detailed in the relevant sections of these specifi cations under “Rates”. In the absence of any directions to the contrary, the rates are to be considered as full inclusive rate for fi nished work covering all labour, materials, wastage.... Arising out of General Conditions of Contract.”. 17. The majority award, in the main (from which CA 4658/2023 arises) listed why the members in the majority found for the contractor: “i) It is contemplated in the contract to construct two types of embankments. One with the soil alone, and the second one with the combination of soil pond ash. ii) The embankment with pond ash alone cannot be constructed, as the pond ash is susceptible for erosion. Hence, the soil cover is provided for protection of the embankment. 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. iii) The composite cross section of the embankment comprising of soil and pond ash together is as the collectively termed embankment construction with pond ash under BOQ item No. 2.02(b) iv) The method of measurement to be adopted for payment for the embankment construction with soil or with pond ash is one and the same, which is by taking composite cross section as a whole of the embankment and determining the volume by average end area method. v) The method of measurement adopted by the Engineer, where in, the area of the cross section has been bifurcated to account for area occupied by the soil and pond ash for determination of quantum of the embankment in two diff erent items if contrary to the technical specifi cation Clause 305.8. vi) Clause 114.1 of MORTH specifi cation specifi cally states that the rates are for the fi nished work in all respects. The pond ash embankment comprising of soil and pond ash is composite and complete fi nished item of work. It cannot be separated into two diff erent items as having been done by the Engineer. vii) The contention of the claimant that the whole cross section of the pond ash embankment shall be measured as one cross section for determination of the work under Item No.