The guarantee of Privy Purses to the rulers of the erstwhile Indian states who had acceded to or merged with the Union emanated from the text of the Constitution (Article 291 and Article 366(22)) and not from the agreements antecedent to the adoption of the Constitution entered into by the rulers with the Dominion of India; b. So long as Article 291 continued to subsist, the abrogation of the Privy Purses could not be brought about by an executive act of de-recognition of the rulers; c. Once the Constitution was itself amended so as to delete the entitlement of the erstwhile Rulers to receive Privy Purses and the corresponding obligation of the Union to pay Privy Purses, both the right and the obligation embodied in Article 291 came to an end; d. The payment of Privy Purses could not be regarded as a quid pro quo or consideration for the surrender of sovereignty by the erstwhile rulers of Indian states. Integration into the Union of India was a complex historical process which was shaped by history, politics, economics and geography as well as by the internal and external strains which were faced by the rulers and above all by the process of democratisation which was taking place in the Union of India; e. Article 291 and Article 366 (22) were not a part of the basic features of the Constitution. J C Shah, J. in Madhav Rao Jivaji Rao IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 235 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Scindia (supra) held that these Articles were an “integral part” of the Constitution. Tested on the anvil of the basic structure doctrine which was evolved in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala,276 this decision being subsequent to Madhav Rao Scindia (supra), the Constitution Bench held in Raghunathrao Ganpatrao (supra) that those observations could not be elevated to construe Articles 291 and 366(22) to be a part of the basic features; f. The abrogation of Articles 291 and 366(22) by a constitutional amendment was as much a part of the political process which had commenced with the integration of the erstwhile princely States into the Union of India and the ultimate act of abrogation was a part of that political process designed to bring about substantive equality by doing away with the privileges which were extended to the erstwhile Indian rulers; and g. While the decision in Madhav Rao Scindia (supra) held that the guarantee under Article 291 could not be abrogated by a mere executive act of de-recognising the erstwhile rulers of the Indian states, the subsequent decision in Raghunathrao Ganpatrao (supra) upheld the act of abrogation once it was backed by a constitutional amendment which deleted the provisions for the payment of Privy Purses. 400. The discussion of the decisions in these two cases makes it evident that in Madhav Rao Scindia (supra), this Court held that the power under Article 366(22) could not be used for a collateral purpose, to obviate the procedure under Article 368.