Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973: s. 378 – Appeal against acquittal – Powers of appellate court – General principles – Stated. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 It would be open for the High Court to re-apprise D the evidence and conclusions drawn by the trial court and in the case of the of the trial court being perverse that is contrary to the evidence on record, then in such circumstances the High Court would be justified in interfering with the findings of the trial court and/or reversing the finding of the trial court. E The appellate court may reverse the of acquittal in the exercise of its powers and there is no indication in the Code of any limitation or restriction having placed on the High Court in exercise of its power as an appellate court. No distinction can be drawn as regards the power of the High Court in dealing with an appeal, between an appeal from an of acquittal and an appeal F from a conviction. The Code of Criminal Procedure does not place any fetter on exercise of the power to review at large the evidence upon which the of acquittal was founded, and to reach the conclusion that upon that evidence the of acquittal should be reversed. [Para 13][411-F; 412-B-D] G 1.2. The circumstantial evidence relied upon by the State to prove the circumstances which points to the guilt of the accused alone for having committed the offence as summarized by the High Court cannot be found fault with. [Para 15][413-H; 414-A] H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 399 1.3. The death of the victim being homicide stands proved A by virtue of the Post Mortem report. The said report would indicate the death would have occurred 45-60 days prior to the post-mortem examination. PW-22, doctor opined that the victim had died due to brain hemorrhage that occurred because of commuted fracture on the forehead. The irresistible conclusion B drawn by the High Court, death of the victim was homicidal cannot be found fault with. [Para 16][414-B, D-E] 1.4. The submission for the accused that it is not possible to state conclusively as to what had exactly happened, due to lack of eye-witnesses and therefore the possibility of the deceased C having fallen and suffered an injury cannot be ruled out is an argument which cannot be accepted and finding recorded by the High Court deserves to be affirmed. [Para 16.1][414-E-F] 1.5. The fact that accused was last seen in the company of the deceased is testified by PW-10 and PW-14. Apart from two D prime witnesses, PW-5, PW-7, PW-9, PW10, PW-11 and PW-15 also clearly and in unequivocal terms deposed that accused was last seen in the house of the deceased after his death. Even if one witness amongst these is to be believed as to what has been deposed is the truth, necessarily the onus is on the accused to provide a satisfactory explanation either in his statement recorded E under Section 313 Cr.P.C.