It is pure and simple, a statutory right. So is the right to be elected. So is the right to dispute an election. Outside of statute, there is no right to elect, no right to be elected and no right to dispute and election. Statutory creations they are, andtherefore, subject tostatutory limitation.” G 50. While the above three decisions made statements of the right to vote, the issue of interpretation of Article 326, dealing with adult franchise, had not arisen in these cases. Therefore, the statements made cannot be treated as an authority on the subject. 33 (1978) 1 SCC 405 H 34 (1982) 1 SCC691 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 199 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 51. In the case of Union of India v. Association for Democratic A Reforms and Another35 (hereinafter “ADR”), this Court was considering whether there is a right of the voter to know about the candidates contesting election. Holding in affirmative, it was held: “In democracy, periodical elections are conducted for having efficient governance for the country and for the benefit of citizens B - voters. In a democratic form of government, voters are of utmost importance. They have right to elect or re- elect on the basis of the antecedents and past performance of the candidate. The voter has the choice of deciding whether holding of educational qualification or holding of property is relevant for electing or re- C electing a person to be his representative...” (emphasis added) 52. Amendments were made to ROP Act after ADR . Whether the amendments followed the mandate laid down in ADR were scrutinized by a three-judge bench case of People’s Union for Civil D Liberties (PUCL) and Another v. Union of India and Another36 (hereinafter “PUCL 2003”). This Courtre-examined the issue of whether a voter has any fundamental right to know the antecedents/ assets of a candidate contesting the election under Article 19(1)(a). An argument was made before this Court that a voter does not have such a E right, as there is no fundamental right to vote from which the right to know the antecedents of a candidate arises. While the three judges(M.B. Shah, Venkatarama Reddi, D.M. Dharmadhikari, JJ.) unanimously agreed that the voters have a right under Article 19(1)(a) to know the antecedents of a candidate, there was a difference on whether the scope of the right to vote. F 53. Referring to N.P. Ponnuswamiand Jyoti Basu s, Justice MB Shah held that “there cannot be any dispute that the right to vote or stand as a candidate for election and decision with regard to violation of election law is not a civil right but is a creature of statute or special law and would be subject to the limitations envisaged therein.” G He held that, “Merely because a citizen is a voter or has a right to elect his representative as per the [ROP] Act, his fundamental rights could not be abridged, controlled or restricted by statutory provisions except 35 (2002) 5 SCC 294 36 (2003) 4 SCC 399 H 200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.