(2) The concerned authorities mandated to collect data, under the Act, shall share such data with the Central Government and every State Government, NCPCR and SCPCRs.” 11. In view of what is required under the POCSO Rules, this court hereby issues the following directions: In furtherance of the mandate of Section 39 of the POCSO Act7, the Principal Secretary to the Department of Women and Child Welfare, in the State of Uttar Pradesh shall convene a meeting within the next six weeks to review the facts, take action, and frame rules/guidelines as necessary, on the following: i. Assess capabilities in the state with respect to the support persons ecosystem for the selection, appointment, need for special rules/ guidelines/Standard Operating Procedure in regard to their appointment/empanelment, training, career advancement and terms and conditions of employment; ii. To achieve the purpose in (i) above, require the presence of the Chairperson, of the State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR), Secretary, State Legal Service Authority, senior- most President of a JJB and senior-most Chairperson of a CWC in the state, and a representative from the State Commission for Women; 7 “Section 39.Guidelines for child to take assistance of experts, etc.- Subject to such rules as may be made in this behalf, the State Government shall prepare guidelines for use of non-governmental organisations, professionals and experts or persons having knowledge of psychology, social work, physical health, mental health and child development to be associated with the pre-trial and trial stage to assist the child.” 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. iii. Prior to this meeting, details may be called from each District Child Protection Unit (DCPU), as to the list of support persons maintained by it as per Rule 5(1) – which is to include the names of persons or organisations working in the fi eld of child rights or child protection, offi cials of children’s homes or shelter homes having custody of children, and other eligible persons employed by the DCPU [as prescribed under Rule 5(6)]; iv. After due consultations, frame such rules, or guidelines, as are necessary, relating to the educational qualifi cations and/ or training required of a support person [over and above the stipulation in Rule 5(6)], and parameters to identify the eligible institutions or NGOs in the state, which can be accredited to depute qualifi ed support persons, and consequently be added to the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) directory as contemplated in Rule 5(1); v. Ensure that the DCPU or CWC, as the State authorities may deem fi t, is tasked with conducting periodic training for all support persons in the DCPU directory to impart knowledge not only on the Act, Rules, and the legal and court procedures involved in prosecuting a POCSO case, but also more fundamentally on communicating and assisting the children of various ages and backgrounds, with the sensitivity it the role demands; vi. In the guidelines framed, ensure that a reporting mechanism through appropriate formats are prepared, to enable the support persons to send monthly reports as per Rule 4(12) to the concerned CWC, which should then be compiled and sent to the SCPCR, and the state government; vii.