An under the first proviso is not the contemplated under the second proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act. Thus, if the NCLT finally finds no grounds to hold that there has been fraudulent conduct or collusion in fraud, then the auditor who may have been temporarily suspended under an under the first proviso can be re-instated. 3.12 It is submitted that Section 140(5) of the Act therefore confers F power onto the Hon’ble NCLT to adjudicate on or inquire into the conduct of an auditor and determine whether the auditor has conducted itself in a fraudulent manner. This is clear from the operative part of the provision which mandates the nature of inquiry required under the section. This is “directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted or colluded G in any fraud by, or in relation to, the company or its directors or officers.” 3.13 It is submitted that therefore, any final would certainly contain either a positive or negative determination of “fraud” or “fraudulent conduct”. As a consequence of finding fraud under Section 140(5) of the Act, the provision illustrates that the finding of fraud/ H fraudulent conduct “may” lead to an directing change of an auditor. UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 975 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] The second proviso further expressly provides that an auditor “against A whom a final has been passed” is in-eligible to act as an auditor of any company for a period of 5 years. Significantly, the words used in the second proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act is “final ” and not “the auditor so removed” or “changed auditor”. 3.14 It is submitted that therefore the requirement or necessity of B change of auditor in a company does not activate/govern the power of the NCLT under Section 140(5) of the Act, 2013. Instead, it is the inquiry into the fraudulent act by an auditor who abdicates his statutorily prescribed independent role and responsibilities and colludes with the management or otherwise perpetrates a fraud. It is submitted that the C essence of the provision/section is determination of fraudulent conduct of the auditor. The consequent “removal” contemplated by Section 140(5) of the Act, 2013 is not just as acting as an auditor in one company or the company concerned but from any company for a period of five years. 3.15 It is submitted that therefore the interpretation of Section D 140(5) of the Act, 2013 made by the High Court in the impugned and is just contrary to the object and purpose of enactment of Section 140(5) of the Act, 2013 and, as such, is contrary to the said provision. 3.16 Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG has submitted that during the E course of arguments, the submissions made on behalf of the respondents are as under: a) Section 140(5) of the Act, in light of the other provisions of the Act, is only to incentivize a recalcitrant auditor into resigning. Therefore, if an auditor resigns after the filing of a Petition under Section 140(5) of the Act but before the Hon’ble NCLT F pronounces an on that Petition, the purpose behind Section 140(5) of the Act is fulfilled.