On the strength of these principles, the burden in such cases is already of a greater F magnitude. Once that burden is discharged, it is implicit that any other hypothesis or the innocence of the accused, already stands ruled out when the matter is taken up at the stage of sentence after returning the finding of guilt. So, theoretically the concept or theory of “residual doubt” does not have any place in a case based on circumstantial evidence. As a matter of fact, G the theory of residual doubt was never accepted by the US Supreme Court as discussed earlier. 78. However, as summed up in Kalu Khan, while dealing with cases based on circumstantial evidence, for imposition of a death 16 2021 (1) SCC 596 H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1051 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] sentence, higher or stricter standard must be insisted upon. The A approach to be adopted in matters concerning capital punishment, therefore ought to be in conformity with the principles culled out in para 50 hereinabove and the instant matter must therefore be considered in the light of those principles. (emphasis supplied) B 59. Accordingly, the argument of residual or lingering doubt does not come to the rescue of the petitioner. Rather, in the course of the appellate decision in the instant case, the standard laid out in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda and subsequent cases was brought to the notice of this Court and it was after analysing the facts in reference to these C principles that the Court upheld the guilt of the petitioner. This court noted that: 24. Based on the evidence noticed in the three preceding paragraphs, there can be no doubt whatsoever, that the accused appellant had been identified through cogent evidence as the person D who had taken away Suresh when he disembarked from school van on 27.7.2009. The. factum of kidnapping of Suresh by the accused-appellant, therefore, stands duly established. […] 27. […] We are therefore, satisfied, that in the facts and E circumstances of the present case, there is sufficient evidence on the record of this case, on the basis whereof even the factum of murder of Suresh at the hands of the accused-appellant stands established. 60. This Court has already applied the relevant standard to confirm F the guilt of the petitioner in the appeal in a case which is based on circumstantial evidence and it will not be appropriate for this Court to once again venture into an assessment of the evidence in the review jurisdiction in view of its limited scope. E.2. Sentencing & Mitigation in the Trial Court and the G Appellate Courts 61. Counsel for the petitioner argued that even if the petitioner’s guilt was affirmed, the trial court and appellate courts failed to appropriately consider relevant aggravating and mitigating circumstances including the possibility of reformation of the petitioner while deciding H 1052 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A upon the sentence. Counsel urged that the petitioner should not have been awarded the death sentence and it ought to be commuted in view of the failure of the courts to conduct an appropriate mitigation exercise.