In this C regard it was submitted that the impugned and the of the Single Judge, setting aside the entire selection of the appellants herein due to the non-availability of individual award rolls, despite, signed approval of the final Select List by the Board, is contrary to law. That the burden of establishing mala fides is heavily on the person who alleges D it and the allegations of mala fides are more than often easily made than proved, and the very seriousness of such allegations demands proof of a high of credibility, vide Indian Railway Construction Co. Ltd. vs. Ajay Kumar, (2003) 4 SCC 579; State of Bihar vs. P.P. Sharma, (1992 Supp. (1) SCC 222); Ajit Kumar Nag vs. Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., (2005) 7 SCC 764; Union of India vs. Ashok E Kumar, (2005) 8 SCC 760. 7.4. It was further contended on behalf of the appellants that in the absence of any rule or regulation requiring a Selection Committee or Board to record reasons for selection and appointment, no fault can be found with the selection process due to the lack of individual award F rolls. Reliance in this regard was placed on National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences vs. Dr. K. Kalyana Raman, 1992 Supp. (2) SCC 481; B.C. Mylarappa vs. Dr. R. Venkatasubbaiah, (2008) 14 SCC 306; Baidyanath Yadav vs. Aditya Narayan Roy, (2020) 16 SCC 799; Mohd. Mustafa vs. Union of India, (2022) 1 SCC 294 G (Mohd. Mustafa). 7.5. It was asserted that the power of judicial review does not extend to conducting a microscopic inquiry beyond the pleadings in the writ petition. Reliance was placed on Sadananda Halo to contend that this Court has held that a roving and microscopic inquiry on factual aspects is not permissible in a writ petition. That a Writ Court cannot place itself H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 739 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] as a fact-finding commission and cannot go all the way into the facts A and microscopic details, which are revealed not via the pleadings but on the basis of an unnecessary investigation. That in the present case, the High Court had called for the selection records, gone through the same, undertaken a fact-finding exercise and rendered microscopic findings for specific individuals, and all of it, not on the basis of pleadings. Thus, B the present case is a perfect example of what a writ court ought not do in the exercise of its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution. 7.6. It was thus contended that the High Court cannot act as an appellate authority over the choice of candidates/selection process under Article 226. To buttress his submission, learned counsel cited Madan C Lal vs. State of J&K, (1995) 3 SCC 486 (Madan Lal) wherein this Court held that it was in the exclusive domain of the expert committee to decide whether more marks should be assigned and the Court cannot sit as a Court of appeal over the assessment made by the Committee.