D On this interpretation if the offence as described in the Section is committed prior to production or giving in evidence of the document in Court, no complaint by Court would be necessary and a private complaint would be maintainable. The question which requires consideration is which of the two interpretations should be accepted having regard to the scheme of the Act and object sought to be E achieved.” 19.After observing the aforesaid and considering the entire scheme under Section 195 of the Cr.P.C., so also under Section 340 of the Cr.P.C., this Court observed thus: “33. In view of the discussion made above, we are of the opinion F that Sachida Nand Singh has been correctly decided and the view taken therein is the correct view. Section 195(1)(b)(ii) Cr.P.C. would be attracted only when the offences enumerated in the said provision have been committed with respect to a document after it has been produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in G any Court i.e. during the time when the document was in custodia legis. 34. In the present case, the will has been produced in the Court subsequently. It is nobody’s case that any offence as enumerated in Section 195(1)(b)(ii) was committed in respect to the said will after it had been produced or filed in the Court of District Judge. H ASHOK GULABRAO BONDRE v. VILAS MADHUKARRAO 825 DESHMUKH AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Therefore, the bar created by Section 195(1)(b)(ii) Cr.P.C. would A not come into play and there is no embargo on the power of the Court to take cognizance of the offence on the basis of the complaint filed by the respondents. The view taken by the learned Additional Sessions Judge and the High Court is perfectly correct and calls for no interference.” B 20.It could thus clearly be seen that this Court, on unequal terms, has held that the view taken in the case of Sachida Nand Singh(supra) that Section 195(1)(b)(ii) of the Cr.P.C. would be attracted only when the offence enumerated in the said provision was committed in respect of a document after it has been produced or filed in evidence during C proceedings before any Court, i.e. during the time when the document is custodia legis. The Court has clearly held that, insofar as the Will which is alleged to have been fabricated before it was produced in the Court, the embargo created by Section 195(1)(b)(ii) of Cr.P.C. would not come into play. 21.It has been held that in such a case, the Court will be entitled D to take cognizance of the offence only on the basis of the complaint made by the complainant. 22.In that view of the matter, we find that the view taken by the Revisional Court as well as the High Court is not sustainable. E 23.The impugned and passed by the Revisional Court as well as the High Court are quashed and set aside. 24.The matter is remitted back forthwith to the learned JMFC, Ramtek for considering the complaint of the appellant on its own merits.