The disputes which led to these cases tell us how crucial institutions are to the realisation of democracy. It is through them that the aspirations of a democratic way of life, based on the rule of law, are fulfi lled. Liberty, dignity and autonomy are constraining infl uences on the power of the State. Fundamental human freedoms limit the authority of the State. Yet the role of institutions in achieving democracy is as signifi cant. Nations fail when institutions of governance fail. The working of a democratic institution is impacted by the statesmanship (or the lack of it) 4 (1994) 3 SCC 1 5 (2018) 8 SCC 501 STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 789 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] shown by those in whom the electorate vests the trust to govern. In a society such as ours, which is marked by a plurality of cultures, a diversity of tradition, an intricate web of social identity and a clatter of ideologies, institutional governance to be robust must accommodate each one of them. Criticism and dissent form the heart of democratic functioning. The responsiveness of institutions is determined in a large measure by their ability to be receptive to diff erences and perceptive to the need for constant engagement and dialogue. Constitutional skirmishes are not unhealthy. They test the resilience of democracy. How good a system works in practice must depend upon the statesmanship of those who are in decision-making positions within them. Hence, these cases are as much about interpreting the Constitution as they are about the role of institutions in the structure of democratic governance and the frailties of those who must answer the concerns of citizens.” 19. The dispute in the present case essentially bears upon the Governor having detained four Bills which were passed by the Vidhan Sabha on 20 June 2023. Article 2006 of the Constitution postulates that when a Bill has been passed by the Legislative Assembly of a State or, in the case of a bicameral legislature, by both the Houses, it shall be presented to the Governor. The Governor has three options available when a Bill which has 6 When a Bill has been passed by the Legislative Assembly of a State or, in the case of a State having a Legislative Council, has been passed by both Houses of the Legislature of the State, it shall be presented to the Governor and the Governor shall declare either that he assents to the Bill or that he withholds assent therefrom or that he reserves the Bill for the consideration of the President: Provided that the Governor may, as soon as possible after the presentation to him of the Bill for assent, return the Bill if it is not a Money Bill together with a message requesting that the House or Houses will reconsider the Bill or any specifi ed provisions thereof and, in particular, will consider the desirability of introducing any such amendments as he may recommend in his message and, when a Bill is so returned, the House or Houses shall reconsider the Bill accordingly, and if the Bill is passed again by the House or Houses with or without amendment and presented to the Governor for assent, the Governor shall not withhold assent therefrom: Provided further that the Governor shall not assent to, but shall reserve for the consideration of the President, any Bill which in the opinion of the Governor would, if it became law, so derogate from the powers of the High Court as to endanger the position which that Court is by this Constitution designed to fi ll.