Following this, between 16 January and 24 January 2017, the viva-voce for all the qualifi ed candidates was conducted. 7. On 27 February 2017, after the viva-voce was conducted, the Administrative Committee of the High Court passed a resolution by which it decided to apply the same minimum cut-off marks which were prescribed for the written examination as a qualifying criterion in the viva-voce. In coming to this conclusion, the Administrative Committee was of the view that since appointments were being made to the Higher Judicial Service, it was necessary to select candidates with a requisite personality and knowledge which could be ensured by prescribing a cut-off for the viva-voce in terms similar to the cut-off which was prescribed for the written examination. On 6 March 2017, the Full Court of the High Court of Kerala approved the resolution of the Administrative Committee. The fi nal merit list of the successful candidates was also published on the same day. 8. The decision of the Full Court to apply minimum cut-off marks for the viva voce and the resultant promulgation of the list of successful candidates led to the institution of petitions before this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. The candidates who are before this Court are aggrieved by the fact that as a result of the application of cut off marks in the viva- voce, they have been ousted from selection though they would rank higher than many of the candidates who have been selected on the consideration of the aggregate of marks in the written examination and the viva-voce. This specifi c grievance was urged before this Court when notice was issued particularly in relation to the three respondents, respondents 9, 11 and 12. 9. When the petition was taken up by a two-Judge Bench of this Court on 14 November 2017, a reference was made to the Constitution Bench, following an earlier reference made to the larger Bench in Tej Prakash Pathak v. Rajasthan High Court3. While making a reference to the Constitution Bench in the earlier decision, the principal issue which has been 3 (2013) 4 SCC 540 SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 683 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] addressed is whether it is open in law after a selection process is instituted, to change the rules of the game midstream. In that context, reliance was placed on an earlier decision in K Manjusree v. State of Andhra Pradesh.4 The view in K Manjusree (supra) has been doubted on the ground that the principle which has been laid down in that case would appear to run contrary to an earlier decision in the State of Haryana v. Subash Chander Marwaha.5 In the view that we are inclined to take in the present case, it does not become necessary to rule on the broader constitutional issue on which a reference has been made in Tej Prakash Pathak (supra). The reason why we have come to this conclusion would be elaborated shortly hereinafter.