G 78. In any case, all decisions cited so far, uniformly say that the object of examining an approver twice, is to ensure that the accused is made aware of the evidence against him even at the preliminary stage, 19 (1977) 4 SCC 536 20 (2013) 13 SCC 1 H 58 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A so as to enable him to effectively cross examine the approver during trial, bring out contradictions and show him to be untrustworthy. The said object stands fulfilled in this case, since the confession statement of the approver before the XVIII Metropolitan Magistrate was enclosed to the Charge Sheet. The approver was examined as PW-16 during trial and he was cross examined on the contents of the confession statement. B The Magistrate who recorded the confession was examined as PW 17 and the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate who granted pardon was examined as PW-18. The proceedings before the XVIII Metropolitan Magistrate, the petition under section 306 of the Code and the proceedings on tender of pardon were marked respectively as EXX. P-50, 51 and C 52. All the accused were given opportunity to cross examine these witnesses both on the procedure and on the contents. 79. In view of the above, we are of the considered view that there was no violation of the procedure prescribed by Section 306(4)(a) of the Code. Thus, we answer the second issue against the appellants. D Part-III (Revolving around the merits of the case qua culpability of each of the appellants before us) As regards A-1 80. Though we have found in Part-I of this that the E failure of the prosecution to take previous sanction under Section 197(1) of the Code has vitiated the proceedings against A-1, we would nevertheless deal with his case on merits to see if the offences under the IPC or under the PC Act stood proved beyond reasonable doubt. 81. To recapitulate, the allegations against A-1 are (i) that by F entering into a criminal conspiracy to cheat BHEL and award the tender to A-5’s firm and by instructing PW-16 to go in for limited tenders without following the procedure of pre-qualification of prospective tenderers and without selecting any one from the approved list of contractors, he committed various offences punishable under the IPC; and (ii) that by G abusing his official position and awarding the contract to A-5, he caused a wrongful loss to the tune of Rs.4.32 crores to BHEL. 82. For proving the allegations with regard to the criminal conspiracy and for establishing that A-1 decided to go in for Restricted Tender for the purpose of awarding the contract to a chosen firm and also for showing that A-1 directed the inclusion of four bogus firms, the H A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 59 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] prosecution relied upon its star witness, namely PW-16. But PW-16 was A the first-named accused in the FIR, who later turned approver by giving a confession statement.