We agree : (1) the detaining authority must D provide the detenu a very early opportunity to make a representation, (2) the detaining authority must consider the representation as soon as possible, and this, preferably, must be before the representation is forwarded to the Advisory Board, (3) the representation must be forwarded to the Advisory Board before the Board makes its report, and (4) E the consideration by the detaining authority of the representation must be entirely independent of the hearing by the Board or its report, expedition being essential at every stage. We, however, hasten to add that the time-imperative can never be absolute or obsessive. The Court’s observations F are not to be so understood. There has to be lee-way, depending on the necessities (we refrain from using the word “circumstances”) of the case. One may well imagine a case where a detenu does not make a representation before the Board makes its report making it impossible for the detaining authority either to consider it or to forward it to the Board in G time or a case where a detenu makes a representation to the detaining authority so shortly before the Advisory Board takes up the reference that the detaining authority cannot consider the representation before then but may merely forward it to the Board without himself considering it. Several such H 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A situations may arise compelling departure from the time- imperative. But no allowance can be made for lethargic indifference. No allowance can be made for needless procrastination. But, allowance must surely be made for necessary consultation where legal intricacies and factual ramifications are involved. The burden of explaining the B necessity for the slightest departure from the time-imperative is on the detaining authority. We have already expressed our agreement with the four principles enunciated in Jayanarayan Sukul v. State of W.B. [Jayanarayan Sukul v. State of W.B., (1970) 1 SCC 219 C : 1970 SCC (Cri) 92] We would make one observation. When it was said there that the Government should come to its decision on the representation before the Government forwarded the representation to the Advisory Board, the emphasis was not on the point of time but on the requirement D that the Government should consider the representation independently of the Board.” 29. However, in the case of Abdulla Kunhi (Supra), where the preventive detention of the petitioner therein under the COFEPOSA Act was challenged on the same disputed ground, a Constitutional Bench E of this Court, while considering both the issues of when the representation is submitted before the matter is referred to the Advisory Board and after the mater has been referred to the advisory board, for both the circumstances, had held that the Government must wait for the decision of the Advisory Board before making its decision on the representation. The relevant paragraph of the abovementioned is being F extracted hereunder: “We agree with the observations in Frances Coralie Mullin case [(1980) 2 SCC 275 : 1980 SCC (Cri) 419] .