The expanded on this understanding of the provision by holding that sexual orientation is also covered within the meaning of ‘sex’ in Article 15(1) because (i) non- heterosexual relationships question the male-female binary and gendered roles which are attached to them; and (ii) discrimination based on sexual orientation indirectly discriminates based on gender stereotypes which is prohibited by Article 15. Thus, a law which, directly or indirectly, discriminates based on sexual orientation is constitutionally suspect. In Navtej (supra), Justice Indu Malhotra observed that Article 15(1) prohibits discrimination based on sexual orientation because it is analogous to the other grounds on which discrimination is prohibited. The learned Judge observed that the common thread which runs through the grounds mentioned in Article 15 is that they impact the personal autonomy of an individual. 246. We fi nd it necessary to supplement the observations of this Court in Navtej (supra) on the impermissibility of discrimination based 137 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. on sexual orientation. The causal relationship between homophobia and gender stereotypes is not the only constitutional approach to grounding the prohibition of discrimination based on sexual orientation in Article 15. Subsuming the discrimination faced by queer persons into the sex-gender debate runs the risk of being reductionist. Gender theory only captures one part of the complex construction of sexual deviance. Over-emphasizing gender norms as a reason for the discrimination faced by the queer community will be at the cost of reducing their identity. 247. At this juncture, it is important to address the argument of the learned Solicitor General that Article 15 of the Constitution does not include sexual orientation because it is not an ‘ascriptive’ characteristic since there is a degree of ‘choice’ in identifying as a queer person. This submission is premised on the erroneous understanding that the common thread which runs through the grounds mentioned in Article 15 is that they are all ascriptive characteristics. 248. Article 15 of the Constitution states that no citizen shall be discriminated against based on “religion, race, sex, place of birth, or any of them.” Ascribed status is described to be “assigned to individuals without reference to their innate diff erences or abilities” and achieved status is described as “acquiring special qualities” and “open to individual achievement.”214 Thus, characteristics attained on birth are termed as ascribed status and characteristics or qualities achieved after birth are termed as achieved status. Before proceeding further, a preliminary point must be made. Status is not a biological phenomenon. It is a social phenomenon.215 The status of a person is identifi ed based on how a person is perceived. It depends on how the society (conditioned by social norms) sees an individual as a part of a group. 249. This Court has in many s held that caste is an ascribed status.216 The argument of Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi that Article 15 214 Ralph Linton, The Study of Man: An introduction (1936) 215 Irving S. Falodare, A Clarifi cation of “Ascribed Status” and “Achieved Status”, The Sociological Quarterly, Vol.