No. 27331/ 2009 H 930 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A remit the sale proceeds towards the assessee’s tax arrears, in case sale takes place in public auction. The revenue then approached the High Court by filing a writ petition4 to declare the notification dated 14.08.2011 issued by the bank, as illegal and contrary to the provisions of the VAT Act. The assessee was arrayed as second respondent in that proceeding. The revenue had specifically averred that the assessment s were B served on the assessee and that those assessment s had attained finality, resulting in the demand of liability getting crystalized. The assessee did not object to those averments by filing a counter affidavit denying the service of assessment . In that writ proceeding, after an initial interim , the High Court, on 13.02.2015, permitted the assessee’s C banker to proceed with the auction in respect of its director’s properties, but continued the of restraint of not issuing confirmation of sale in respect of the company’s property mentioned at serial Nos. 4, 5 and 6 of the notification dated 14.08.2011. As a result, the revenue issued revised attachment notices in Form IV and V on 07.03.2015 and 27.04.2015 under the RR Act attaching the immovable property of the assessee D being land admeasuring 2,224.25 square yards and building standing thereon. Even to the said revised attachment proceedings issued in Form IV and V there was no response forthcoming from the assessee company. It was in these circumstances that the revenue issued another notice of attachment dated 20.02.2018 in Form V, in respect of the property and E served copy of the said notice on Sri Pankaj Agarwal and Neeraj Agarwal i.e., Directors of the assessee company. 8. It was claimed that the assessee then for the first time, submitted representation dated 18.06.2018 for furnishing certified copies of assessment s. Similar representations renewing the said request F are stated to have been made on 24.10.2018 and 05.03.2019. According to the revenue none of the said representations, claimed that the assessment s passed by the revenue were not served and on the other hand it claimed that “the assessment s are not available with us and our factory is closed long back and above s are not traceable in our records”. The revenue averred that the allegation G of not furnishing of copies of assessment s passed, was an after- thought, to thwart the proceeding initiated by the respondent for recovery of tax dues. Non-service of assessment s was not raised in the earlier two writ proceedings and this, it was contended by the revenue, demonstrated absence of bonafides. H 4 W.P. No. 25943/2011 THE COMMERCIAL TAX OFFICER & ORS. v. NEERAJA PIPES 931 PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 9. The impugned noticed that the VAT Act stipulates the A manner and method of service of notices and s on the assessee; Rule 64 of the Telangana VAT Rules5 (“the rules”) prescribes the procedure thereunder. The court held that an by the revenue to be considered as validly served, would have to be only in the manner prescribed under the Rules and that since the assessee is a company, it B was governed by Rule 64(1)(b) in terms of which any notice or an passed can be considered as validly served under any one of the modes, namely - (i) if the same is personally served on the nominated person; or (ii) it is left at the registered office of the person or person’s address for service of notices under the Act; or (iii) it is left at or sent by registered post to any office or place of business of that person in the State; and C (iv) where it is returned unserved, if it is put on board in the office of local chamber of commerce or trader’s association.