39. Undoubtedly, the decisions of this Court proceed on two lines. While there are several decisions where this Court has consistently laid down the law in one particular line that it is for the Magistrate to consider the Exceptions to section 499, IPC for extension of benefi t thereof at the trial when a defence is pleaded by the party seeking to avail the same and upon the burden of proof being discharged by him and that such Magistrate while deciding the question purely from the point of view of the complainant may not advert to the possible defence of the accused at the time of exercising power under section 202, the other line of decisions seem to proceed on the premise that there is no bar in considering the Exceptions if the accused, even without appearing before the Magistrate in response to the summoning , lays a challenge thereto under section 482, Cr. PC and satisfi es the relevant High Court, by referring to the complaint itself and the statements of the complainant and his witness, that the facts alleged (even if deemed to be true) do not constitute an off ence and hence, there was no suffi cient ground for proceeding. In fact, Aroon Purie (supra) has observed that there is no rigid principle that the Exceptions can only be considered at the pre-trial stage; in other words, at the stage of consideration of a petition for quashing, it can be so extended in a given case, and the Court would be empowered to quash the proceedings if extension of such benefi t is justifi ed on facts. 40. What applies to Judges of the High Courts faced with decisions of this Court where a cleavage of opinion is discernible, and particularly when the High Courts are technically bound by both decisions, equally applies to Hon’ble Judges of this Court. It would be inappropriate for a Bench, comprised of 2 (two) Judges of this Court, to hold which line of decisions lays down the correct law. In such a scenario, when there are decisions of this Court not expressing views in sync with each other, the fi rst course to be adopted is to ascertain which is the decision that has been rendered by a larger Bench. Obviously, inter se decisions of this Court, a decision of a Constitution Bench would be binding on Benches of lesser strength. None of the decisions that we have considered is rendered by a Constitution Bench. However, a sole rendered by a Bench of 4 (four) Hon’ble Judges and 3 (three) decisions rendered by Benches comprised of 3 (three) Hon’ble Judges are there, which call for deference. Ordinarily, the decision of a larger Bench has to be preferred unless of 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. course a Bench of lesser strength doubts an earlier view, formulates the point for answer and refers the matter for further consideration by a larger Bench in accordance with law. If, however, the decisions taking divergent views are rendered by Benches of co-equal strength, the next course to be adopted is to attempt to reconcile the views that appear to be divergent and to explain those contrary decisions by assuming, to the extent possible, that they applied to diff erent facts.