7,000/- of the denomination of one thousand as well as the weapon of off ence i.e. the ice pick from the house of the appellant convict. This, according to the learned Additional Solicitor General, is one additional incriminating circumstance against the appellant convict pointing towards his guilt. 21. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned ASG prayed that there being no merit in this appeal, the same may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 22. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following questions fall for our consideration:- (i) Whether the High Court committed any error in dismissing the appeal fi led by the appellant convict and thereby affi rming the and of conviction and sentence passed by the Trial Court for the alleged off ences? (ii) Whether an accused can decline to participate in the TIP on the ground that he was already shown to the eye witnesses prior to the conduct of the TIP and in such circumstances, the TIP would be nothing short of creating evidence against him? MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 905 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (iii) Can an accused decline to participate in the TIP that the investigating offi cer may propose to hold in the course of investigation on the ground that no person accused of any off ence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself? To put it in other words, can an accused decline to subject himself to the TIP on the ground that the same violates his fundamental right under Article 20(3) of the Constitution? (iv) To what extent the Court can draw an adverse inference against the accused for having refused to participate in the TIP? Whether by virtue of drawing such adverse inference, is it open for the Court to accept the substantive evidence of identifi cation before the Trial Court without any corroboration to such identifi cation? (v) What is the true purport of Section 54A of the CrPC? (vi) Whether the Courts below were justifi ed in placing reliance on the discovery of weapon of off ence and the currency notes from the residence of the appellant convict as one of the incriminating circumstances against the appellant convict? Whether TIP violates the fundamental right of an accused under Article 20(3) of the Constitution 23. Article 20(3) of the Constitution reads thus:- “Article 20(3):-No person accused of any off ence shall be compelled to be a witness against himself.” 24. The true purport of clause (3) of Article 20 of the Constitution referred to above was laid down by this Court in the case of M.P. Sharma v. Satish Chandra, AIR 1954 SC 300. Jagannadhadas J., delivering the of the Court, observed:- “Indeed, every positive volitional act, which furnishes evidence is testimony, and testimonial compulsion connotes coercion which procures the positive volitional evidentiary acts of the person, as opposed to the negative attitude of silence or submission on his part.” 25. We are conscious of the fact that M.P.