(3) Any term used but not defi ned in this Act or in the agreement referred to in sub-section (1) shall, unless the context otherwise requires, and is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or the agreement, have the same meaning as assigned to it in the notifi cation issued by the Central Government in the Offi cial Gazette in this behalf. (4) An assessee, not being a resident, to whom an agreement referred to in sub-section (1) applies, shall not be entitled to claim any relief under such agreement unless 4 a certifi cate of his being a resident in any country outside India or specifi ed territory outside India, as the case may be, is obtained by him from the Government of that country or specifi ed territory. (5) The assessee referred to in sub-section (4) shall also provide such other documents and information, as may be prescribed. 116 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Explanation 1.- For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the charge of tax in respect of a foreign company at a rate higher than the rate at which a domestic company is chargeable, shall not be regarded as less favourable charge or levy of tax in respect of such foreign company. Explanation 2.—For the purposes of this section, “specifi ed territory” means any area outside India which may be notifi ed as such by the Central Government. Explanation 3.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where any term is used in any agreement entered into under sub-section (1) and not defi ned under the said agreement or the Act, but is assigned a meaning to it in the notifi cation issued under sub-section (3) and the notifi cation issued thereunder being in force, then, the meaning assigned to such term shall be deemed to have eff ect from the date on which the said agreement came into force. Explanation 4.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that where any term used in an agreement entered into under sub-section (1) is defi ned under the said agreement, the said term shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the agreement; and where the term is not defi ned in the said agreement, but defi ned in the Act, it shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in the Act and explanation, if any, given to it by the Central Government.” 37. The relevant extracts of the DTAAs and the MFN clause contained within them, are extracted in Part IV.C below. IV. Analysis A. General 38. Treaty making power vests exclusively with the Union, per Article 253 of the Constitution, and the relative entries in the Union List (List I, VIIth Schedule). Entering into a treaty is an attribute of sovereignty, and the power to do vests solely in the Union executive - as opposed to the states, or the shared (concurrent) domain within the distribution of administrative powers under the Constitution; thus, it can be traced to Article 73 of the Constitution.