F iii. Statutoiy regulators may take action in terms of need for compliances in the light of recommendations with regard to individual Plants as well as generally so as to require the concerned PPs to comply, failing which coercive measures be taken by the statutory regulators In accordance with law. G iv. In respect of incident dated 10.04.2020, compensation paid to heirs of the deceased at the rate of Rs. 10 lakhs per death is increased to Rs. 15 lakhs on principles laid down inter alia in Sarla Verma (2009) 6 SCC 121 and Uphaar Cinema (2011) 14 SCC 481. We direct the remaining amount to be paid within one month. H 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A This will not debar the heirs of the victims to claim higher compensation by approaching appropriate forum. If the salaries to persons appointed as compensation to the victims are below minimum wages, the PP may ensure compliance of law on the subject which may be also looked into by the concerned Labour Departments of the State of UP and MP. The statutory regulators B may take further remedial action in terms of recommendations of the Committee in OA 148/2020, quoted earlier for restoration of environment and preventing such incidents. v. With regard to breach of Rihand Reservoir also, further remedial measures be taken in terms of recommendations on the subject, C quoted in para 15 above. All the matters (including IAs) will stand disposed of accordingly. If any grievance survives, aggrieved parties are free to take remedies as per law. A copy of this be forwarded to the Secretaries, MoEF&CC, D Coal and Power, GoI and Chief Secretaries of UP and MP, CPCB, State PCBs, SEIAAs, PCCFs (HoFF) UP and MP, District Magistrates, Singrauli and Sonebhadra, Labour Commissioners, UP and MP, State Disaster Management Authorities of UP and MP and SSPs by e-mail for compliance. CPCB may also circulate E the same by email to all TPPs or other concerned to facilitate compliance. Adarsh Kumar Goel, CP Sudhlr Agarwal, JM F Brijesh Sethi, JM Prof. A. Senthil Ve!, EM Dr. Afroz Ahmad, EM January 18, 2022 G 3. Being aggrieved by the directions issued by the NGT and the manner in which the original petition has been disposed of, the appellants have filed these appeals. 4. At this stage itself it may be noted that the first respondent, the original applicant before the NGT has been served in all the cases and H SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION v. 447 ASHWANI KUMAR DUBEY & ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] has not appeared in these cases. In the circumstances, the appeals have A been heard and decided, by taking into consideration, the submissions of the learned counsel appearing for the appellants herein. 5. Learned Solicitor General appearing for the appellants in C.A. No.3856/2022 at the outset submitted that the proceedings of the NGT are judicial proceedings and compliance of principles of natural justice is B a hallmark of all judicial proceedings. That in the instant case, while the NGT was well within its powers to constitute an expert Committee and to seek a report with regard to the alleged violations complained of by the first respondent herein, on receipt of the said report, it was necessary that the alleged violators were given an opportunity to object to the said C report and after consideration of the objections, the NGT ought to have passed a considered and issued only those directions which were appropriate having regard to the facts of each industry that was made a respondent before the NGT.