They would also contend that the tribunal has committed a serious error in ignoring the statement of the persons who were in charge of the factory and the statement of the factory manager which was relied upon by the department to substantiate as to how the assessee had been manufacturing the product, and the process, and there being no change in the manufacturing process, or any new plant and machinery having been installed in their unit. The standing counsel for the Revenue, would also contend that during 2005-06 the assessee themselves described the product as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ and suddenly from April 06, 2006, started describing their product as ‘chewing tobacco’ classifi able under CET SH 2403 9910 to avail the benefi t of Notifi cation No.2 of 2006 dated 01.03.2006. It was also contended that when two or more headings are available, the product should be classifi ed under the more specifi c heading according to the description of the product and in the instant group it would fall under CET SH 2403 9930 as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’. 27. The Revenue also contended that tribunal in paragraph 21 of the impugned having held that “both sides have some points in their favour and some against them” failed to elaborate or assign the reasons for extending the benefi t of Section 4A to assessee and on this ground alone the impugned is liable to be set aside. 28. The Revenue would also contend that tribunal committed a serious error in concluding that show cause notice should have been issued within one year period as the assessee intimated their intention to change the classifi cation and contended that the assessee has not mentioned any details of the products which they were manufacturing at that material time but had only forwarded a cryptic communication, lacking details and bereft of material particulars, namely the intention of changing the heading and classifi cation of the product which was being manufactured by them and no evidence for reasons of change was forthcoming from the said communication, and as such the assessee cannot take umbrage under the said communication to stave-off its liability or, to contend that extended period of limitation cannot be applied as the department knew about such change. 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 29. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent – asseessee by supporting impugned passed by the tribunal would contend that intention of the Revenue/Government was to levy duty on the product manufactured by the appellant-assessee under Section 4A of CE Act only. He would submit that the product manufactured by the assessee was classifi ed under CET SH No.2404.41 as ‘chewing tobacco’ and duty was assessed under Section 4A of CE Act on MRP basis and accordingly duty was paid. He would contend that with introduction of the 8 (eight) digit tariff era, assessee classifi ed its product as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ under CET SH 2403 9930 for the period 01.03.2005 to 28.02.2006. At this juncture, he would hasten to add that in accordance with the policy on taxation on ‘tobacco production’, the duty assessment regime remained constant i.e., under Section 4A of CE Act on MRP basis only.