516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 17. In Bhajan Lal (supra), this Court had set out, by way of illustration, the broad categories of cases in which the inherent power under Section 482 Cr.P.C. could be exercised. Para 102 of the decision reads as follows: ‘102. In the backdrop of the interpretation of the various relevant provisions of the Code under Chapter XIV and of the principles of law enunciated by this Court in a series of decisions relating to the exercise of the extraordinary power under Article 226 or the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code which we have extracted and reproduced above, we give the following categories of cases by way of illustration wherein such power could be exercised either to prevent abuse of the process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends of justice, though it may not be possible to lay down any precise, clearly defi ned and suffi ciently channelised and infl exible guidelines or rigid formulae and to give an exhaustive list of myriad kinds of cases wherein such power should be exercised. (1) Where the allegations made in the fi rst information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any off ence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the fi rst information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable off ence, justifying an investigation by police offi cers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do not disclose the commission of any off ence and make out a case against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable off ence but constitute only a non-cognizable off ence, no investigation is permitted by a police offi cer without an of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no ABHISHEK v. STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 517 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is suffi cient ground for proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the Act concerned (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a specifi c provision in the Code or the Act concerned, providing effi cacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fi de and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.’ 18.