Still further, there has been a vesting under Section 5 of the Nationalisation Act of the rights of the lessee in thefirst appellant. Under Section 11 of the Nationalisation Act, the power of general superintendence, direction, D control and management of the vested minds, vest in the first appellant- Company. If Section 28 of the Act is evoked and a direction is given to division, undoubtedly, it would be inconsistent with the provisions of the Nationalisation Act. 123. There are certain salient features to be noticed. In the first E place, there is no challenge to the Act. Secondly, taking the Act as it plainly reads, the power to division and, what is more, all the things enumerated in Section 28(2), are clearly conferred on the CCI. Apart from the general non-obstante Clause contained in Section 60 of the Act, a noticeable feature about Section 28 of the Act is that it is made F even more clear, apparently, by way of abundant caution in Section 28(1), that all that the CCI could would be notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force. Parliament has authored both the Nationalisation Act as also the Act. There is no question of lack of legislative competence. We are not called upon to pronounce on the vires of the Act. There is absolutely no scope, at any rate, G forreading down the provision even proceeding on the basis that an attempt can be made even in the absence of the challenge. The words of the provision do not admit of reading down the same. What follows is, therefore, Parliament has intended, in to ensure the proper implementation of the Act,confer power to division of an enterprise H 886 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A enjoying dominant power. This would include the appellants as well. We must, no doubt, understand the provision to mean that it is not a power to be exercised lightly. It is a special power intended to ensure prevention of abuse of dominant position. The generality of the power is revealed in Section 27. We incidentally notice that though there can be abuse of dominant position by an enterprise and a group, which is sought to be B prohibited, Section 28 speaks about the division of an enterprise. Having regard to the discussion above, we find no merit in the case sought to be made for escaping from the net of the Act. 124. Section 54 of the Act gives power to the Central Government to exempt from the application of the Act or any provision and for any C period, which is specified in the Notification. The ground for exemption can be security of the State or even public interest. It is not as if the appellants, if there was a genuine case made out for being taken outside the purview of the Act in public interest, the Government would be powerless. We say no more. D 125. We would hold that there is no merit in the contention of the appellants that the Act will not apply to the appellantsfor the reason that the appellants are governed by the Nationalisation Act and that Nationalisation Act cannot be reconciled with the Act.