Any determination, despite being deliberate or formal, cannot give rise to application of the doctrine of res judicata if they are not fundamental in nature. On a plain reading of the High Court’s dated 21.04.2006 in conjugation with the application of the test formulated above, we fi nd that the observation in respect of GPA in the said was indeed a mere collateral fi nding. We say so for the reason that the dated 21.04.2006 primarily dealt with the evocation of suo motu revisionary powers under Section 166-B of the 1317 Fasli YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 635 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] Act for issuing the First SCN and not the allegations regarding violation of assignment conditions. In fact, the First SCN was held to be bad in law and without jurisdiction because it was primarily issued on the ground of irregularity by stating that the Subject Land was erroneously assigned under the old rules and that it sought to disturb the assignment after a period of more than thirty years. This was held to be in contravention to the settled law for evoking suo motu revisionary powers under Section 166-B of the 1317 Fasli Act which is the sole fundamental determination by the High Court in its dated 21.04.2006. Resultantly, the fi nding that the GPA was rendered redundant on account of the demise of M.A. Baksh was only collateral in nature and is not hit by the doctrine of res judicata. 46. The other aspect which needs our attention is whether the second SCN would be barred by the extended doctrine of constructive res judicata. The said doctrine has been formulated over the time by courts as a part of public policy to prevent abuse of process of courts and to bring fi nality to the judicial pronouncements. This court in State of UP v. Nawab Hussain17 eloquently explained this principle:– “3. The principle of estoppel per rem judicatam is a rule of evidence. As has been stated in Marginson v. Blackburn Borough Council [(1939) 2 KB 426 at p. 437], it may be said to be “the broader rule of evidence which prohibits the reassertion of a cause of action”. This doctrine is based on two theories: (i) the fi nality and conclusiveness of judicial decisions for the fi nal termination of disputes in the general interest of the community as a matter of public policy, and (ii) the interest of the individual that he should be protected from multiplication of litigation. It therefore serves not only a public but also a private purpose by obstructing the reopening of matters which have once been adjudicated upon. It is thus not permissible to obtain a second for the same civil relief on the same cause of action, for otherwise the spirit of contentiousness may give rise to confl icting s of equal authority, lead to multiplicity of actions and bring the administration of justice into disrepute. It is the cause of action 17 State of UP v. Nawab Hussain (1977) 2 SCC 806.