However, while framing regulations, the state may impose conditions which will subserve the best interest and welfare of the child in terms of the exposition in the ; q. The CARA Circular disproportionately impacts the queer community and is violative of Article 15; r. The Union Government, State Governments, and Governments of Union Territories shall not discriminate against the freedom of queer persons to enter into union with benefi ts under law; and s. We record the assurance of the Solicitor General that the Union Government will constitute a Committee chaired by the Cabinet Secretary for the purpose of defi ning and elucidating the scope of the entitlements of queer couples who are in unions. The Committee shall include experts with domain knowledge and experience in dealing with the social, psychological, and emotional needs of persons belonging to the queer community as well as members of the queer community. The Committee shall before fi nalizing its decisions conduct wide stakeholder consultation amongst persons belonging to the queer community, including persons belonging to marginalized groups and with the governments of the States and Union Territories. 142 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. The Committee shall in terms of the exposition in this consider the following: i. Enabling partners in a queer relationship (i) to be treated as a part of the same family for the purposes of a ration card; and (ii) to have the facility of a joint bank account with the option to name the partner as a nominee, in case of death; ii. In terms of the decision in Common Cause v. Union of India288, as modifi ed by Common Cause v. Union of India289, medical practitioners have a duty to consult family or next of kin or next friend, in the event patients who are terminally ill have not executed an Advance Directive. Parties in a union may be considered ‘family’ for this purpose; iii. Jail visitation rights and the right to access the body of the deceased partner and arrange the last rites; and iv. Legal consequences such as succession rights, maintenance, fi nancial benefi ts such as under the Income Tax Act 1961, rights fl owing from employment such as gratuity and family pension and insurance. The report of the Committee chaired by the Cabinet Secretary shall be implemented at the administrative level by the Union Government and the governments of the States and Union Territories. 341. The petitions in these proceedings are disposed of in terms of this . 342. Pending applications (if any) are disposed of. 288 (2018) 5 SCC 1 289 2023 SCC OnLine SC 99 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1421 UNION OF INDIA SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J. 1.This case presents a new path and a new journey in providing legal recognition to non-heterosexual relationships. 2. I have had the benefi t of the exhaustive and erudite of the Hon’ble Chief Justice Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud; which enumerates the prevalence of these relationships in history, the Constitutional recognition of the right to form unions (in other words ‘civil unions’), and the necessity of laying down guidelines to protect non-heterosexual unions.