[2023] 12 S.C.R. 138 : 2023 INSC 801 CASE DETAILS HARILAL ETC. v. STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH (NOW CHHATTISGARH) (Criminal Appeal Nos. 2216-2217 of 2011) SEPTEMBER 05, 2023 [J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the High Court was justifi ed in upholding the of the Sessions Judge convicting and sentencing the appellants to imprisonment for life u/s 302 IPC. Penal Code, 1860 – s. 302 – Murder – Conviction of the accused u/s. 302 and sentenced to imprisonment for life by the courts below – Ocular account of two prosecution witness that the assault on the deceased took place at night, however, neither of them lodged the FIR, rather, a named FIR lodged next day by the village chowkidar of neighbouring village, even though she was not an eye witness – Correctness: Held: Trial court as well as the High Court while appreciating the evidence did not properly address various aspects – Neither the trial court nor the High Court carefully considered the deposition of the village chowkidar who lodged a named FIR – Two eye witness were chance witness – Testimony of one inconsistent with his previous statement – His statement inconclusive as regards the assault being cause of death, thus cannot be relied upon to convict the accused for off ence of murder – Testimony of the other one not such that it may on its own form the basis of conviction of the accused for the off ence of murder – More so, it leaves many gaps in the prosecution story – Furthermore, the seizure of lathi and clothes from the accused cannot be considered as a clinching circumstance warranting conviction – In view thereof, prosecution not able to convincingly prove the genesis of the crime as also the manner in which the murder took place and by whom, inasmuch as the evidence led by the prosecution gives rise to a strong probability of the killing being a consequence of mob action on 138 HARILAL ETC. v. STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 139 (NOW CHHATTISGARH) the deceased for his alleged involvement with a lady of the village – Thus, taking into account the various circumstances, the accused entitled to benefi t of doubt – and of the courts below set aside. [Paras 14, 16, 18 and 19-26] Delay/laches – FIR – Delay in lodging FIR – Absence of proper explanation – Duty of the court: Held: Courts must be on guard and test the evidence meticulously to rule out possibility of embellishments in the prosecution story – Delay gives opportunity for deliberation and guess work especially when there is high probability of no one witnessed the incident at night in an open place or a public street. [Para 19] OTHER CASE DETAILS INCLUDING IMPUGNED AND APPEARANCES CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal Nos. 2216-2217 of 2011. From the and dated 17.02.2010 of the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur in CRLA Nos.864 and 865 of 1991 Appearances: D. N. Goburdhun, Sr. Adv., Aakarsh Kamra, Ms. Gauri Goburdhun, Advs.