97. The petitioners strongly relied upon the observations in Thiru K.N. Rajgopal v. Thiru M. Karunanidhi & Others122 to canvas that dissolution of the Assembly does not amount to failure of constitutional machinery within Article 356. The scenario is slightly diff erent in the present case as that case did not contemplate the imposition of the President’s rule subsequent to the Governor’s rule. In the instant case, the President’s rule was predicated on the failure of the constitutional machinery, which took place prior to the Governor’s rule and formed the basis for the Governor’s rule. The imposition was not solely based on the dissolution of the Legislative Assembly. B. Article 356 permits the President to make irreversible changes: 98. The petitioners relied upon the observations of Sawant, J. in S.R. Bommai123 case to harmonize clauses (1) & (3) of Article 356 to opine that the President’s powers are meant to be checked by the Parliament and this check would be rendered meaningless if the President took an irreversible measure. One such irreversible measure was stated to be the dissolution of 122 (1972) 4 SCC 733 123 (supra) IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 363 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] the Assembly. It was, however, held in S.R.Bommai,124 that dissolution is permitted if the proclamation had been approved by the Parliament prior to such irreversible action, i.e., in a sense, the will of the people as refl ected in the Parliament had given its imprimatur. The sequitur to the aforesaid view would be that the President had the power to make irreversible changes. The settled principle is that the President had the power to make irreversible changes if the proclamation under Article 356 had received prior approval from both Houses of Parliament. If we turn to the present case, the proclamation received approval on 28.12.2018 by the Lok Sabha and on 03.01.2019 by the Rajya Sabha. Thus, prior approval existed before the promulgation of COs 272 and 273. Secondly, since the proclamation of an emergency is justiciable and if the same is declared to be invalid by the Court, then, notwithstanding its approval by the Parliament, the status quo ante can be restored by the Court at its discretion. In other words, a dissolved Legislative Assembly and the Ministry can be revived. At the same time, while restoring the status quo ante, the Court can validate the President’s action taken till that date and grant other necessary reliefs. C. The President reserves both legislative and non-legislative powers after the proclamation of emergency: 99. To understand the powers conferred on the President after the emergency proclamation, we need to closely appreciate the statutory provision, i.e., Article 356 enumerating the powers exercisable by the President. It is to be borne in mind that the imposition of emergency highlights an exceptional situation. The inclusion of emergency provisions in the Constitution, starting with the procedure of imposing emergency to the powers of the President under clause (1) of Article 356, are all measures catering to an exigency, albeit aimed towards restoring the constitutional equilibrium of the State.