laid down by this Court in several decisions but, having regard to the A submissions made in this case, we may usefully reiterate the observations in the case of Pappu v. The State of Uttar Pradesh: (2022) 10 SCC 321 wherein, after referring to Articles 134 and 136 of the Constitution of India and Section 2 of the Supreme Court (Enlargement of Criminal Appellate Jurisdiction) Act, 1970 as also with a detailed reference to the B relevant decisions, this Court has summed up the subtle distinction in the scope of a regular appeal and an appeal by special leave as follows: - “71.…. In such an appeal by special leave, where the trial court and the High Court have concurrently returned the findings of fact after appreciation of evidence, each and every finding of C fact cannot be contested nor such an appeal could be dealt with as if another forum for reappreciation of evidence. Of course, if the assessment by the trial court and the High Court could be said to be vitiated by any error of law or procedure or misreading of evidence or in disregard to the norms of judicial process leading to serious prejudice or injustice, this Court may, and in appropriate D cases would, interfere in to prevent grave or serious miscarriage of justice but, such a course is adopted only in rare and exceptional cases of manifest illegality. Tersely put, it is not a matter of regular appeal. This Court would not interfere with the concurrent findings of fact based on pure appreciation of evidence E nor it is the scope of these appeals that this Court would enter into reappreciation of evidence so as to take a view different than that taken by the trial court and approved by the High Court.” 11.1. This proposition has been recapitulated in the case of Mekala Sivaiah v. State of Andhra Pradesh:(2022) 8 SCC 253,in F the following words: - “15. It is well settled by judicial pronouncement that Article 136 is worded in wide terms and powers conferred under the said Article are not hedged by any technical hurdles. This overriding and exceptional power is, however, to be exercised sparingly and only in furtherance of cause of justice. Thus, when the under G appeal has resulted in grave miscarriage of justice by some misapprehension or misreading of evidence or by ignoring material evidence then this Court is not only empowered but is well expected to interfere to promote the cause of justice. H 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 16. It is not the practice of this Court to re-appreciate the evidence for the purpose of examining whether the finding of fact concurrently arrived at by the trial court and the High Court are correct or not. It is only in rare and exceptional cases where there is some manifest illegality or grave and serious miscarriage of justice on account of misreading or ignoring material evidence, B that this Court would interfere with such finding of fact.” 12.