(See T. Arivandandam v. T.V. Satyapal [(1977) 4 SCC 467]. )” 5.3 In the case of Madanuri Sri Rama Chandra Murthy Vs. Syed Jalal, (2017) 13 SCC 174, this Court observed and held as under: C “7. The plaint can be rejected under 7 Rule 11 if conditions enumerated in the said provision are fulfilled. It is needless to observe that the power under 7 Rule 11 CPC can be exercised by the court at any stage of the suit. The relevant facts which need to be looked into for deciding the application are the D averments of the plaint only. If on an entire and meaningful reading of the plaint, it is found that the suit is manifestly vexatious and meritless in the sense of not disclosing any right to sue, the court should exercise power under 7 Rule 11 CPC. Since the power conferred on the court to terminate civil action at the E threshold is drastic, the conditions enumerated under 7 Rule 11 CPC to the exercise of power of rejection of plaint have to be strictly adhered to. The averments of the plaint have to be read as a whole to find out whether the averments disclose a cause of action or whether the suit is barred by any law. It is needless to observe that the question as to whether the suit is barred by any F law, would always depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case. The averments in the written statement as well as the contentions of the defendant are wholly immaterial while considering the prayer of the defendant for rejection of the plaint. Even when the allegations made in the plaint are taken to be correct G as a whole on their face value, if they show that the suit is barred by any law, or do not disclose cause of action, the application for rejection of plaint can be entertained and the power under 7 Rule 11 CPC can be exercised. If clever drafting of the plaint has created the illusion of a cause of action, the court will nip it in H RAMISETTY VENKATANNA & ANR. v. NASYAM JAMAL 599 SAHEB & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] the bud at the earliest so that bogus litigation will end at the earlier A stage.” 5.4 In the case of Ram Singh Vs. Gram Panchayat Mehal Kalan, (1986) 4 SCC 364, this Court observed and held that when the suit is barred by any law, the plaintiff cannot be allowed to circumvent that provision by means of clever drafting so as to avoid mention of B those circumstances, by which the suit is barred by law of limitation. Similar view has been expressed by this Court in the case of Raj Narain Sarin (supra). 6. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions on the applicability of VII Rule XI to the facts of the C case on hand, we are of the opinion that the plaint ought to have been rejected in exercise of powers under VII Rule XI(a) and (d) of CPC being vexatious, illusory cause of action and barred by limitation.