Section 68 of the 1872 Act. The distinction between failure on the part of an attesting witness to prove the execution and attestation of a will and his or her denial of the said event or failure to recollect the same, has to be essentially maintained. Any unwarranted indulgence, permitting extra liberal fl exibility to these two stipulations, would render the predication of Section 63 of the Act and Section 68 of the 1872 Act, otiose. The propounder can be initiated to the benefi t of Section 71 of the 1872 Act only if the attesting witness/witnesses, who is/are alive and is/are produced and in clear terms either denies/deny the execution of the document or cannot recollect the said incident.’ 24. Earlier, in Bhagat Ram and another vs. Suresh and others6, this Court observed as under: ‘12. According to Section 68 of the Evidence Act, 1872, a document required by law to be attested, which a Will is, shall not be used as evidence until one attesting witness at least has been called for the purpose of proving its execution, if available to depose and amenable to the process of the court. The proviso inserted in Section 68 by Act 31 of 1926 dispenses with the mandatory requirement of calling an attesting witness in proof of the execution of any document to which Section 68 applies if it has been registered in accordance with the provisions of the Indian Registration Act, 1908 unless its execution by the person by whom it purports to have been executed is specifi cally denied. However, a Will is excepted from the operation of the proviso. A Will has to be proved as required by the main part of Section 68.’ 25. Thereafter, in Benga Behera and another vs. Braja Kishore Nanda and others7, this Court held thus: ‘40. It is now well settled that requirement of the proof of execution of a will is the same as in case of certain other documents, for example gift or mortgage. The law requires that the proof of execution of a will has to be attested at least by two witnesses. At least one attesting witness has to be examined to prove execution and attestation of the will. 6 (2003) 12 SCC 35 7 (2007) 9 SCC 728 MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 659 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] Further, it is to be proved that the executant had signed and/or given his thumb impression in presence of at least two attesting witnesses and the attesting witnesses had put their signatures in presence of the executant.’ 26. Much more recently, in Ashutosh Samanta (Dead) by LRs. and others vs. SM. Ranjan Bala Dasi and others8, this Court noted that where the attesting witnesses died or could not be found, the propounder of the Will is not helpless, as Section 69 of the Evidence Act would be applicable. On facts, this Court found that others who were present at the time the testator and the two attesting witnesses signed the Will were examined and the Will was also supported by a registered partition deed which gave eff ect to it.