Allowing the appeal, the Court E HELD: 1.1 It is not the object or purpose of the Maharashtra Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1947 to totally prohibit or prevent transfer of land within any notified ‘local area’, but it is only aimed at preventing the fragmentation of agricultural holdings and to provide for the F consolidation of agricultural holdings for the purpose of the better cultivation thereof. [Para 18][191-E] 1.2 Though in a suit a defendant is entitled to raise alternative inconsistent plea he could not be permitted to raise pleas which are mutually destructive of each other and raising G such pleas would only work out to his detriment. [Para 19][191- G-H] 1.3 While entertaining the contentions founded on the Fragmentation Act raised by the second defendant, the trial court as also the High Court have not bestowed attention to the H DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 177 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. statutory bar of jurisdiction under Section 36A of the Act. [Para A 20][192-A-B] 1.4 The case attempted to be projected and proved by the second respondent is that in regard to sale deed dated 04.07.1978 and the sale deed dated 21.04.1979 (Ext.128) they were never intended to be acted upon and in fact, they were never been acted B upon. If that is accepted, then, there is absolutely no question of applicability of the provisions of ‘the Fragmentation Act’ as they would apply only in the eventuality of an actual transfer of land or partition of land subject to the satisfaction of other conditions. [Para 22][193-B-D] C 1.5 A conjoint reading of Section 36A and 36B of the Fragmentation Act would reveal that when a suit is instituted in a Civil Court, the Court concerned has to consider if the suit involves any issue(s) which is/are required to be settled, decided or dealt with by any competent authority to settle, decide or dealt D with, such issues under the said Act. If it does, then after staying the suit the said issue(s) is to be referred to such competent authority for determination. Apparently, no such consideration had been made by the trial court as also by the High Court. [Para 23][193-D-E] E 1.6. The words ‘if any suit, instituted in Civil Court’ and ‘involves any issues’ employed in Section 36B of the Fragmentation Act would undoubtedly point to the fact that involvement or otherwise of such issues mentioned under the section in ‘the suit instituted in a Civil Court’ is the factor deciding F the applicability of the procedures prescribed under Section 36B, of the Fragmentation Act. Therefore, the question whether such issue(s) falling under Section 36B of the Fragmentation Act is involved or not was to be decided with reference to the averments in the plaint. On their own the plaint averments did not disclose involvement of any such issue(s) requiring a reference to a G competent authority under the Fragmentation Act. Since the issue is whether the suit involves such issue(s), we will refer to the written statement as well.