It also must be on guard against encroaching beyond C its proper bounds, and not the less so since the only restraint upon it is self-restraint.... Rigorous observance of the difference between limits of power and wise exercise of power — between questions of authority and questions of prudence — requires the most alert appreciation D of this decisive but subtle relationship of two concepts that too easily coalesce. No less does it require a disciplined will to adhere to the difference. It is not easy to stand aloof and allow want of wisdom to prevail to disregard one’s own strongly held view of what is wise in the conduct of affairs. But it is not the business of E this Court to pronounce policy. It must observe a fastidious regard for limitations on its own power, and this precludes the court’s giving effect to its own notions of what is wise or politic. That self-restraint is of the essence in the observance of the judicial oath, for the Constitution has not authorized the judges to sit in on the wisdom of what Congress and the executive F branch do.” 19. When a State action is challenged, the function of the court is to examine the action in accordance with law and to determine whether the legislature or the executive has acted within the powers and functions assigned under the Constitution and if not, G the court must strike down the action. While doing so the court must remain within its self-imposed limits. The court sits in on the action of a coordinate branch of the Government. While exercising power of judicial review of administrative action, the court is not an Appellate Authority. The Constitution does not permit the court to direct or advise the executive in matters of policy or H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 563 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] to sermonize qua any matter which under the Constitution lies A within the sphere of legislature or executive, provided these authorities do not transgress their constitutional limits or statutory powers.” 68. It could thus be seen that the role of the judiciary is to ensure that the aforesaid two organs of the State i.e. the Legislature and the B Executive function within the constitutional limits. Judicial review is a powerful weapon to restrain unconstitutional exercise of power by the legislature and executive. The role of this Court is limited to examine as to whether the Legislature or the Executive has acted within the powers and functions assigned under the Constitution. However, while doing so, C the court must remain within its self-imposed limits. 69. Recently, this Court in the case of Binoy Viswam v. Union of India and others22, took survey of the relevant s on the issue and observed thus: “78. With this, we advert to the discussion on the grounds of judicial D review that are available to adjudge the validity of a piece of legislation passed by the legislature. We have already mentioned that a particular law or a provision contained in a statute can be invalidated on two grounds, namely : (i) it is not within the competence of the legislature which passed the law, and/or (ii) it is in contravention of any of the fundamental rights stipulated in E Part III of the Constitution or any other right/provision of the Constitution.