This Court while considering the D submissions of the parties on the issue of whether economic and/or policy decisions taken by the Government in their executive capacity are amenable to the jurisdiction of courts, held that it was the legality of the policy, and not the wisdom or soundness of the policy, that can be the subject of judicial review. This Court observed that courts do not play an E advisory role to Government and economic policy decisions should be left to experts. This Court observed that it is not normally within the domain of any Court to weigh the pros and cons of the policy or to scrutinize it and test the degree of its beneficial or equitable disposition for the purpose of F varying, modifying or annulling it, based on howsoever sound and good reasoning. It is only when a policy is arbitrary and violative of any Constitutional, statutory or any other provisions of law, that the Courts can interfere. 13.4 What emerges from an understanding of the decisions G referred to above on the subject of judicial review of economic policy may be culled out as under: i) That the court is not to sit in over the merits of economic or financial policy; H 186 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A ii) That the scope of interference by a court is limited to instances where the impugned scheme or legislation in the economic arena has been enacted in violation of any Constitutional or statutory provisions; B iii) That the court may not undertake a foray into the merits, demerits, sufficiency or lack thereof, success in realising the objectives etc., of an economic policy, as such an analysis is the prerogative of the Government in consultation with experts in the field. C 13.5 Being mindful of the limited scope of judicial review permissible in matters concerning economic policy decisions, I shall limit my examination of the matter to such extent as is necessary for the purpose of determining whether the process concluding in the issuance of the impugned notification was correct or as being contrary to sub-section D (2) of Section 26 of the Act and allied aspects of the case. It may be stated at this juncture that the said aspect of the matter is not one of form but of substance. Therefore, examining this aspect of the matter would not amount to interfering with, or sitting in over the merits of the E policy of demonetisation, and is therefore well within the limits of the Lakshmanrekha that this Court has carefully drawn for itself. 14. Bearing in mind the important role played by the Bank in shaping the economy of the country, and also the principle that the Constitutional F Courts should refrain from interfering in financial and economic policy decisions of the government unless such policies are so irrational as to warrant interference and also having regard to the provisions of the Constitution, the relevant statutes, and considerations of public interest, the two contentions raised by the petitioners shall now be considered in G analysing and interpreting Section 26 (2) of the Act.