20. The defi ciencies in the plaintiff ’s case are further revealed by the deposition of the plaintiff , wherein he has admitted that he had not seen the Commissioner’s , and that he “was not told that Smt. Akula Yogamba is merely a tenant and that, she had no right over the land”. The doctrine of caveat emptor tasks a vendee with the duty to diligently investigate the title he is purchasing, but the plaintiff in the present case has evidently shirked such duty for which the law cannot come to his rescue. 21. It is also curious to note that the plaintiff has placed on record endorsements issued by the Commissioner in favour of four other tenants, but has failed to produce one in his own vendor’s name. We cannot help but take an adverse view of the same against the plaintiff , since it only goes towards making denser the cloud which has been cast on the plaintiff ’s title. 22. Contention advanced on behalf of the plaintiff that through the record of rights the plaintiff has established his title by a preponderance 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of probabilities is not sustainable. As noted above, the plaintiff failed to produce a single document of title in respect of the suit property. In a dispute with respect to determination of title, merely pointing out the lacunae in the defendant’s title would not suffi ce. Having instituted the suit for declaration, the burden of proof rested on the shoulders of the plaintiff to reasonably establish the probability of better title, which the plaintiff in the present case, has manifestly failed to do. 23. This Court, in Union of India and Ors. vs. Vasavi Co-operative Housing Society Limited and Ors.6, held as under: “15. It is trite law that, in a suit for declaration of title, the burden always lies on the Plaintiff to make out and establish a clear case for granting such a declaration and the weakness, if any, of the case set up by the Defendants would not be a ground to grant relief to the Plaintiff .” 24. This decision was affi rmed, and further elaborated upon, in Jagdish Prasad Patel (Dead) thr. LRs. and Ors. vs. Shivnath and Ors.7, wherein this Court has succinctly summarized the law on burden of proof in suits for declaration of title as follows: “44. In the suit for declaration for title and possession, the Plaintiff s- Respondents could succeed only on the strength of their own title and not on the weakness of the case of the Defendants-Appellants. The burden is on the Plaintiff s-Respondents to establish their title to the suit properties to show that they are entitled for a decree for declaration. The Plaintiff s-Respondents have neither produced the title document i.e. patta-lease which the Plaintiff s-Respondents are relying upon nor proved their right by adducing any other evidence. As noted above, the revenue entries relied on by them are also held to be not genuine.