21. We may now advert to the facts at hand to examine whether the election petition suffered from the vice of non-disclosure of D material facts as stipulated in Section 83(1)(a) of the Act. As already stated the case of the election petitioner is confined to the alleged violation of Section 100(1)(d)(iv). For the sake of ready reference, the said provision is extracted below: “100. Grounds for declaring election to be void.— E (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) if the High Court is of opinion— *** (d) that the result of the election, insofar as it concerns a returned F candidate, has been materially affected— *** (iv) by any non-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of this Act or of any rules or s made under this Act, G the High Court shall declare the election of the returned candidate to be void.” It is plain that in to get an election declared as void under the said provision, the election petitioner must aver that on account of non-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of this Act or of any rules or s made under the Act, the result of H KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 825 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] the election, insofar as it concerned the returned candidate, was A materially affected.” 28. The legal position enunciated in afore-stated cases may be summed up as under:- i. Section 83(1)(a) of RP Act, 1951 mandates that an Election B petition shall contain a concise statement of material facts on which the petitioner relies. If material facts are not stated in an Election petition, the same is liable to be dismissed on that ground alone, as the case would be covered by Clause (a) of Rule 11 of 7 of the Code. C ii. The material facts must be such facts as would afford a basis for the allegations made in the petition and would constitute the cause of action, that is every fact which it would be necessary for the plaintiff/petitioner to prove, if traversed in to support his right to the judgement of court. Omission of a single material fact would lead to an D incomplete cause of action and the statement of plaint would become bad. iii. Material facts mean the entire bundle of facts which would constitute a complete cause of action. Material facts would include positive statement of facts as also positive averment E of a negative fact, if necessary. iv. In to get an election declared as void underSection 100(1)(d)(iv) of the RP Act, the Election petitioner must aver that on account of non-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of the Act or any rules or s made F under the Act, the result of the election, in so far as it concerned the returned candidate, was materially affected. v. The Election petition is a serious matter and it cannot be treated lightly or in a fanciful manner nor is it given to a person who uses it as a handle for vexatious purpose.