LTD. & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] the SARFAESI Act. The passed by the Naib Tehsildar refusing to A take possession of the secured assets / properties despite the passed under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act on the ground that recovery certificates issued by respondent No.1 for recovery of the s passed by the Facilitation Council are pending, is wholly without jurisdiction. While exercising power under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act, even B the District Magistrate has no jurisdiction and/or District Magistrate and/ or even the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate has no jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute between secured creditor and debtor. Under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act, the District Magistrate or the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate as the case may be is required to assist the secured creditor C in getting the possession of the secured assets. Under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act, neither District Magistrate nor Metropolitan Magistrate would have any jurisdiction to adjudicate and/or decide the dispute even between the secured creditor and the debtor. If any person is aggrieved by the steps under Section 13(4) / passed under Section 14, then the aggrieved person has to approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal by D way of appeal / application under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. Therefore, the passed by the Naib Tehsildar refusing to take the possession pursuant to the passed by the District Magistrate under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act was wholly without jurisdiction and therefore also the same was liable to be set aside. E 11. In view of the above and further reasons stated above, the impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside. Consequently, the present appeal is allowed. The impugned and dated 11.08.2017 passed by the Division Bench of F the High Court of Madhya Pradesh at Indore in Writ Appeal No. 268 of 2017 is set aside and the and passed by the learned Single Judge is hereby restored. It is observed and held that so far as recoveries under the SARFAESI Act with respect to the secured assets would prevail over the recoveries under the MSMED Act to recover the G amount under the award / decree passed by the Facilitation Council. It is rightly observed by the learned Single Judge that if respondent No.1 is aggrieved by the passed by the District Magistrate under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act, it will be open for him to initiate proceedings under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act which be considered in H 886 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A accordance with law and on its merits and subject to the provisions of Section 17 and the provisions of the SARFAESI Act. 12. The present appeal is accordingly allowed. No as to costs. B Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh and Rahul Rathi, LCRAs) C D E F G H