That the presumption contained in sub-section (5) is not irrebuttable but rebuttable in nature. That this is specifically so because, sub-section (6) of Section 45 grants discretionary power to the assessing officer to impose penalty. It is submitted that in case the presumption is rebutted by the dealer, the assessing officer will not impose penalty in exercise of its discretionary power. Reliance is placed upon F the decision of this Court in the case of State of M.P. Vs. Bharat Heavy Electricals; (1997) 7 SCC 1. That therefore, Section 45(5) of the Act, 1969, merely shifts the burden of proof, however, the presumption contained in the Section is not irrebuttable. 4.10 As regards the other preposition that for the purpose of G imposition of penalty under Section 45(6), mens rea, etc., must be proved, it is vehemently submitted that it is a general principle of law, based on the maxim of “actus non facitreummens sit rea” that an act does not make a man guilty, unless it can also be shown that he was aware that he was doing wrong. It is submitted that legislative attitude towards the H concept of mens rea in tax laws and the judicial practice in emphasising STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR. v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 491 [M. R. SHAH, J.] its importance therefore, deserves careful consideration.Learned counsel A appearing on behalf of the respondent - assessee has also relied upon the decision of this Court in the cases of Hindustan Steel Ltd.(supra); Cement Marketing Co. of India Ltd. Vs. Assistant Commissioner of Sales Tax, Indore and Ors. ; 1980 (6) ELT 295 (S.C.) and Commissioner of Central Excise, Chandigarh (supra) in support B of his abovesubmissions to the effect thatbefore levy of penalty and interest mens rea has to be proved by the department. 4.11 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – assessee that Section 45(6) of the Act, 1969, provides for imposition of penalty “not exceeding” one and one-half times C the differential tax demand. That employment of the term “not exceeding” postulates that the authority has been conferred with a discretionary jurisdiction to levy penalty. By necessary implication, the authority may not levy penalty. If it has the discretion not to levy penalty, existence of mens rea becomes relevant factor. Relance is placed upon the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Jyoti Overseas P. Ltd.(supra). D 4.12 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee has submitted that on the aforesaid grounds the interest levied under Section 47(4A) of the Act, 1969, is also bad in law and therefore, the High Court has rightly set aside the same. E 4.13 Making the above submissions, it is prayed that the present appeal be dismissed. 5. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. 6. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the assessing officer F levied the penalty and interest against the respondent – assessee under the provisions of Section 45(6) and Section 47(4A) of the Act, 1969, which levy came to be confirmed by the learned Tribunal.