47. Mr. Maninder Singh, learned senior counsel, submitted that Section 112 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872 which provides that birth during the sustenance of marriage or two hundred and eighty days after the dissolution of marriage is a conclusive proof of legitimacy establishes that procreation is a chief component of marriage. He further submitted that an alteration of the chief component of marriage would render other laws which are premised on the heteronormative nature of marriage unworkable. 48. Mr. Atamaram Nadkarni, senior counsel appearing for an intervenor (Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti) submitted that the SMA is interwoven with personal law. He argued that the recognition of non- heterosexual marriages under the SMA would impact personal laws on succession, and adoption. 128 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 49. Ms. Manisha Lavkumar, learned senior counsel appearing for the State of Gujarat made the following submissions: a. Though the rules of marriage continue to evolve, they are still grounded in heterosexual relationships; b. There is an overarching State interest in excluding non- heterosexual unions from the ambit of marriage because it: (a) regulates matrimonial conduct; (b) preserves social ; and (c) ensures the progression of society in a legitimate manner; c. The State can impose reasonable restrictions on individual autonomy and consent by introducing conditions such as the number of marriages, the minimum age for marriage and the degrees of prohibited relationship. The heterosexual nature of a relationship is one such reasonable restriction; and d. The FMA is modelled on the SMA. The FMA also envisages a heterosexual union. Section 23 of the FMA states that the Central Government may recognise marriages solemnised in a foreign country as valid in India only if the law in the foreign country on marriage is similar to the FMA. Since the FMA only includes heterosexual unions, a non-heterosexual marriage solemnised in a foreign country cannot be recognised in India. 50. Mr. J Sai Deepak, learned counsel appearing on behalf of an intervenor made the following submissions: a. A judicial sanctioned legal recognition of non-heterosexual union would be a colonial top-down imposition of morality. Such an approach would diminish democratic voices in the process; b. The issue of lack of legal recognition of non-heterosexual unions is placed diff erently as opposed to the legislative vacuum on sexual harassment at workplaces. The history and purpose of the SMA does not permit the Court to issue guidelines under Article 141 as it did in Vishaka (supra). The power under Article 141 to issue guidelines must be used sparingly. The power must not be used to take over the functions of the other organs of the State; SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1281 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] c. The s of this Court in NALSA (supra) and the Madras High Court in Arun Kumar (supra) suff er from internal and external inconsistencies; and d. The LGBTQIA+ community is not a homogenous class. The court cannot cater to the interests of a heterogenous class which they constitute.