year ending 31 March, 1999. It is for the period prior to the period 31 July, 1999. As per the discussion above, the licence fee payable on or before 31 July, 1999 should be treated as capital expenditure 390 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. and the licence fee payable thereafter should be treated as revenue expenditure. In view of the aforesaid position, the question of law admitted for hearing in this appeal as recorded in the dated 21 August, 2013, has to be answered in favour of the revenue and against the respondent assessee.” 6.11. Aggrieved by the aforesaid reasoning and conclusions arrived at by the High Court of Delhi in its dated 19 December, 2013, which has been followed by High Courts of Delhi, Bombay and Karnataka, the appellant-Revenue has preferred these appeals. Submissions: 7. We have heard the learned Additional Solicitor General of India (ASG), Sri N. Venkataraman for the Revenue and learned senior counsel Sri Ajay Vohra, Sri Arvind Datar and learned counsel Sri Sachit Jolly, for the respondent-assessees and perused the material placed on record. Submissions on behalf of the appellant-Revenue: 7.1. Learned ASG, at the outset, submitted that the of the High Court of Delhi dated 19 December, 2013 is incorrect inasmuch as it has sought to dissect the payment of licence fee to hold that the entry fee paid in the initial four years ought to be treated as capital expenditure and amortised accordingly, while the fee payable on an annual basis from the fi fth year onwards, as a percentage of the gross revenue of the assessees was treated as revenue/business expenditure. It was further contended as follows: i. That the schedule of payment cannot recharacterize the transaction under income tax law, particularly when this Court had laid down from time to time that the schedule of payment, whether lump- sum or periodical, is immaterial in determining its classifi cation under income tax law. The payment(s) towards the same purpose, i.e., payment of licence fee, cannot be characterised partly as capital and partly as revenue in nature by artifi cially defi ning one part as an entry fee and the remainder, payable annually, when both types of payment was towards licence fees. ii. That when the respondent-assessees have duly amortised the licence fee paid annually as capital expenditure, under the 1994 C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 391 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] licence regime as well as the entry fee under the Policy of 1999 regime, there was no basis to reclassify the same as revenue expenditure insofar as variable licence fee is concerned for the subsequent years. Variable payments made annually, based on the annual gross revenue in the relevant year were also towards licence fee. Therefore, there could not have been a shift in the tax treatment thereof upon migration to a new regime, wherein merely the payment schedule was revised while preserving the character of the payment. iii. That payments made, either of entry fee or of annual licence fee, is in essence only towards securing a licence to establish, maintain or operate a telegraph i.e.