Nonetheless, reading the entire Rule 3 as a whole it does appear to us that a CGP owned by a special purpose vehicle has to be treated as an association of person and liable to consume 51% of his generation in proportion to the ownership of the plant. Every legal entity is the person. Therefore, the special purpose vehicle which M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 383 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] has to be a legal entity shall be a person in itself. Any generating company or a captive generating company is also a person. The Rules specially deals with cooperative society. In an association of persons it has to be a ‘person’ because without being a person it cannot set up a captive generating plant. Therefore it will be wrong to say that since the special purpose vehicle is a ‘person’ in itself it cannot be covered by a defi nition of ‘association of persons’ and has to be covered by the main provision which requires the owner to consume 51% or more of the generation of the plant. In our view the defi nition is somewhat strange in as much as the term ‘person’ is said to include an ‘association of persons’. One therefore cannot say that a CGP owner can be either a ‘person’ or an ‘association of persons’ a special purpose vehicle thus can be a ‘person’ as well as an ‘association of persons’. A cooperative society is an ‘association of persons’ in the sense that some persons come together to form a cooperative society. However, the moment an association or society is formed according to the legal provisions it becomes a person in itself. A special provision has been made permitting a cooperative society from consuming 51% collectively. The fi rst proviso 3 (1)(a) (ii) itself suggests that a special privilege has been conferred on a cooperative society. Other persons who are also legal entities formed by several persons coming together have not been given such special privilege. Who can such association of persons be? Of the various legal entities comprehended as persons owning a CGP the special purpose vehicle does seem to fi t the description of ‘association of persons’. We fail to comprehend who other than a special purpose vehicle can be an ‘association of persons’. None of the lawyers arguing before us gave example of ‘association of persons’ other than a special purpose vehicle. Therefore, we have no hesitation to hold that special purpose vehicle is an association of persons. 16. In case the special purpose vehicle was not required to maintain the rule of proportionality of consumption, the Central Government could have specifi cally mentioned the same just as it has done for a cooperative society. The Rule having not exempted a special purpose vehicle from the requirement of consuming 51% of the generation in 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. proportion to the ownership of the persons forming the special purpose vehicle as has been done in the case of cooperative society it will only be rational and logical to hold that a special purpose vehicle is also subject to the rule of proportionality of consumption to the percentage share of ownership as an ‘association of persons’.