LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] (ii) After considering the entire scheme and the levy of service A tax pre-Finance Act, 2007 and after giving cogent reasons, a conscious decision has been taken by this Court holding that the service tax was not leviable pre-Finance Act, 2007 on indivisible/ Composite Works Contracts; (iii) While holding that for the period pre-Finance Act, 2007, on B indivisible/Composite Works Contracts, the service tax is not leviable, number of decisions have been dealt with and considered by this Court in the aforesaid decision; (iv) That subsequently, the decision of this court in the case of Larsen and Toubro Limited (supra) has been followed and C considered by this Court in the case of Commissioner of Service Tax and Ors. Bhayana Builders Pvt. Ld. And Ors, (2018) 3 SCC 782,; (v) That after the decision of this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro Limited (supra) rendered in the year 2015, the said D decision has been consistently followed by various High Courts and the Tribunals; (vi) The decisions of the various High Courts and the Tribunals, which were passed after following the decision of this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro Limited (supra) have attained E finality and in many cases, the Revenue has not challenged the said decisions; (vii) No efforts were made by the Revenue to file any review application to review and/or recall the and passed by this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro Limited (supra). F If the Revenue was so serious in their view that decision of this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro Limited (supra) requires re-consideration, Revenue ought to have filed the review application at that stage and/or even thereafter. No such review application has been filed even as on today. G (viii) Merely because in the subsequent cases, the amount of tax involved may be higher, cannot be a ground to pray for reconsideration of the earlier binding decision, which has been consistently followed by various High Courts and the Tribunals in the entire country.” H 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 4.15 It is submitted that therefore what is taxed under Section 65(105)(zzzza) which later became Section 66E(h) of the Finance Act, 1994 is the service portion in the execution of works contract. That Section 67(1) makes it abundantly clear that service tax is chargeable only on the taxable service with reference to its value. It is submitted that this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro (supra) as reiterated B in Total Environment Building (supra) has made it clear that the goods value in the nature of transfer of property of goods would suffer sales tax/VAT and the service components or elements would suffer service tax w.e.f. 01.06.2007 by virtue of the definition of taxable service under Section 65(105)(zzzza) and later as Section 66E(h) as a declared service C post 01.07.2012. 4.16 It is submitted that the incorporation of taxable service w.e.f. 01.06.2007 also resulted in the introduction of Rule 2A in the Valuation Rules, 2006 clearly identifying the service elements or components which would constitute the value for determination and payment of service D tax.