has been considered by this Court in the case of Raghubir Singh and Ors. Vs. State of Bihar, (1986) 4 SCC 481. In paragraph 22, it is observed and held as under:- “22. ……………………..Where bail has been granted under the proviso to Section 167(2) for the default of the prosecution H 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A in not completing the investigation in 60 days, after the defect is cured by the filing of a charge-sheet, the prosecution may seek to have the bail cancelled on the ground that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accused has committed a non-bailable offence and that it is necessary to arrest him and commit him to custody. In the last mentioned case, one would expect very strong B grounds indeed.” 9.9 The decision of Raghubir Singh and Ors. (supra) has been followed by this Court in Rajnikant Jivanlal and Anr. Vs. Intelligence Officer, NCB, New Delhi, (1989) 3 SCC 532, wherein in paragraphs 13 and 14, it is observed and held as under:- C “13. An for release on bail under proviso (a) to Section 167(2) may appropriately be termed as an - on-default. Indeed, it is a release on bail on the default of the prosecution in filing charge-sheet within the prescribed period. The right to bail under Section 167(2) proviso (a) thereto is absolute. It is a D legislative command and not court’s discretion. If the investigating agency fails to file charge-sheet before the expiry of 90/60 days, as the case may be, the accused in custody should be released on bail. But at that stage, merits of the case are not to be examined. Not at all. In fact, the Magistrate has no power to remand a person E beyond the stipulated period of 90/60 days. He must pass an of bail and communicate the same to the accused to furnish the requisite bail bonds. 14. The accused cannot, therefore, claim any special right to remain on bail. If the investigation reveals that the accused has committed a serious offence and charge- sheet is filed, F the bail granted under proviso (a) to Section 167(2) could be cancelled.” (emphasis supplied) 10. From the above, the law, which emerges is that mere filing of G the chargesheet subsequent to a person is released on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. cannot be a ground to cancel the bail of a person, who is released on default bail. However, on filing of the chargesheet on conclusion of the investigation, if a strong case is made out and on merits, it is found that he has committed a non-bailable offence/crime, on the special reasons/grounds and considering Section 437(5) and Section H THE STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION V. T. 763 GANGI REDDY @ YERRA GANGI REDDY [M. R. SHAH, J.] 439(2) Cr.P.C, over and above other grounds on which the bail to a A person, who is released on bail can be cancelled on merits. 11. Therefore, there is no absolute bar as observed and held by the High Court in the impugned and that once a person is released on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., his bail cannot be cancelled on merits and his bail can be cancelled on other general grounds B like tampering with the evidence/witnesses; not cooperating with the investigating agency and/or not cooperating with the concerned Trial Court etc.