Accordingly, 18 premises were searched including the residences of the promoters and offices of M/s Mantena Constructions Ltd, M/s Anteras Pvt Ltd, M/s Osmo IT Solutions Pvt Ltd, M/s Arni Infra, etc. a C good amount of incriminating documents and digital devices have been seized and are being examined for evidence. It is clear from the ED investigation done so far that a systematic conspiracy has been planned and executed by a number of infrastructure companies based at Hyderabad in collusion with a few Government officials and IT management companies to illegally win e-tenders. Further large amounts D of bribes running into crore(s) of rupees have exchanged hands using hawala channels. The public funds meant for development activities have been diverted and siphoned off for personal illegal enrichment and for making illegal bribe payments. The appellant department has recovered fund trail evidence and generation of black money through bogus and E over-billing by the infra companies. 2.6 That respondent No. 1 herein who at the relevant time was the Additional Chief Secretary in the Water Resources Department in the State of Madhya Pradesh, was summoned by the ED to explain the sudden spurt in the allocation of tenders to M/s Mantena Construction F during his stint in the State of MP. 2.7 That apprehending his arrest in connection with ED case for the scheduled offence under the Act, 2002, respondent No. 1 herein approached the High Court by way of present anticipatory bail application under Section 438 Cr.PC. Without considering the rigour/bar under Section G 45 of the Act, 2002 and observing that as per the decision of this Court in the case of Nikesh Tarachand Shah Vs. Unoin of India and Anr. ; (2018) 11 SCC 1, the provisions of Section 45 of the Act, 2002 do not apply to Section 438 Cr.PC proceedings, the High Court has allowed the anticipatory bail application and has directed that in case of his arrest in connection with ED case he be released on bail. H 84 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 2.8 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court granting anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1 in ED case, the Directorate of Enforcement (ED) has preferred the present appeal. 3. Shri K. M. Nataraj, learned ASG, appearing on behalf of the B ED – appellant has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has committed a very serious error in allowing the anticipatory bail application and granting anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1 in connection with ED case under the Act, 2002. C 3.1 It is submitted that as such the High Court has materially erred in observing that the provisions of Section 45 of the Act, 2002 shall not be applicable to Section 438 Cr.PC proceedings. It is submitted that for that the High Court has erred in relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Nikesh Tarachand Shah (supra). It is submitted that subsequently in the case of The Asst.