Independent valuer shall file his report fixing fair market value of the shares of the first respondent company before this Tribunal. Valuer shall take up the E work of assessing valuation of the shares of the company after report of the auditor is filed. Independent valuer shall file report before this Tribunal within two months from the date of filing auditor’s report. Any one of the shareholders is at liberty to file an application before this Tribunal seeking directions/s regarding the manner and mode in which the shares of company shall be F sold and who has to purchase and at what value the shares are to be sold. (g) Fee of the independent valuer is tentatively fixed at Rs.50,000/ - (Rupees fifty thousand only). The independent valuer is at liberty to ask for further remuneration depending upon the work load. G (h) Pending completion of the entire process as per this there shall not be any alienation of properties both movable and immovable of the respondent no. 1 company by any of the parties. (i) Pending completion of the entire process as per this there shall not be any allotment of shares or transfer or sale of shares H 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A except as indicated in this . (j) The company shall bear the fee of independent valuer and auditors. (k) Both Petitions are disposed of accordingly. No as to costs.” B 3. The appellants thereupon filed Company Appeals under Section 421 of the Companies Act, 2013, viz., Company Appeals (AT)272 and 273 of 2017 against the Common in the aforesaid Petitions. The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi (NCLAT) has affirmed substantially the passed by the NCLT. The modification C was only in regard to paragraph-92C (supra) of the of the NCLT. The NCLAT substituted the words ‘financial year 2008-2009’ in place of ‘2009-2010’. Affirming the rest of the directions, the Appeals were disposed of. It is this , which is impugned in the Appeals before this Court. D 4. We have heard Smt. Meenakshi Arora, learned Senior Counsel on behalf of the appellants. We have heard, on the other hand, Shri Nitin Rai, learned Senior Counsel, on behalf of the V.P. Patel Group and Shri Malak Manish Bhat, learned Counsel on behalf of the Sheth Group. 5. The bone of contention between the parties has narrowed down E to one issue. The appellants take exception to the of the NCLAT, affirming the direction of the NCLT, by which, allotment of shares in respect of the increased share capital, was to be made to all the existing shareholders of the company as on 18.12.2009, in proportion to their shareholding. It was the further direction in paragraph-92A (supra) of the NCLT, that in case, if any of the shareholders is not willing to subscribe F for additional shares, then, those shares shall be allotted to other shareholders, taking their options again, proportionate to their shareholdings. Smt. Meenakshi Arora, after taking us through the sequence of facts, would point out that after finding that there was no mismanagement or oppression, as alleged andthe NCLT and the NCLAT G have clearly erred in regard to the above matter.