In other words, here is a person, who even though is wearing the robes of a public servant, he cannot claim immunity under Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. by reason of his conduct. Learned senior counsel would submit that the change from the strict posture that he adopted when he F filed the counter affidavit is inexplicable and it invited cognizance being legitimately taken. No case has been made by the appellant, in other words, for interfering with the impugned . ANALYSIS (21) There is no dispute that the appellant was a public servant. G The period in question when he had a connection with the theater in question can be seen as 1979-1980. We have already indicated indisputably the train of events which unfolded and the genesis of which is the issuance of the notification in 1976 by the Lieutenant Governor. The number of seats were allowed to be increased. The appellant had H nothing to do with that. Based on the decision, the seats were increased. AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 687 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. Again the appellant was nowhere near the scene at the time. The appellant A took over on 02.02.1979. On 27.07.1979, a notification came to be issued revoking the earlier notification issued on 13.09.1976. Acting strictly in obedience to the said notification revoking the earlier notification, the appellant did issue an dated 28.07.1979. The subsequent notification revoking the earlier notification as also the action of the appellant came B to be impugned before the High Court of Delhi. An interim followed. The appellant did defend the action as was expected of him as an official respondent. It is thereafter that the High Court proceeded to render its . The High Court inter alia held as follows: (22) The High Court found that the relaxations granted under the C proviso to Rule 3(3) were capable of being modified or revoked and in the circumstances, the cancellations of the relaxations were justified and legal. (23) Thereafter the Court, inter alia, went on to hold as follows: “Proposition No. 3: D It has been already made clear above that the relaxation was granted after considering the public health and the fire hazard aspects. It is also clear that the very fact that the relaxation could not be granted after bearing these main considerations in mind would show that there was some rule for the extension of the E sitting accommodation in these theaters within the Rules, though the provision of some of the additional seats may perhaps have been to some extent contrary to some of the Rules. It is not necessary for us to speculate on this question. It is enough to say that the result of the cancellation of the relaxation is simply the withdrawal of the relaxation. It does not automatically mean that F all the additional seats which installed in the cinema theatres were contrary to the Rules and must, therefore, be dismantled without any consideration as to how many of these seats were in consonance, with the Rules and how many of them were contrary to the Rules.