Similarly, gender-specific laws including penal laws need not be subject to any interpretative exercise. Religious personal laws are also not required to be interfered with; 37 Reliance was placed on Shakti Vahini (supra) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1255 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] e. Declarations by the court as to rights of people are followed by legislation. For instance, the rights declared in National Legal Services Authority (supra) were given eff ect to in the Transgender Persons Act; f. The doctrine of reading-in is well-recognised in Indian jurisprudence; and g. The Union of India has sought to argue that only Parliament can grant a new ‘socio-legal status of marriage’ to LGBTQ persons, after undertaking extensive consultations and eliciting views from every part of the nation. The rights of the LGBTQIA+ community cannot be made contingent on the opinion of the majority. 23. Mr. K V Vishwanathan, learned senior counsel, submitted that: a. Under Article 21 of the Constitution, all persons have a fundamental right to choose a partner; b. International covenants to which India is a signatory including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights38 and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights39 enjoin a duty upon the state to not interfere with the right of a person to marry and have a family in terms of their own choice as well as to protect the familial rights of all persons without discrimination on the basis of inter alia sexuality, race, and religion; c. Statutes regulating marriage in India must be read as inclusive of all gender identities and sexualities in view of the pronouncements of this Hon’ble Court in National Legal Services Authority (supra) and Navtej (supra). Such a reading is necessary to ensure that these statutes pass muster on the touchstone of Part III of the Constitution; d. Courts across the country as well as state policies and welfare schemes have recognised and accorded equal status to unions between LGBTQ persons. A necessary corollary of the right to 38 “UDHR” 39 “ICESCR” 125 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. self-identify gender is to be able to express personal preference in terms of choice of partner, and, therefore a marriage entered into by a transgender person must be fully recognised by the State40; e. This Court has previously issued guidelines to protect citizens against discrimination in cases where there existed a lacuna in the law41. ; f. The freedom to choose a partner in marriage would be covered under Article 19(1)(a) as an expression, under Article 19(1)(c) as an association or union and Article 19(1)(e), as an exercise of the right to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India42; g. Excluding transgender persons from matrimonial statutes fails the reasonable classifi cation test under Article 14; h. Transgender persons have a right against discrimination under Articles 15 and 16; i. The right of transgender persons to marry is enjoined by the Transgender Persons Act. The classifi cation sought to be made by the Union of India between “biological” and transgender persons is untenable; j. Procreation is not the sole purpose of marriage.