The learned Magistrate took cognizance on the said complaint and issued process. The cognizance for the off ence of defamation was taken by the Magistrate on the basis of the averments said to have been made by the appellant in his written complaint addressed to the SDM, referred to above. 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 5. As the record reveals, the appellant thereafter moved an application before the Court of the Judicial Magistrate with a prayer that the of issue of process be recalled. The Magistrate concerned recalled the . The complainant being aggrieved by such of recall passed by the Magistrate, challenged the same before the Sessions Court by fi ling a revision application. The revision application was allowed and the recalling the of issue of process was quashed. In such circumstances, the appellant went before the High Court. In the High Court, the appellant thought fi t not to press his petition and withdrew the same. 6. Eight years thereafter the appellant thought fi t to challenge the original of issue of process before the High Court. The High Court without entering into the merits of the matter, declined to entertain such petition only on the ground of delay. 7. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeal. 8. Mr. Anshuman Ashok, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant vehemently submitted that the learned Magistrate committed a serious error in taking cognizance on a complaint, which fails to disclose commission of any off ence. According to him even if the entire case, as put up by the complainant, is accepted or believed to be true, none of the ingredients to constitute the off ence of defamation as defi ned under Section 499 of the IPC and made punishable under Section 500 of the IPC are disclosed. He pointed out that his client (appellant), in good faith, brought to the notice of the SDM that the complainant had encroached upon some portion of the land and had put up a shop which was creating nuisance. This, according to the learned counsel, would not constitute any off ence of defamation. He submitted that even otherwise since the alleged defamatory words or statements are said to have been made in a complaint made in writing addressed to a public authority like SDM and not made public, the same would not attract the rigours of Section 499 of the IPC. 9. In such circumstances as above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeal, the same be allowed and the criminal proceedings be quashed. 10. We also heard Mr. Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, the learned counsel appearing for the State. However, this is a case of a private complaint. The KISHORE BALKRISHNA NAND v. 37 STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. State has hardly any role to play. Still learned the counsel assisted us on the question of law. ANALYSIS: 11. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the allegations made in the complaint addressed to the SDM make out the offence under Section 500 IPC or not?