The petitioners rely on fundamental rights to equality and non-discrimination, of dignity and autonomy and of expression and association, and specifi cally, most petitioners focus on Section 4(c) of the SMA as well as the fi rst and second schedules thereof, to state that particular references to “husband” or “wife” in its provisions are to be read “down”, and a neutral expression needs to substituted, instead. A few petitioners also claims that Section 4(c) and 17 of the Foreign Marriage Act, 1969 (hereafter “FMA”) need to be similarly read down. Some of the prayers also relate to the right of such couples to adopt under existing laws in India. Some of the prayers specifi cally challenged Chapter II of the SMA– relating to notice and objections procedure prescribed. However, during the course of hearing, the court indicated that this was not a question of law that necessitated a 5 judge-bench ruling, and hence this issue was to be left for consideration by a numerically smaller bench. I. Nature of marriage as a social institution 4. Marriage, as a social institution predates all rights, forms of political thought and laws. The institution of family has no known origin in the sense that, there has been no stage of human existence, in which family was absent leading to another time in which it emerged. Marriage, however, has been regarded - for the longest time, as a relationship of man to woman which is recognized by custom, and thereafter law; it involves certain rights and duties in the case of both persons entering the union. It is considered to be one of the most important relationships, as it is not solely the individuals’ happiness and well-being but that of others too, that is aff ected by their conduct in it. It has long been regarded as the reason for society’s continuance SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1435 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] on the one hand, and its building block on the other. What is marriage and the conceptualisation of its role in society, has undergone change over the time; it has engaged the attention of philosophers, from Plato to Hegel, Kant and John Stuart Mill and of religious leaders, like St. Augustine. 5. Diff erent traditions view marriage as sacraments, and indissoluble unions (Hindus and Catholic Christians); Islam regards marriage as both contractual and sacred; Parsis regard it as both a sacrament and contractual. Most – if not all, place importance on procreation, creation of family, co- habitation, shared values as the important markers; at the same time, these traditions also recognize - in varying degrees, importance of companionship, spiritual union, friendship and togetherness of the spouses, in every way. 6. The respondents are right, in one sense in underlining that all conceptions of what constitutes marriage, all traditions and societies, have by and large, historically understood marriage as between heterosexual couples. The contexts of culture, social understanding of what constitutes marriage, in every social are undoubtedly very important.