The following passage from the decision is refl ective of this Court’s realization that: “3. […] And such a liberal approach is adopted on principle as it is realized that: *** 4. When substantial justice and technical considerations are pitted against each other, cause of substantial justice deserves to be preferred for the other side cannot claim to have vested right in injustice being done because of a non-deliberate delay. *** 6. It must be grasped that judiciary is respected not on account of its power to legalise injustice on technical grounds but because it is capable of removing injustice and is expected to do so.” (bold in original) 17. State of Nagaland v. Lipok AO & Ors.4 arose out of an appeal where this Court condoned the State’s delay of 57 days in applying for grant of leave to appeal before the high court against acquittal of certain accused persons. This Court observed that in cases where substantial justice and a technical approach were pitted against each other, a pragmatic approach should be taken with the former being preferred. Further, this Court noted that what counted was indeed the suffi ciency of the cause of delay, and not the length, where the shortness of delay would be considered when using extraordinary discretion to condone the same. This Court also went on to record that courts should attempt to decide a case on its merits, unless the same is hopelessly without merit. It was also observed therein that it would be improper to put the State on the same footing as an individual since it was an impersonal machinery operating through its offi cers. 4 (2005) 3 SCC 752. SHEO RAJ SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS. 751 & ORS. V. UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 18. In Balwant Singh (supra), this Court refused to condone the delay of 778 days in bringing on record the legal heirs of the petitioner therein through an application fi led under XXII Rule 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. It was observed that though suffi cient cause should be construed in a liberal manner, the same could not be equated with doing injustice to the other party. For suffi cient cause to receive liberal treatment, the same must fall within reasonable time and through proper conduct of the concerned party. The Court emphasised that for such an application for condonation to be seen in a positive light, the same should be bona fi de, based on true and plausible explanations, and should refl ect the normal conduct of a common prudent person. Further, the explained delay should be clearly understood in contradistinction to inordinate unexplained delay to warrant a condonation. 19. Lanka Venkateswarlu (Dead) v. State of Andhra Pradesh & Ors.5 happened to be a case where this Court set aside the impugned condoning both a delay of 883 days in fi ling the petition to set aside the dismissal by the relevant high court, along with a delay of 3703 days caused by the respondents in bringing on record the legal representative of the appellant.