Let us now see whether the inference of abandonment is factually made out and legally sustainable. 11. The of rejection dated 27.11.1998 is a cryptic which reads as follows: H 68 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A “This is to inform you that, the proposal submitted by you for grant of additional T.D.R in lieu of development of Recreation Ground on the land bearing CTS No.2/B(pt), 3(B) of Village Ghatkopar cannot be considered, as per the prevailing policy in this respect.” B 12.Obviously the expression “prevailing policy,” mentioned in the aforesaid communication, was the Circular dated 09.04.1996. The said circular dated 09.04.1996 dealt with several issues, one of which related to Additional TDR for open space amenities. The relevant portion of the Circular dated 09.04.1996 reads as follows: C “2. OPEN SPACE AMENITIES LIKE GARDEN, PLAYGROUND R.G., PARKING, OPEN SPACES & BURIAL GROUND i)The application for additional Development Right in respect of the above mentioned amenities will be considered only for the structures allowed to be constructed within the reservations as D per the provisions of D.C.R. No. 23(g) to the extent of built-up area of such structures, subject to maximum of 15% area of the reservations. ii) No additional Development Right will be granted for execution of the items such as leveling, construction of compound wall, E retaining wall, providing compound gate providing layer of red- earth, landscaping & drainage arrangements etc. iii) Procedure & terms and conditions for considering grant of additional Development Rights for such structures will be the same as per Item No.1 above.” F 13. In fact, the above circular dated 09.04.1996, gave rise to a dispute between appellant No.1 herein and a few others on the one hand and the Corporation on the other hand. That dispute which related to some other property, ultimately landed up before this court in the form of a couple of civil appeals and a writ petition. The dispute got resolved G through the decision of this court in Godrej and Boyce Manufacturing Company Limited (supra). The said decision was rendered on 06.02.2009. 14. Therefore, taking advantage of the said decision, appellant No.2 applied once again for the grant of Additional TDR, on 03.11.2009. H GODREJ AND BOYCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY LTD. THR. ITS 69 CONSTITUTED ATTORNEY v. THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER MUMBAI [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] The same was rejected once again by a communication dated 17.08.2010. A This rejection triggered the present proceedings in the year 2010. It is in the light of this chain of events that we have to see whether there was any delay on the part of the appellants and whether such delay could lead to an inference of abandonment of claim. 15. The law of abandonment is based upon the maxim invito B beneficium non datur. It means that the law confers upon a man no rights or benefits which he does not desire. In P. Dasa Muni Reddy vs. P. Appa Rao9, this Court held that “abandonment of right is much more than mere waiver, acquiescence or laches….