Hence, the first respondent requested the appellant to supply electricity after the Maharashtra Electricity Supply Code 2005 came into effect on 20 January 2005. Accordingly, the Maharashtra Electricity Supply Code 2005 would govern the facts in the present case. In terms of Regulation 10.5 of the Maharashtra Electricity Supply Code 2005, any unpaid electricity dues F constitute a charge on the premises, and would be recoverable from the new owner or occupier of the premises to whom the premises have been transferred. 238. Furthermore, the terms of the auction sale put the first respondent on notice that this was a sale on “as is where is” basis and G the purchaser would be liable for arrears of different authorities, including MSEB, if an excess amount in sale proceeds was not available. The relevant clauses are extracted below: H 96 Spl. Civil No. 104 of 2003 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 747 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “3. So far known to this office there are (no) arrears of Municipal A tax, MSEB or Corporation tax or both taxes. However, any legitimate claim made in that behalf shall be paid from out of the sale proceeds if the same is in excess of the amount mentioned in the Recovery Certificate. In case such excess amount is not available the liability shall be borne by the purchaser. B However, prospective purchaser is expected to check up from MIDC, CIDCO, MSEB, Municipal corporation etc. for the dues if any on the property. 4. The properties shall be sold on “AS IS WHERE IS BASIS”.” (emphasis supplied) C 239. Accordingly, the dues owed by M/s R & J Alloys Pvt. Ltd to the MSEB are a charge on the property purchased by the first respondent in a public auction. The charge attaches to the property and a distribution licensee is entitled to recover the unpaid dues from the first respondent subject to the permitted period specified in the proviso to Regulation D 10.5. 240. So far as the filing of civil suit by the appellant in 2003 against the erstwhile owner is concerned, that is an alternative remedy provided by law which the appellant can undertake in to recover electricity arrears from the erstwhile consumer. Besides disconnection of electricity, E the MSEB has the remedy to file civil suits followed by execution petitions for recovery of the dues from the erstwhile consumer. The filing of the civil suit will not debar the appellant from recovering any outstanding charge for electricity from a person to whom the property is transferred or the occupier of the said premises where new electricity connection is sought in terms of Regulation 10.5. F 241. The counsel for the respondent has urged that although the decree in the civil suit was passed in favour of the appellant on 30 September 2009, the appellant has failed to execute it till date. The distribution licensee should not let arrears mount up and must be prompt in disconnecting electricity supply and thereafter pursuing its remedy by G filing a suit for recovery of moneys/ dues.