According to him, first,therehas to be a recommendation of the Central Board D of the Bank to the Central Government before the latter can issue a notification in the Gazette of India, demonetising any series of bank note of any denomination. That the Central Government cannot, by a simple notification in the Gazette of India,suo moto and in the absence of E anyrecommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, demonetise any currency note in circulation by issuance of a gazette notification under the said provision. 8.2 Also, the Central Government can demonetise only a particular series of bank notes of a particular denomination on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank. F In other words, the expression “any” series of bank notes of “any denomination” cannot be understood as”all” series of bank notes of “all” denominations. That the expression “any” occurring twice in the section must be given the intended meaning and not supposed meaning and G interpretation. 8.3 Shri Chidambaram submitted that in the instant case, the Central Government without complying with the procedure envisaged under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, simply issued a notification in the Gazette of India on 8th H 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A November, 2016 demonetising all series of bank notes ofthe denominations of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/-. Consequently, approximately 86 per cent of all notes in circulation were demonetised. The serious effects of demonetisation are well-known and judicial notice of the same may be taken. Even otherwise, carrying out the demonetisation bysimply B issuing a notification, in the absence of a recommendation made by the Central Board of the Bank, which is a condition precedent, is unlawful. Further, all series of bank notes of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- could not have been demonetised by a stroke of a pen. The expression “any”in sub-section(2) C of Section 26 of the Actmeans, “a particular” series of “a particular denomination” of a bank note, and not “all” series of “all” denominations. He contended that in the instant case, the issuance of the Notification, demonetising the entire currency of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- in circulation at the time, is unlawful and the exercise of power was erroneous D and arbitrary and hence, the same ought to be declared so. 8.4 Learned senior counsel emphasized that sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act must be given an interpretation which is legally workable and practicable and this Court ought not give a blanket power to the Central Government to E demonetise all currency of a particular denomination, as such action would be contrary to the object envisaged under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. 8.5 Further elaborating on his submission, learned senior counsel for the petitioners contended that the expression “any” ought F not be interpreted as “all” as such an interpretation would be disastrous to the Indian economy and contrary to the true letter and spirit of the Act. He contended that the word “any” means “one of the many” and not “all”.