At this stage, the H 100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A administrative note of the Acting Chief Justice is required to be referred to which reads as under: - “Because of limited re-evaluation of only 13 candidates an unfortunate situation has resulted. However, if re-evaluation of all papers is now undertaken, it would result in unwarranted delay B and that appointments having been effected 1 year ago, it is difficult to set the clock back. As there are 22 vacancies of PS under 75% test quota, there is no difficulty with regard to appointment of those who stand qualified upon re-evaluation. The issue which requires consideration is the C issue of how the seniority of these persons is to be fixed and whether any re-fixation is necessary. Matter referred to the Special Committee is on the aspect of fixation of seniority. ’’ 6.3 It appears that the consideration of the Acting Chief Justice D was, thus, that in the event the vacancies were not there, the re-evaluation may have the result of disturbing the appointments of certain private secretaries already made, whose marks are now lower than those of the appellants. Thus, it can be seen that it is not the appellants, who were to be adjusted against the additional vacancies but those candidates whose rank was lowered as a result of revision of marks of appellants and E other similarly placed candidates. It is to be noted that in the administrative note, the Acting Chief Justice also specifically observed that the issue thereafter is required to be considered is the issue of how the seniority of these persons is to be fixed and whether any re-fixation is necessary. The matter was referred to the Special Committee on the aspect of F fixation of seniority. That thereafter, the Special Committee initially took the decision to put the newly selected candidates at the bottom of the seniority. However, thereafter, on representations made by the appellants seeking benefit of the seniority on the basis of the revised marks, the Special Committee in meeting dated 01.10.2018 decided to accord notional seniority in accordance with revised marks to candidates. The same G recommendations came to be approved by the Chief Justice. The decision of the Special Committee approved by the Chief Justice to accord the notional seniority in accordance with revised marks to candidates attained the finality. Accordingly, the revised merit list was prepared which was the subject matter before the High Court. H SUNIL & ORS. v. HIGH COURT OF DELHI & ORS. ETC. 101 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 7. Having heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the A respective parties and considering the fact that the earlier decision of re-evaluation of 13 candidates attained the finality and thereafter, the marks of 13 candidates came to be increased, the Special Committee was absolutely justified in its decision dated 01.10.2018 to accord notional seniority as per the revised marks/merit list. At the relevant time, none B of the selected candidates (22 candidates – respondents herein) applied for re-evaluation and even challenged the decision of the Special Committee to re-evaluate the marks of only 13 candidates.