Hence, contending that charge-sheet material does not disclose the commission of off ence alleged, respondent pleaded in the application for being discharged. 5. Trial Court taking into consideration the principles enunciated by this Court in catena of s and applying the ratio laid down to the facts on hand observed as under: “(4) xxxxx Thus, from the afore-stated settled principles and record of the case, the following aspects emerges from the record. (a) Whether the accused has taken loan from his brother, mother and father is a question of fact which is to be decided during the trial; (b) The fact of Rs.10 lacs as loan from the friends is also a question of fact which is to be decided during the trial; (c) Other two friends namely, Iliyashbhai and Niteshbahai who have given amount to the accused as loan is also a question of fact which is to be decided during the trial; 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (d) The fact of accused informing with regard to purchase of property to the department under the Gujarat Civil Services rules does not gave him a clean chit with regards to his income. This can merely be said to be complying with the rules and regulations of service, however, this does not give him a seal of authenticity with regards to the value of consideration which is disproportionate to the known source of income. (e) The explanation given by the accused with regard to disproportionate income is also taken into consideration while filing the charge-sheet against the accused and also while granting sanction. (f) Necessary sanction has been obtained and hence, the question where sanction is given without application of mind is also a question of fact to be decided at the time of trial. (g) The bulk of records placed on record by way of charge-sheet papers prima facie shows that if they are taken at their face value if discloses all the ingredients of disproportionate income with the known source of income; (h) Even considering the broad principles whatever defence the accused is taking, even if the same are considered, it cannot be said that the ingredients constituting the alleged offence are not attracted. (i) There does not seems to be any basis infirmities prima facie on record which nullifies the case of prosecution. Even if two views are possible, present case papers clearly creates grave a suspicion against the accused with regards to the loan amount taken from his brother, father, mother and other friends and also with regards to the income of his son, who was residing at Australia and his agricultural income and there are sufficient grounds for proceeding against the accused. (5) Considering the facts recorded hereinabove emerging from the documents on record, it cannot be said that the accused is liable to be discharged since this Court is not required to make roving inquiry into pros and cons of the matter and weighing the evidence STATE OF GUJARAT v. DILIPSINH KISHORSINH RAO 853 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.]