mtr. and up to 10,000 sq. mtr., it is open to the project proponent to pay the market value equal to the land on the basis of valuation as provided therein. However, it is only if on account of the physical constraints it is not possible to provide open space, that payment is contemplated. Another noteworthy feature is that in cases E where the land is between 3,000 sq. mtr. and 10,000 sq. mtr. public access for the area as earmarked shall not be insisted upon. It is when it comes to a case where if the area goes above 10,000 sq. mtrs., that it becomes obligatory to reserve 10% of the area excluding road and the OSR reserved is to be transferred by way of gift deed. F 51. We are unable to persuade ourselves to hold that the impugned rule violates Article 14 on the score that it is discriminatory. In a challenge to a provision based on discrimination under Article 14, the burden is on the applicant to lay clear foundation in pleadings and further to discharge the burden by making good the case and the court will not lightly enter a finding of discrimination. Town planning being a complex subject involving G various inputs and value judgements which are intended to ensure the ly, visionary and planned development, they require greater deference from courts. IS THE IMPUGNED RULE/ REGULATION ULTRA VIRES? H 1080 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 52. It has been contended on behalf of the appellants/writ petitioner that the impugned provisions represent a case of they being ultra vires. In General Officer Commanding-in-Chief and another v. Dr. Subhash Chandra Yadav and another30, this Court was considering the validity of Rule 5C of the Cantonment Funds Servants Rules, 1937. It was contended that it was contrary to Section 280(2)(c) of the B Cantonment Act, 1924. The argument was accepted. The argument of the appellant, that in view of the provision in the Parent Act that Rules, when published, would have effect as if they were enacted in the Act, was repelled. We notice only the following discussion: “14. This contention is unsound. It is well settled that rules framed C under the provisions of a statute form part of the statute. In other words, rules have statutory force. But before a rule can have the effect of a statutory provision, two conditions must be fulfilled, namely, (1) it must conform to the provisions of the statute under which it is framed; and (2) it must also come within the scope and D purview of the rule-making power of the authority framing the rule. If either of these two conditions is not fulfilled, the rule so framed would be void. The position remains the same even though sub-section (2) of Section 281 of the Act has specifically provided that after the rules are framed and published they shall have effect as if enacted in the Act.” E 53. In Kunj Behari Lal Butail and others v. State of H.P.