The evidence sought to be produced now is in the form of returns fi led, after the reference was made. The prayer is for dismissal of the appeal. 5. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant record. DISCUSSION 6. Before we deal with the merit of the controversy in issue, we deem it appropriate to discuss the jurisdiction of the Labour Court and the Industrial Tribunal for reference of a dispute. It is for the reason that the claim of the appellants-Management is that it employed more than 100 workmen. 7. Section 10(1) of the ID Act inter alia provides that where appropriate Government is of the opinion that any industrial dispute exists or is apprehended, it may, by an in writing, refer the dispute to the ‘Labour Court’ if it relates to the issues specifi ed in the Second Schedule. Where the matter relates to the issues specifi ed in the Third Schedule, the dispute is to be referred to a Labour Court, if the dispute is not likely to aff ect more than 100 workmen. Otherwise,Section 10(1)(d) of the ID Act provides that the disputes as enumerated in the Third Schedule are to be referred to a Tribunal. The aforesaid two terms have been defi ned in Section 2(kkb) and 2(r) of the ID Act, respectively. Relevant provisions of Section 10(1) of the ID Act are extracted below: “10. Reference of disputes to Boards, Courts or Tribunals:- (1) Where the appropriate Government is of opinion that any industrial dispute exists or is apprehended, it may at any time, by in writing- (a) refer the dispute to a Board for promoting a settlement thereof; or (b) refer any matter appearing to be connected with or relevant to the dispute to a Court for inquiry; or (c) refer the dispute or any matter appearing to be connected with, or relevant to, the dispute, if it relates to any matter specifi ed in the Second Schedule, to a Labour Court for adjudication; or HIND FILTERS LTD. & ANR. v. HIND FILTER EMPLOYEES’ 431 UNION & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] (d) refer the dispute or any matter appearing to connected with, or relevant to, the dispute, whether it relates to any matter specifi ed in the Second Schedule or the Third Schedule, to a Tribunal for adjudication: Provided that where the dispute relates to any matter specifi ed in the Third schedule and is not likely to aff ect more than one hundred workmen, the appropriate Government may, if it so thinks fi t, make the reference to a Labour Court under clause (c)” 8. The Second and the Third Schedules attached to the ID Act required for proper appreciation of the arguments, are extracted below: “THE SECOND SCHEDULE MATTERS WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF LABOUR COURTS 1. The propriety or legality of an passed by an employer under the standing s; 2. The application and interpretation of standing s; 3. Discharge or dismissal of workmen including reinstatement of, or grant of relief to, workmen wrongfully dismissed; 4.