The Court held that the decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in PiaraSingh(1970) SCC OnLine P&H 429, was not in line with the decision of this Court in Haji Aziz(supra). 23.2 Relevant paragraphs: G Justice Deshpande: “23. It is then contended that, admittedly, the entire gold has been confiscated by the customs department and, as such, value of this should have been treated as a trading loss and the H assessee was entitled to a set-off of this loss against his THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 125 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] assumed and assessed income from undisclosed sources. A Reliance was mainly placed on section 71, though faintly section 70 was also referred to. This point was raised before the Tribunal. The Tribunal, however, declined to entertain this plea, as it was raised for the first time before it and it thought that the same cannot be adjudicated without investigation of further B facts. Unfortunately, the of the Tribunal is not explicit as to in what manner investigation of further facts was necessary. It is, therefore, not possible to know if the Tribunal was reluctant to allow set off for loss tainted with patent illegality, against the income, source of which was not shown to be illegal or it treated the loss by confiscation as capital loss and, therefore, was C reluctant to deduct the same from the income from capital gains as required under section 71. Be that as it may, I have no hesitation in saying that if it were a pure question of law capable of being adjudged on the material on record, the Tribunal was under a statutory obligation to entertain and decide the same. D I, however, think that, on the admitted facts, the petitioner is not entitled to claim any set-off. The loss suffered by the assessee consequent on the confiscation of the gold for infraction of law cannot be said to be a commercial loss liable to set off under any provision of the Act. It will be enough to refer to the of the Supreme Court in Haji Aziz and E Abdul Shakoor Bros. v. Commissioner of Income-tax. The Supreme Court upheld the view of this court in the same case. Dates were imported from abroad by the assessee in contravention of the provisions of the Sea Customs Act. The customs authorities confiscated the goods under section 167- F B of the Sea Customs Act. It, however, gave the assessee, under section 183 of the Act, an option to pay the fine in lieu of confiscation and get the goods released. The assessee exercised the option and got the goods released on payment of fine. In the course of the assessment proceedings the assessee claimed deduction of this penalty amount under section 10(2)(xv) of G the Indian Income-tax Act of 1922. The Bombay High Court negatived the claim holding that the penalty for infraction of law does not amount to any expenditure laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of such business, profession or vocation.