[2023] 16 S.C.R. 377 : 2023 INSC 1032 CASE DETAILS DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 7700 of 2023) NOVEMBER 30, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J.B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The respondent No. 4 herein was appointed as the Vice-Chancellor of the Kannur University, his tenure was for a period four years. As the tenure of the respondent No. 4 was coming to an end, the Chancellor initiated steps for selection and appointment of a new Vice-Chancellor. The Additional Chief Secretary, Higher Education, State of Kerala issued notifi cation inviting applications from eligible candidates. However, the respondent no. 4 herein was re-appointed as Vice-Chancellor of the Kannur University after the Minister for Higher Education and Social Justice addressed a letter to the Governor/Chancellor dated 22.11.2021 recommending re-appointment of the respondent No. 4 herein for a second term. (i) Whether re-appointment is permissible in respect of a tenure post; (ii) Whether the outer age limit of sixty years for the appointment of Vice-Chancellor as stipulated under sub-section (9) of Section 10 of the Kannur University Act, 1996 is to be made applicable even in the case of re-appointment of the Vice-Chancellor for one more term of four years (iii) Whether the re-appointment of the Vice-Chancellor has to follow the same process as a fresh appointment by setting up a selection committee under Section 10(1) of the Act 1996 (iv) Did the Chancellor abdicate or surrender his statutory power of reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor. Kannur University Act, 1996 – s. 10(9) and s.10(10) – Whether reappointment is permissible in respect of a tenure post: Held: The ordinary meaning that can be ascribed to the term “reappointment” is the act or process of deciding essentially that someone should continue in a particular job – Ordinarily, the object behind providing 377 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. for reappointment is twofold – First is “retention” i.e., where the incumbent to the offi ce/post during his term is found to be extraordinary and has established himself or herself to be an asset to the institution, then in such circumstance, such person is retained with a view to allow him to continue on the same post for one more term – Secondly, having regard to the nature of the post the organization or institution may not be in a position to fi ll up the post in a time bound manner and in such circumstances, the provision for reappointment may enable the organization or institution to relieve itself of the tedium of going through the entire selection process afresh every time the post becomes vacant – Therefore, the reappointment is permissible even in case of a tenure post. [Paras 46 and 47] Kannur University Act, 1996 – s. 10(9) and s.10(10) – Whether the outer age limit of sixty years for the appointment of Vice-Chancellor as stipulated under sub-section (9) of Section 10 of the Act, 1996 is to be made applicable even in the case of reappointment of the Vice- Chancellor for one more term of four years.