Chapter VIII of the IPC deals with ‘Offences Against the Public Tranquillity’. Sections 141 C to 149 deal with definition of unlawful assembly, being member of unlawful assembly, punishment of being part of the unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapons and every member of unlawful assembly to beguilty of the offence committed in prosecution of common object to be punished under Section 149 IPC. According to Section 149 IPC every member of the unlawful assembly must know the common object of D their assembly and also the offence likely to be committed in prosecution of the common object. 25. The evidence of all the eye-witnesses has been narrated in detail in the earlier part of this . None of the eye-witnesses have taken names of all the accused persons who are said to be 13 in E number. Only names of 3-4 accused persons are taken who are said to have assaulted the deceased and the injured PW-2. None of the eye- witnesses have stated that all the accused persons had come with a common object of committing murder and assaulting the injured PW-2. It is also not stated by any of the eye-witnesses that there were any F utterances by one or many or all the accused that they must eliminate the deceased and cause injuries to the injured PW-2. There is no evidence to the effect that any of the accused exhorted the others saying that they have to eliminate the deceased and assault the injured (PW-2). Further, it is clearly stated by the eye-witnesses PW-1, PW-2 and PW- 3 that at least five police personnel were accompanying the accused G and that they were standing outside and did not interfere in the commission of the alleged crime. From the above it is clear that it is difficult to decipher that all the members of the unlawful assembly were aware of the common object. H 632 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 26. There is one more reason to discard the theory of unlawful assembly. PW-2 and PW-3 have stated that the police along with the accused had come to arrest the deceased and the injured. If that was the object and the police were taking help of the accused persons then also the factum of common object of committing the crime of murdering the deceased is not borne out. It could be that the common object known B to the accused was of apprehending the deceased and the injured PW- 2 as there was some criminal case registered against them lodged by Pulen Phukan, one of the accused. In view of the above analysis, we are unable to hold that there was an unlawful assembly and further to uphold the conviction under Section 149 IPC. C 27. Now coming to the issue as to whether the named accused were the actual assailants or not and whether the eye-witnesses’ version of naming the five accused namely, Kuleswar, Pulen Phukan, Dulen Phukan, Mozen Phukanand Haren Saikia can be relied upon to record conviction.