These sections are completely diff erent from section 39 of the Insurance Act set out (supra) which require a nomination merely for the payment of the amount under the Life Insurance Policy without confi rming any ownership rights in the nominee or under section 30 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act which allows the Society to transfer the shares of the member which would be valid against any demand made by any other person upon the Society. Hence these provisions are made merely to give a valid discharge to the Insurance Company or the Co-operative Society without vesting the ownership rights in the Insurance Policy or the membership rights in the Society upon such nominee. The express legislature intent under section 109A of the Companies Act and section 9.11 of the Depositories Act is clear.” 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 12. The Division Bench under the impugned (dated 01.12.2016) observed that the object and provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 is not to either provide a mode of succession or to deal with succession at all. The object of S. 109A Companies Act, 1956 is to ensure that the deceased shareholder is represented, as the value of the shares is subject to market forces and various advantages keep on accruing to the shareholders, such as allotment of shares & disbursement of dividends. Moreover, a shareholder is required to be represented in the general meetings of the Company and therefore, the court opined that the provision is enacted to ensure that commerce does not suff er due to delay on part of the legal heirs in establishing their rights of succession and then claiming shares of a Company. Adverting to and interpreting the pari materia provisions relating to nominations under various statutes, the Division Bench felt that the consistent view in the various s of the Supreme Court and the Bombay High Court must be followed and those do not warrant any departure. It was expressly opined that the so-called ‘vesting’ under S. 109A of the Companies Act, 1956 does not create a third mode of succession and the provisions are not intended to create another mode of succession. In fact, the Companies Act, 1956 has nothing to do with the law of succession. Accordingly, the Division Bench declared that the nominee of a holder of a share or securities is not entitled to the benefi cial ownership of the shares or securities which are the subject matter of nomination to the exclusion of all other persons who are entitled to inherit the estates of the holders as per the law of succession. Answering the third question, the Division Bench held that a bequest made in a Will executed in accordance with the Indian Succession Act, 1925 in respect of shares or securities of the deceased, supersedes the nomination made under the provision of S. 109A of Companies Act and Bye- law 9.11 framed under the Depositories Act, 1996. The bench accordingly ruled that an incorrect view was taken in Kokate (supra).