Quantum of Renewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) 4.1 Each distribution licensee shall purchase electricity (in kWh) from renewable energy sources, at a defined minimum H 28 (2015) 7 S.C.R. 1104 GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 697 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] percentage of the total consumption of its consumers including A T&D losses during a year. Similarly, Captive and Open Access user(s) / consumer(s) shall purchase electricity (in kWh) from renewable energy sources, at a defined minimum percentage of his/her total consumption during a year. The defined minimum percentages are given below in the Table B 1. C If the above-mentioned minimum quantum of power purchase from solar and other renewable energy sources is not available D in a particular year, then in such cases, additional wind or other energy, over and above that shown in column 3 and 5, shall be utilized for fulfillment of the RPO in accordance with column 2. Provided further that such obligation to purchase renewable E energy shall be inclusive of the purchases, if any, from renewable energy sources already being made by the obligated entity concerned: Provided also that the power purchases under the power purchase agreements for the purchase of renewable energy F sources already entered into by the distribution licensees shall continue to be made till their present validity, even if the total purchases under such agreements exceed the percentage as specified hereinabove.” 43. In terms of Regulation 9 (1) of the Renewable Sources G Regulations, if an obligated entity29 (such as the present appellant) does not fulfil the renewable purchase obligation as provided in the regulations 29 An “obligated entity” is defined in Regulation 2 (k) as “the entity mandated under clause (e) of subsection (1) of section 86 of the (Electricity) Act to fulfil the renewable purchase obligation and identified under clause 3 of these Regulations. H 698 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A during any year and also does not purchase the certificates, the State Commission may direct the obligated entity to deposit into a separate fund, to be created and maintained by such obligated entity, such amount as the State Commission may determine. Thus, obligated entities, (distribution licences included) had to take steps to progressively increase the purchase of power from renewable energy sources. To incentivize B this, flexibility was granted; the power generators could either have the tariff fixed, according to the State Commission’s Tariff determination , or adopt another mechanism, i.e., the one contemplated in the REC Regulations. 44. The relevant conditions and stipulations set out in the PPA in C this case, are extracted below: “RATES AND CHARGES 5.1 Monthly energy charges: the GUVNL shall pay for the delivered energy as certified by the SEA of Gujarat SLDC, for the term of this agreement from the commercial operation D date of signing of power purchase agreement whichever is later, to the power producer every month. The tariff payable by GUVNL for energy purchased shall be as per clause 5.2 herein.