6. At this juncture, it would also be necessary to refer to Rule 9 of the said Rules which deals with “Time of sale, issue of sale certifi cate and delivery of possession etc.,” with regard to the sale of immovable secured assets through e-auction mode. Rule 9 of the Rules reads as under: - “9. Time of sale, issue of sale certifi cate and delivery of possession, etc.- [(1) No sale of immovable property under these rules, in fi rst instance shall take place before the expiry of thirty days from the date on which the public notice of sale is published in newspapers as referred to in the proviso to sub-rule (6) of rule 8 or notice of sale has been served to the borrower: Provided further that if sale of immovable property by any one of the methods specifi ed by sub-rule (5) of rule 8 fails and sale is required to be conducted again, the authorized offi cer shall serve, affi x and publish notice of sale of not less than fi fteen days to the borrower, for any subsequent sale.] (2) The sale shall be confi rmed in favour of the purchaser who has off ered the highest sale price in his bid or tender or quotation or off er to the authorized offi cer and shall be subject to confi rmation by the secured creditor: Provided that no sale under this rule shall be confi rmed, if the amount off ered by sale price is less than the reserve price, specifi ed under sub-rule (5) of [rule8]: 676 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Provided further that if the authorized offi cer fails to obtain a price higher than the reserve price, he may, with the consent of the borrower and the secured creditor eff ect the sale at such price. [(3) On every sale of immovable property, the purchaser shall immediately, i.e., on the same day or not later than next working day, as the case may be, pay a deposit of twenty fi ve percent of the amount of the sale price, which is inclusive of earnest money deposited, if any, to the authorized offi cer conducting the sale and in default of such deposit, the property shall be sold again.] (4) The balance amount of purchase price payable shall be paid by the purchaser to the authorized offi cer on or before the fi fteenth day of confi rmation of sale of the immovable property or such extended period [as may be agreed upon in writing between the purchaser and the secured creditor, in any case not exceeding three months]. (5) In default of payment within the period mentioned in sub-rule (4), the deposit shall be forfeited [to the secured creditor] and the property shall be resold and the defaulting purchaser shall forfeit all claim to the property or to any part of the sum for which it may be subsequently sold. (6) On confi rmation of sale by the secured creditor and if the terms of payment have been complied with, the authorized offi cer exercising the power of sale shall issue a certifi cate of sale of the immovable property in favour of the purchaser in the Form given in Appendix V to these rules.