310 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 3E PSO.CR.RT.S 310 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX 7 v. M/S PAVILLE PROJECTS PVT. LTD. (Civil Appeal No. 6126 of 2021) B APRIL 06, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND A. S. BOPANNA JJ.] Income Tax Act, 1961 – s.263 – Exercise of jurisdiction under – Respondent filed its income tax return for the AY 2007-08, wherein it showed sale of the property / building for an amount of Rs.33 C Crores – According to the assessee, property was sold to discharge encumbrances from the sale proceeds to pay off the shareholders and therefore, the said discharge of encumbrances was “cost of improvement” – Assessment accepted by AO u/s. 143(3) – However, the Commissioner invoked jurisdiction u/s. 263 of the IT Act and D held that the assessment passed u/s.143(3) of the IT Act was erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the revenue – Commissioner set aside the assessment passed by the AO – ITAT concluded that the Commissioner wrongly invoked the jurisdiction u/s. 263 of the IT Act and upheld the allowability of the Assessee’s claim – Appeal against the ITAT’s was dismissed by E the High Court – On appeal, held: Applying the law laid down in the case of Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. and on perusal of the the assessment as well as the passed by the Commissioner of Income Tax, the Court is of the opinion that the assessment was not only erroneous but prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue F also – In the facts and circumstances of the case, it cannot be said that the Commissioner exercised the jurisdiction u/s. 263 not vested in it – High Court committed a serious error – Impugned and passed by the High Court set aside and that the passed by the Commissioner passed in exercise of powers u/s. 263 of the Income Tax Act is restored. G Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. It is true that in Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd., on interpretation of Section 263 of the Income Tax Act, it is observed and held that in to exercise the jurisdiction under Section H 263(1) of the Income tax Act, the Commissioner has to be satisfied 310 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX 7 v. M/S PAVILLE 311 PROJECTS PVT. LTD. of twin conditions, namely, (i) the of the Assessing Officer A sought to be revised is erroneous; and (ii) it is prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue. It is further observed that if one of them is absent, recourse cannot be had to Section 263(1) of the Act. [Para 7.1][318-E-F] 2. Even as observed in the case of Malabar Industrial Co. B Ltd. that the scheme of the Act is to levy and collect tax in accordance with the provisions of the Act and this task is entrusted to the Revenue. It is further observed that if due to an erroneous of the Income Tax Officer, the Revenue is losing tax lawfully payable by a person, it will certainly be prejudicial to the interests C of the Revenue.