It is submitted that as per Section 53 of the IBC, the workmen dues are given the top priority in the waterfall mechanism. F 4.5 It is submitted that the liquidation process is covered under Chapter III of the IBC, which comprises from Sections 33 to 54. Section 36 of the IBC provides for liquidation estate and Section 36(4) of the IBC specifies certain payouts not to be included in the liquidation estate assets. Therefore, as per the said provision, all these debts due are not to be included in the liquidation estate assets. It is submitted that as per G the said provision, all payments due to any workmen or employee from Provident Fund, Pension Fund and The Gratuity Fund shall not be included in the list of assets under liquidation estate. 4.6 It is submitted that with respect to Section 53 of the IBC, sale of liquidation assets shall be distributed in certain of priority. It is H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 105 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] submitted that as per Section 53, the payment of insolvency resolution A process costs and liquidation costs is paramount and the same shall be paid in full. The liquidation cost includes the salary and wages paid to workmen during the period of liquidation process to maintain the Company as going concern. Thereafter, the payment of workmen dues for a period of 24 months are to be paid alongwith secured creditors dues in the B event of relinquishment of security. The workmen dues and debts of secured creditors in the case of relinquishment of security are ranked equally between them. However, in the case of enforcement of security any unpaid outstanding debt comes below in ladder to Section 53(1)(e)(iii) of the IBC. C 4.7 It is submitted that the challenge has been made on the ground of Article 14 of the Constitution of India by comparing Section 53 of the IBC with the provisions of erstwhile Companies Act, 1956 and existing Companies Act, 2013 to state that workmen are at a disadvantageous position on the basis: (i) workmen’s portion in the security held by secured creditor has been done away with; (ii) preference/superiority given to D 24 months over any other debt has been done away with; (iii) workmen and secured creditors have been placed in same pool. 4.8 To the aforesaid, it is submitted by Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG that as such the IBC is a new insolvency mechanism in line with the international practices and with overarching objective of unlocking E sick and insolvent companies primarily to revive such companies in event of failure, for transparent and equitable liquidation of assets. It is submitted that the IBC was introduced as a water-shed moment for insolvency law in India that consolidated process under several disparate statutes such as Act, 2013, SICA, SARFAESI, Recovery of Debts Act etc., into F a single Code. It is submitted that the objective of the IBC was to introduce comprehensive and time bound insolvency framework and to maximize the value of assets of all persons and balance the interest of all stakeholders.