148 of 2018 and Revision No. 315 of 2017 respectively. Both the revision applications were heard analogously by the High Court. 11. The High Court formulated the following substantial question of law for its consideration: “Whether under the facts and circumstances of the case, the Commercial Tax Tribunal was legally justifi ed in granting the benefi t of ITC of Rs. 1,90,88,763.00 which was reversed by the Assessing Authority?” 12. The High Court relying on the decision of this Court in the case of State of Karnataka v. M.K. Agro Tech Private Limited, reported in (2017) 16 SCC 210 took the view that a dealer has no vested right to seek the benefi t of ITC as the same is just a concession by virtue of the provisions of the Act. The High Court held that the provisions of Section 13(1)(a) read with S. No. 2(ii) of the Table appended thereto and Section 13(3)(b) read with 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Explanation (iii) of the UP VAT Act are not applicable as asserted by the assesee and the case of the assessee stood covered by Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act. The High Court relying on Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act took the view that the assessee is not entitled to claim full ITC on the inputs. The High Court accordingly allowed both the revision applications fi led by the revenue. 13. In such circumstances referred to above, the asseesee is here before this Court with the present appeals. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE ASSESSEE 14. Mr. Arvind Datar, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the assessee vehemently submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in passing the impugned . According to Mr. Datar the impugned of the High Court is incorrect as it has failed to take notice of the fact that the case of the assessee herein is squarely covered by the provisions of Section 13(1)(a) read with S. No. 2(ii) of the Table appended thereto and Section 13(3)(b) read with Explanation (iii) of the UP VAT Act. It was argued that the High Court erroneously held that Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act is applicable to the case on hand. 15. Mr. Datar further argued that the entire edifi ce of the impugned of the High Court is based on incorrect application of the decision of this Court in case of M.K. Agro Tech (supra). He would argue that the statutory provisions under the Karnataka Value Added Tax Act, 2003 and UP VAT Act are distinct and diff erent in all respects. He pointed out that the UP VAT Act specifi cally carves out an exception for the by-products and waste products respectively. Even if those are exempt goods or non-VAT Goods, the ITC is permissible. 16. Mr. Datar further argued that the defi nition of the word “goods” under Section 2(m) of the UP VAT Act does not diff erentiate between the exempted and taxable goods and equally the word “goods” under Section 13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act cannot be said to be qualifi ed by the word “taxable”.