10 of 2012) as also the Repealing Act, 2018, as unconstitutional. Justice L. Nageswara Rao, speaking for the Bench, observed that where a statute is adjudged to be unconstitutional, it is as if it had never been and any law held to be unconstitutional for whatever reason, whether due to lack of legislative competence or in violation of fundamental rights, would be void ab initio. Paragraph Nos. 22 and 23 of the said are reproduced hereunder: “22. Where a statute is adjudged to be unconstitutional, it is as if it had never been. Rights cannot be built up under it; contracts which depend upon it for their consideration are void; it constitutes a protection to no one who has acted under it and no one can be punished for having refused obedience to it before the decision was made. Field, J. in Norton v. Shelby County, observed that “an unconstitutional act is not law, it confers no rights, it imposes CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 51 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] no duties, it aff ords no protection, it creates no offi ce; it is, in legal contemplation, as inoperative as though it had never been passed”. 23. An unconstitutional law, be it either due to lack of legislative competence or in violation of fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution of India, is void” ab initio. In Behram Khurshid Pesikaka v. State of Bombay, it was held by a constitution bench of this Court that the law-making power of the State is restricted by a written fundamental law and any law enacted and opposed to the fundamental law is in excess of the legislative authority and is thus, a nullity. A declaration of unconstitutionality brought about by lack of legislative power as well as a declaration of unconstitutionality brought about by reason of abridgement of fundamental rights goes to the root of the power itself, making the law void in its inception. This Court in Deep Chand v. State of Uttar Pradesh & Ors. summarised the following propositions: “(a) Whether the Constitution affi rmatively confers power on the legislature to make laws subject-wise or negatively prohibits it from infringing any fundamental right, they represent only two aspects of want of legislative power; (b) The Constitution in express terms makes the power of a legislature to make laws in regard to the entries in the Lists of the Seventh Schedule subject to the other provisions of the Constitution and thereby circumscribes or reduces the said power by the limitations laid down in Part III of the Constitution; (c) It follows from the premises that a law made in derogation or in excess of that power would be ab initio void… (emphasis supplied)” Further after discussing the law laid down by the previous pronouncements, the principles were deduced in paragraph no. 28 to state that a statute declared unconstitutional by a court of law would be still born and non est for all purposes. Paragraph 28 of the report is reproduced hereunder: 52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.