In a similar manner, Article 377 and Article 378 provided for the continuation of the Auditor General of India and Members of the Public Service Commission for the Dominion of India who held offi ce immediately before the commencement of the Constitution. 287. Article 379 contained provisions for a provisional Parliament until both Houses of Parliament were duly constituted and summoned for meeting for the fi rst session under the provisions of the Constitution. In terms of clause (1), the Constituent Assembly for the Dominion of India immediately before the commencement of the Constitution was to function as the provisional Parliament and was entrusted with all the powers conferred by the Constitution to Parliament226. 226 “379. Provisions as to provisional Parliament and the Speaker and Deputy Speaker 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 288. Article 380 provided that until a President was elected in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 1 of Part V of the Constitution, the person elected as President by the Constituent Assembly of the Dominion of India shall function as the President of India227. thereof. – (1) Until both Houses of Parliament have been duly constituted and summoned to meet for the fi rst session under the provisions of this Constitution, the body functioning as the Constituent Assembly of the Dominion of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall be the provisional Parliament and shall exercise all the powers and perform all the duties conferred by the provisions of this Constitution on Parliament. Explanation. – For the purposes of this clause, the Constituent Assembly of the Dominion of India includes – The members chosen to represent any State or other territory for which representation is provided under clause (2), and The members chosen to fi ll casual vacancies in the said Assembly. (2) The President may by rules provide for – (a) the representation in the provisional Parliament functioning under clause (1) of any State or other territory which was not represented in the Constituent Assembly of the Dominion of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution, (b) the manner in which the representatives of such States or other territories in the provisional Parliament shall be chosen, and (c) the qualifi cations to be possessed by such representatives. (3) If a member of the Constituent Assembly of the Dominion of India was, on the sixth day of October ,1949, or thereafter at any time before the commencement of this Constitution, a member of a House of the Legislature of a Governor’s Province or of an Indian State corresponding to any State specifi ed in Part B of the First Schedule or a Minister for any such State, then, as from the commencement of this Constitution the seat of such member in the Constituent Assembly shall, unless he has ceased to be a member of that Assembly earlier, become vacant and every such vacancy shall be deemed to be a casual vacancy. (4) Notwithstanding that any such vacancy in the Constituent Assembly of the Dominion of India as is mentioned in clause (3) has not occurred under that clause, steps may be taken before the commencement of this Constitution for the fi lling of such vacancy, but any person chosen before such commencement to fi ll the vacancy shall not be entitled to take his seat in the said Assembly until after the vacancy has so occurred.