manufacturing at that material time i.e.,’Jarda scented tobacco’. On reading this letter, any person could conclude that they have started a new product ‘Chewing tobacco’ which they have classifi ed in 2403 9910 as it is the, correct subheading of Chewing tobacco. On a plain reading of the letter, at the fi rst instance, no one will be able to understand the real motive. The assessee did not mention in the letter that they are changing the name and classifi cation of the goods which are currently being manufactured by them which they were supposed to do. Had they mentioned this fact at that time, the issue would not have arisen at all. Intentionally, they have hidden the facts and did not elaborate in the letter. The assessee, on the contrary preferred to show the reasons in the statement recorded under Section 4 on 26-6- 2006 when the department caught him for evading the duty. Further, the assessee has mentioned that as per the practice followed by their industry, they classify their product Chewing tobacco into 2403 9910. The classifi cation of the goods manufactured by an assessee is based on many factors including the raw material used, manufacturing process and the end use. If any of the deciding factors is changed then the classifi cation may change and therefore the industry cannot decide the classifi cation in such type of goods. The assessee intentionally hid the fact that they have changed the classifi cation of their product viz. ‘Jarda scented tobacco’. It is an establish fact that when there is no dispute on classifi cation and the assessee suddenly submits a very carefully drafted letter of such type, a general inference will be drawn that a new product has been introduced in place of earlier one. The assessee, with intent to evade the Central Excise duty, deliberately resorted to mis-statement and willfully suppressed the vital facts. The assessee had changed and misclassifi ed the product from ‘Jarda scented tobacco’ to ‘Chewing tobacco’ with an intention to evade payment of duty payable under Section 4 of the Central Excise Act, 1944, despite knowing the fact that their product was not covered under the relevant Notifi cation which provides for valuation under Section 4A. The assessee did so to enable them to pay duty on lower value [as the value as per Section 4A of Central Excise Act, 1944 (MRP based assessment) was lower than the value as per Section 4 of Central Excise Act, 1944. Thus, there was a deliberate intention to evade payment of duty by the assessee, COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 603 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] by misclassifi cation and willful mis-statement of their product and due to this act, the department is entitled to invoke the extended period as provided in the proviso to Section 11A (1) of the Central Excise Act, 1944 to recover the diff erential duty along with interest under section 11 AB for the larger period upto 5 years and has also rendered themselves liable to penalty under section 11 AC of the Central Excise Act 1944.