The relevant portion of the said is being reproduced hereunder: G “19. One aspect arises. Obviously, the State is also controlled by economic considerations and financial implications of any public employment. The viability of the department or the instrumentality of the project is also of equal concern for the State. The State 3 2022 SCC OnLine SC 249 H 434 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A works out the scheme taking into consideration the financial implications and the economic aspects. Can the court impose on the State a financial burden of this nature by insisting on regularisation or permanence in employment, when those employed temporarily are not needed permanently or regularly? As an example, we can envisage a direction to give permanent B employment to all those who are being temporarily or casually employed in a public sector undertaking. The burden may become so heavy by such a direction that the undertaking itself may collapse under its own weight. It is not as if this had not happened. So, the court ought not to impose a financial burden on the State by such C directions, as such directions may turn counterproductive.” The learned counsel also argued that the Appellant cannot claim that he has been discriminated as against those who have been regularly recruited. She stated that it has been rightly held in Umadevi (supra) that there is no fundamental right in those who have been employed on D daily wages or temporarily or on contractual basis, to claim that they have a right to be absorbed in service. Therefore, there is no violation of Articles 14 and 16 in the matter. 20. Learned counsel also relied on this Court’s in Union of India v. Vartak Labour Union.4 The relevant portion of the said E is being reproduced hereunder: “17. We are of the opinion that the respondent Union’s claim for regularisation of its members merely because they have been working for the BRO for a considerable period of time cannot be granted in light of several decisions of this Court, wherein it has been consistently held that casual employment terminates when F the same is discontinued, and merely because a temporary or casual worker has been engaged beyond the period of his employment, he would not be entitled to be absorbed in regular service or made permanent, if the original appointment was not in terms of the process envisaged by the relevant rules.” G ANALYSIS: 21. We have carefully considered the rival contentions advanced at the Bar. 4 (2011) 4 SCC 200 H OM PRAKASH BANERJEE v. THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL 435 & ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 22. At the outset, we would like to state that this a case of gross A violation of Article 14 and 16 of the Constitution. The Appellant, who has been working in Respondent No. 3- Municipality since 1991, and was, subsequently, appointed as a clerk in 1996; has not been regularised in his service. Moreover, his several of his co-employees (including juniors) have been regularised in service.