10. Moreover, reiterating that the basic reasoning of the learned D Division Bench for allowing the appeal of the State, as noted supra, was that the learned Civil Court had refused to interfere in expunging the remarks passed by the Controlling Officer and thus, the Inspector General of Police had no authority to pass an for expunction, was highly improper and totally unwarranted. Learned counsel submitted that E under similar circumstances, a co-ordinate Single Bench had interfered to hold that the Director General of Police had no power to review an passed by the predecessor-in-office. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE OFFICIAL RESPONDENTS-R1 to R7: F 11. Per contra, learned counsel for the State of Haryana and the other official respondents (R2, R3, R4, R5, R6 and R7) submitted that the present case had been refiled after an inordinate delay of 11 years. It was submitted that even though the ground of delay is sought to be explained, being the unfortunate death of the appellant’s son, the same took place in 2011 and thus, re-filing having been done only in 2022 i.e., G 10 years after such incident, would not entitle the appellant to the benefit of condonation for such long and unexplained delay. He submitted that the view taken in the Impugned , that the Inspector General of Police could not have over-reached the of the learned Civil Court, is correct. Moreover, it was submitted that the adverse entry in H 412 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the ACR of the appellant was on account of serious charges – viz. Corruption, insubordination and dereliction of duty. 12. Learned counsel summed up his arguments by taking the stand that the appellant, having been compulsorily retired, the same not being a ‘punishment’, the principles of natural justice would not be B applicable. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 13. Having considered the rival submissions, the Court would note that both the learned Single Judge and the learned Division Bench did not appreciate the legal position in the correct perspective of the factual C background. 14. The undisputed position is that adverse remarks were entered into the ACR of the appellant for the period(s) in question, due to which initially an of departmental enquiry was passed based on a complaint; in the departmental enquiry, an came to be passed, and D the appellant was reverted from the post of Head Constable to the post of Constable. The appellant challenged such reversion. The reversion was modified to stoppage of one increment. For expunction of the adverse remarks, he moved before the Inspector General of Police, Gurgaon Range, which was initially rejected for the entire period in question. On further representation, the Inspector General of Police, E Gurgaon Range, on 20.07.2002, expunged the remarks partially for the period of 01.04.2000 to 29.12.2000. 15. The appellant filed Civil Suit No.168 of 2002 against the of stoppage of one increment as also the adverse entry(ies)/ remark(s) in his ACR, which was finally decided by the learned Civil F Judge (Junior Division), Gurgaon by and dated 27.09.2004, interfering with the stoppage of one increment, but not interfering with the ACR aspect.