The writ petition was fi nally dismissed on 13th February 2009 vide a detailed , which was not challenged thereafter. v. On 30th April 2009, the complainant addressed a legal notice to the appellant and Aggarwal inter alia alleging that the contents of the aforementioned four letters of complaint given to the concerned authorities were defamatory. Pertinently, on 20th May 2009, the appellant responded to the legal notice inter alia stating that it had not authorised Aggarwal to write any such letter, and that the appellant was also not involved in their preparation. vi. It was in this context that the complainant lodged the complaint before the Trial Court alleging criminal defamation as well as its abetment under sections 107, 499, and 500 read with section 34 of the IPC against the accused. vii. The Trial Court, after perusing the complaint and examining the witnesses in support thereof, ed the accused to be summoned as it was of the opinion that a prima facie case was made out against them. viii. The challenge by the appellant to the summoning was spurned by the High Court vide the impugned . CONTENTIONS OF THE APPELLANT 4. On behalf of the appellant, learned counsel Ms. Viswanathan argued that the High Court committed grave miscarriage of justice in 5 WP (C) No.6155/2008 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 227 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] dismissing the petition by a cryptic . She contended that several important questions of law were raised in the petition by the appellant. Although the objection as to whether a company is capable of being prosecuted on the ground that it is incapable of possessing necessary mens rea stood answered by the decisions relied on by the learned Judge, yet, according to her, the learned Judge should have considered the other objections raised by the appellant. Not having so considered, it was urged that the impugned is indefensible. 5. Ms. Viswanathan, in support of the appeal, raised the following specifi c contentions: i. The impugned of the learned Judge omitted to consider that the complaint did not disclose any oral or written words, spoken or written by the appellant, or sign or visible representation made by it; and, in the absence of disclosure of any imputation made by the appellant, the key ingredient of the off ence of defamation did not exist. The impugned of the learned Judge failed to appreciate that issuance of a Power of Attorney cannot by law constitute an ingredient of an off ence under section 499, IPC since agents, under section 188 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, are authorised to do only lawful acts; and, as a corollary, execution of such power of attorney did not amount to authorisation or consent given to Aggarwal to commit any alleged act of defamation. ii. The learned Judge erred in not considering that a writ petition instituted on behalf of the appellant cannot constitute an ingredient of an off ence under section 499, IPC, since documents fi led in civil cases are protected by an “absolute privilege” and are also covered under the Fourth Exception to section 499, IPC.