We fi nd no reason to state that the principles laid down with reference to Section 60 of the TP Act, which is general in nature in respect of all mortgages, can have no application in respect of a secured interest in a secured asset created in favour of a secured creditor, as all the abovestated principles apply on all fours in respect of a transaction as between the debtor and secured creditor under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act. xxx xxx xxx 41. … even if there was some diff erence in the amount tendered by the borrower while exercising his right of redemption under Section 13(8), the question of diff erence in the amount should be kept open and can be decided subsequently, but on that score the right of redemption of the mortgagor cannot be frustrated. Elaborating the statement of law made therein, we wish to state that the endeavour or the role of a secured creditor in such a situation while resorting to any sale for the realisation of dues of a mortgaged asset, should be that the mortgagor is entitled for some lenience, if not more to be shown, to enable the borrower to tender the amounts due in to ensure that the constitutional right to property is preserved, rather than it being deprived of.” (Emphasis supplied) 47. In Dwarika Prasad v. State of Uttar Pradesh reported in (2018) 5 SCC 491, this Court speaking through one of us Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI., considered the unamended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, keeping in mind the decision in the case of Mathew Varghese (supra). The Court took the view that the right of redemption of mortgage is not lost until there is a transfer by a registered instrument. The following observations as contained in para 8 of the are reproduced below: CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 103 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “8. … These provisions have fallen for interpretation before this Court in Mathew Varghese. Dwelling on Section 60 of the Transfer of the Property Act, 1882 this Court held that the right of redemption is available to a mortgagor unless it stands extinguished by an act of parties. The right of the mortgagor to redeem the property survives until there has been a transfer of the mortgagor’s interest by a registered instrument of sale. …” 48. In, yet one another decision of this Court in Allokam Peddabbayya & Anr. v. Allahabad Bank & Ors. reported in (2017) 8 SCC 272, a similar view was taken. The relevant observations made therein are as under: “23. The aforesaid discussion leads to the conclusion that the plaintiff s lost the right to sue for redemption of the mortgaged property by virtue of the proviso to Section 60 of the Act, no sooner that the mortgaged property was put to auction-sale in a suit for foreclosure and sale certifi cate was issued in favour of Defendant 2. There remained no property mortgaged to be redeemed.