(v). The defendants had taken undue advantage of their illiteracy and resourcefulness to deprive the plaintiff s of their valuable land, they being illiterate and simple rustic villagers. (vi). The revenue documents produced by the defendants were from a period, post institution of the civil suit. (vii). The original Power of Attorney was never produced, and it was alleged that the same had been lost. (viii). The defendants failed to prove that the plaintiff s knowingly and willingly, having understood the contents of the Power of Attorney, had executed the same. (ix). The principle of non est factum was decided in favour of the plaintiff s. 10. The judgement and of the First Appellate Court dated 13.02.2002 was carried in Second Appeal before the High Court and was registered as Second Appeal No.648 of 2002. The High Court framed the 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. following question of law: “Whether the fi rst appellate court, in the absence of any issue having been framed by the trial court or by itself and also in the absence of relevant pleadings concerning the plea of non est factum relating to Ex. A1, was justifi ed in giving a fi nding in favour of the plaintiff s?” and decided the same in favour of the defendants. 11. The High Court was of the view that before the Trial Court, there was neither any pleading nor any issue was framed with regard to the plea of non est factum and as such the First Appellate Court committed an error in determining the said plea in favour of the plaintiff s. The High Court, vide judgement dated 21.11.2008, accordingly allowed the appeal, and after setting aside the judgement of the First Appellate Court, restored the of the Trial Court and dismissed the suit. Against the said , the present appeal has been preferred by the plaintiff s. 12. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. 13. The submissions of the learned counsel for the appellants are briefl y summarised as under: (i). The case of the plaintiff s, from the very beginning, was to the eff ect that they had only executed the Power of Attorney for the limited purpose of development of the land by dividing it into smaller plots and to obtain necessary permissions from the authorities. (ii). They had never executed the Power of Attorney authorizing the defendant no. 2 to sell, to create mortgage, to execute gift deed, settle the land in dispute or to sign the transfer of grant of Patta. Such clauses had been mischievously and surreptitiously added by the defendant no. 2 taking undue advantage of the simplicity and illiteracy of the plaintiff s. (iii). The plaintiff s never handed over the possession of the land in dispute and throughout continued in possession of the same. (iv). The conduct of the Attorney, defendant no. 2, in transferring the land to his own father and brother on the very day the Power of Attorney was registered shows that there was malice on the part of the Attorney.