The Tribunal observed that the product remained the same and its classification as previously accepted was not required to be altered. The Tribunal also observed that on one hand, the G Adjudicating Authority noted that the classification made before the amendment had to be re-looked but on the other hand, relied upon the decisions before 2012 along with the circular issued by the Board in 1997. 7.5. Thus, in sum and substance, the Tribunal found no reason for the classification now sought to be adopted by the Department; and H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 309 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] proceeded to disapprove the so passed by the Adjudicating Authority. A For ready reference, we may reproduce the relevant parts of the findings of the Tribunal as follows: - “9. The above s of the Hon’ble Apex Court and the Tribunal clearly spells out that even though the goods are sold over the counter and not on a medical prescription, it would not B lead to the goods being out of the category of medicine. The adjudicating authority has held that since the hair growth is cosmetic necessity and the product label shows the lady with long hair the goods are cosmetic product. We are not in agreement with the above views of the adjudicating authority. Firstly when C the different branches of medicine and the Licensing authorities recognize the baldness or hairfall as disease in that case the adjudicating authority cannot take a different view which is not recognized by the branches of medicine. Secondly the product clearly mentions that the product in question is used for other ailments also such as sleep loss, increase of blood circulation and D it nowhere depicts itself as for hair care or enhancing beauty of hair. The label indicates the product as Homeoptahic medicine under schedule K, ingredients and their composition, indications, contra indications and mode of application. The content of label thus itself shows that even in common parlance it is understood E by the users and the traders as Homeopathic medicine. There is no advice on the label nor does it suggests that it can be used as hair oil. It is not disputed about the fact that the product is made of four Homeopathic medicines as ingredients namely Arnica Mount, Cantharis, Pilocarpin and Cinchona and is used to treat the hair loss, insomnia, dandruff, headache and other ailments. It F is manufactured under Drug Licence issued under Rule 25 C of Drugs & Cosmetic Rules 1945 and in terms of Rules 85D by the Director, Indian Medicine & Homeopathy. The licence has been renewed from time to time by the Additional Director & Drug Controller (Homeo), Department of Ayush, Government of G Telangana State. Even as per analysis report & Drug Controller, Department of Ayush the product is medicine. The product is covered by serial no. 35 of Schedule K of Drugs and Cosmetic Rules (Homeopathic Hair oils having active ingredients upto 3X potency) and the said schedule covers only drugs and not Cosmetics.