18.If a right of production of documents at the trial stage exists, F it is a natural corollary that the High Court, sitting in appeal, must benefit from those documents. In the considered view of this Court, this is a demand of the abovementioned sacrosanct requirement. 19.As we have noted earlier, in the present case, despite efforts, documents such as the witness statements, statements under Section G 313 Cr.P.C. are neither available nor have been able to be reconstructed. Therefore, upholding conviction in the absence of such documents cannot be said to be in consonance with due process of law and fairness. 8 (1978) 3 SCC 544 H 9 (2010) 6 SCC 1 JITENDRA KUMAR RODE v. UNION OF INDIA 521 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 20.Once a violation of a right under Article 21 is established, that A is undoubtedly sufficient to set aside a conviction. Nonetheless, it is essential to appreciate what the law of procedure says in this regard. After all, it cannot be gainsaid that personal liberty cut down in the absence of fair legal procedure is an affront to the sanctity of Article 21. To this effect, the bench in M.H Hoskot (supra) said: B “24. We may follow up the import of Maneka Gandhi and crystallise the conclusion. Maneka Gandhi case has laid down that personal liberty cannot be cut out or cut down without fair legal procedure. Enough has been set out to establish that a prisoner, deprived of his freedom by court sentence but entitled to appeal C against such verdict, can claim, as part of his protection under Article 21 and as implied in his statutory right to appeal, the necessary concomitant of right to counsel to prepare and argue his appeal.” 21.The instant case is governed by Section 385 of the Code of D Criminal Procedure, 1973, which is extracted for ease of reference: “385. Procedure for hearing appeals not dismissed summarily.—(1) If the Appellate Court does not dismiss the appeal summarily, it shall cause notice of the time and place at which such appeal will be heard to be given— E (i) to the Appellant or his pleader; (ii) to such officer as the State Government may appoint on this behalf; (iii) if the appeal is from a of conviction in a case instituted upon complaint to the complainant; F (iv) if the appeal is under section 377 or section 378, to the accused, and shall also furnish such officer, complainant and accused with a copy of the grounds of appeal. (2) The Appellate Court shall then send for the record of the G case,ifsuchrecordisnot alreadyavailableinthatCourt,and hear the parties: Provided that if the appeal is only as to the extentorthelegality of the sentence, theCourt may disposeof the appeal without sendingfortherecord. H 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (3) Where the only ground for appeal from a conviction is the alleged severity of the sentence, the Appellant shall not, except with the leave of the Court, urge or be heard in support of any other ground.” (Emphasis supplied) B 22.A bare reading of the provision makes it clear that when appeals are not dismissed summarily, the Appellate Court shall call for the records of the Court below except in cases where the question for consideration is the legality of a sentence.