The Tahsildar, District Thodupuzha, issued notice to the claimants for unauthorised occupation of Government land on 20th February 1982, and thus began the long-standing litigation that is before us. Joseph-the original occupier passed away on 9th August 1982. The Assistant Collector, Idukki, vide dated 11th March 1983 dismissed the appeal fi led against the of the Tahsildar. 4. Legal representatives of the claimants fi led a suit for injunction on 14th April 1983. The Court of the Munsiff allowed the suit on 31st July 1987 and on remand, vide dated 16th December, 1989 from an appeal fi led by the State, on the ground of the non-opportunity of production of evidence as also cross-examination of the witnesses for the State, confi rmed its original decree with a judgement and dated 21st July 1990. First Appeal 5. The question, the Court in its wisdom framed for its consideration was whether the plaintiff s(respondents herein) had made out a case for declaration and injunction and whether the decree passed by the Court below was sustainable or not. 5.1 It was observed that the injunction was clearly a response to the notice dated 3rd of May, 1982, therefore, it was hit by Section 20 of the Kerala Land Conservancy Act,19572. The Act permits only those suits which are fi led against an under the said act in respect of lands that do not belong to the Government or are not puramboke land. The same was also hit by the Proviso to Section 20 which permits such suits to be fi led within one year of the date of notice. In this regard, the notice in the present case was issued on 1 Hereaft er referred as Claimants. 2 Hereinaft er, Th e Act GOVERNMENT OF KERALA & ANR. v. 269 JOSEPH AND OTHERS [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 22nd February, 1982 and the suit was fi led on 14th April, 1983 thereby being outside the permissible limit of one year. 5.2 It was observed that the witnesses produced by the plaintiff s were “rendering lip-service to the plaintiff s” and their testimonies in respect of the age of the trees planted on the disputed property varied greatly. No independent witness(es) or commission was taken to prove the age of the improvements made. A report relied on by the plaintiff s, takes note of improvements made on thedisputed property, over 35 years ago and neither the report nor the person who prepared such report was before the Court. 5.3 Furthermore, it was observed that the plaintiff s could not adduce any evidence to prove their possessionof thedisputed property for more than the statutory period of 30 years. As per the of testimony of PW 1, the plaintiff swere residingon the land on the south of the disputed property before 1940. However,no other record was taken to prove the possession of the plaintiff s over the Government property. 5.4 It was observed that the title of the Government on land cannot be lost by placing reliance on “casual advertence” oron the basis of “scanty material”.