The pre-conditions for a valid exercise of the power to promulgate as well as the conditions subsequent to promulgation are both part of a composite scheme. Both sets of conditions have to be fulfi lled for an ordinance to have the protection of the ‘same force and eff ect’ clause. Once the deeming fi ction operates, its consequence is that during its tenure, an ordinance shall operate in the same manner as an act of the legislature. What is the consequence of an ordinance ceasing to operate by virtue of the provisions of Article 213(2)(a)? There are two competing constructions which fall for consideration. The expression “shall cease to operate” can on the one hand to be construed to mean that with eff ect from the date on which six weeks have expired after the reassembling of the legislature or upon the disapproval of the ordinance, it would cease to operate from that date. ‘Cease’ to operate in this sense would mean that with eff ect from that date, the ordinance would prospectively have no operation. The ordinance is not void at its inception. The second meaning which can be considered for interpretation is that the expression “shall cease to operate” will mean that all legal consequences that THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 201 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] arose during the tenure of the ordinance would stand obliterated. According to the second construction, which is wider than the fi rst, the consequence of an ordinance having ceased to operate would relate back to the validity of an ordinance. 59. Now, one of the considerations that must be borne in mind is that Article 213 has not made a specifi c provision for the saving of rights, privileges, obligations or liabilities that have arisen under an ordinance which has since ceased to operate either upon the expiry of its term or upon a resolution of disapproval. Signifi cantly, there are other provisions of the Constitution where, when it so intended, the Constitution has made express provisions for the saving of rights or liabilities which arise under a law.” The court then overruled previous s, which had relied on and applied the “enduring rights” theory, to hold that rights and privileges, acquired, or created, and obligations cast or assumed would continue, even if the ordinance were to lapse, or become void. It was held that: “68. [..] The enduring rights theory which was accepted in the in Bhupendra Kumar Bose was extrapolated from the consequences emanating from the expiry of a temporary act. That theory cannot be applied to the power to frame ordinances. Acceptance of the doctrine of enduring rights in the context of an ordinance would lead to a situation where the exercise of power by the Governor would survive in terms of the creation of rights and privileges, obligations and liabilities on the hypothesis that these are of an enduring character. The legislature may not have had an opportunity to even discuss or debate the ordinance (where, as in the present case, none of the ordinances was laid before the legislature); an ordinance may have been specifi cally disapproved or may have ceased to operate upon the expiry of the prescribed period.