When the legislature are establishing such a tribunal or body with limited jurisdiction, they also have to consider, whatever jurisdiction they give them, whether there shall be any appeal from their decision, for otherwise there will be none. In the second of the two cases, I have mentioned it is erroneous application of the formula to say that the tribunal cannot give themselves jurisdiction by wrongly deciding certain facts to exist, because the legislature gave them jurisdiction to determine all the facts including the existence of the preliminary facts on which the further exercise of their jurisdiction depends; and if they were given jurisdiction so to decide, without any appeal being given, there is no appeal from such exercise of their jurisdiction.” 14.The tribunal constituted to hear appeals under Section 24 has been constituted in these terms: “Any person aggrieved by an made under Section 7, Section 16, Section 19 or Section 38 may prefer an appeal in such manner and within such time as may be prescribed— (a) to the Custodian, where the original has been passed by a Deputy or Assistant Custodian; (b) to the Custodian General, where the original has been passed by the Custodian, an Additional Custodian or an authorised Deputy Custodian.” 15. Like all courts of appeal exercising general jurisdiction in civil cases, the respondent has been constituted an appellate court in words of the widest amplitude and the legislature has not limited his jurisdiction by providing that such exercise will depend on the existence of any particular state of facts. Ordinarily, a court of appeal has not only jurisdiction to determine the soundness of the decision of the CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 785 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] inferior court as a court of error, but by the very nature of things it has also jurisdiction to determine any points raised before it in the nature of preliminary issues by the parties. Such jurisdiction is inherent in its very constitution as a court of appeal. Whether an appeal is competent, whether a party has locus standi to prefer it, whether the appeal in substance is from one or another and whether it has been preferred in proper form and within the time prescribed, are all matters for the decision of the appellate court so constituted. Such a tribunal falls within Class 2 of the classifi cation of the Master of the Rolls [R. v. CIT, (1888) LR 21 QBD 313 (CA)] . In these circumstances, it seems to us that the of the High Court of Punjab that a writ of certiorari could not be issued to the respondent quashing the of 13-5-1950, was right. We are further of the opinion that none of the contentions raised has any merit whatsoever.” 71. This Court in Parry and Company Limited v. Commercial Employees’ Association, Madras and Another (1952) 1 SCC 449 : AIR 1952 SC 179, held: “14. The records of the case do not disclose any error apparent on the face of the proceeding or any irregularity in the procedure adopted by the Labour Commissioner which goes contrary to the principles of natural justice.