Section 49 of the 1948 Act only enables the Board to prescribe the conditions of supply in a contract to be D entered into with the prospective consumer. Such conditions of supply cannot be termed as rules or regulations as they are not published in the official gazette and therefore, cannot have the character of regulations and are not statutory in character; and E c. A condition requiring an applicant to clear the past dues of a previous consumer before the application for a fresh connection is considered is manifestly unfair. The arrears are due to a default committed by a previous consumer and the negligence of the Electric Utilities which continued to supply electricity despite default, without F resorting to its power of disconnection. d. Subordinate Legislation a. The liability of one person, whether statutory or contractual, cannot be enforced against another person G unless there is a substantive provision in law to do so. Such enforcement of liability cannot be provided by a piece of delegated legislation; b. Even if it is assumed that such liability can be enforced by a delegated legislation, the parent law must clearly H 666 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A prescribe the power of framing such a piece of legislation. Neither the 1910 Act nor the 1948 Act provides any specific provision empowering the Electricity Board to recover the electricity dues of the previous owner or occupier of the premises from the new owner or occupier of premises in question; B c. The scheme of the 2003 Act, from Sections 43 to 49, makes it evident that no specific power has been conferred upon the State Commission under Section 50 read with Section 181 of the 2003 Act or with the State under Section 180 of the 2003 Act to add further C substantive conditions like clearance of past dues of another consumer; and d. It is a settled principle of law that for framing any rule or regulation, a specific source of power must be provided in the parent legislation. D e. Electricity arrears do not constitute a charge over the premises a. Electricity dues do not constitute a charge over property as they do not run with the land. Only a fiscal levy by way of statutory exaction could be fastened on land or E any other immovable property. The State Commission under Section 50 of the 2003 Act can only frame regulations for supply of electricity and has no power to provide for any fiscal exaction. Only a state legislation can provide for a charge on a property by providing for F levy of a duty on consumption or sale of electricity, under Entry 53 of List II of the Seventh Schedule; b. There is no provision under the 2003 Act for creating charge on the premises and a charge cannot be introduced by way of Regulations as the subject matter G is not covered under Section 50 of the 2003 Act; c. The Conditions of Supply are contractual and therefore do not constitute a charge under Section 100 of the Transfer of Property Act 1882.