S.O. 152(E) dated 10.02.1988. 114 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. regulation of electricity or water or any other service was the resultant decision of the Central Government after such earlier hearing. (4) The Central Government shall within a period of 45 days from the date of receipt of the objections, if any or from the date up to which an opportunity is given to the person, offi cer or authority to fi le objections whichever is earlier, after considering the objections, if any, received from the person, offi cer or authority sought to be directed and for reasons to be recorded in writing, confi rm, modify or decide not to issue the proposed direction. (5) In case where the Central Government is of the opinion that in view of the likelihood of a grave injury to the environment it is not expedient to provide an opportunity to fi le objections against the proposed direction, it may, for reasons to be recorded in writing, issue directions without providing such an opportunity. (6) Every notice or direction required to be issued under this rule shall be deemed to be duly served (a) where the person to be served is a company, if the document is addressed in the name of the company at its registered offi ce or at its principal offi ce or place of business and is either- (i) sent by registered post, or (ii) delivered at its registered offi ce or at the principal offi ce or place of business; (b) where the person to be served is an offi cer serving Government, if the document is addressed to the person and a copy thereof is endorsed to this Head of the Department and also to the Secretary to the Government, as the case may be, in-charge of the Department in which for the time being the business relating to the Department in which the offi cer is employed is transacted and is either- (i) sent by registered post, or (ii) is given or tendered to him; (c) in any other case, if the document is addressed to the person to be served and- (i) is given or tendered to him, or TAMIL NADU AND PUDUCHERRY PAPER CUP MANUFACTURES 1149 ASSOCIATION v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (ii) if such person cannot be found, is affi xed on some conspicuous part of his last known place of residence or business or is given or tendered to some adult member of his family or is affi xed on some conspicuous part of the land or building, if any, to which it relates, or (iii) is sent by registered post to that person Explanation.-For the purpose of this sub-rule:- (a) “company” means any body corporate and includes a fi rm or other association of individuals; (b) “a servant” is not a member of the family” (emphasis supplied) 34. That the State has the legislative competence to impose a ban – of the kind contained in the government (one which may have the eff ect of aff ecting industries even) - in exercise of its power under Section 5 of the EPA, is borne out from a reading of the relevant provisions.