6. On 3 January 2020, the Regional Joint Director (Sugar) addressed a communication to the cooperative society adverting to the B fact that the complainants had alleged that the members whose names were set out in a list of members attached as ‘Annexure A’ were, as the case may be, not residing in the jurisdiction of the factory; not holding ten gunthas of land; and did not fulfill the requirements of eligibility in terms of the bye-laws. The notice to show cause also adverted to the fact that writ petitions were filed before the High Court of Judicature at C Bombay in which an had been passed on 20 December 2019 directing the Regional Joint Director to conclude the enquiry by 15 February 2020. 7. The cooperative society, upon receipt of the notice from the Regional Joint Director, forwarded a copy to all the members whose D eligibility was sought to be disputed. The allegations in the notice to show cause were disputed by at least some of the members. The members disputed the allegation that they were not eligible in terms of the bye-laws and sought an opportunity to produce evidence in support of their eligibility. E 8. On 14 February 2020, the Regional Joint Director (Sugar) held that the members whose names were set out in Annexure B to Annexure B-6 were disqualified from being members of the society. The breakup of these members is as follows: (i) 59 members did not hold the minimum area of agricultural F land within the jurisdiction of the factory; (ii) 709 members did not hold agricultural land within the jurisdiction of the factory; (iii) 205 members held land on the basis of usufructuary mortgages for which there was no entry in the revenue G records; (iv) 33 members were dead, requiring the deletion of their names; (v) 69 members were found to have been recorded more than H once; DEEPAK ANANDA PATIL v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 721 & ORS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (vi) The shareholding of 2 members stood cancelled; and A (vii) The factory had consented to the deletion of 338 members. A total of 1415 members comprised in Annexures B to B-6 to the were directed to be deleted. 484 members (Annexures A and A- 1) were found to meet the conditions of eligibility. B 9. An appeal against the of the Regional Joint Director (Sugar) under Section 152 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act 1960 was dismissed on 18 February 2021 by the Minister of Cooperation. 10. This led to the institution of writ petitions before the High C Court. The Single Judge rejected the Writ Petitions by the impugned and dated 22 September 2022. The Single Judge has observed that there was no controversy on factual aspects and dealt with the submission that the Registrar had no jurisdiction under Section 11 to enquire into whether a member stood disqualified after the formation or registration of the cooperative society. The Single Judge held that the D expression “for the purpose of the formation or registration or continuance of society” was deleted by way of an amendment to Section 11.