It states that the introduction of 2001 Rules by itself does not have any provision to add these essential services and facilities within the existing built-up environment. It states that it will only add residential density while ignoring other urban infrastructure thereby being detrimental to the city environment and will only lead to the long-term decline of the city. C 59. Chapter III of the said Report elaborately deals with the objections opposing redensification in Phase-I Sectors and reintroduction of the 2001 Rules in Chandigarh. It will be relevant to refer to the recommendations of the said Board, which read thus: D “CHAPTER-III: RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE BOARD 3.1. RESIDENTIAL All objections pertaining to the residential areas in the sectoral grid were taken together. The representationists were E given oral hearing also. The main objection which has been raised is regarding redensification of Phase 1 sectors and reintroduction of Apartment Rules in Chandigarh. The proposal in this regard in the draft Master Plan is reproduced below: “The Chandigarh Apartment Rules to be reintroduced: Sub F division of residential plots of 1,000 sq. yards and above into two dwelling units on each floor shall be permitted. The residential buildings on plots of less than 1000 sq. yards will be permitted floor-wise sub-division into separate dwelling units with not more than one dwelling unit on each floor of the building. The above provisions are to be allowed G within the prevailing FAR and Ground Coverage norms.” P-78 of CMP- 2031 The representationists have vehemently objected to the proposals contained in the Draft Master Plan regarding redensification and introduction of Apartment Rules. This Board H 632 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A had detailed deliberations on this issue and the views are as following. Rapid growth of urban population is predicted by census and planning authorities: Chandigarh being the headquarters of Punjab and Haryana along with being a major gateway of Himachal B Pradesh is uniquely positioned for exponential growth as it is an extremely attractive destination for all segn1ents of the population. With rapidly growing population that lives in slums and unauthorised residential developments within the periphery area along with increasingly unaffordable housing for lower and middle class families, we feel that there is necessity to increase the housing C stock for the success of the city. Perhaps with this objective in mind, the draft master plan makes a series of recommendations for increasing the housing stock of the city. One of these is the redensification of Phase I sectors and the introduction of the Apartment Rules. A more D careful examination of the facts will reveal that there exist several reasons why the introduction of Apartment Rules is not an appropriate solution to the city’s requirements of affordable housing. To enumerate a few: i) Chandigarh city has a distinct heritage value from the point E of view of city architecture and the basic concepts of sun, space and verdure in planning. An expert committee on heritage was constituted by GoI, whose recommendations have already been approved by the Government of India.