1 requested the plaintiff for financial help, because of which plaintiff obtained corporate H 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A loan of Rs. 05.00 Crores on its name from defendant No. 2 and advanced the same to defendant No. 1. 7. Even during the currency of the license agreement, plaintiff has paid other amounts also for and on behalf of the defendant No. 1 towards wages to the workers, revenue taxes, electricity B bills, excise duty, etc. 8. The cause of action has arisen because in lieu of all these financial help from plaintiff, defendant No. 1 entered into tripartite agreement and subsequently amended tripartite agreement with plaintiff and defendant No. 2 Bank, whereby defendant No. 1 C mortgaged the suit property with defendant No. 2 Bank and stood as guarantor towards the corporate loan which was obtained by plaintiff in its name to help out the defendant No. 1, wherein it has been specifically agreed by defendant No. 1 that unless all and full legitimate dues of the plaintiff has been paid up, plaintiff shall enjoy the possession of the suit property. D 9. That the cause of action for filing of the suit has arisen also because the plaintiff has to recover Rs. 32.66 Crores from the defendant No. 1 towards corporate loan and other amount, which the plaintiff has advanced to the defendant No. 1.” 5.2. As far as the first relief under paragraph 33(A) was E concerned, whereby respondent No. 1 sought recovery of Rs. 32.66 crore with interest @ 14% p.a. from the date of suit till realisation, the High Court observed that this relief would lie against the appellant who would be bound by the arbitration clause in the licence agreement. The rest of the prayers were against respondent No. 2 - the bank, and F respondent Nos. 3 to 5 - the subsequent purchasers, who were not parties to the arbitration agreement. In the opinion of the High Court, the fact that the reliefs were all interconnected and on the basis of multiple causes of action, the dispute could not be bifurcated. Thus, the High Court applied the law laid down in Sukanya Holdings Pvt. Ltd. v. Jayesh H. Pandya & Anr. : (2003) 5 SCC 531 and other referred decisions, to hold that G there was no error by the Commercial Court in rejecting the application under Section 8 of the Act of 1996. The relevant observations of the High Court are as follows: - “[8.8] Considering the above and the reliefs prayed / sought in the suit, it can be said that the prayer in terms of para 33(A) can be H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 123 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] said to be against the original defendant No.1 who is a party to A the arbitration agreement contained in the license agreement. Prayer in terms of paras 33(B), 33(C) and 33(E) can be said to be against the original defendant No.1 and original defendant Nos.3 to 5.