Consequently, all alienation made by the limited holder of property, would be manifestly void. This is because bhondedar or dholidar do not possess title or ownership right of the property that is granted to him, as a bhonda or dholi. 15. The inter-play of claims over shamlatdeh category land vis-à-vis the bhondedar, the Gram Panchayat and the proprietors of such land, may now be seen. The ownership to such lands rested in proportion to other lands of the village. For instance, an individual owning some land in the village also possessed additional proprietary rights and interest over shamlatdeh lands.4 However, with the enactment of the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1961, the nature of vesting of such lands with the village community was somewhat altered. The following discussion in State of Haryana vs. Jai Singh & Ors.5 would assist us in understanding the implication for community lands in the village: “¶24. Shamilat land in terms of Section 4 of the 1961 Act vested in the Gram Panchayat of the village. The vesting of shamilat land in a village panchayat brought about a paradigm shift in the ownership of rights in ‘shamilat deh’. The proprietary rights of the proprietary body of the village in shamilat land were extinguished by a statutory declaration. The proprietary and possessory rights of proprietors and non-proprietors in shamilat deh were to henceforth vest in a Gram Panchayat and used for common purposes of the entire village community, under the aegis of the Gram Panchayat. The shamilat deh lands as defi ned under Section 2 (g) of the 1961 Act now vest completely, that is, with ownership and title, in the Panchayat of the village concerned. The vesting of the shamilat deh lands or the village common lands in the Panchayat has been 4 Gram Panchayat of Village Jamalpur vs. Malwinder Singh, (1985) 3 SCC 661. 5 2022 SCC OnLine SC 418. LAJJA RAM & ORS. v. RATI CHAND & ORS. ETC 1533 for agrarian reforms and such vesting is protected by Article 31A of the Constitution.” 16. While such lands owned by the proprietors came to be vested in the Gram Panchayat, the Section 4 of the Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1961, noted certain important exceptions. The existing rights, title or interest of persons, who though not entered as occupancy tenants in the revenue records are accorded a similar status by custom like a bhondedar, dholidar, etc. and those would not be aff ected by such vesting of lands in the Gram Panchayat. 17. In the present matter, the Dfdt. No.1 (Narain Dass) held conditional and limited possessory rights as a bhondedar, subject to services being rendered towards the village community, as recorded in the jamabandi. Such limited right remains unaff ected and unaltered as long as the bhondedar fulfi lls their service obligations toward the village. The facts in this case however indicates that the Dfdt. No. 1 not only ceased to render the required services but also relocated to a diff erent place soon after unauthorisedly selling the suit land to Dfdts.