F 2.1 From the impugned and passed by the High Court, it is evident that before the High Court, it was the specific case on behalf of the Land Acquisition Collector (LAC) and so stated in the counter affidavit in paragraph 8 that since the Hon’ble High Court had granted stay against dispossession, therefore, the possession of the land G in question was not taken, however, the compensation with respect to the land in question was sent in RD. Despite the above, relying upon the earlier decision of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation and Anr. Vs. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki and Ors., (2014) 3 SCC 183, the High Court has allowed the writ petition and H has declared that the acquisition with respect to the land in question is DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. DEWAN CHAND 767 PRUTHI AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] deemed to have lapsed under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. However, A in the Constitution Bench decision in the case of Indore Development Authority Vs. Manoharlal and Ors., (2020) 8 SCC 129, this Court has subsequently overruled the earlier decision of this Court in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation and Anr. (supra), which has been relied upon by the High Court while passing the impugned and B . 2.2 In the case of Indore Development Authority (supra), the Constitution Bench of this Court has observed and held that if the possession could not be taken by the acquiring body / beneficiary due to the stay of the Court, the period of stay is to be excluded. Even otherwise, C we are of the opinion that once having obtained the stay against the dispossession and due to which the acquiring body / beneficiary could not have taken the possession, thereafter, it is not open for the landowner to contend that as the possession is not taken, he is entitled to the benefit of Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. D 2.3 In the case of Indore Development Authority (supra) in paragraphs 365 and 366, the Constitution Bench of this Court has observed and held as under:- “365. Resultantly, the decision rendered in Pune Municipal Corpn. [Pune Municipal Corpn. v. Harakchand E Misirimal Solanki, (2014) 3 SCC 183] is hereby overruled and all other decisions in which Pune Municipal Corpn. [Pune Municipal Corpn. v. Harakchand Misirimal Solanki, (2014) 3 SCC 183] has been followed, are also overruled. The decision in Sree Balaji Nagar Residential Assn. [Sree Balaji Nagar F Residential Assn. v. State of T.N., (2015) 3 SCC 353] cannot be said to be laying down good law, is overruled and other decisions following the same are also overruled. In Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra [(2018) 3 SCC 412], the aspect with respect to the proviso to Section 24(2) and whether “or” has to be read as “nor” or as “and” was not placed for G consideration. Therefore, that decision too cannot prevail, in the light of the discussion in the present . 366.