The Court has held that the amendment does not take away the right to vote, but only regulates the right so as to eliminate the evil of cross-voting by an elector who has G been elected to the Assembly of a particular State on the basis of a party nomination. The Court held: “461. By the amendment, the right to vote is not taken away. Each elected Member of the Legislative Assembly of the concerned State is fully entitled to vote in the election to H 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the Council of States. The only change that has come owing to the impugned amendment is that he has to disclose the way he has cast the vote to the representative of his Party. Parliament would justify it as merely a regulatory method to stem corruption and to ensure free and fair elections and more importantly to maintain purity of elections. This Court B has held that secrecy of ballot and purity of elections should normally co-exist. But in the case of the Council of States, the Parliament in its wisdom has deemed it proper that secrecy of ballot should be done away with in such an indirect election, to ensure purity of election.” C 14. The challenge in the petition, as framed, is to the validity of Rule 39-AA. The challenge must fail in view of the of the Constitution Bench. However, the petitioner, appearing through Mr S N Shukla, submits that the Rule should be read down. The manner in which he proposes that the Rule should be re-interpreted is by postulating that D in the event that the elector does not show the ballot to the agent of the political party, the Presiding Officer should disclose the ballot to the agent of the political party. In that event, it was urged, there would be no loss of the right to vote per se. 15. Apart from the fact that this is not the canvas of the petition, E as drafted, even on merits, we do not find any substance in the plea. 16. The fact that an alternate means could subserve the same end would not make the Rule unconstitutional. As the Constitution Bench held, the Rule does not prevent or foreclose the exercise of the right to vote but only regulates it. The cancellation of the ballot is in a situation where the elector refuses to disclose it to the agent of his political party. F The elector having evinced an intent not to disclose the vote to the agent of their political party, it would be far-fetched to still sustain the vote by casting the burden on the Presiding Officer to disclose the vote to the authorised representative of the political party. As the Constitution Bench also noted, this does not violate a free and fair election. The provision G was inserted specifically to prevent cross-voting in elections to the Council of States. In this backdrop, there is no merit in the challenge.