682 SUPREME CO U [2R0T2 3R]E 5P SO.CRT.RS. 682 [2023] 5 S.C.R. A INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LTD. AND ORS. v. M/S. SATHYANARAYANA SERVICE STATION & ANR (Civil Appeal No.3533 of 2023) B MAY 09, 2023 [K. M. JOSEPH AND B. V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996: s. 34 – Application for setting aside arbitral award – Appellant-IOC entered into petrol pump dealer agreement with the first respondent – After three years, C the first respondent sought to withdraw from the dealership and the said request was notarised, and thereafter accepted by the appellant – Subsequently, first respondent expressed his intention to withdraw the resignation from the dealership, however, the same was not accepted – IOC took possession of the petroleum outlet and new D dealer was awarded the dealership – First respondent challenged the same – Arbitration award in favour of the appellant – First respondent then filed arbitration suit u/s 34 which was dismissed – However, the High Court set aside the arbitration award and directed the first respondent be restored the dealership – On appeal, held: High Court erred in proceeding to restoration of the dealership E to the first respondent after setting aside the award and by leaving it open to the first respondent to claim damages – Court cannot after setting aside the award, proceed to grant further relief by modifying the award –First respondent indeed invoked clause (3) – Clause (3) did not provide for resignation from dealership – It F provides only for termination of the agreement – First respondent indicated in letter that it was ‘withdrawing’ from the dealership – Proceeding on the footing that a premature termination of the agreement would need acceptance, the view taken by the arbitrator cannot be characterised as being perverse – However, the High Court acted illegally in interfering with the finding of the arbitrator G found acceptable to the District Judge u/s. 34 that there was acceptance, thus, the impugned set aside. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The first respondent cannot be permitted to contend that termination of the dealership cannot be brought H 682 INDIAN OIL CORP. LTD. AND ORS. v. M/S. 683 SATHYANARAYANA SERVICE STATION about by giving a three months’ notice during the first 15 years A of the dealership. Such an interpretation was not placed for the consideration of the Arbitrator. It is not even raised before the District Court or the High Court. The first respondent is calling upon this Court in a case arising under the Act to place a wholly novel interpretation. It is not as if the contention canvassed is B the only view possible. In fact, the conduct of the first respondent is premised on the interpretation which leaves it open to the parties to terminate the contract by giving three months’ notice even within the first 15 years of the dealership. [Para 18][696-C- F] 1.2 On a perusal of clause (3), in fact, it occurred that there C is a term in a contract which expressly does not require any acceptance of the other party for the premature termination of the contract by giving a notice of three months.