2.4. When matters stood thus, the concluded assessments for earlier assessment years were reopened by issuance of notices under Section 148 of the Act. The appellant fi led returns under protest with respect to the said assessment years. 2.5. Before the Settlement Commission, the Respondents-Revenue raised a preliminary objection contending that the appellant did not fulfi l the qualifying criteria as contemplated under Section 245C(1) and hence, the application fi led by the appellant was not maintainable, as, under the said provision, the appellant was required to make an application in the prescribed manner containing full and true disclosure of its income which had not been 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer and also the manner in which such income had been derived. That unless there is a true and full disclosure there would be no valid application and the Settlement Commission will not be able to assume jurisdiction to proceed with the admission of the application. It was thus contended that the purported application made before the Settlement Commission was not an application as contemplated under section 245C (1) of the Act for the reason that the appellant had not made a full and true disclosure of its income which had not been disclosed before the Assessing Offi cer. 2.6. After considering the contentions of both parties, the Settlement Commission passed an dated 11.12.2000 entertaining the application fi led by the appellant under Section 245C and rejecting the preliminary objections raised by the Revenue. The Settlement Commission allowed the application fi led by the appellant by way of a speaking and permitted the appellant to pursue its claim under Section 245D. Thus, the application was proceeded further under Section 245D (1) of the Act. 2.7. The Revenue challenged the dated 11.12.2000 passed by the Settlement Commission before the High Court of Karnataka at Bangalore by way of Writ Petition No. 13111 of 2001. The Revenue questioned the jurisdiction of the Settlement Commission in entertaining the application fi led by the appellant under Section 245C(1) of the Act. 2.8. The learned Single Judge of the High Court of Karnataka, after going through the legislative history of the provisions of Chapter-XIXA, accepted the argument advanced by the appellant that the proviso to Section 245C as it stood earlier, which enabled the Commissioner to raise an objection even at the threshold to entertain an application of this nature had been later shifted to sub-section (l)(A) of Section 245D and from the year 1991, it had been totally omitted and in the light of such legislative history, it was not open to the Revenue to raise any such preliminary objection regarding maintainability of the application itself. It was further held that the application can be proceeded with by the Settlement Commission for determination of the same on merits and it was not necessary that the Revenue should be permitted to raise a preliminary objection as to the maintainability of the application. KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 7 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.]