As noted above, we have heard learned senior counsel for the respective parties and perused the material on record. 9. At the outset, this Court queried as to how a Civil Revision Petition was maintainable against an passed by the Trial Court dismissing the application fi led seeking condonation of delay in fi ling the petition under IX Rule 13 CPC and consequently rejecting or dismissing the said petition also. 10. During the course of submissions, it was noted that, in fact, the rejection of a petition fi led under IX Rule 13 CPC is an appealable and, therefore under XLIII Rule 1(d) CPC, an appeal ought to have been fi led before the High Court rather than a Civil Revision Petition under Section 115 of the CPC. 11. For the sake of immediate reference, XLIII Rule 1(d) CPC is extracted as under in juxtaposition to Section 115 of the CPC: “ XLIII Rule 1. Appeal from s – An appeal shall lie from the following s under the provisions of section 104, namely:- (a) xxx (c) xxx (d) an under rule 13 of IX rejecting an application (in a case open to appeal) for an to set aside a decree passed ex- parte.” Section 115 – Revision. (1) The High Court may call for the record of any case which has been decided by any Court subordinate to such High Court and in which no appeal lies thereto, and if such subordinate Court appears- a) to have exercised a jurisdiction not vested in it by law, or (b) to have failed to exercise a jurisdiction so vested, or THE KOUSHIK MUTUALLY AIDED COOPERATIVE 845 HOUSING SOCIETY v. AMEENA BEGUM & ANOTHER (c) to have acted in the exercise of its jurisdiction illegally or with material irregularity, the High Court may make such in the case as it thinks fi t: Provided that the High Court shall not, under this section, vary or reverse any made, or any deciding an issue, in the course of a suit or other proceeding, except where the , if it had been made in favour of the party applying for revision, would have fi nally disposed of the suit or other proceedings. (2) The High Court shall not, under this section, vary or reverse any decree or against which an appeal lies either to the High Court or to any Court subordinate thereto. (3) A revision shall not operate as a stay of suit or other proceeding before the Court except where such suit or other proceeding is stayed by the High Court. Explanation.—In this section, the expression “any case which has been decided” includes any made, or any deciding an issue, in the course of a suit or other proceeding.” 12. As against the ex-parte decree, a defendant has three remedies available to him. First, is by way of fi ling an application under IX Rule 13 CPC seeking for setting aside ex-parte decree; the second, is by way of fi ling an appeal against the ex-parte decree under Section 96(2) of the CPC and the third, is by way of review before the same court against the ex-parte decree.