She further submitted that ultimately pursuant to the remand made by the High Court full opportunity will be given to all parties and therefore, the impugned and impugned of the High Court may not be interfered with. Learned counsel appearing for deceased-respondent No.2 submitted that in the event this Court is to remand these matters to the High Court for fresh consideration then an opportunity may be given to the legal representatives of deceased Respondent No.2 to come on record so as to contest the appeals in accordance with law. The aforesaid narration of facts and contentions would not require reiteration. Learned counsel for the appellants has brought to our notice the 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. following three serious lacunae in the impugned as well as the passed in the review petition by the High Court: (i) In the absence of framing any substantial questions of law, the Regular Second Appeal has been allowed. This is in breach of the mandate under Section 100 of the CPC; (ii) That the impugned does not indicate that respondent Nos.1, 3 and 4 were heard by the High Court inasmuch as the cause title indicates that only the second respondent as caveator was heard and in the absence of the said respondents being heard, the and passed by the fi rst appellate court in their favour has been set aside. (iii) That a delay of 2945 days has been condoned which has compounded the aforesaid serious infi rmity in the impugned of the High Court. (iv) We may also add that the matter has been remanded to the trial court for a fresh consideration when the fi rst appellate court had not considered the Regular Appeal on merits. If the High Court thought it fi t to condone the delay in fi ling the Regular Appeal then the matter had to be remanded to the fi rst appellate court to consider the Regular Appeal on merits and not just set aside the trial court decree and remand the case to the trial court for a fresh adjudication. The jurisdiction of the High Court to entertain a Second Appeal is well- known. It is a unique jurisdiction of the High Court where the High Court can entertain a Regular Second Appeal purely on a “substantial” question of law not even a question of law or a question of fact. It is a settled law that the fi rst appellate court is the fi nal Court insofar as the question of facts are concerned and it is only when substantial questions of law would arise in a case that the High Court can entertain a Regular Second Appeal and if at the stage of admission such substantial questions of law are discerned by the High Court the same would have to be framed and the appeal(s) would have to be admitted. It is only thereafter that the parties have to be heard on the substantial questions of law that are framed by the High Court at the stage of admission.