The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Electricity Act, 2003 would reveal that one of the main features for enactment of the Electricity Act was delicensing of generation and freely permitting captive generation. In the said , we have recorded the statement of the learned Attorney General made C in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra) that the electricity sector, having been privatized, had largely fulfilled the object sought to be achieved by the Electricity Act. He had stated that delicensed electricity generation resulted in production of far greater electricity than was earlier produced. The learned Attorney General had further urged the Court not to disturb the delicate balance sought to be achieved by the Electricity Act, i.e. D that the producers or generators of electricity, in that they set up power plants, be entitled to a reasonable margin of profit and a reasonable return on their capital, so that they are induced to set up more and more power plants. At the same time, the interests of the end consumers also need to be protected. E 171. However, we find that, in spite of this position, litigations after litigations are pursued. Though the concurrent s of statutory expert bodies cannot be said to be perverse, arbitrary or in violation of the statutory provisions, the same are challenged. 172. It will be relevant to note the following observations of the F CERC in its and dated 16th May 2019, passed in Petition No. 8/MP/2014, which falls for consideration in Civil Appeal No. 39 of 2021 before this Court: “(d) Approaching the Commission every year for allowance of compensation for such Change in Law is a time-consuming G process. Accordingly, the mechanism prescribed above may be adopted for payment of compensation due to Change in Law events allowed as per PPA for the subsequent period as well.” 173. It will also be relevant to refer to some of the observations of the learned APTEL in its dated 21st December 2021, which falls H 238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A for consideration in Civil Appeal No.2908 of 2022 before this Court, which read thus: “115. The Standing Committee of Parliament in its Report (dated 07.03.2018) on Energy titled ‘Stressed/ Non-Performing Assets in Electricity Sector’ has recognized the financial B stress faced by generating companies on account of delay in recovery of Change in Law compensations and has recommended thus: “The Committee, therefore, recommend that appropriate steps should be taken to ensure that C there should be consistency and uniformity with regard to s emanating from the status of change in law. Provisions should also be made for certain percentage of payments of regulatory dues to be paid by Discoms in case the s of regulators are being taken to APTEL/ higher D judiciary for their consideration and decision” 116. The Report lays stress on the obligation of the distribution companies to pay the approved Change in Law compensation even while Regulatory Commission’s s are challenged. The Policy directive dated 27.08.2018 E issued in terms of Section 107 of the Electricity Act, 2003 by the Ministry of Power (MoP) to the CERC emphasized on the need to ensure expeditious recovery of Change in Law compensation.