C 3.2 It is further submitted that all through, out and right from the very beginning, the appellant – buyer was ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. He has prayed that the following aspects emerging from the evidence on record be considered, while considering the issue as to readiness and willingness on the part of the appellant to perform D his part of the agreement dated 13.03.2007: - (i) That the appellant specifically averred in the plaint that he is ready and willing to perform the agreement dated 13.03.2007; (ii) That in the suit notice dated 20.11.2007 the plaintiff E specifically averred that he is ready and willing to pay the balance sale consideration; (iii) The plaintiff in his evidence stated that he is ready and willing to perform the agreement. In the deposition it was further stated that he approached the defendant – seller in F the month of June, 2007 and again in July, 2007 with the balance sale consideration. That there is no cross- examination in this regard; (iv) The plaintiff examined PW2 and PW3, the attestors to the agreement to sell, who specifically stated that in June, 2007, the plaintiff approached the defendants and asked them to G take the balance sale consideration in cash. That there is no cross- examination in this regard; (v) That the DW-1 – first defendant admitted in her cross- examination that she executed the agreement and that she was the owner of the said property; H 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A (vi) That she had affixed her signatures on the agreement and that she received Rs. 3 lakhs; (vii) That the appellant had deposited the balance consideration of Rs. 9,74,000/- before the learned Trial Court on 31.10.2011. B 3.3 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant – buyer has further submitted that as such the defendant took a dishonest stand before the learned Trial Court and denied the execution of the agreement. It is further submitted that in the written statement, the specific stand taken by the defendants was that no agreement to sell was executed C between the parties. It is contended that however, defendant No. 1 subsequently admitted that Rs. 3 lakhs were received by her, and a receipt dated 13.03.2007 was issued in that regard. 3.4 It is further contended that even the seller – defendant No. 1 took contradictory and dishonest pleas. She initially denied the execution of the agreement, then denied that it was an agreement to sell but only D an agreement in respect of a loan transaction. 3.5 It is next contended by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that as such there are concurrent findings recorded by the learned Trial Court as well as the High Court on execution of the agreement to sell by defendant No. 1 and to the effect that Rs. 3 lakhs E were paid by the buyer by way of earnest money and that the agreement to sell was not in respect of security and/or a loan transaction but it was for an outright sale.