(iii) Any amount retained by the lottery distributor or selling agent from gross sale amount of lottery tickets in addition to the fee or commission, if any, or, as the case may be, the discount received, that is to say, the difference in the face value of lottery ticket and G the price at which the distributor or selling agent gets such ticket. (c) “gross amount charged” includes payment by cheque, credit card, deduction from account and any form of payment by issue of credit notes or debit notes and 2[book adjustment, and any amount credited or debited, as the case may be, to any account, whether called “Suspense account” or by any other name, in the H CC AND CE AND ST, NOIDA v. M/S INTERARCH BUILDING 989 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] books of account of a person liable to pay service tax, where the A transaction of taxable service is with any associated enterprise. ]]” 4.8 It is submitted that the Central Board of Excise and Customs vide letter dated 22.05.2007 issued clarifications regarding various amendments brought out Vide Finance Act, 2007. It is submitted that paras 9.1 to 9.7 which are relevant read as under: B “9.1 Works contract is a composite contract for supply of goods and services. A composite works contract is vivisected and, -(i) VAT/sales tax is leviable on transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of works contract [Art.366 (29A)(b) of the Constitution of India], and C (ii) Service tax will be leviable on services provided in relation to the execution of works contract. 9.2 Service tax is chargeable on the gross amount charged by the service provider for the taxable services provided (Section 67). In the case of works contract, the taxable value of services is to D be determined by vivisecting the composite works contract. Rule 2A of Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 [Notification No.29/2007-Service tax, dated 22.05.2007], provides that value of works contract service shall be equivalent to the gross amount charged for the works contract less the value of E transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of the said works contract. Thus, wherever the service provider maintains records, the value of services shall be the gross amount charged for the works contract less the value of transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of works contract. F 9.3 Wherever VAT/sales tax on transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of works contract is paid on actual value, the same value is also taken for the purpose of determining the value of works contract service. In other cases, value of works contract service shall be determined based on the actual. It has also been explained that value of works contract service shall G include: (i) labour charges for execution of the works; (ii) amount paid to a sub-contractor for labour and services; (iii) charges for planning, designing and architect’s fees; (iv) charges for obtaining on hir or otherwise, machinery and tools uses for the execution of the works contract; (v) cost of consumables such as water, H 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.