CBI has misused the provisions of Section 41A of the CrPC to arrest Respondent No. 1. A bare perusal of the provision and the guidelines laid down by this Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar5 suggest that a notice under Section 41A would be issued only when the investigating agency does not require the custody of a person. In the present case, C notices under Section 41A were issued post the raid conducted by ACB team at Respondent No. 1’s office by which time they had decided to arrest him; vii. As per settled law of this Court, Respondent No. 1 cannot be termed as an absconder as he was availing his legal D remedies. However, despite this, the investigating agency published notices in the media and pasted ‘Wanted’ posters with Respondent No. 1’s name, photo and designation at various places, which indicates mala fides of the investigation agency; E viii. The bona fides of Respondent No. 1 are evident from his conduct post the grant of anticipatory bail. As directed by the High Court, Respondent No. 1 appeared before the CBI on at least four occasions, as and when called. Respondent No. 1 has also voluntarily given his voice samples. Given the fact that Respondent No. 1 is cooperating with the F investigation, custodial interrogation is not required. The High Court erred in directing that, despite the grant of anticipatory bail, the investigating agency would be at liberty to apply to the competent Magistrate for police remand. This part of the was to the disadvantage of Respondent No. 1 but G he abided by the same and appeared before the Court when the CBI applied for police remand; ix. Respondent No. 1 has an impeccable service record as is evident from his posting to one of the most sensitive H 5 (2014) 8 SCC 273. CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH 491 KARNANI & ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] assignments in the department. Such postings are only given A to senior officers with clean images. His integrity is beyond doubt and he has an unblemished past record. There is no case of disproportionate assets against Respondent No. 1; x. Section 17A of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 as amended in 2018, provides for a bar on any enquiry, inquiry B or investigation by a police officer into an alleged offence by a public servant, where the alleged offence relates to any decision taken or recommendation made in exercise of official functions or duties, without the previous approval of the competent authority. In this case, the investigating C agency has not complied with the mandatory procedure of Section 17A and has initiated investigation on the complaint without any prior approval of the Competent Authority. The breach of these mandatory conditions vitiates the proceedings initiated against Respondent No. 1; D xi. In these circumstances, the High Court has rightly granted anticipatory bail to Respondent No. 1 and has provided adequate reasoning for the same in paragraph 12 of the impugned ; xii.