1090 SUPREME CO[U20R2T3 ]R 2E SP.OC.RRT. S1090 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST BENGAL & ORS. (Transfer Petition (Criminal) No. 409 of 2021) B MARCH 17, 2023 [SURYA KANT AND J. K. MAHESHWARI, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss. 321, 406 – Constitution of India – Art. 139A – Supreme Court Rules, 2013 – Or. 39 – Petitioner-brother of deceased sought transfer of the C criminal trial pending in West Bengal to Assam – Victim-deceased was shot dead by unknown persons – Respondents-accused were charged u/s. 302 r/w s.120B of the IPC and u/ss. 25 and 27 of the Arms Act 1959 – Charge-sheet was filed – Trial commenced – Respondent no.2 (main accused) was in the custody – During D pendency of trial, a notification issued by the State of West Bengal directing the Public Prosecutor to apply u/s.321 of Cr.P.C. and withdraw proceedings against respondents subject to consent of trial Court – Notification challenged before the High Court – Pursuant to the direction of the State, Public Prosecutor moved application before the trial Court for withdrawal of the prosecution E case – This application was taken up by the Link Judge presiding in the trial Court, despite case was listed for evidence – Link Judge was informed regarding the challenge to the notification in the High Court, regardless thereto, he heard the application and allowed the same – Respondents were acquitted – De-facto complainant filed F writ petition before the Single Judge of the High Court, which set aside the notification of the State directing withdrawal of the case – Division Bench set aside the and remanded the matter for fresh adjudication – Single Judge held that of the Link Judge would not be acted upon and respondent no.2 was not be released from custody – Meanwhile, trial proceeded – Petitioner filed G application to declare the de-facto complainant hostile – However, the said application was rejected – Petitioner filed transfer petition – Petitioner alleged multiple abnormalities during the trial, such as change of Public Prosecutor four times and harassment meted out to the prosecution witnesses and relatives of the deceased – Held: H 1090 AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST 1091 BENGAL & ORS. No legal necessity to transfer the trial outside the State of West A Bengal – More than 90 witnesses, most of them Bengali speaking are yet to be examined – Transfer may cause serious impediment in the deposition of those witnesses and some of them may be reluctant to travel to a far away place – However, considering all facts and circumstances, following directions issued: (i) FIR No.495/2019 B registered transferred from the Court of Additional Session Judge, 3rd Court, Tamluk, Purba Medinipur, West Bengal to the Court of Chief Judge, City Sessions Court at Calcutta; (ii) Trial to be conducted by the Chief Judge, City Sessions Court and case not to be transferred to Additional Sessions Judge; (iii) Trial to be taken on weekly basis; (iv) State directed to appoint a Special Public C Prosecutor on the recommendations of the Chief Judge, City Sessions Court with prior approval of the High Court; (v) Wife of deceased and petitioner and other crucial prosecution witnesses to be provided with adequate security; (vi) De-facto complainant to be cross examined by the Special Public Prosecutor; (vii) Respondent no.2 D or any other accused who are in custody to be transferred to Central Jail at Calcutta; (viii) Respondent no.2 not to be enlarged on bail till the conclusion of trial save and except by the High Court; (viii) Portfolio Judge of the High Court to monitor and supervise the trial proceedings.