The Act was enacted to provide for speedy disposal of cases relating to arbitration with least court intervention. With the passage of time, some diffi culties in the applicability of the Act have been noticed. Interpretation of the provisions of the Act by courts in some cases have resulted in delay of disposal of arbitration proceedings and increase in interference of courts in arbitration matters, which tend to defeat the object of the Act. * * * 6. (iv) to provide that while considering any application for appointment of arbitrator, the High Court or the Supreme Court shall examine the existence of a prima facie arbitration agreement and not other issues; Notes on the Clauses on amendment in Section 8 read as follows: “Clause 4 of the Bill seeks to amend Section 8 of the principal Act to specify that the judicial authority shall refer the parties to arbitration SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 285 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] unless it fi nds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists. A proviso below sub-section (2) is inserted to provide that where the original arbitration agreement or certifi ed copy thereof is not available with the party who apply under sub-section (1), and is retained by the other party, such party shall fi le a copy of the arbitration agreement along with application under sub-section (1) praying to the court to call upon the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or its duly certifi ed copy before the court. On amendment to Section 11 by inserting sub-section (6-A), the following was stated: “Clause 6 of the Bill seeks to amend Section 11 of the principal Act to provide that appointment of arbitrator shall be made by the Supreme Court or the High Court, as the case may be, instead of the Chief Justice of India or the Chief Justice of the High Court. Sub-section (6-A) is inserted to provide that the Supreme Court or the High Court while considering application under sub-sections (4) to (6) shall confi ne to the examination of an arbitration agreement.” 20. The amendment which was made in Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 came up for consideration before this Court in Ameet Lalchand Shah v. Rishabh Enterprises, (2018) 15 SCC 678, where in paras 28 and 30, it was stated as under: “28. ‘Principally four amendments to Section 8(1) have been introduced by the 2015 Amendments — (i) the relevant “party” that is entitled to apply seeking reference to arbitration has been clarifi ed/ amplifi ed to include persons claiming “through or under” such a party to the arbitration agreement; (ii) scope of examination by the judicial authority is restricted to a fi nding whether “no valid arbitration agreement exists” and the nature of examination by the judicial authority is clarifi ed to be on a “prima facie” basis; (iii) the cut-off date by which an application under Section 8 is to be presented has been defi ned to mean “the date of” submitting the fi rst statement on the substance of the dispute; and (iv) the amendments are expressed to apply notwithstanding any prior judicial precedent.