[2023] 9 S.C.R. 637 : 2023 INSC 560 637 K. C. NINAN A v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & ORS. (Civil Appeal No 2109-2110 of 2004) MAY 19, 2023 B [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, HIMA KOHLI AND PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, JJ.] Electricity Act, 2003 – ss. 42 and 61 – Liability of subsequent C owner to pay electricity charges due on previous owner – Whether the arrears of unpaid electricity dues outstanding from the erstwhile owner can be claimed from the subsequent owner, who has acquired the property in proceedings initiated to enforce mortgages or to pay off the dues of creditors – Held: In to provide a supply of electricity to consumers, a distribution licensee is required to lay D down infrastructure such as electricity lines, transformers, and other equipment – The licensees are required to maintain the infrastructure even if the consumer does not consume electricity – The 2003 Act has been enacted to promote the development of the electricity industry as well as to protect the interests of the consumers and to E ensure the supply of electricity to all areas – The Supply Conditions providing for recoupment of electricity dues of a previous consumer from a new owner are necessary to recover the costs incurred for laying down the infrastructure as well as the ongoing current liabilities towards the electricity generation and transmission companies – Apart from protecting a public good, such conditions F also have a reasonable nexus with objects of the 2003 Act, such as a robust development of the electricity industry, protecting the interests of consumers as well as the financial interests of the distribution licensees – It is just and reasonable for distribution licensees to specify conditions of supply requiring the subsequent G owner or occupier of premises to pay the arrears of electricity dues of the previous owner or occupier as a pre-condition for the grant of an electricity connection to protect their commercial interests, as well as the welfare of consumers of electricity. H 637 638 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s.100 – Charge – Whether arrears of electricity can become a charge or encumbrance over the premise – Effect of statutory regulations or rules enacted by a regulatory commission – Held: A charge cannot be enforced against a transferee if they have no notice of the same, unless the requirement of such notice has been dispensed with by law – The provisions of B the 1910 Act, 1948 Act, and the 2003 Act do not provide that the arrears of electricity dues would constitute a charge on the property or that such a charge shall be enforceable against a transferee without notice – In Isha Marbles, the Supreme Court observed that under the provisions of 1910 Act r/w. 1948 Act, electricity arrears C do not create a charge over the property – Consequently, in general law, a transferee of the premises cannot be made liable for the outstanding dues of the previous owner since electricity arrears do not automatically become a charge over the premises – The rule making power contained u/s.