The same would be in accordance with the dictum as laid in Vineeta Sharma (supra), while passing the final decree. At the cost of repetition, we state that by virtue of the preliminary decree passed by the Trial Court, which was confirmed by the Division Bench of the High Court, the C issues decided therein will be deemed to have become final but as the partition suit is required to be decided in stages, the same can be regarded as fully and completely decided only when the final decree is passed. As the law governing the parties has been amended before the conclusion of the final decree proceedings, the party benefitted by such amendment (like the two daughters in the case on hand) can make a request to the D Trial Court to take cognizance of the Amendment and give effect to the same. 81. We do not find any merit in the submissions canvassed by Mr. Basant, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Appellants that in a partition suit, the preliminary decree cannot be varied in the final decree E proceedings, despite the amendment of the law governing the parties. 82. In our opinion, no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed upon Courts below, while determining the shares of the parties. The only thing that needs to be done now is to give effect to the amendment in the provisions of Section 6 of the 1956 F Act and redetermine the shares of the parties accordingly. To put it straight, the Plaintiff is entitled to 1/3rd share in all the properties of her Late father. The issue whether all the properties were ancestral as raised on behalf of the Appellants pale into insignificance. ISSUE NO. 2 G 83. We shall now proceed to answer the issue No. 2 whether the High Court was justified in allowing the cross-appeal filed by the Original Defendant No. 2 on the ground that the settlement arrived at between the Appellants (Defendant No 1 and Defendant No. 2) was not valid and binding under XXIII Rule 3 of the CPC. H 68 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 84. Mr. Basant, learned Senior Counsel vehemently submitted that the settlement between the Defendant No. 1 and his sister i.e., the Defendant No. 2 was duly signed on affidavit way back on 29.03.1991. The said settlement was taken on record by the High Court on 9.04.1991 i.e., at the time of the final hearing of the first appeal. The first appeal came to be disposed of on 1.08.2000, modifying the decree to the extent B of incorporating the terms of the compromise agreement between the two Defendants. It is only after a lapse of ten years that during the pendency of the appeal filed by the Appellants herein before the Division Bench of the High Court that the Defendant No. 2 thought fit to file cross-appeal, challenging the alleged compromise. Mr. Basant submitted C that such cross-appeal is not maintainable and even if it held to be maintainable, the same should not have been entertained and allowed after the lapse of almost ten years from the date of recording of the settlement.