(Nawab Zafar Jung and Nawab Imam Jung were the sons of Khurshid Jah). To be precise, the surviving heirs of Nawab Zafar Jung were arrayed as, (i) the plaintiff; and (ii) defendant H 296 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Nos. 1-35 and 44-49. Similarly, the surviving heirs of Nawab Imam Jung were arrayed as defendant Nos. 36-42 and 50. Defendant No.43 was the Jagir Administrator of the Government of Hyderabad. It may also be mentioned here that at the time of the institution of the suit, there were only 43 defendants with the Jagir Administrator being the last, namely defendant No.43. However, subsequently the number of B defendants swelled to unmanageable proportions both on account of the death of the original defendants one after the other and various other factors which we shall see later. 32. The reliefs sought for in the suit were as follows:- C “The Plaintiff therefore prays that a preliminary decree be passed:- (a) directing that the properties detailed in Schedule IV which are in the possession of the part as detailed therein and the other (b) category properties detailed in para (12) above which are in the possession of defendant No. 43 and all other properties whatsoever D that may be found to belong to the Mathruka of the late Nawab Khurshid Jah be divided by metes and bounds and plaintiff be given her 29/2944th share therein; (b) appointing, a Commissioner-Receiver to take charge of the said properties and divide the same between persons who are E legitimately entitled thereto; (c) directing the Defendants Nos 1 to 43 to account for all mesne profits and income accruing in respect of the said Mathruka properties upto the date of suit and there after during the pendence of this suit; and F (d) restraining the defendants from changing, alienating on encumbering any of the aforesaid properties in any manner during the pendency of this suit. If any properties of the Mathruka estate have been alienated by any of the defendants the same be debited to their share or ed to be recovered from them if it is in G excess of their share. The plaintiff further prays that appropriate s be passed for payment plaintiff costs out of the Mathruka Estate. And such further and other reliefs be granted and s be passed which this Hon’ble court may deem fit.” H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 297 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 33. For reasons which are not immediately decipherable, the said A suit filed in the City Civil Court, Hyderabad was withdrawn by the High Court and transferred to itself for being tried and disposed of. This withdrawal and transfer could have happened (only a presumption) either in terms of Clause 13 of the Letters Patent or in terms of Section 24(1)(b)(i) of the Code of Civil Procedure, 19081. It must be remembered that until B the High Court was renamed as the High Court of Andhra Pradesh in November, 1956 under the States Reorganisation Act, 1956, the High Court was the High Court of Hyderabad.