A statutory dues of the State are paid, there is no question of imposition of heavy penalty. Everything which is incidental to the main purpose of a power is contained within the power itself. The power to impose penalty is for the purpose of vindicating the main power which is conferred by the statute in question. Deterrence is the main theme of object behind B that imposition of penalty under section 10(3). 16. In the case of State of Tamil Nadu v. M Krishnappan & Another reported in (2005) 4 SCC 53, this Court has held that entry 57 of list II of the seventh schedule to the Constitution provides a field to the State legislature to impose tax in respect C of every aspect of a vehicle. The State has to find funds for making new roads and for maintenance of existing roads. The Motor Vehicles Act is regulatory and compensatory in nature in the sense that it is imposed to meet the increasing costs of maintenance and upkeep and to that extent it is not plenary. In the said , it has been held that imposition of higher D burden of tax on vehicles based on intelligible reasoning and differentia will not make the impugned levy discriminatory, arbitrary or unreasonable so as to violate article 14 of the Constitution. “ 34. From the very object and reasons of the Amending Act E 1999, it is apparent that the special road tax was introduced as a compensatory measure. The object and reasons as spelled out in the original bill at the cost of repetition is reproduced below: “Developed roads and bridges constitute arteries of a healthy economy. Himachal Pradesh being a hill State, the importance F of roads, their construction and maintenance can hardly be over emphasised as a vital trading facility. Each year, the government has to incur considerable part of its budget on construction, maintenance and development of roads and bridges in the State. Since it is essential to finance these activities, it is considered necessary to levy road tax on transport G vehicles used or kept for use on public roads in Himachal Pradesh.” 35. What is to be seen is whether the tax imposed will have identifiable object and a nexus between the subject and the object of the levy. The power has been given to the States to make its own H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 909 KULLU ETC. ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] legislations by imposing tax on motor vehicles as also the goods being A transported in to compensate itself for the services, benefits and facilities provided by it. 36. This Court in B.A. Jayaram and Ors. vs. Union of India (UOI) and Ors. (supra) laid down the proposition that to uphold a tax claim to be compensatory tax, there must be existence of a specific B identifiable object behind the levy. It further laid down that the levy must have a nexus between the subject and the object of levying.