An argument was put forth that, upon a correct interpretation of the provisions of Section 16, the same would be permissible. Rejecting the said argument, K. Subba Rao, J, observed thus: “Before we consider this argument in some detail, it will be convenient at this stage to notice some of the well established C rules of Construction which would help us to steer clear of the complications created by the Act. Maxwell on the Interpretation of Statutes, 10th Edn., says at p. 7 thus: “… if the choice is between two interpretations, the narrower of which would fail to achieve the manifest purpose of the D legislation, we should avoid a construction which would reduce the legislation to futility and should rather accept the bolder construction based on the view that Parliament would legislate only for the purpose of bringing about an effective result”. It is said in Craies on Statute Law, 5th Edn., at p. 82— E “Manifest absurdity or futility, palpable injustice, or absurd inconvenience or anomaly to be avoided.” Lord Davey in Canada Sugar Refining Co. v. R. [(1898) AC 735] provides another useful guide of correct perspective to such a problem in the following words: F “Every clause of a statute should be construed with reference to the context and the other clauses of the Act, so as, so far as possible, to make a consistent enactment of the whole statute or series of statutes relating to the subject-matter.”” G 136. A.K. Sarkar, J. in his concurring opinion observed thus: “There is no doubt that the Act raises some difficulty. It was certainly not intended that the members elected to the Committee under the repealed Act should be given a permanent tenure of office nor that there would be no elections under the new Act. H 57 (1961) 2 SCR 295 VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 79 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Yet such a result would appear to follow if the language used in A the new Act is strictly and literally interpreted. It is however well established that “Where the language of a statute, in its ordinary meaning and grammatical construction, leads to a manifest contradiction of the apparent purpose of the enactment, or to some inconvenience or absurdity, hardship B or in justice, presumably not intended, a construction may be put upon it which modifies the meaning of the words, and even the structure of the sentence.…Where the main object and intention of a statute are clear, it must not be reduced to a nullity by the draftsman’s unskilfulness or ignorance of the law, except in a case of necessity, or the absolute intractability C of the language used. Nevertheless, the courts are very reluctant to substitute words in a Statute, or to add words to it, and it has been said that they will only do so where there is a repugnancy to good Sense.”: see Maxwell on Statutes (10th Edn.) p. 229. In Seaford Court Estates Ltd. v. Asher [(1949) 2 AER 155, 164] D , Denning, L.J.