Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of trustees of H.E.H, the Nizam’s Supplemental Family Trust v. CIT, reported in (2000) 3 SCC 501 (paragraphs 10 G & 11). It is submitted that the said decision was subsequently followed and affirmed by this Court in the case of Standard Chartered Finance Limited v. CIT, Bangalore, (2016) 14 SCC 634 (Civil Appeal No. 1101 of 2016 dated 9.2.2016). 3.13 It is further submitted by Shri Datar, learned senior counsel H appearing on behalf of the assessee companies that as such there was MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 467 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] no material to substantiate that the assessee companies’ control and A management was situated wholly in India. That the High Court has proceeded on an erroneous presumption that the assessee companies were controlled by one Rattan Gupta, who was rendering accounting and auditing services, simply because books of accounts had been found in his office. It is submitted that no evidence was produced to the effect B that he ever appointed any person as the Director of the assessee companies or dictated the manner in which such Directors were to discharge duties towards assessee companies. That the finding of the High Court that the control over management vested with Rattan Gupta and therefore the assessee companies were situated in India, is therefore wholly untenable and consequently to draw such presumption is legally C unsustainable. 3.14 It is further submitted that there was no cogent material at the time of issuance of notices under section 148 of the Act to form a belief that income was chargeable under the Income Tax Act, 1961 and that the burden to prove that the control and management of assessee D companies was situated wholly in India lie with the Department. That the law is well settled that the onus was on the Revenue, which has not been discharged. That on the contrary the High Court has erred in shifting the onus on the assessee companies to prove that they had legitimate business interest and income arising from the State of Sikkim. E 3.15 It is contended that the impugned is based solely on an erroneous supposition that Mr. Rattan Gupta was in control of the management of the assessee companies. That as such until the Assessment Years 1988-89, the audit and accounts of the assessee companies were being handled by one Ravinder Singh & Co. That the F High Court has committed an error in treating the said Ravinder Singh to be the partner of M/s Rattan Gupta & Co. It is submitted that therefore, the impugned is based on a flawed presumption of a critical fact and therefore the impugned deserves to be set aside by this Court. G 3.16. Shri Datar further submitted that in the absence of framing of any substantial question of law under Section 260A of the Act on levy of interest, the liability of interest could not have been fastened upon the assessee companies.