Court not to alter .—Save as otherwise provided by this Code or by any other law for the time being in force, no B Court, when it has signed its or final disposing of a case, shall alter or review the same except to correct a clerical or arithmetical error.” In Hari Singh Mann v. Harbhajan Singh Bajwa35, this Court recognized that Section 362 was based on the doctrine of functus officio: C “10. … The section is based on an acknowledged principle of law that once a matter is finally disposed of by a court, the said court in the absence of a specific statutory provision becomes functus officio and disentitled to entertain a fresh prayer for the same relief unless the former of final disposal is set aside by a court of competent jurisdiction in a manner prescribed by law. D The court becomes functus officio the moment the official disposing of a case is signed. Such an cannot be altered except to the extent of correcting a clerical or an arithmetical error.” 94. The doctrine of functus officio exists to provide a clear point E where the adjudicative process ends and to bring quietus to the dispute. Without it, decision-making bodies such as courts could endlessly revisit their decisions. With a definitive endpoint to a case before a court or quasi-judicial authority, parties are free to seek judicial review or to prefer an appeal. Alternatively, their rights are determined with finality. Similar F considerations do not apply to decisions by the state which are based entirely on policy or expediency. 95. Turning to the present case, the appellants’ argument that the Union Government was rendered functus officio after establishing the OAT does not stand scrutiny. The decision to establish the OAT was G administrative and based on policy considerations. If the doctrine of functus officio were to be applied to the sphere of administrative decision- making by the state, its executive power would be crippled. The state would find itself unable to change or reverse any policy or policy-based 35 (2001) 1 SCC 169 H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 793 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] decision and its functioning would grind to a halt. All policies would attain A finality and any change would be close to impossible to effectuate. 96. This would impact not only major policy decisions but also minor ones. For example, a minor policy decision such as a bus route would not be amenable to any modification once it was notified. Once determined, the bus route would stay the same regardless of the demand B for, say, an additional stop at a popular destination. Major policy decisions such as those concerning subsidies, corporate governance, housing, education and social welfare would be frozen if the doctrine of functus officio were to be applied to administrative decisions. This is not conceivable because it would defeat the purpose of having a government C and the foundation of governance. By their very nature, policies are subject to change depending on the circumstances prevailing in society at any given time.