v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 331 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] decree was made. 9. The manner in which Section 16 was drafted gave rise to two consequences: fi rstly, the status of legitimacy granted to a child born from a void or voidable marriage was conditional upon the marriage being annulled by a decree of annulment. Absent a decree of annulment, the child would continue to be ‘illegitimate’. If the parties had not moved a court and obtained a decree, the protection under Section 16 was not available. Secondly, children born from void or voidable marriages were artifi cially divided into two groups, those born of a marriage performed prior to the enactment of the legislation and those born after its enactment. 10. The anomalies in the erstwhile provisions of Section 16 were succinctly summarised in the of this Court in Parayankandiyal Eravath Kanapravan Kalliani Amma (Smt) v K Devi14. The Court noted: “58. In spite of the foresightedness of the legislators, the intention of Parliament could not be fully refl ected in the Act which unfortunately suff ered at the hands of persons who drafted the Bill and the various provisions contained therein. The results were startling. Since the Rule of Legitimacy was made dependent upon the marriage (void or voidable) being annulled by a decree of annulment, the children born of such marriage, would continue to be illegitimate if the decree of annulment was not passed, which, incidentally, would always be the case, if the parties did not approach the court. The other result was that the illegitimate children came to be divided in two groups; those born of marriage held prior to the Act and those born of marriage after the Act. There was no distinction between these two groups of illegitimate children, but they came to suff er hostile legislative discrimination on account of the language employed therein. Indeed, language is an imperfect instrument for the expression of human thought.” 11. The Fifty-ninth Report of the Law Commission of India (March 1974) elaborated upon the status of children born of a void marriage. Paragraph 2.36 of the Report elaborated that there were four possible 14 (1996) 4 SCC 76 332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. premises to adopt, which were thus: “2.36. …With reference to the status of children born of a void marriage, theoretically, four principal views are possible:- (i) One view is that such children must be regarded as illegitimate, because a void marriage has, in law, no existence, and the children of such a marriage can only be regarded as fi lius nullius; (ii) The second view is that they should be entitled to succeed to their parents, as if they were legitimate, provided that the parents had contracted the marriage bona fi de and without knowledge of any impediment; (iii) According to the third view, they should, in all cases, be entitled to succeed to their parents as if they were legitimate; (iv) There could be a fourth view, namely, that they must be entitled to succeed to other relations in all cases.” The Law Commission noted that the legislature had adopted the third view.