C Disposing of the matters, the Court HELD: 1. In case of Pramatha Nath Talukdar Vs. Saroj Ranjan Sarkar, it was held with regard to filing of the second complaint that a fresh complaint could be entertained after the dismissal of previous complaint under Section 203 of the Criminal D Procedure Code when there was manifest error or manifest miscarriage of justice or when fresh evidence was forthcoming. It was further held that an of dismissal under Section 203 of the Criminal Procedure Code is no bar to the entertainment of a second complaint on the same facts, but it will be entertained only in exceptional circumstances, e.g. that the previous E was passed on an incomplete record or on a misunderstanding of nature of complaint or it was manifestly absurd, unjust or foolish or where new facts which could not, with reasonable diligence, have been brought on record in the previous proceedings have been adduced. Having regard to the said legal position and various F decisions of the Supreme Court, it could not be said that the trial court had committed any error in entertaining the complaints filed by the respondent complainant, when the previous complaint filed by him was pending before the other court, and more particularly when the said court had dismissed the said previous complaint for non- prosecution, without taking cognizance of the alleged G offences therein. [Paras 14 and 15][1028-D-F; 1030-D-E] 2. The Sessions Court in the Revision petitions filed by the appellant had also upheld the said s passed by the trial H 1016 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A court issuing summons against the appellant and others after dealing with each and every aspect of the matter including the ingredients of alleged offences for which the summons were issued against the appellant. The High Court in the impugned has also discussed in detail the submissions made by the counsels for the parties in the petitions filed by the appellant under Section B 482 of Cr.P.C. and upheld the passed by the Sessions Court. In view of the said observations made and prima facie findings recorded by the three courts below as regards the alleged involvement of the appellant in the alleged offences, this Court is not inclined to interfere with the same. [Para 17][1031-A-C] C 3. No doubt, summoning of an accused is a serious matter and therefore the Magistrate before issuing the summons to the accused is obliged to scrutinize carefully the allegations made in the complaint with a view to prevent a person named therein as accused from being called upon to face any frivolous complaint, D nonetheless one of the objects of Section 202 Cr.P.C. is also to enable the Magistrate to prosecute a person or persons against whom grave allegations are made. Just as it is necessary to curtail vexatious and frivolous complaints against innocent persons, it is equally essential to punish the guilty after conducting a fair trial. In the instant cases, all the three courts below have E discussed in detail about the prima facie involvement of the appellant in the alleged offences, and therefore it is not necessary for this Court to reiterate the same.