Section 185 empowers the State Government to any case or class of cases committed for trial in any district, to be tried in any Sessions Division. Section 186 empowers the High Court, in case where two or more courts B have taken cognizance of the same offence and a question as to which of them should inquire into or try the offence has arisen, to decide the district where the inquiry or trial shall take place. Section 187 speaks of the powers of the Magistrate, in case where a person within his local jurisdiction, has committed an offence C outside his jurisdiction, but the same cannot be inquired into or tried within such jurisdiction. Sections 188 and 189 deal with offences committed outside India.” 34. It may be seen from the principles culled out from Sections 177 to 184 of the Cr.P.C that almost all contingencies that are likely to D arise have been carefully thought out and laid down in these provisions. 35. The only contingency that could not have been provided in the above provisions of the Cr.P.C, is perhaps where the offence of money- laundering is committed. This is why Section 44(1) begins with a non- obstante clause. The whole picture is thus complete with a combined E reading of Section 44 of the PMLA and the provisions of Sections 177 to 184 of the Cr.P.C. 36. Once this combined scheme is understood, it will be clear that in view of the specific mandate of clauses (a) and (c) of sub- section (1) of Section 44, it is the Special Court constituted under the PMLA that would have jurisdiction to try even the scheduled offence. Even if the F scheduled offence is taken cognizance of by any other Court, that Court shall commit the same, on an application by the concerned authority, to the Special Court which has taken cognizance of the offence of money- laundering. This answers the first question posed before us. 37. Coming to the second question arising for our consideration, G clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 44 leaves no semblance of any doubt that the offence of money-laundering is triable only by the Special Court constituted for the area in which the offence of money-laundering has been committed. To find out the area in which the offence of money- laundering has been committed, we may have to go back to the definition H in Section 3 of the PMLA. RANA AYYUB v. DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT 909 THROUGH ITS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 38. As we have pointed out earlier, the involvement of a person in A any one or more of certain processes or activities connected with the proceeds of crime, constitutes the offence of money- laundering. These processes or activities include, (i) concealment; (ii) possession; (iii) acquisition; (iv)use; (v)projecting as untainted property; or (vi)claiming as untainted property. B 39. In other words, a person may (i)acquire proceeds of crime in one place, (ii) keep the same in his possession in another place, (iii) conceal the same in a third place, and (iv) use the same in a fourth place.