Section 2(15) includes a decree of partition and Section 35 lays down a bar on unstamped or insuffi cient stamp being admitted in evidence or being acted upon. The law however does not prescribe that the period for fi ling appeal shall remain suspended still stamp paper is furnished and the partition decree is drawn thereon and signed by the judge. The whole purport of the Stamp Act is to make available certain dues and collect revenue, but it does not mean and imply an overriding eff ect on another statute operating in a completely diff erent sphere. Enforceability of a decree cannot be a subject matter of Section 35 of the Stamp Act, neither can the limitation be said to be under suspension. The heading of Section 35 itself denotes the limited sphere of applicability. 19. In Dr. Chiranji Lal (D) by LRs. v. Hari Das (D) by LRs.11, a three Judge Bench of this Court rejected the contention that an unstamped preliminary decree is not enforceable and, therefore, the period of limitation begins to run when the decree is engrossed on the stamp paper. The Stamp Act is a fi scal measure with the object to secure revenue for the State on certain classes of instruments. The Stamp Act is not enacted to arm the litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of his opponent. As there is no rule which prescribes any time for furnishing of stamp paper or to call upon a person to pay stamp duty on a preliminary decree of partition, the proposition that period of limitation would remain suspended till stamp paper is furnished and decree engrossed thereon was rejected. 10 (2001) 7 SCC 573. 11 (2005) 10 SCC 746. IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1203 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [ SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 20. In Hariom Agrawal v. Prakash Chand Malviya12, a three Judge Bench has referred to Karam Chand Thapar (supra), Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), to observe: “10. It is clear from the decisions of this Court and a plain reading of Sections 33, 35 and 2(14) of the Act that an instrument which is not duly stamped can be impounded and when the required fee and penalty has been paid for such instrument it can be taken in evidence under Section 35 of the Stamp Act. Sections 33 or 35 are not concerned with any copy of the instrument and party can only be allowed to rely on the document which is an instrument within the meaning of Section 2(14). There is no scope for the inclusion of the copy of the document for the purposes of the Stamp Act. Law is now no doubt well settled that copy of the instrument cannot be validated by impounding and this cannot be admitted as secondary evidence under the Stamp Act, 1899.” 21. In Shyamal Kumar Roy v. Sushil Kumar Agarwal13, this Court observed that Section 36 is a standalone clause which categorically prohibits the court of law from reopening the matter with regard to the suffi ciency or otherwise of the stamp duty paid on an instrument in the event the same has been admitted in evidence, the only exception being Section 61 providing for reference and revision.