Thus, the fi nancial creditor or operational creditors of MSMEs may take it to insolvency under the Code. However, given that MSMEs are the bedrock of the Indian economy, and the intent is not to push them into liquidation and aff ect the livelihood of employees and workers of MSMEs, the Committee sought it fi t to explicitly grant exemptions to corporate debtors which 928 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. are MSMEs by permitting a promoter who is not a wilful defaulter, to bid for the MSME in insolvency. The rationale for this relaxation is that a business of an MSME attracts interest primarily from a promoter of an MSME and may not be of interest to other resolution applicants. (emphasis supplied) 114. Thus, the rationale for excluding such industries from the eligibility criteria laid down in Section 29A(c) and 2 9A(h) is because qua such industries, other resolution applicants may not be forthcoming, which then will inevitably lead not to resolution, but to liquidation. Following upon the Insolvency Law Committee‘s Report, Section 240A has been inserted in the Code with retrospective eff ect from 06.06.2018 as follows: “Section 240A: Application of this Code to micro, small and medium enterprises.- (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Code, the provisions of clauses (c) and (h) ofsection 29A shall not apply to the resolution applicant in respect of corporate insolvency resolution process or pre- packaged insolvency resolution process of any micro, small and medium enterprises. (2) Subject to sub-section (1), the Central Government may, in the public interest, by notifi cation, direct that any of the provisions of this Code shall— (a) not apply to micro, small and medium enterprises; or (b) apply to micro, small and medium enterprises, with such modifi cations as may be specifi ed in the notifi cation. (3) A draft of every notifi cation proposed to be issued under sub- section (2), shall be laid before each House of Parliament, while it is in session, for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions. (4) If both Houses agree in disapproving the issue of notifi cation or both Houses agree in making any modification in the notifi cation, the notifi cation shall not be issued or shall be issued only in such modifi ed form as may be agreed upon by both the Houses, as the case may be. HARI BABU THOTA 929 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] (5) The period of thirty days referred to in sub-section (3) shall not include any period during which the House referred to in sub-section (4) is prorogued or adjourned for more than four consecutive days. (6) Every notifi cation issued under this section shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before each House of Parliament. Explanation.— For the purposes of this section, the expression “micro, small and medium enterprises” means any class or classes of enterprises classifi ed as such under sub-section (1) of section 7 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act, 2006 (27 of 2006).