44 1996 (2) Suppl. SCR 295. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 633 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “It is conceived to meet situations which cannot be eff ectively and appropriately tackled by the existing provisions of law. As a matter of fact, we think it advisable to leave this power undefi ned and uncatalogued so that it remains elastic enough to be moulded to suit the given situation. The very fact that this power is conferred only upon this Court, and on no one else, is itself an assurance that it will be used with due restraint and circumspection, keeping in view the ultimate object of doing complete justice between the parties.” Earlier, in Anadi Mukta Sadguru Shree Muktajee Vandas Swami Suvarna Jayanti Mahotsav Smarak Trust v. V.R. Rudani45, this Court examined the development of the law of mandamus and held as under: “[…] mandamus cannot be denied on the ground that the duty to be enforced is not imposed by the statute. Commenting on the development of this law, Professor de Smith states: ‘To be enforceable by mandamus a public duty does not necessarily have to be one imposed by statute. It may be suffi cient for the duty to have been imposed by charter, common law, custom or even contract.’ (Judicial Review of Administrative Action, 4th Edn., p. 540). We share this view. The judicial control over the fast expanding maze of bodies aff ecting the rights of the people should not be put into watertight compartment. It should remain fl exible to meet the requirements of variable circumstances. Mandamus is a very wide remedy which must be easily available ‘to reach injustice wherever it is found’. Technicalities should not come in the way of granting that relief under Article 226. We, therefore, reject the contention urged for the appellants on the maintainability of the writ petition.” This court, very aptly expressed, in the larger Bench decision, reported as P.S.R. Sadhanantham v. Arunachalam46, the jurisdiction of the court, to entertain a criminal appeal by the informant, where the accused was acquitted, and no appeal had been entertained by the state (without any statutory basis or locus for such complainant/petitioner) alluding to considerations of justice: 45 1989 (2) SCR 697. 46 1980 (2) SCR 873. 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. “3. The jural reach and plural range of that judicial process to remove injustice in a given society is a sure index of the versatile genius of law-inaction as a delivery system of social justice. By this standard, our constitutional vests in the summit Court of jurisdiction to do justice, at once omnipresent and omnipotent but controlled and guided by that refi ned yet fl exible censor called judicial discretion. This nidus of power and process, which master- minds the broad observance throughout the Republic of justice according to law, is Article 136.” 55. This court is conscious that if there are any statutory conditions or limitations, its exercise of Article 142 jurisdiction would have to weigh that in; further, the kind of relief to be given in any one case is entirely fact dependent and involves taking into account all relevant factors, subjective to the record in that case.