We are afraid, answer has to be in the negative. Reason is simple. As mentioned above, in to enable the State Government to enter into any lease agreement/contract with the prospecting licensee, “previous approval” of the Central Government was essential. Unless such approval came, the State Government could not communicate to the prospecting licensee/lessee its intention to enter into any contract as the prerequisite prior approval would be lacking. Therefore, no promise could be held by the State Government to any applicant showing its intention to enter into a contract in the future. Position would have 16 (2015) 13 SCC 233. 17 (1996) 10 SCC 405. STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. M/S. CHIRANJILAL (MINERAL) 301 INDUSTRIES OF BAGANDIH [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] been diff erent had Letter dated 24-5-2014 been issued after receiving previous approval of the Central Government. However, that is not so. This letter to the Central Government was only recommendatory in nature and ultimate decision rested with the Central Government. It is a diff erent thing if the Central Government refuses to give its approval on any extraneous reasons or mala fi des or does not take into consideration relevant factors/material while rejecting the application, which may form a diff erent cause of action and may become a reason to challenge the action of the Central Government rejecting the application on the grounds that are available in law to seek judicial review of such an action. However, we are not dealing with that situation in the instant case. Our discussion is confi ned to the plea raised before us viz. whether Letter dated 24-5-2014 can be termed as “letter of intent”. For the reasons stated above, we are of the view that it was not a letter of intent. The application of the petitioner, therefore, would not be covered by clause (c) of Section 10-A of the Act. 27. We are conscious of the fact that the petitioner herein had originally succeeded in the appeal inasmuch as dated 14-3-2012 was rendered giving direction to the State Government to recommend the case of the petitioner, in terms of the MoU entered into between the parties, to the Central Government. This was not done and the decision was reiterated in s dated 22-4-2014 passed in Bhushan Power and Steel Ltd. v. Rajesh Verma [. It is possible that had the State Government acted promptly and sent the recommendations earlier, the Central Government might have accorded its approval. However, whether it could have done so or not would be in the realm of conjectures. Insofar as the Central Government is concerned, no direction was ever given by this Court. On the contrary, it was categorically observed in the dated 22-4-2014 in Bhushan Power and Steel Ltd. v. Rajesh Verma that it would be for the Central Government to consider the recommendations of the State Government on its own merits and in accordance with law. If that has not been done by the Central Government, it cannot be the subject-matter of present contempt petition.” 16.