Evidently, the First Appellate Court in A.S.No.65 of 1997 fi led by the defendants against the and decree of the trial court in O.S.No.104/1996 did not frame any specifi c point(s) as enjoined under XLI, Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter, ‘the CPC’), but observed that the issue to be considered is whether the appeal is to be allowed as prayed for by the appellants therein/defendants 1 and 3. Obviously, additional documents were fi led by defendants 1 and 3 and received in evidence as Exts.B15, B16 and B17 by the Lower Appellate Court. Even after appreciating such additional evidence, it found no reason to interfere with the and decree of the trial Court and consequently, dismissed the appeal. 7. The unsuccessful defendants fi led second appeal under Section 100 of the CPC which culminated in the impugned . The High Court framed three questions as substantial questions of law and after an elaborate consideration, the High Court held all the substantial questions of law in favour of the appellants therein viz., defendant Nos. 1 and 3. As a necessary sequel, the concurrent s of the courts below decreeing the suit with regard to the title and possession were set aside to the extent mentioned above and the appeal was accordingly allowed. 8. The appellant/plaintiff assails the of the High Court allowing the Second Appeal as above, on various grounds. The core 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. contention of the appellant is that fi ndings of facts concurrently recorded by the Court below are immune from challenge before the High Court in Second Appeal as the First Appellate Court is the fi nal Court on facts. It is true that this position is well-settled. At the same time, this position is not devoid of exceptions. The very decisions relied on by the appellant viz., Vidhyadhar v. Manikrao & Anr.1 and Yadarao Dajiba Shrawane (D) by LRS v. Nanilal Harakchand Shah (D) & Ors.2 themselves would go to show that it is not an inviolable position of law. 9. The relevant paragraphs relied on by the appellants in those decisions themselves would make it clear that being concurrent fi ndings on facts is no guarantee for an imprimatur from the High Court as under certain situations interference under Section 100, CPC after formulating substantial question (s) of law is permissible. 10. In Vidhyadhar’s case (supra):- “23. The fi ndings of fact concurrently recorded by the trial court as also by the lower appellate court could not have been legally upset by the High Court in a second appeal under Section 100 CPC unless it was shown that the fi ndings were perverse, being based on no evidence or that on the evidence on record, no reasonable person could have come to that conclusion.” In Yadarao Dajiba Shrawane’s case (supra):- 31. From the discussions in the it is clear that the High Court has based its fi ndings on the documentary evidence placed on record and statements made by some witnesses which can be construed as admissions or conclusions.