That applying the test of “first degree”, this Court in the case of Liberty India (supra) held that receipts from DEPB/Duty Drawback cannot be deducted under Section 80-IB. 3.3 It is next submitted that, however, subsequently, in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra), the issue before this Court was whether transport, interest and power subsidy granted by the Government D were entitled to be deducted under Section 80-IB and this Hon’ble Court has held that receipts of amount on the aforesaid subsidies were entitled to be deducted under Section 80-IB. It is submitted that in the said case, before this Court, the Revenue relied upon Liberty India (supra) to contend that the source of subsidies was the Government and therefore, E it could not be considered as having a direct nexus/close connection with the business of the assessee. It is submitted that, however, this Court has rejected the said contention and held that the fact that the Government is the “immediate source” of the subsidies is not relevant so long as the subsidies reimbursed, wholly or partially, costs actually incurred by the assessee in manufacturing or selling of the products, F because, the profits or gains referred to in Section 80-IB means net profit, i.e., profit derived after deduction of manufacturing cost and selling cost. 3.4 It is contended that this Court specifically relied on Section 28(iii)(b) and reiterated that any cash assistance received from the G Government against exports under any Scheme is chargeable to income tax under the head of “Profit or gains of business or profession”. That this Court approved the decision of the Delhi High Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Dharam Pal Prem Chand Ltd., (2009) 317 ITR 353 (Del) holding that the refund of excise duty should H M/S. SARAF EXPORTS v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 343 JAIPUR-III [M. R. SHAH, J.] not be excluded in arriving at the profit derived from business for the A purpose of claiming deduction under Section 80-IB. 3.5 It is further contended that therefore, applying the law laid down by this Court in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra), the expression “Profit or gains derived from any business” under Section 80-IB will include any reimbursement of cost even if the immediate B reimbursement of such source is the Government or its policy. 3.6 It is submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee that in the case of Topman Exports Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai, (2012) 3 SCC 593, it is observed and held that the DEPB/Duty Drawback are relatable to cost of manufacture C and has a direct nexus with the cost of imports. That the said view is in consonance with the view taken earlier in the case of B. Desraj Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Salem, (2010) 14 SCC 510, which held that the Duty Drawback was in the nature of cash assistance under Section 28(iii)(b). D 3.7 It is next contended that in the case of Topman Exports (supra), it is held that the DEPB is assistance given by the Government to an exporter to pay customs duty on its imports and it is receivable once exports are made and an application under the DEPB Scheme is made.