There is no levelling of a charge or imputation requiring an explanation from the government servant. While misconduct and inefficiency are factors that enter into the account where the is one of dismissal or removal or of retirement, there is this difference that while in the case of retirement they merely furnish the background D and the enquiry, if held – and there is no duty to hold an enquiry – is only for the satisfaction of the authorities who have to take action, in the case of dismissal or removal they form the very basis on which the is made, as pointed out by this Court in Shyam Lal v. State of U.P. and State of Bombay v. E Saubhagchand M. Doshi. Thus, by its very nature the power to compulsorily retire a government servant is dismissal etc. for misconduct. A government servant who is compulsorily retired does not lose any part of the benefit that he has earned during service. Thus, compulsory retirement differs both from dismissal and removal as it involves no penal consequences.” F “……………… 17. The above discussion of case-law makes it clear that if the of compulsory retirement casts a stigma on the Government servant in the sense that it contains a statement casting aspersion G on his conduct or character, then the court will treat that as an of punishment, attracting provisions of Article 311(2) of the Constitution. The reason is that as a charge or imputation is made the condition for passing the , the court would infer therefrom that the real intention of the Government was to punish the government servant on the basis of that charge or imputation H CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 43 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] and not to exercise the power of compulsory retirement. But mere A reference to the rule, even if it mentions grounds for compulsory retirement, cannot be regarded as sufficient for treating the of compulsory retirement as an of punishment. In such a case, the can be said to have been passed in terms of the rule and, therefore, a different intention cannot be inferred. So B also, if the statement in the refers only to the assessment of his work and does not at the same time cast an aspersion on the conduct or character of the Government servant, then it will not be proper to hold that the of compulsory retirement is in reality an of punishment. Whether the statement in the is stigmatic or not will have to be judged by adopting the test of C how a reasonable person would read or understand it.” [emphasis added] 17. In Union of India v. Col. J.N. Sinha and Another12 it has been observed that : D “Fundamental Rule 56(j) does not in terms require that any opportunity should be given to the concerned government servant to show cause against his compulsory retirement. It says that the appropriate authority has the absolute right to retire a government servant if it is of the opinion that it is in the public interest to do so.