When a right to pre-empt the sale was claimed by the plaintiff Jagtar Singh as a co- sharer in the lands alongwith the owner Jit Singh, alleging that the mandatory provisions contained in Section 19 i.e., for giving notice to the B pre-emptor, was not complied with by the owner or seller Jit Singh, his presence as the party defendant was desirable along with the other defendants Jhabbar Singh and Others, to effectively and finally decide the disputes between the parties. Though, I, Rule 9 states that no suit shall be defeated by reasons of the misjoinder or non-joinder of parties, C care must be taken by the court to ensure that all the parties, be it the plaintiff or the defendant, whose presence is necessary for complete and final adjudication on the issues involved in the suit, are before the court. That is the reason why the courts are empowered to strike out or add parties, at any stage of the proceedings as per I, Rule 10, C.P.C. D 14. Further, having regard to the absolutely sketchy and loosely drafted plaint in the instant case, the Court is tempted to regurgitate the basic and cardinal rule of pleadings contained in VI, Rule2(1) of the Code, according to which every pleading (i.e., plaint or written statement) has to contain a statement in concise form of the material facts on which the party pleading relies for his claim or defence, as the E case may be. Of course, the pleading need not contain the evidence by which such material facts are to be proved, nonetheless the facts necessary to formulate a complete cause of action i.e., the material facts must be stated. Omission of a single material fact would lead to an incomplete cause of action and in that case, the statement of claim would F become bad in the eye of law. 15. Now, so far as the right of pre-emption is concerned, it may be noted that it is a very weak right and could be defeated by all legitimate methods. This Court as back as in 1958, in case of Bishan Singh and Others vs. Khazan Singh & Another (supra), had set-forth the contours G of the right of pre-emption. It was opined therein by the four-Judge Bench that- “11…..The right of pre-emption is not a right to the thing sold but a right to the offer of a thing about to be sold. This right is called the primary or inherent right. (2) The pre-emptor has a secondary right or a remedial right to follow the thing sold. (3) It is a right of H JHABBAR SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LEGAL HEIRS v. 579 JAGTAR SINGH S/O DARSHAN SINGH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] substitution but not of re-purchase i. e., the pre-emptor takes the A entire bargain and steps into the shoes of the original vendee. (4) It is a right to acquire the whole of the property sold and not a share of the property sold. (5) Preference being the essence of the right, the plaintiff must have a superior right to that of the vendee or the person substituted in his place.