B (d) Reference can also be made to Union of India vs. Major S.P. Sharma (2014) 6 SCC 351, in which it was stated that “a decision rendered by a competent Court cannot be challenged in collateral proceedings for the reason that if it is permitted to do so there would be confusion C and chaos and the ftnality of the proceeding would cease to have any meaning”. It was further observed that it is not permissible in law for the parties to reopen concluded s of the Court as the same may not only tantamount to an abuse of the process of the Court but would have a far-reaching adverse effect on the administration of justice. D (e) When reconsideration of a of this Court is sought, there are two limitations which have been observed – one jurisdictional and the other self-imposed. The same has been explained in Natural Resources Allocation, in Re: Special reference no. 1 of 2012, speaking through D.K. E Jain, J., as under: “The first limitation is that a decision of this Court could be reviewed only under Article 137 or a curative petition and in no other way. Once a lis between parties is decided, the operative decree can only be opened in review. F Overruling the — as a precedent—does not reopen the decree. The second limitation, a self-imposed rule of judicial discipline, was that overruling the opinion of the Court on a legal issue does not constitute sitting in appeal, but is done G only in exceptional circumstances, such as when the earlier decision is per incuriam or is delivered in the absence of relevant or material facts or if it is manifestly wrong and capable of causing public mischief.” H 252 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A It was further observed that “in fact, the overruling of a principle of law is not an outcome of appellate jurisdiction but a consequence of its inherent power. This inherent power can be exercised as long as a previous decree vis-à-vis a lis inter partes is not affected”. (f) Further, a Seven-Judge Bench of this Court speaking through B Chandrachud, C.J. in Special Courts Bill, 1978, In RE (1979) 1 SCC 380, observed that it is always open to this Court to re- examine the question already decided by it and to overrule, if necessary, the view earlier taken by it. But insofar as all other Courts in the territory of India are concerned, they ought to be bound by the view expressed C by this Court even in the exercise of its advisory jurisdiction under Article 143(1) of the Constitution of India. Although the principle of stare decisis is not applicable to this Court, on the strength of Article 137 of the Constitution of India, this Court, in a subsequent , D can overrule a previous but the same would not unsettle the dictum in the overruled inter partes. Further, the overruled which has held the field is bound to be followed in all other cases till the subsequent overruling the earlier is passed.