This agreement B was comprehensive. It inter alia provided for (i) the release of Bank Guarantees by NTPC, (ii) the withdrawal of SPML’s Writ Petition, (iii) restraining NTPC from filing contempt proceedings against SPML for letting the Bank Guarantees expire, and finally, (iv) restraining SPML from initiating any proceedings under the subject contract, including C arbitration. The Settlement Agreement also recorded that there were no subsisting issues pending between the parties. 47. The plea of coercion and economic duress must be seen in the context of the execution of the Settlement Agreement not being disputed, and its implementation leading to the release of the Bank D Guarantees on 30.06.2020 also not being disputed. Almost three weeks after the release of the Bank Guarantees, a letter of repudiation was issued by SPML on 22.07.2020. This letter was issued about two months after the Settlement Agreement was executed and in fact during the subsistence of the Writ Petition. After reaping the benefits of the E Settlement Agreement, the Writ Petition was withdrawn on 21.09.2020. It is there after that the present application under Section 11(6) of the Act was filed. The sequence of events leads us to conclude that the letter of repudiation was issued only to wriggle out of the terms of the Settlement Agreement. F 48. The foregoing clarifies beyond doubt that the claims sought to be submitted to arbitration were raised as an afterthought. Further, SPML’s allegations of coercion and economic duress in the execution of the Settlement Agreement lack bona fide. They are liable to be knocked down as exfacie frivolous and untenable. G 49. In view of the above-referred facts, which speak for themselves, we are of the opinion that this is a case where the High Court should have exercised the prima facie test to screen and strike down the ex-facie meritless and dishonest litigation. These are the kinds of cases where the High Court should exercise the restricted and limited review to check and protect parties from being forced to arbitrate. H NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. 869 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] 50. Accordingly, we have no hesitation in holding that the High A Court has committed an error in allowing the application under Section 11(6) of the Act. High Court ought to have examined the issue of the final settlement of disputes in the context of the principles laid down in Vidya Drolia (supra). 51. For the reasons stated above, the decision of the High Court B of Delhi in Arbitration Petition No.477 of 2020, dated 08.04.2021, is set aside, and Civil Appeal No.4778 of 2022 stands allowed. 52. The parties shall bear their own costs. C Nidhi Jain Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Surbhi Soni and Rakhi, LCRAs) D E F G H