The jurisprudence that has emanated from various common law countries on the subject has been relied on by the Courts in India to the extent permitted by our constitutional scheme. The jurisprudence that has emanated from other common G law countries on this subject has a persuasive value. The courts in both the United Kingdom and Canada use the proportionality standard to assess the validity of a PII claim. 139. The structured proportionality standard used by the courts to test the infringement of fundamental rights has to be remodelled along H 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the lines of the jurisprudence on public interest immunity, if need be. It is crucial to note the difference in the terminology between Article 19(2) to Article 19(6) of the Constitution and Section 124 of the Evidence Act. The reasonable restriction clauses in Article 19 stipulate that the right can be ‘reasonably restricted’ in the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India […]. Section 124 stipulates that the restriction to B disclosure is only justified if public interest is injured. Section 124, thus, prescribes a heightened standard for the application of public interest immunity. 140. The proportionality standard tests the effect of the infringement only at the balancing stage. Both the suitability prong and C legitimate aim prong of the proportionality standard are framed in the language of purpose as opposed to effects. Section 124 of the Evidence Act stipulates that the right to fair trial and the right to information protected under Articles 21 and 19(1)(a) cannot be restricted to advance a public interest. The principle implicit in Section 124 of the Evidence D Act is that no purpose could be of sufficient importance to override the right to a fair hearing. Such a restriction is unjustified. It is only an injury of public interest that justifies the non-disclosure of documents. 141. In view of the above discussion, the proportionality standard laid down by this Court in Modern Dental (supra) has to be nuanced E keeping in view the standard that is prescribed by the provisions of Section 124 of the Evidence Act and the observations of this Court in SP Gupta (supra). Apart from the measure being in furtherance of a legitimate goal, there must be an injury to a legitimate goal. The burden is on the party opposing disclosure of material to prove all the sub-facets of the proportionality standard. The structured proportionality standard based F on the principles in Section 124 of the Evidence Act is as follows: (i) Whether the disclosure of information would injure public interest (injury stage); (ii) Whether there is a less restrictive but equally effective alternative means; by which the injury to public interest G could be protected (necessity stage); and (iii) Whether the public interest in non-disclosure outweighs the public interest in disclosure (balancing stage). 142. In the balancing stage, as has already been laid down by this H court in SP Gupta (supra) and the courts in the United Kingdom and MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 697 INDIA & ORS.