However, what is certain from the evidence is, that the assailant Babu Ram had the gun as well as motive to use it, inasmuch as his relative Shri Krishan was insulted during altercation. Moreover, Babu Ram had taken a vow to teach supporters of the other side a lesson. In that kind of a scenario, even if Babu Ram had not been instigated by any of the other accused, he might have fi red from his weapon to stamp his authority and, therefore, killing of the two deceased could be his own individual act for which he alone would be liable. In these circumstances, to clinch a conviction of the appellants for the murder of the two deceased with the aid of Section 34 of the I.P.C., the prosecution was required to lead clear and cogent evidence that the shots fi red by Babu Ram at the two deceased were in furtherance of common intention of all. In absence whereof, as is in the case at hand, in our considered view, it would be extremely unsafe to convict the appellants with the aid of Section 34 of the I.P.C. for the off ence of murder. 32. Now, the question that falls for our consideration is whether the appellants could escape their liability for the off ence punishable under Section 307 with the aid of Section 34 of the I.P.C. In our view, the answer SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 405 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] to it would depend on whether the appellants including Babu Ram committed any one or more of the acts specifi ed in Section 300 of the I.P.C.20 in furtherance of common intention of all, had the person(s) injured succumbed to their injuries. 33. The evidence in the instant case is that indiscriminate fi ring continued for long, some say for 20 to 25 minutes. As many as twenty- six persons on Street No.300 received pellet injuries. Notably, 16 empty cartridges were seized from Babu Ram. Evidence is that the appellants were with the accused Babu Ram, exhorting him not to spare Satpal’s supporters, and pointing at targets. Though, evidence might not be specifi c as to who in particular was targeted at the behest of the appellants but the very fact that indiscriminate fi ring continued for long, say 20-25 minutes and the appellants were found present and exhorting Babu Ram to fi re, in our view, 20 “300. Murder.- Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the intention of causing death, or- Secondly.-If it is done with the intention of causing such bodily injury as the off ender knows to be likely to cause the death of the person to whom the harm is caused, or- Thirdly.-If it is done with the intention of causing bodily injury to any person and the bodily injury intended to be infl icted is suffi cient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, or- Fourthly.-If the person committing the act knows that it is so imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.