She also states about the police personnel coming to her house E along with the accused and that they witnessed the incident. According to her also, the police did not question her. She further states that 5-6 persons have entered into the room where the deceased was assaulted. She also states that she did not enter the said room. She further states that police had come to apprehend her husband and the deceased. F 10.4 Anjana Phukan(PW-4) has stated that she knows the accused persons as also the deceased who was her brother-in-law by relation. Their house is in the neighbourhood and they share common boundary. On the date of the occurrence at about 12 noon she heard some sound outside and she saw the deceased enter her house in a haste and accused G Kuleswar who was chasing him assaulted with an iron rod. Despite the same the deceased entered into the house and then Dulen Phukan with an axe assaulted on the deceased neck as a result of which he fell down instantaneously. The neck had almost severed and he died immediately. The accused persons then fled the scene. She however states that she stayed at home with the dead-body till about 4 PM when the police H came and took the dead-body.Her two small children had been taken PULEN PHUKAN & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ASSAM 627 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] away by her mother to her home; her husband was not at home. She A also states that the accused had left the axe which was the weapon of assault on the body of the deceased. She further states that she signed the recovery memo (Ex.-2). In her cross-examination she stated that she had seen Kuleswar, Dulen Phukan and Pulen Phukan and also the five police personnel with them. The various suggestions given by the B defence were all denied by her. She also states that the seized articles have not been produced in Court and she has not seen them. 10.5 Bhuban Phukan (PW-5) is not an eye-witness. He has only stated that he returned in the evening after working when he came to know that Pradip Phukan had been murdered inside his house. He further C states that his wife and children had left for their maternal home. He also states that two days after the incident police visited his house and took away one axe and he prove his signature on Ex.-2(2). 10.6 Dr. Naleswar Sonowal (PW-6) conducted the autopsy and had noticed the following ante-mortem injuries: D “Injuries: 1.Incised wound 10 x 3 cm x 6 numbers of cervical vertebrae cuts in the right side of the back of the neck. Skin, muscles, vessels, nerves and 6th cervical vertebrae were cut completely and slightly the spinal cord. E 2. Incised wound 4 x 2 cm x bone deep in the scapular end at the clavicle, clavicle was cut. 3. Incised wound 4 x 2 cm x bone deep in the lateral side of the left elbow.