586, cancelling the for supply of remaining C transformers was suffering from malice in law; and that the respondents had deliberately not considered the factors regarding extraordinary rainfall and storm between 20.08.2018 and 21.08.2018, resulting in damage to the plant and loss of raw material. On the other hand, it was contended on behalf of the respondents that blacklisting or debarring was edafter giving full opportunity to the contractor, who was at fault in D not supplying the material as per the terms of the contract;that there was nothing illegal or arbitrary in exercise of powers when the respondents took recourse to the relevant clauses of the purchase ; and that reliance of the appellant on force majeure clause was also misplaced, for no suchinformation was furnished within 15 days, as E required by the terms of the contract. 14. Having taken note of the rival submissions, respectively in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the impugned, in the next paragraph, the High Court proceeded to state its opinion that the of blacklisting contained justified and plausible reasons and no case for exercising F extraordinary powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India was made out. The High Court observed that the appellant failed to substantiate the lapsesin not supplying the required transformers as per contract. Thereafter, the High Court merely observed that the second of debarment was passed on 30.07.2020 but factually, the appellant-firm was debarred by the dated 13.02.2020 and therefore, provided a G slight modification in the manner that the period of 3 years’ debarment would be reckoned w.e.f.13.02.2020. With these observations and modifications, the High Court proceeded to dispose of the writ petition filed by the appellant.The relevant passages in the so passed by the High Court read as under: - H 460 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “7. Considering the rival contention of the parties and perusal of record, we are also of the opinion that so far as the of blacklisting is concerned, it contains the reason and in no way we find those reasons unjustified. Considering the existing fact situation of the case, we find that the assigned reason appear to be prima- facie, plausible and are sufficient to maintain the of B blacklisting. In the circumstances, as have been set forth before us, exercising extraordinary power under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, interference in a decision making process is not permissible when the s have been passed after following the principle of natural justice and are supported by plausible C reasons. Indubitably the petitioner’s firm failed to substantiate the lapses on their part for not supplying the required transformers as per the contract. We do not find any such reason available in the case holding the s passed by the respondents illgal and arbitrary. Therefore, interference in the matter under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is not warranted. However, we have D noticed that the of debarment has been passed on 30.07.2020 restraining the petitioner from participating in further tender proceedings of respondents, but, factually the petitioner firm was debarred vide dated 13.02.2020, the first , which was set aside by this Court.