(3) Nothing in this section shall affect the case of any condition or warranty fulfilment of which is excused G by law by reason of impossibility or otherwise.” xxx 59. Remedy for breach of warranty. — (1) Where there is a breach of warranty by the seller, or where the buyer elects or is compelled to treat any H 1314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A breach of a condition on the part of the seller as a breach of warranty, the buyer is not by reason only of such breach of warranty entitled to reject the goods; but he may— (a) set up against the seller the breach of warranty B in diminution or extinction of the price; or (b) sue the seller for damages for breach of warranty. (2) The fact that a buyer has set up a breach of warranty in diminution or extinction of the price does not C prevent him from suing for the same breach of warranty if he has suffered further damage.” 13.1. Section 12 deals with condition and warranty. A stipulation in a contract of sale with reference to goods which are the subject matter thereof may be a condition or a warranty. A condition is a stipulation D essential to the main purpose of the contract, the breach of which gives rise to a right to treat the contract as repudiated. A warranty is, on the other hand, a stipulation collateral to the main purpose of the contract, the breach of which gives rise to a claim for damages but not to a right to reject the goods and treat the contract as repudiated. Whether a stipulation in a contract of sale is a condition or a warranty depends in E each case on the construction of the contract. However, a stipulation may be a condition, though called a warranty in the contract. 13.2. There is also a distinction between a warranty and guarantee. As already stated, a warranty is an express or implied statement of something, which a party undertakes to fulfil as part of the F contract, yet collateral to the main object of it. A warranty does not go to the root or substance of the contract. A guarantee is a contract which is ancillary and subsidiary to some other contract or liability whereby the promisor undertakes to be answerable to the promisee for the debt, default or miscarriage of another person whose primary liability to the promisee G must exist, or be contemplated. It is an additional or collateral or conditional contract as distinguished from an original or absolute contract. 13.3. A warranty can only exist when the subject matter of the contract of sale is ascertained and is existing so as to be capable of being inspected at the time of the contract. It is a collateral engagement H that the specific thing possesses certain qualities after the passing of the M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1315 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR.