It becomes the bounden duty of the distribution licensee to diligently pursue the decree awarded and recover amounts from the real defaulter. Any amount that may have been realised in the execution of the decree would have to be given due credit for in determining the amount payable by the respondent. H 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 242. In view of the reasons which have been adduced earlier, we allow the appeal and set aside the of the High Court. III. Gujarat 243. In Gujarat, the right of the Electric Utilities to demand outstanding dues is traceable to the following provisions: B a. Up to the enactment of the 2003 Act on 10 June 2003: The governing legislation consists of the 1910 Act and the 1948 Act. Clause 2(j) of Conditions of Supply of the Gujarat Electricity Board was inserted by a notification dated 10 August 2001. It reads: C “2(j) Recovery of old dues: Reconnection or new connection for any premises, where there are arrears of the Board pending from the consumer/occupier, shall not be entertained. The new successor/ occupier has to clear these dues of the previous consumer before the D application of successor/occupier is processed for supply of electricity. If the Board, at a later date, gets the full or part of these dues from the previous consumer, the amount shall be refunded to the successor/occupier after adjusting the costs including legal expenses to recover such arrears and the refund E shall bear no interest.” b. From 10 June 2003 to 31 March 2005: As per Section 185(2)(a) of the 2003 Act, the extant Conditions of Supply continued to apply. c. From 31 March 2005 when the Supply Code came into F force: Clause 4.1.11 was notified under the Supply Code. The relevant regulation is as follows: “Regulation 4.1.11 An Application for new connection, reconnection, addition or G reduction of load, change of name or shifting of Service Line need not be entertained unless any dues of the Applicant to the Distribution Licensee in respect of any other service connection held in his name anywhere in the jurisdiction of the Distribution Licensee have been cleared.” H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 749 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] d. From 20 August 2010 when the Supply Code was A amended: Clauses 4.1.11, 4.1.16, and 4.8 of the Supply Code were notified under Section 43 read with Section 50. Clause 4.1.11 post the amendment in 2010 reads thus: “Clause 4.1.11 B An application for new connection, reconnection, addition or reduction of load, change of name or shifting of service line for any premises need not be entertained unless any dues relating to that premises or any dues of the applicant to the Distribution Licensee in respect of any other service connection held in his name anywhere in the jurisdiction of C the Distribution Licensee have been cleared. Provided that in case the connection is released after recovery of earlier dues from the new applicant and in case the licensee, after availing appropriate legal remedies, get the full or part of the dues from the previous consumer/owner or occupier of D that premise, the amount shall be refunded to the new consumer/owner or occupier from whom the dues have been recovered after adjusting the expenses to recover such dues.” The High Court of Gujarat had occasion to deal with the validity of Clause 2(j) of the Conditions of Supply and Clause 4.1.11 of the Gujarat E Electricity Supply Code.