are reiterated – A targeted eff ort be made to share the Government of India, Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (2015) with each District Offi cer, INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.677 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. who may in turn disseminate it to their respective LCs, the nodal offi cers appointed under Section 6(2), and employers who constitute their own ICCs; (F) Annual Compliance Reports : Due compliance with Section 21(1) and (2), and Section 22, must be undertaken by each District Offi cer, of the State – The State/UT Governments is hereby directed to create a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) including the procedure, and timelines for this process, so as to enable it to, in turn, comply with Section 23 of the Act, i.e., monitoring implementation and maintaining data; (G) Monitoring of ICs and compliance by employers : The directions passed in Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa & Ors. address most specifi cally, the constitution of ICs-in public establishments [falling broadly within Section 2(o)(i)] and some private establishments-such as bodies governing professional associations, etc. ; those directions are hereby reiterated, to avoid multiplicity or overlap of eff orts – Similarly, directions are hereby made to hospitals, nursing homes, sports institutes, stadiums, sports complex, or competition or games venues [as defi ned in Section 2(o)(iii) and (iv)] to establish ICs, and report compliance as per the duties under this Act – The District Offi cer must be supplied a list of establishments (compiled by the relevant departments of the State/UT Government) that fall within the scope of Section 2(o), so that they may write to them and ensure that they are well versed with the provisions relating to employers, and their duties (including constitution of ICC under Section 4, duties under Section 19, etc.) and are implementing them in letter and spirit. This will also enable collection of annual reports, as contemplated under Section 21 – The consequent direction to all private sector workplaces under Section 2(o)(ii) can be passed once the District Offi cer is able to discern an exhaustive list of entities. [Para 22] Sexual Harassment at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 – ‘may’ in s.5 – discussed. Sexual Harassment at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 – ‘domestic worker’, ‘unorganised sector’, ‘workplace’ – discussed. Sexual Harassment at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 – Role of District Offi cer – discussed. 678 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES State of Uttar Pradesh v. Jogendra Singh [1964] 2 SCR 197 – relied on. Aureliano Fernandes v. State of Goa & Ors., ( dated 12.05.2023 in C.A. No.2482 of 2014) – referred to. OTHER CASE DETAILS INCLUDING IMPUGNED AND APPEARANCES CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1224 of 2017. (Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India) Appearances: Sanjay Parikh, Sr. Adv., Ms. Srishti Agnihotri, Ms. Shobha Gupta, Aditya Ranjan, Ms. Jessy Kurian, Ms. Tarjana Rai, Advs. for the Petitioners. Lokesh Sinhal, Sr.