Freedom and rights cannot extend to create public dis or armour those who challenge integrity F and unity of the country or promote and incite violence. Without acceptable public , freedom to speak and express is challenged and would get restricted for the common masses and law-abiding citizens. This invariably leads to State response G and, therefore, those who indulge in promotion and incitement of violence to challenge unity and integrity of the nation or public dis tend to trample upon liberty and freedom of others.” (Emphasis by me) H 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Further, referring to the views of Alice E. Marwick and Ross Millers in the report titled “Online Harassment, defamation, and Hateful Speech: A Primer of the Legal Landscape,” this Court in Amish Devgan elucidated as follows on three distinct elements that legislatures and courts can use to define and identify ‘hate speech’: B “72.1. The content-based element involves open use of words and phrases generally considered to be offensive to a particular community and objectively offensive to the society. It can include use of certain symbols and iconography. By applying objective standards, one knows C or has reasonable grounds to know that the content would allow anger, alarm or resentment in others on the basis of race, colour, creed, religion or gender. 72.2. The intent-based element of ‘hate speech’ requires the speaker’s message to intend only to promote hatred, D violence or resentment against a particular class or group without communicating any legitimate message. This requires subjective intent on the part of the speaker to target the group or person associated with the class/ group. E 72.3. The harm or impact-based element refers to the consequences of the ‘hate speech’, that is, harm to the victim which can be violent or such as loss of self-esteem, economic or social subordination, physical and mental stress, silencing of the victim and effective exclusion from the political arena. F 72.4. Nevertheless, the three elements are not watertight silos and do overlap and are interconnected and linked. Only when they are present that they produce structural continuity to constitute ‘hate speech’.” G It was further clarified that the effect of the words must be judged from the standard of “reasonable, strong-minded, firm and courageous men and not those who are weak and ones with vacillating minds, nor those who scent danger in every hostile point of view.” That in to ensure maximisation of free speech, the assessment should be from H the perspective of a reasonable member of the public. KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 749 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 16.4. Further, in a landmark of the United States’ A Supreme Court in the matter of Chaplinsky vs. State of New Hampshire, 315 U.S. 568 (1942)(“Chaplinsky”)” hate speech” was defined by Murphy J. to mean “fighting words, which by their very utterance inflict injury or tend to incite an immediate breach of peace. It has been B observed that such utterances are no essential part of any exposition of ideas, and are of slight social value as a step to truth that any benefit that may be derived from them is clearly outweighed by the social interest in and morality.” C 16.5.