46. Further, PW 1 has stated that the key of the room, after effecting recovery on 16.6.2010, was given to the “room partner of the C accused”. Who is this room partner? Was he examined? Was he aware of the clothes being hidden? Did he hide the clothes? Was his complicity in the crime ruled out? Are all questions left to be guessed. Such room partner remains unexamined and his complicity and role in the crime not explored. D 47. Version of the Investigating Officer, that it was PW 12 who locked the room, does not inspire confidence. The witness does not remember having placed on record any document indicating that the lock was labelled and sealed for the search being conducted at the first instance. It may be noted that in the memos as well, he admits not to have mentioned where exactly the appellant had kept clothes in the room. E 48. On the issue of first disclosure statement Ext.47, we find the version of PW 13 to be materially contradicted by the Panch witness PW 7, who, in no uncertain terms and unrefutedly, has deposed that “Devraj asked me that the clothes were hidden in the appellant’s house and as to whether I was ready to act as a panch.” (here PW 13 – the F Investigating Officer is referred to as Devraj). This totally shatters the prosecution case on the point of recovery pursuant to the alleged disclosure statement. 49. Even on the point of recovery of the nicker of the prosecutrix there is contradiction with regard to its place and numbers. We notice G that the dead body was recovered in the presence of two independent witnesses, namely, PW 9 and PW 10. Significantly, PW 9 states that on 12.6.2010 the dead body of the prosecutrix was recovered from the nala and that “one nicker was lying on a tin shade. One blood smeared banian was lying on the roof”. He further adds that after recovery, the dead body was brought home. “She was raped” (here reference is of the H 170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A prosecutrix) and that “blood had come out from the private part of the girl”. He does not state that tin shade was that of the house of the appellant. However, PW 1 has deposed that “The knicker of my daughter was found on the roof of the accused.” But this is in complete contradiction to the statement of PW 13 who stated that the nicker and the banian were recovered pursuant to the disclosure statement of the B appellant. On this issue, further contradiction emerges through the testimony of PW 10 who states that “there were no clothes on her person” but in the very next breath adds that “she had worn underwear on her person”, and also that “he had not seen the body of the deceased girl”. Also, PW 10 states that he cannot read or write in Marathi and C that he affixed his signatures on Ext.43 at the police station which is in Marathi.