1 had claimed prohibitory injunction against the defendants. It was noticed that the relief was claimedby her in the G capacity of a partner of the firm against other partners. The High Court observed that the partnership was an unregistered one and, therefore, the suit was barred under Section 69(1) of the Indian Partnership Act, 1932. Hence, the decree of the Trial Court dismissing the suit (OS No. 238 of 2012) was affirmed. H SIRAJUDHEEN v. ZEENATH & ORS. 9 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 5. After dealing with the aforesaid three civil suits, the High Court A referred to the questions involved in OS No. 293 of 2012 and noted the grounds on which the relief was claimed for cancellation of the sale deed. The High Court summarised the grounds of challenge as follows:- “17. In OS 293/12 from which RFA 247/14 arises, the relief claimed is for setting aside Ext.A1 Sale Deed. The grounds on B which the sale deed is sought to be set aside are: - (a) The property being a partnership asset, the interest of a partner in a specific item of partnership property is inalienable. (AddankiNarayanappa v. Bhaskara Krishnappa (dead) and others AIR 1966 SC 1300). C (b) The terms of the partnership deed expressly prohibits a partner from alienating his share in the partnership without the consent of the other partners. (c) “Non est factum” – the plaintiff was made to believe that she was executing a security deed for the distributionship of D a film; she never intended to execute a Sale Deed.” 5.1. The first two grounds aforesaid were rejected by the High Court with reference to the fact that the property in question was a co- ownership property and not a partnership asset; and what was purported to be conveyed under the sale deed in question (Ex. A-1) was 1/5th right E of the plaintiff as the co-owner of the property and it was not in the assignment of the right of a partner. The High Court, therefore, rejected these two grounds. Moving on to the third ground pertaining to non est factum, the High Court observed that on the evidence available on record, there were certain circumstances leaning in favour of the plaintiff and F there wereother circumstances leaning in favour of the genuineness of the sale. The observations of the High Court as regards the competing sets of evidence read as under: - “21. On the evidence available, certain circumstances lean in favour of the plaintiff. According to the defendants, the husband G of the plaintiff was acting as the Manager of the firm. On the day on which Ext.A1 sale deed was executed, admittedly he was out of station. The extreme urgency for execution of Ext.A1 on that day, in his absence, has not been brought out. Ext.A1 sale deed is stated to have been executed pursuant to an agreement for sale dated 23.11.05. The agreement for sale is claimed to have been H 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.