Thus, a narrow interpretation for NGT’s powers should be eschewed to adopt one which allows H for full flow of the forum’s power within the environmental domain.” M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 233 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] CONSENT TO ESTABLISH & CONSENT TO A OPERATE: 39. What is “Consent to Establish” (CTE) and what is “Consent to Operate” (CTO)? Consent to Establish (CTE) means the prior permission of the pollution control board to begin the work of construction of petrol retailing outlet at any place. At this stage, the ground water B level in the proposed site, nature of the ground water, its corrosive properties, availability of residential premises, schools, probable danger to environment from the proposed outlet, etc. would be considered by the Pollution Control Board. In case consent to establish its given, the conditions to be complied with would be prescribed in to safeguard C the air ambience and ground water quality and also the soil. The power in this regard is available under Section 25 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act,1974. 40. Consent to Operate (CTO) means after the establishment of the retail petroleum outlets, a certificate is issued permitting to commence D operation. At this stage, the actual compliance of the conditions imposed while issuing the “consent to establish” are ascertained. In case, any additional measures are required to be undertaken, further s would be issued. After satisfying about the complete safeguard to environment such certificate is issued. In case of a new outlet, the company will first get the consent to establish and after establishment and before E operationalizing the petrol bank, the consent to operate is to be obtained. In existing outlets, the safeguards available in their units will have to be shown, thereby indicating & assuring the pollution control board that the unit would not cause damage to the environment. After such satisfaction, the pollution control board would issue a certificate permitting them to F operate continuously. The object of the last direction is to ensure that the existing outlets are safe not only regarding air pollution but also against seepage to the ground water and soil. NGT has inherent power to issue this direction since it is only to ensure the safety of the existing units. 41. The fundamental documents required for seeking CTE and CTO are as under:- G Consent to Establish: • Site plan of the production unit/project • Brief project report which covers the details of raw material, proposed product, the capital cost of the establishment (land and H 234 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A plant machinery), water-balance, water source, and its proposed quantity • Land documentation such as rend deed/ Registration deed/ Lease deed • Details of air pollution control/ Water Pollution control equipment B • MOA /Partnership Deed Consent to Operate: • Copy of the last Consent granted by competent Authority • Layout schematics manifesting the detail of manufacturing C processes • Latest analysis report of effluent, solid wastes, fuel gases, and hazardous wastes.