It was observed that the non-compete clause came into operation after the termination of the agency and it was an independent obligation undertaken by the assessee therein not to compete with the new agent in the same fi eld for a specifi ed period and therefore, the compensation received was attributable to the restrictive covenant and was a capital receipt and hence not assessable to tax. The majority answered the said question by observing that compensation on cancellation of an agency could be both capital and revenue depending upon facts of each case and whether, the cancellation had aff ected the earning apparatus or structure from a physical, fi nancial, commercial and administrative point of view. In the said case, compensation received was held to be revenue receipt as the respondent assessee had innumerable agencies in diff erent lines and had given up only one to continue business in other lines. Loss of an agency, it was observed, was in the normal course of business and a part of normal business, therefore, the amount received as compensation was revenue in nature. At the same time, it was accepted that the compensation paid/ received on account of a restrictive covenant for a specifi ed period on which the assessee had undertaken not to take up competitive agency was a capital receipt and therefore, not taxable. 14.3. In Alembic Chemical Works Co. Ltd., on facts, it was observed that the improvisation in the process and technology in some areas of the enterprise was supplemental to the existing business and there was no material to hold that it amounted to a new or fresh venture. That the further circumstance that the agreement pertained to a product already in the line of the established business of the assessees and not to a new product indicated that what was stipulated was an improvement in the operations of the existing business and its effi ciency and profi tability not removed from the area of the day-to-day business of the assessee. In the above context, it was held that the expenditure was in the nature of a revenue expenditure and not capital expenditure. It was further observed that there was no material before the Tribunal to hold that the area of improvisation was not a part of the existing business or that the entire existing 428 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. manufacturing operations for the commercial production of penicillin in the assessees existing plant had become obsolete or inappropriate in relation to the exploitation of the new sub-cultures of the high-yielding strains of penicillin supplied by a company, Meiji and that the mere introduction of the new bio-synthetic source required the erection and commissioning of a totally new and diff erent type of plant and machinery. 14.4. Another case which has been discussed by the High Court in the impugned and relied upon by the appellant–Revenue is Pingle Industries Ltd. In the said case, the majority stated that the payment in question therein was made with a view to acquire a long-term lease and a right to mine stones and the lease was conveyed to the assessee who had to extract the stones and convert them as a stock-in-trade.