The second E restriction is with regard to the subject of the Entry as a whole. If the Parliament has made any law which is outside the scope of Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I but within the scope of Entry 25 of List III, in such a case Article 254 and the principles of repugnancy would apply if a State Law is in conflict with such Parliamentary Law. In the instant case the law made by the State Legislature, namely, F the Assam Act is hit by the first of the aforesaid two restrictions; hence, it is null and void as the Assam Legislature lacked the legislative competence to enact such a Law. In light of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the considered view that Rural Health Practitioners enlisted under the Assam Act, are G underqualified to perform functions similar to those performed by medical practitioners registered in accordance with the Central Act. In to be recognised as a practitioner in any branch of modern scientific medicine, including allopathic medicine, the qualifications that must mandatorily be obtained are those listed in the Schedules to the Central Act. H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 999 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Triology of Cases A 21. We next consider the three decisions relied upon by learned senior counsel for the appellants. (A) Dr. Mukhtiar Chand vs. State of Punjab, (1998) 7 SCC 579, (“Dr. Mukhtiar Chand”): B (i) In this case the controversy was with regard to the issuance of declarations by the State of Punjab under clause (iii) of Rule 2(ee) of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945 (for short, ‘Drugs Rules’) which defines “registered medical practitioner”. The State of Punjab issued a notification dated C 29.10.1967 declaring all the vaids/hakims who had been registered under the East Punjab Ayurvedic and Unani Practitioners Act, 1949, and the PEPSU Ayurvedic and Unani Practitioners Act, 2008, and the Punjab Ayurvedic and Unani Practitioners Act, 1963, as persons practising modern system of medicine for the purposes of the Drugs D Act. (ii) Before this Court, it was contended that the right of practitioners of Indian medicine to practice modern scientific system of medicine (allopathic medicine) is protected under Section 17(3)(b) of the Indian Medicine Central Council E Act, 1970 (‘IMCC Act, 1970’ for short). (iii) While dealing with the IMC Act, 1956, this Court observed that in to ensure professional standards required to practice allopathic medicine, the IMC Act, 1956 was passed, and the said Act also deals with the reconstitution of the F Medical Council of India and maintenance of an Indian Medical Register. Section 2(f) of the IMC Act, 1956, defines “medicine” to mean “modern scientific medicine” in all its branches and includes surgery and obstetrics, but does not include veterinary medicine and surgery and the expression “recognised medical qualification” is defined in Section 2(h) G of the said Act to mean any of the medical qualifications included in the Schedules to the Act.