Subsequently, the 2001 Rules came to be notified on 20th December 2001. It will be relevant to refer to certain provisions of the said Rules, which read thus: “2. Definitions: C (a) “Apartment” means each sub-division of a building dully recognized by the Estate Officer, alongwith the proportionate share in common areas and common facilities, as well as any other property rights appurtenant thereto, shall constitute an Apartment. (b) “Building” means any construction or part of construction or D proposed construction in Chandigarh as defined in Clause (x) of Rule 2 of the Punjab Capital (Development and Regulation) Building Rules, 1952. 3. Sub-division of Building: E (1) Every building subject to the provisions of the Capital of Punjab (Development and Regulation) Act, 1952 and the separate and independent units in accordance with these rules. Each such sub- division of a building shall be recognized as a distinct, identifiable property to which the owner lessee shall have title along with proportionate rights in the declared common areas and common F facilities. Each sub-division along with common areas, common facilities, rights of access easements and other ownership rights shall constitute a single, distinct identified, property which may be used transferred or disposed by the owner/lessees in accordance with the applicable law and rules. G (2) A building may be sub-divided through a declaration made by the owners/lessees to the Estate Officer in the prescribed form (Form- D). The Estate Officer shall, if he is satisfied with the completeness and correctness of information provided with the declaration and after, having the building inspected, if necessary, recognize the sub- divisions of the building and the owners/lessees H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 625 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] thereof, upon payment of such fee as may be notified by the A Administration from time to time. The recognition of each sub-division as an apartment by the Estate Officer under these rules shall be accorded by way of a fresh letter of allotment or a fresh conveyance deed, as the case may be, in suppression of the previous letter of allotment or conveyance B deed. Such letter of deed shall recognize the owners/lessees of the apartment as the owners/lessees thereof, who shall be liable to comply with all the provisions of the Capital of Punjab (Development and Regulation) Act, 1952, and rules and regulations and s framed thereunder. All the covenant and liabilities contained in the original allotment letter and in the conveyance C deed pertaining to the building or site, shall be construed to be contained in the subsequent letter or deed, as the ease may be, even though no specific mention may have been made therein. (3) Each sub-division, after it has been recognized as an apartment by the Estate Officer, consequent upon the filing of prescribed D declaration, shall be the sole and exclusive property of the declared owners/lessees. Such owners/lessees’s shall be fully and exclusively responsible and liable for complying with all provisions of the Capital of Punjab (Development and Regulation) Act, 1952, rules and s framed thereunder, and covenants of the allotment E letter and conveyance deed pertaining to the site or the building.