4.11.It is submitted that the Constitutional Bench of this Court in the case of Gannon Dunkerly and Co. (supra) while dealing with the measure of tax vide para 47 had provided a list of exclusions from the D cost of valuation of goods and as to what would constitute the service elements. He has heavily relied upon para 47 of the said decision. It is submitted that this Court observed in para 47 in the case of Gannon Dunkerly and Co. (supra) as under: “47. ….. The value of the goods involved in the execution E of a works contract will, therefore, have to be determined by taking into account the value of the entire works contract and deducting therefrom the charges towards labour and services which would cover— (a) Labour charges for execution of the works; F (b) amount paid to a sub-contractor for labour and services; (c) charges for planning, designing and architect’s fees; (d) charges for obtaining on hire or otherwise machinery and tools used for the execution of the works contract; G (e) cost of consumables such as water, electricity, fuel, etc. used in the execution of the works contract the property in which is not transferred in the course of execution of a works contract; and H 992 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (f) cost of establishment of the contractor to the extent it is relatable to supply of labour and services; (g) other similar expenses relatable to supply of labour and services; (h) profit earned by the contractor to the extent it is relatable B to supply of labour and services. The amounts deductible under these heads will have to be determined in the light of the facts of a particular case on the basis of the material produced by the contractor.” 4.12 It is submitted that the above service elements have found a C statutory recognition as the same stood incorporated as part of Rule 2A of the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 w.e.f. 01.06.2007. 4.13 It is submitted that consequently this Court while dealing with the decision of Larsen and Toubro (supra) had specifically D addressed this issue by bringing the similarity of the service elements as mentioned in Constitution Bench’s decision in Gannon Dunkerly (supra) and framed as Rule 2A of the Valuation Rules, 2006. Reliance is placed on paras 25 and 26 of the said . 4.14 It is submitted that the decision of this Court rendered in E Larsen and Toubro (supra) came up for reconsideration in the batch of matter in the case of Total Environment Building Systems Pvt. Ltd. (supra) wherein this Court vide para 28 rejected the request to refer the matter to the larger Bench by observing in paragraph 28 which reads as under: F “28. While appreciating the prayer/submission made on behalf of the Revenue to re-consider the binding decision of this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro Limited (supra) and to refer the matter to the Larger Bench, few facts are required to be taken into consideration, which are as under:— G (i) The decision of this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro Limited (supra) has been delivered/passed in the year 2015, in which, it is specifically observed and held that on indivisible works contracts for the period pre-Finance Act, 2007, the service tax was not leviable; H CC AND CE AND ST, NOIDA v. M/S INTERARCH BUILDING 993 PRODUCTS PVT.