hands of the investigating offi cer if the investigation is designedly defective. ………” 48. A similar view has been taken by this Court in the case of Shera Singh v. State of Punjab12. 49. In totality of the circumstances, we are of the considered view that the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt the case for conviction under Section 302 of IPC and the appeals in that regard are liable to be rejected. 50. The next questions that we are called upon to consider are, as to whether the present case falls in the category of rarest of rare cases, and as to whether on the facts of the present case, the capital punishment imposed on appellant-Madan deserves to be maintained or not? 51. The Constitution Bench in the case of Bachan Singh v. State of Punjab13, observed thus: “164. Attuned to the legislative policy delineated in Sections 354(3) and 235(2), propositions (iv)(a) and (v)(b) in Jagmohan [(1973) 1 SCC 20 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 169 : (1973) 2 SCR 541] shall have to be recast and may be stated as below: “(a) The normal rule is that the off ence of murder shall be punished with the sentence of life imprisonment. The court can depart from that rule and impose the sentence of death only if there are special reasons for doing so. Such reasons must be recorded in writing before imposing the death sentence. (b) While considering the question of sentence to be imposed for the off ence of murder under Section 302 of the Penal Code, the court must have regard to every relevant circumstance relating to the crime as well as the criminal. If the court fi nds, but not otherwise, that the off ence is of an exceptionally depraved and heinous character and constitutes, on account of its design and the manner of its execution, a source of grave 12 (1996) 10 SCC 330 13 (1980) 2 SCC 684 794 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. danger to the society at large, the court may impose the death sentence.”” 52. It can thus be seen that the Constitution Bench held that the normal rule is that the off ence of murder shall be punished with the sentence of life imprisonment. The court can depart from that rule and impose the sentence of death only if there are special reasons for doing so. Such reasons are required to be recorded in writing before imposing the death sentence. While considering such a question, the court must have regard to every relevant circumstance relating to the crime as well as the criminal. If the court fi nds, but not otherwise, that the off ence is of an exceptionally depraved and heinous character and constitutes, on account of its design and the manner of its execution, a source of grave danger to the society at large, the court may impose the death sentence. 53. It may further be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Bachan Singh (supra): “202.