Once the amended Statutes are read with the respective Rules or Notification, this Court does not find them to encroach upon the Central legislation. Respondents have cited a large body of C authorities to defend their stand that these are not cases of colourable legislation but this Court does not consider it necessary to refer to all these s individually as this Court has come to this conclusion after analysing various statutory instruments covering the field. [Para 30][467-D-H; 468-A] D 5. Can the Amendment Acts be struck down for being arbitrary? There is a body of cases in which legislations have been invalidated on this ground. So far as the subject of the present controversy is concerned, the bulls form a distinct species referred to as draught or pack animals as opposed to horses, E which are adapted to run. But this Court declines to hold that just because bulls lack the natural ability to run like a horse, the subject-sports which are seasonally held shall be held to be contrary to the provisions of the 1960 Act. In fact, on behalf of the respondents it was argued that these genre of bulls are specially bred and have natural ability to run. There are contrary F views on this point. But in opinion of this Court, no irrational classification as regards these bull sports have been made by the legislature so as to attract the mischief which Article 14 of the Constitution of India seeks to prevent. The validity of a legislative Act can also be negated on the ground of it being unreasonable. G The element of unreasonableness here is that the bovine species involved herein are being subjected to unnecessary pain and suffering mainly for entertainment purpose. But the 1960 Act itself categorizes several activities which cause pain and suffering, even to a sentient animal. [Para 31][468-A-E] H 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 6. In the case of I.N Saksena -vs- State of Madhya Pradesh this Court had laid down that legislative lists in the Constitution ought to be interpreted in a wide amplitude. The 1960 Act in whole and the subjects of the three Amendments directly deal with the question of prevention of cruelty to animals. There is no other entry in any of the lists to which this subject could be B connected with. In such circumstances, this Court rejects the contention of the petitioners that the State Legislatures inherently lacked jurisdiction to bring these Amendments, which subsequently received Presidential assent. [Para 34][470-E-F] 7. Next comes the question as to whether even after the C said Amendments, Jallikattu and the other two activities could be held to be beyond legislative competence of the three legislative bodies. This Court has already held that the three Amendment Acts have to be read together with the consequential Rules or Notifications. In view of this Court, these Rules, once D treated as part of the Acts, alter the manner of conducting these sports and once these provisions are implemented, the mischief sought to be remedied by the aforesaid two provisions of 1960 Act (i.e.