32. In Executive Engineer, Dhenkanal Minor Irrigation Division v. N.C. Budharaj [(2001) 2 SCC 721] Raju, J. speaking for the majority held that a person deprived of the use of money E to which he is legitimately entitled has a right to be compensated for the deprivation by whatever name it may be called, namely, interest, compensation or damages.” 20.2. In the case of Central Bank of India (supra), the Constitution Bench of this Court essentially dealt with the question as to F the meaning to be assigned to the phrases “the principal sum adjudged” and “such principal sum”, as occurring in Section 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The Constitution Bench answered the reference in the following terms: - “58. Subject to the above we answer the reference in the following G terms: (1) Subject to a binding stipulation contained in a voluntary contract between the parties and/or an established practice or usage interest on loans and advances may be charged on periodical rests and also capitalised on remaining unpaid. The principal sum actually H advanced coupled with the interest on periodical rests so capitalised M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1145 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] is capable of being adjudged as principal sum on the date of the A suit. (2) The principal sum so adjudged is “such principal sum” within the meaning of Section 34 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 on which interest pendente lite and future interest i.e. post-decree interest, at such rate and for such period which the court may B deem fit, may be awarded by the court.” 20.2.1. The said case, essentially on enunciation of the principles relating to charge of interest by a creditor with reference to stipulation in the contract, or by a practice or usage when established, subject to the statutory provision, does not have an application to the question at hand. C 21. On the other hand, the observations made by this Court in the case of Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action (supra), which have been extensively relied upon by the learned counsel for the respondent cannot as such be applied to the case at hand either. In the said case, this Court dealt with the principles governing compensation for the loss D suffered by citizenry due to pollution and the ‘polluter pays’ principle. Such observations, essentially relating to public law remedies under inherent powers of this Court, are difficult to be applied to the case of the present nature, essentially emanating from the allegations of breach of contract. In other words, the observations of this Court as regards E disgorgement of all the benefits arrived at by the wrongdoer and restitution in full and effective form are difficult to be directly applied to the nature of claim in the present case. The set up and background in which the Court made the observations could be noticed from paragraph 169 of the said decision that reads as under: - “169. In the point under consideration, which does not arise from F a suit for recovery under the Code of Civil Procedure, the inherent powers in the court and the principles of justice and equity are each sufficient to enable an directing payment of compound interest.