This Court observed: “16.1. That electricity dues, where they are statutory in character under the Electricity Act and as per the terms & conditions of supply, cannot be waived in view of the provisions of the Act B itself more specifically Section 56 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (in pari materia with Section 24 of the Electricity Act, 1910), and cannot partake the character of dues of purely contractual nature 16.2. Where, as in cases of the E-auction notice in question, the existence of electricity dues, whether quantified or not, has been C specifically mentioned as a liability of the purchaser and the sale is on “AS IS WHERE IS, WHATEVER THERE IS AND WITHOUT RECOURSE BASIS”, there can be no doubt that the liability to pay electricity dues exists on the respondent (purchaser) D 16.3. The debate over connection or reconnection would not exist in cases like the present one where both aspects are covered as per clause 8.4 of the General Terms & Conditions of Supply.” Having set the stage of the legal and decisional framework, we have been tasked to decide the present batch of appeals. E D. Issues 23. Based on the submissions of the parties, the specific issues which arise for determination are: a. Whether the Universal Service Obligation under Section 43 of F the 2003 Act is linked to premises to which the connection is sought; b. Whether a connection of electricity supply sought by an auction- purchaser comprises a reconnection or a fresh connection; c. Whether the power to recover arrears of a previous owner or G occupier from an auction-purchaser of the premises falls within the regulatory regime of the 2003 Act; d. Whether the power to enable the recovery of arrears of the previous owner or occupier from an auction-purchaser can be 21 (2020) 6 SCC 404 H 660 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A provided through subordinate legislation by the State Commissions; e. Whether the 1910 Act, 1948 Act, and the 2003 Act have express provisions enabling the creation of a charge or encumbrance over the premises; B f. Whether the statutory bar on recovery of electricity dues after the limitation of two years provided under Section 56(2) of the 2003 Act, will have an implication on civil remedies of the Electric Utilities to recover such arrears; and g. What is the implication of an auction-sale of premises on “as is C where is” basis, with or without reference to electricity arrears of the premises? E. Submissions 24. To put the above-mentioned issues in their proper context, we refer to the broad legal submission adduced before us by the parties. D I. Electric Utilities 25. Sarvashri M G Ramachandran, Mr Ranjit Kumar, Mr Vijay Hansaria, Mr. Ajit Bhasme, learned senior counsel appearing for Electric Utilities have made the following submissions: E a. USO is not absolute i. The duty of the licensee to supply electricity under Section 43 of the 2003 Act is not absolute. Section 43 provides that an applicant has to fulfil the corresponding obligations to become entitled to the supply of electricity; F ii.