This is a clear indication that far from excluding governmental bodies like a government company, a public sector undertaking or a body under a Statute B from the purview of the Act, the lawgiver has evinced its intention to include government companies, public sector companies and bodies acquired under a Statute within the ambit of the Act. Now, this Court proceeds on the basis that the appellant is a monopoly. Further that it is a government company within the meaning of C Section 5 of the Nationalisation Act. The interplay of Sections 3, 5 and 11 of the Nationalisation Act has the said inevitable effect. A monopoly position under Section 19(4)(g) is treated essentially as being in the league of a dominant position. [Para 86][870-F-H; 871-A-B] D 3. Dealing with what would indeed constitute abuse of dominant position as declared imperatively in Section 4(2), if one takes Section 4(2)(a), it forbids imposing of unfair or discriminatory condition in purchase or sale of goods and services either directly or indirectly. It further likewise forbids an imposition of an unfair or discriminatory price in purchase or sale E including a predatory price of goods or service. The explanation indicates that discriminatory conditions or prices, which may be adopted to meet competition, is not within the scope of the mischief. Next, under Section 4(2)(b), the Law-Giver has proclaimed that there will be abuse of a dominant position by an F enterprise or group if it limits or restricts production of goods or provision of services or market therefor. [Para 92][873-G-H] 4. Parliament was aware of the Nationalisation Act. One must also take into consideration the fact that coal stood removed from the list of essential commodities under the Essential G Commodities Act in February, 2007. The express reference in Section 19(4)(g) of the Act to monopolies created under Statutes as also Government Companies and Public Sector Units for determining existence of dominant position, undoubtedly, indicates the intention of Parliament to bring State Monopolies, Government Companies and Public Sector units within the H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 831 OF INDIA purview of the Act. The Raghavan Committee Report provides A an invaluable input. [Para 97][877-C-D] 5. It is true that the actions of the appellants can be challenged in proceedings in judicial review as contended by the appellants. Equally, the appellants are justified in pointing out as a matter of fact that there may be forums other than the CCI B such as the Controller of Coal whereunder redress may be sought against action of the appellants. But that by itself, cannot result in denial of access to a party complaining of contravention of a law which is otherwise applicable. It must also be remembered that action can also be taken by the CCI suo motu. Such is the C width of the power vouchsafed for the authority under the Act. [Para 119][883-F-H] 6. It is clarified that it will be open to the appellant as the State monopoly to take up all contentions to demonstrate that there is no abuse of the dominant position.