When a person gives an undertaking to the Court, it is not given to the other side but to the Court itself, and that being said must carry sanctity. Therefore, when a Court passes a decree after an undertaking was embodied in the consent terms, it would show that the Court had sanctioned the particular course and put its imprimatur on the consent terms. This Court agreed with the view expressed in Bajranglal Gangadhar Khemka (supra) in preference over the view expressed in by the Calcutta High Court in Nisha Kanto Roy (supra). Thereafter, reference was made to Sanyal Committee 1106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. report, which had preceded framing of the enactment of the Act 1971 and thereupon interpreting Section 2(b) of the Act 1971, this Court in Rama Narang (supra)had observed:— “18. The Act has been duly widened. It provides inter alia for defi nitions of the terms and lays down fi rmer bases for exercise of the court's jurisdiction in contempt. Section 2(b) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 defi nes civil contempt as meaning “wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court”. (emphasis supplied) Analysed, the defi nition provides for two categories of cases, namely, (1) wilful disobedience to a process of court, and (2) wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court. As far as the fi rst category is concerned, the word “any” further indicates the wide nature of the power. No distinction is statutorily drawn between an passed after an adjudication and an passed by consent. This fi rst category is separate from the second and cannot be treated as forming part of or taking colour from the second category. The legislative intention clearly was to distinguish between the two and create distinct classes of contumacious behaviour. Interestingly, the courts in England have held that the breach of a consent decree of specifi c performance by refusal to execute the agreement is punishable by way of proceedings in contempt (see C.H. Giles and Co. Ltd. v. Morris [(1972) 1 All ER 960 : [1972] 1 WLR 307 (Ch D)]).”. (Emphasis supplied) 62. Thus, it is evident that Section 2(b) of the Act, which defi nes civil contempt, consists of two diff erent parts and categories, namely, (i) wilful disobedience to any , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or (ii) wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court. The expression “any” used with reference to the fi rst category indicates the wide nature of power given to the Court and that the statute does not draw a diff erence between an passed after adjudication or an passed by consent. The fi rst part or category is distinct and cannot be treated as a part or taking colour from the second category. This Court consciously observed that the Courts in England have held that the breach of consent decree of performance by refusal to execute an agreement was punishable BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1107 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS.