With this backdrop, it can be concluded that the use of the non-obstante clause, serves a singular purpose of allowing the company to vest the shares upon the nominee to the exclusion of any other person, for the purpose of discharge of its liability against diverse claims by the legal heirs 20 Reserve Bank of India v. Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd., (1987) 1 SCC 424 21 (1992) 1 SCC 335 720 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of the deceased shareholder. This arrangement is until the legal heirs have settled the aff airs of the testator and are ready to register the transmission of shares, by due process of succession law. 38. As per Bye-law 9.11.7 of the Depositories Act, 1996, the non- obstante clause confers overriding eff ect to the nomination over any other disposition/nomination ‘for the purposes of dealing with the securities lying to the credit of deceased nominating person(s) in any manner’. Therefore, the purpose of invoking such a non-obstante clause is clearly delineated and limited to the extent of enabling the depository to deal with the securities, in the immediate aftermath of the securities holder’s death. The upshot of the above discussion is that the non-obstante clause in both S. 109A(3) of the Companies Act, 1956 & Bye-law 9.11.7 of the Depositories Act, 1996 cannot be held to exclude the legal heirs from their rightful claim over the securities, against the nominee. NO THIRD LINE OF SUCCESSION CONTEMPLATED UNDER COMPANIES ACT 39. The appellants also contend that a nomination validly made under S. 109A of the Companies Act, 1956 and Bye-law 9.11 of the Depositories Act, 1996 constitutes a ‘statutory testament’ that overrides testamentary/ intestate succession. It is worth noting that the argument of nomination as a ‘statutory testament’ in respect of instruments such as life insurance policies, government savings certifi cates, provident fund etc. were considered and emphatically rejected by this Court in multiple rulings. 40. In Sarbati Devi (supra) this Court held that nomination under S. 39 of the Life Insurance Act, 1938 does not contemplate a third line of succession styled as a ‘statutory testament’ and any amount paid to a nominee on the policy holder’s death forms a part of the estate of the deceased policy holder and devolves upon his/her heirs, as per testamentary or intestate succession. Further, in Ram Chander Talwar (supra), while discussing the rights of a nominee of a deceased depositor (S. 45-ZA(2) Banking Regulation Act, 1949), this court concluded that the right to receive the money lying in the depositor’s account was to be conferred on the nominee but the nominee would not become the owner of such deposits. The said deposit is a part of the deceased depositor’s estate and is subject to the laws of succession, that governs the depositor. SHAKTI YEZDANI & ANR. v. JAYANAND JAYANT 721 SALGAONKAR & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 41. The appellants’ have contended that nominations under S. 109A of the Companies Act, 1956 & Bye-law 9.11 of the Depositories Act, 1996 suggest the intention of the shareholder, to bequeath the shares/securities absolutely to the nominee, to the exclusion of any other persons (including legal representatives) and constitutes a ‘statutory testament’.