vs. State of Uttar Pradesh1, previous enmity is a double-edged sword. On the one hand, it provides for the motive and on the other hand, the possibility of false implication cannot be ruled out. 14. This Court in the case of Vadivelu Thevar vs. State of Madras2 has held thus: “11. .…… Hence, in our opinion, it is a sound and well-established rule of law that the court is concerned with the quality and not with the quantity of the evidence necessary for proving or disproving a fact. Generally speaking, oral testimony in this context may be classifi ed into three categories, namely: (1) Wholly reliable. 1 2022 SCC-OnLine SC 991 2 (1957) SCR 981 NAGARAJ REDDY v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 463 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (2) Wholly unreliable. (3) Neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. In the fi rst category of proof, the court should have no diffi culty in coming to its conclusion either way – it may convict or may acquit on the testimony of a single witness, if it is found to be above reproach or suspicion of interestedness, incompetence or subornation. In the second category, the court equally has no diffi culty in coming to its conclusion. It is in the third category of cases, that the court has to be circumspect and has to look for corroboration in material particulars by reliable testimony, direct or circumstantial…” 15. Undisputedly, Narayanappa (PW-1) has been found to be unreliable by the trial court insofar as the other accused, except accused Nos. 1 and 3, are concerned. The High Court has also disbelieved the testimony of PW-1, insofar as accused No. 3 is concerned. 16. In that view of the matter, we are of the considered opinion that the conviction could not have been based solely on the testimony of Narayanappa (PW-1), without corroboration of his testimony. 17. In the result, the appeal is allowed. 18. The impugned dated 31st March 2022, passed by the High Court of Judicature at Madras, thereby confi rming the conviction and sentence of the present appellant passed by the trial court, vide its and dated 20th December 2018, are quashed and set aside. The appellant herein is acquitted of all the charges levelled against him and is directed to be set at liberty forthwith, if not required in any other case. 19. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Divya Pandey