A made at the original stage, was never pressed before the Tribunal or even incorporated in the memo of appeal filed before this Court. 22. We also find no merits in the other argument urged by the Ld. Counsel for the Revenue that the Tribunal’s in the case of IFGL Refractories could not have constituted a valid basis for the belief B entertained by the assesse in view of the fact that the relevant valuation provisions had undergone amendments in the year 2000. The argument of the Revenue’s Counsel was that in view of the amendments to Section 4 and Rule 6 of the Valuation Rules the ratio of the Tribunal’s decision in IFGL’s case was no longer relevant for the period under consideration in these appeals. We have no hesitation in rejecting this contention for C two independent reasons. Firstly, this contention too has not been urged in the Civil Appeal filed by the Revenue and has been urged only during the course of the hearing before this Court. On this count alone the contention deserves to be ignored. Secondly, we also find this contention to be diametrically opposite to what the Revenue itself has been D contending on merits right from the Show cause notice till the appeal filed before this Court. On merits, the Revenue’s case throughout had been that the issue of valuation is covered against the assessee by the judgement of this Court in the case of IL Refractories. Even in the of the CESTAT under challenge the Tribunal has proceeded on the basis that the principle of valuation laid down by this Court in the case of IFGL E Refractories holds good and remains valid even under the amended valuation provisions for the period post July 2000. We therefore find it strange that for the purposes of justifying its case on limitation, the Revenue wishes to take a position exactly contrary to what it has taken in the Show Cause Notice on merits. We cannot allow the Revenue to F blow hot and cold in the same breath by relying upon IL’s case on merits while at the same time arguing that the same had no relevance for the purposes of examining the plea for a bonafide belief. 23. We are in full agreement with the finding of the Tribunal that during the period in dispute it was holding a bonafide belief that it was G correctly discharging its duty liability. The mere fact that the belief was ultimately found to be wrong by the of this Court does not render such belief of the assessee a malafide belief particularly when such a belief was emanating from the view taken by a division bench of Tribunal. We note that the issue of valuation involved in this particular matter is indeed one were two plausible views could co-exist. In such H THE COMMISSIONER, CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS v. 1299 M/S RELIANCE INDUSTRIES LTD. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] cases of cases of disputes of interpretation of legal provisions, it would A be totally unjustified to invoke the extended period of limitation by considering the assessee’s view to be lacking bonafides.