104. A three-Judge Bench in the State of Punjab v. Baljinder Singh reported in (2019) 10 SCC 473 considered the question:- “8. … If a person found to be in possession of a vehicle containing contraband is subjected to personal search, which may not be in conformity with the requirements under Section 50 of the Act; but the search of the vehicle results in recovery of contraband material, which stands proved independently; would the accused be entitled to benefi t of acquittal on the ground of non-compliance of Section 50 of the Act even in respect of material found in the search of the vehicle?” 105. In the aforesaid case, poppy husk was recovered from the accused’s vehicle. This Court, while explaining the object of Section 50 and relying on the Constitution Bench judgement in Vijaysinh Chandubha Jadeja (supra), held that:- “10. Section 50 of the Act aff ords protection to a person in matters concerning “personal search” and stipulates various safeguards. It is only upon fulfi lment of and strict adherence to said requirements that the contraband recovered pursuant to “personal search” of a person can be relied upon as a circumstance against the person. x x x x 12. Subsequently, another Constitution Bench of this Court in Vijaysinh Chandubha Jadeja vs. State of Gujarat, had an occasion to consider the case from the standpoint whether the person who is about to be searched ought to be informed of his right that he could be searched in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate. While considering the said question, this Court also dealt with the rendered in Baldev Singh’s case and the discussion in paragraphs 24 and 29 was as under: 358 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “24. Although the Constitution Bench in Baldev Singh case [(1999) 6 SCC 172] did not decide in absolute terms the question whether or not Section 50 of the NDPS Act was directory or mandatory yet it was held that provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 50 make it imperative for the empowered offi cer to “inform” the person concerned (suspect) about the existence of his right that if he so requires, he shall be searched before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate; failure to “inform” the suspect about the existence of his said right would cause prejudice to him, and in case he so opts, failure to conduct his search before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate, may not vitiate the trial but would render the recovery of the illicit article suspect and vitiate the conviction and sentence of an accused, where the conviction has been recorded only on the basis of the possession of the illicit article, recovered from the person during a search conducted in violation of the provisions of Section 50 of the NDPS Act. The Court also noted that it was not necessary that the information required to be given under Section 50 should be in a prescribed form or in writing but it was mandatory that the suspect was made aware of the existence of his right to be searched before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate, if so required by him.