The picture that emerges on cumulative assessment of the materials on record is that the appellant-convict had strained relationship with his son Islamuddin (deceased) born in the wedlock of his fi rst marriage with 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Ishrat. His relations with his two brothers (deceased persons) were also strained. The defence put forward by the appellant-convict is that with a view to grab the property, PW-2 Shanu alias Shahnawaz, PW-4 Soni and others conspired to eliminate the deceased persons and thereafter, to throw the entire blame on the appellant-convict of having committed the crime. The incident occurred in the night hours. The three deceased were sleeping in one room. The PW-2 and PW-4 are said to have been sleeping in an adjoining room in the house. The appellant-convict is said to have locked the door of the room from outside in which, the deceased persons were sleeping. He poured infl ammable substance in the room and set the room on fi re. The three deceased persons suff ered severe burn injuries and ultimately succumbed to death. Islamuddin and Irshad are said to have given their dying declarations before the A.S.I. as referred to above. Why the dying declaration of Naushad could not be recorded is not clear. A close perusal of the two dying declarations indicates that Irshad and Islamuddin raised alarm on getting severely burnt and they were taken out of the room by the neighbour. Who is this neighbour, they are referring to in their dying declarations is also not clear? At the same time, it is pertinent to note that the Irshad and Islamuddin in their respective dying declarations do not say a word about the presence of the PW-2 Shanu alias Shahnawaz and PW-4 Soni. Both these witnesses do not fi gure in the two dying declarations. It is also pertinent to note that in both the dying declarations it has been very clearly stated that after a long time a neighbour came to their rescue and took them out of the burning room. 40. Keeping the aforesaid in mind, if we look into the oral evidence of the PW-2 Shanu alias Shahnawaz then according to him, he along with his sister Soni (PW-4) noticed fi re in the room in which the deceased persons were sleeping. According to the PW-4, she also witnessed the appellant- convict pouring kerosene and setting the room on fi re in which, the deceased persons were sleeping. PW-2 also claims to have witnessed, the appellant-convict fastening the door latch from outside and thereafter, running away from that place. In the same manner, if we closely look into the oral evidence of the PW-4 Soni, then according to her on seeing the fl ames of fi re in the room, in which the deceased persons were sleeping, she immediately opened the door and saw that the appellant-convict was running from the roof towards the stairs. The PW-4 claims that Amzad and Shafi q IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 809 [J.