LTD. & ANR. 683 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] consideration the circumstances, apparent conduct, and commercial facets of business transactions. 93. As Professor Hanotiau suggests, there is a need to adopt a modern and pragmatic approach to consent: “I would suggest that it is more accurate to refer to a modern approach to consent; an approach that is more pragmatic, more focussed on an analysis of facts, which places an emphasis on commercial practice, economic reality, trade usages, and the complex and multifaceted dimensions of large projects involving group of companies and connected agreements in multiparty multi-contract scenarios; an approach that is no longer restricted to express consent but that takes into consideration all its various expressions and tends to give much more importance than before to the conduct of the individuals or companies concerned.”85 94. It has been urged before us that where a written arbitration agreement clearly sets out the parties to it, the courts or tribunals cannot read into the agreement an intention to bind persons or entities other than the signatory parties. Reliance was placed on Roop Kumar v. Mohan Thedani,86 where this Court observed that “wherever written instruments are appointed, either by the requirement of law, or by the contract of the parties, to be the repositories and memorials of truth, any other evidence is excluded from being used either as a substitute for such instruments, or to contradict or alter them.” Consequently, it was urged that the courts or tribunals cannot interpret the arbitration agreement in a manner so as to expand its reach to parties not named in the agreement. 95. Arbitration law is an autonomous legal fi eld. While the main purpose of corporate law and contract law is imputation of substantive legal liability, the main purpose behind the law of arbitration is to determine whether an arbitral tribunal has jurisdiction over the dispute arising between parties to an arbitration agreement. On the one hand, the courts and tribunals cannot lightly brush aside the decision of the parties to not make a person or 85 Bernard Hanotiau, ‘Consent to Arbitration: Do We Share a Common Vision?’ (2011) 27(4) Arbitration International 539, 554 86 (2003) 6 SCC 595 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. entity a party to the arbitration agreement. The fact that the non-signatory did not put pen to paper may be an indicator of its intention to not assume any rights or responsibilities under the arbitration agreement. On the other hand, courts and tribunals cannot adopt a rigid approach to exclude all persons or entities who, through their conduct and relationship with the signatory parties, intended to be bound by the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement. The area of arbitration law not only concerns domestic law, but it also encompasses the international law, particularly when it pertains to the enforcement of international arbitral awards. Therefore, this Court ought to adopt a balanced approach without comprising on the basic principles of arbitration law, contract law, and company law to ensure that the resultant legal framework is consistent with internationally accepted practices and principles.