the contesting defendants to file a rejoinder i.e. additional written statement with leave of the court under 8, Rule 9 pleading the invalidity of the will propounded by the appellant. Nothing has been stated in the pleadings. Even in the evidence when the appellant was examined as DW 1 and his attestation was as DW 2, nothing was stated with regard to the alleged pressure said to have been brought about by the appellant to execute the will. In the cross-examination by the first respondent, no attempt was even made to doubt the correctness of the Will. 5. Under these circumstances, the suspicion which excited the mind of the District Munsif is without any basis and he picked them from his hat without fact-foundation. The Subordinate Judge had rightly considered all the circumstances and upheld the will. The High Court, without examining the evidence, by merely extracting legal position set out by various decisions of this Court has upset the finding of the fact recorded by the Subordinate Judge in one sentence. It is trite that it is the duty of the propounder of the will to prove the will and to remove all the suspected features. But there must be real, germane and valid suspicious features and not fantasy of the doubting mind.” (Underline supplied) 16. In the light of the aforesaid decisions, it can be safely said that once the burden to prove is discharged by the propounder in terms of Section 63 of the Succession Act and Section 68 of the Evidence Act, and by adducing prima facie evidence proving the competence of the testator, the onus is on the contestant opposing to show prima facie the existence of suspicious circumstances so as to shift the onus on the propounder to dispel them. Without knowing the circumstances, which according to the contestant opposing are suspicious, how will the propounder be able to dispel them and to convince the court about its genuineness and validity. We are saying that the contestant opposing the Will has to raise surrounding suspicious circumstances specifically and not vaguely or in a general manner. A case of well-founded suspicion has to exist to cause shifting of onus back to the propounder once he discharged his burden to prove the execution of the Will. We may hasten to add that we shall not be understood to have held that failure of the party/parties to plead suspicious circumstances would 156 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. automatically make the court to take a Will as validly proved even where the circumstance(s) raising doubt is inherent in the document. Certainly, in such circumstances the propounder has to convince the court and dispel such suspicious circumstances. 17. Sequentially, it is only apropos to consider the tenability of the finding of the High Court that the plaintiff had failed to prove that the Will was executed by the testatrix with knowledge of the contents, and taking it as one of the suspicious circumstances. The unrefuted factual position obtained from the evidence on record is that the testatrix who died on 08.01.1993 at the age of 69 years, had studied up to S.S.L.C and was able to read and write English.