This position was reiterated by this Court in Hatti Singh v. State of Haryana2. A survey on the authorities on this issue, would reveal that this position is being followed with alacrity. Bearing in mind the said position regarding the applicability of the ‘last seen’ theory we will have to examine the evidence of last seen available in the case on hand. 11. As noticed hereinbefore, 17 witnesses were examined in this case on the side of the prosecution and the indisputable fact is that none among them had deposed to have seen the accused and the deceased together and alive at any particular point of time on the fateful day much less, to have seen them together and alive at any time proximate to the occurrence. We do not think that a detailed discussion or analysis on this issue is essential to hold that ‘last seen’ theory was totally inapplicable in the case on hand in view of the following clear fi nding of the trial Court,which was not 1 (2005)3 SCC 114 2 (2007) 12 SCC 471 870 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. interfered with by the High Court. In paragraph 10 of the , the trial Court held thus: - “Admittedly the deceased was not last seen in the company of the accused …………” 12. When the categoric fi nding of the courts below, on appreciation of the oral testimonies of the prosecution witnesses is that none of the witnesses had spoken of having lastly seen the deceased in the company of the accused alive and together, there cannot be any reason to hold that ‘last seen evidence’ is available in the instant case as a link in the chain of circumstantial evidence against the appellants. 13. It is to be noted that despite coming into such a clear finding as above, on appreciation of evidence evidently, the trial court presumed the presence of the deceased with the appellants-accused at the fodder room near Katvawala passage just prior to his death, relying on certain other circumstances. In paragraph 13 of the the trial Court held thus:- “No doubt Mukesh, Sarwan, Azad were present at the time of cremation of the dead body of Devinder but they did not disclose about the last seen of the accused with the deceased. In fact, Azad, Daya Nand, Mukesh and Sahab Singh have not seen the accused in the company of the deceased on the ill-fated day. But material discussed above are suffi cient to show the presence of the deceased with the accused just prior to his murder.” (Emphasis added) 14. Conspicuously, this circumstance of ‘last seen’ drawn on interference and not on positive evidence by the trial Court, but based on other circumstances, was not analysed and appreciated by the High Court. To wit, without marshalling and appreciating the evidence to consider whether the circumstance of ‘last seen’ is available as a link in the chain of circumstantial evidence, evidently, the High Court based on the oral testimonies of PW-10 Mukesh, PW-8 Azad and PW-7 Daya Nand accepted the prosecution story that the deceased Devinder and Poonam met at the fodder room near Katvawala passage at about 08.30 pm on 25.06.1999, they were found in a compromising position by the appellant-convicts and KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR.