In the Recital Clause, thereafter, what has been purported to be done is that it is shown that the vendors have sold, transferred, conveyed, alienated, assigned to the vendee all G the scheduled property. The matter does not end there. The aforesaid recital is followed up with the words ‘along with all the rights, easements, interests, etc., the rights which ordinarily passed on through such sale on and over the said land in favour of the vendee and to hold and enjoy the same as absolute owner. In the Schedule, no doubt, what is mentioned is 46 acres and a little over 71 cents. We have already referred to the H 1134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A conduct of the first and second respondents, which commended itself to the learned Single Judge as conveying the impression that they wanted to repair and maintain the plant and machinery. Furthermore, they have also sought the benefit of the exemption provided under GoMS 103 dated 07.02.2001, which Government purported to provide for certain concessions in the form of exemption from stamp duty and registration B fee in favour of industrial units. We are in agreement with the view taken by the learned Single Judge that the unit was purported to be operated as a going concern and apparently the first respondent did not intend to dispose of the plant and machinery as scrap. Bearing in mind this context, we proceed to examine the exigibility of the plant and C machinery to stamp duty under the Act. 35. We have referred to Sections 3, 4 and 5 of the Act. We have also adverted to the interpretation traced on the same by this Court in Member, Board of Revenue(supra). The learned Amicus would submit that plant and machinery would constitute ‘distinct matters’ within the D meaning of Section 5 of the Act. To put it differently, distinct matters are dealt with in one instrument, viz., the sale deed in question. If different instruments had been executed purporting to convey land, building, plant and machinery, it would be the aggregate of the value of such matters, which would have exposed them to duty. If instead of separate instruments, distinct matters are made subject matter of one instrument, E then, it would hardly matter and the liability to pay duty would be still found within the four walls of Section 5 of the Act. 36. It is, no doubt, true that what is purported to be conveyed, going by the Recital Clause, is, at first blush, the land as comprised in the Schedule, viz., 46 and odd acres. What is conveyed is immovable property. F Immovable property has been defined in the General Clauses Act, 1897 as ‘including land, benefits to arrive out of land and things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth’. When it comes to the definition of ‘immovable property’ in the Transfer of Property Act, it has been defined as ‘not including standing timber, G growing crops or grass’.