B. PARDIWALA, J.] 67. In Kalema Tumba v. State of Maharashtra reported in (1999) 8 SCC 257, 2 kgs of heroin was recovered from a bag belonging to the accused. It was argued that as the requirements under Section 50 were not complied with, the contraband recovered in the course of the search would be inadmissible. This Court, while rejecting such argument and relying upon Baldev Singh (supra), held that Section 50 would not apply to the search of a bag belonging to the accused. The relevant paragraph is as under:- “4. … As rightly pointed out by the High Court search of baggage of a person is not the same thing as search of the person himself. In State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh this Court has held that the requirement of informing the accused about his right under Section 50 comes into existence only when person of the accused is to be searched. The decision of this Court in State of Punjab v. Jasbir Singh, wherein it was held that though poppy straw was recovered from the bags of the accused, yet he was required to be informed about his right to be searched in presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or a Magistrate, now stands overruled by the decision in Baldev Singh’s case (supra). If a person is carrying a bag or some other article with him and narcotic drug or the psychotropic substance is found from it, it cannot be said that it was found from his “person”. In this case heroin was found from a bag belonging to the appellant and not from his person and therefore it was not necessary to make an off er for search in presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or a Magistrate.” (Emphasis supplied) 68. In Sarjudas v. State of Gujarat reported in (1999) 8 SCC 508, the contraband was recovered from a bag which was hanging on the accused’s scooter, which he was riding. This Court while holding the bag not to be included in the “search of the person” held as under:- “4. What is contended by the learned Counsel for the appellant is that the appellants were not informed of their right under Section 50 of the NDPS Act that they were entitled to be examined in presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate and, therefore, the search of the appellants was illegal and the evidence regarding recovery of charas from their possession could not have been relied upon. 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 5. We do not fi nd any substance in this contention as the charas was not found on the person of the appellants but it was found kept in a bag which was hanging on the scooter on which they were riding. Therefore, this was not a case where the person of the accused was searched and from his person narcotic drug or psychotropic substance was found. The correct position of the law on this point has been stated by this Court in State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh” (Emphasis supplied) 69.