930 SUPREME COU[2R0T23 R] 6E PSO.CR.RT.S 930 [2023] 6 S.C.R. A SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal Nos. 7086-7087 of 2009) B APRIL 13, 2023 [K. M. JOSEPH AND HRISHIKESH ROY, JJ.] Waqf Act, 1995: Wakf properties, of parties who are Shia Muslims – C Beneficiaries and their rights – Beneficiaries perfecting title by adverse possession – Permissibility of – Held: A beneficiary of a waqf, being neither a trustee nor a co-owner of waqf property, can acquire title through adverse possession even if it is the property of the waqf – There cannot be any embargo against a beneficiary of a waqf claiming acquisition of title by adverse possession – Beneficiary D of a waqf cannot be described as a stranger to the waqf – No doubt, a beneficiary is not to be conflated in his position with a Mutawalli, who is a manager of the waqf – Property of the waqf, in law vests in the almighty – For the purposes of s. 10 of the Limitation Act, he is treated as a trustee – Beneficiary would be entitled to receive E benefits in terms of the waqf deed – In the case of adverse possession, since a requirement is that the possession must be hostile to the real owner and since the real owner is the almighty, the requirement would be that such a person must have the necessary animus to hold contrary to the title of God – In the case of a co-owner while mere assertion of title in himself may hardly suffice as the possession F of a co- owner is taken to be possession on behalf of all co-owners a case of ouster being successfully established would entitle the co-owner to succeed – Beneficiary of a waqf is endowed with rights in terms of the waqf deed – No duty is culled out, as such, to protect the interest of another. G ss. 52(2) and 107 – Recovery of wakf property transferred in contravention of s. 51 – Waqf created by one shia muslim, by a deed in the year 1934 – Original Waqif had three sons – Eldest son- QA became mutawalli on death of his father – However, his younger brothers got their names mutated as bhumidars in revenue records H 930 SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 931 OTHERS for the said property – Suit filed by the eldest son seeking declaration A that it was a waqf property and sought relief of expunging the names of his two brothers – During the pendency of suit, one of the brother of QA, sold his one- third share to one of his nephew, referred as first sale – Though said suit decreed in favour of the plaintiff, it abated in view of the consolidation proceedings – First sale was B held to be infirm – Thereafter, in 1974, compromise entered between the three brothers and they purported to disown the waqf – Based on the compromise, second sale made by QA in favour of his other nephew – Challenged to, by QA’s son in a writ petition – In 1988, QA resigned as mutawali – Case of the appellant-son of the transferor that QA’s son became the mutawali – Writ petition C withdrawn – Complaint filed before the U.P.