It is submitted that thereafter on constitution of the Committee the allotment of the shed was made to respondent No. 5, being a licencee of the Committee and possession holder of the shed prior to the collapse of the shed. Making the above submissions it is prayed that the present appeals be dismissed. B 6. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. We have gone through the impugned (s) and (s) passed by the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court. 6.1 At the outset, it is required to be noted that the appellant is C claiming shed/auction platform which is just adjacent to and/or in front of shop No. 27 and/or at any other place. However, the appellant is unable to establish and/or show any specific rules and/or regulations with respect to the allotment of the shed/auction platform and that too, just adjacent and/or in front of shop in which a particular person D is carrying on the business. Therefore, in the absence of any specific right in his favour, the appellant could not have prayed for the allotment of shed/auction platform just adjacent to and/or in front of his shop No. 27. 6.2 At this stage, it is required to be noted that even other E persons are allotted the shops/auction platforms at different places. It is also required to be noted that number of persons doing business is more than the availability of auction platforms. 6.3 At this stage, it is also required to be noted that as such pursuant to s passed by this Court on 06.05.2016 and 05.08.2016, petitioner – appellant made the representation. The s are as F under: - “Mr. Patwalia, learned senior counsel states that there are certain other platforms which are available. If that is so, Respondent Nos. 2 to 4 may consider whether one such platform can be allotted to the petitioner or not. G Petitioner is entitled to make a representation in this behalf within one week. List the matter in the month of August, 2016.” xxx H 1052 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A “It is stated by Mr. P. S. Patwalia, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioner, that platform No. 13 is available. Learned counsel for the respondents submits that the matter is pending consideration and shall be decided within a period of four weeks. B We hope that the respondents shall consider it favourably. List the petitions after four weeks.” Even the representation was permitted to be made to consider on the statement made by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that there are certain other platforms which are available C and to that, this Court observed that if that is so, respondent Nos. 2 to 4 may consider whether one such platform can be allotted to the appellant or not. That thereafter, a representation was made by the appellant which has been dealt with and rejected by the Committee by a detailed which is self- explanatory.