It is in this E context, that the SEBI (SAST) Regulations and the SEBI (PIT) Regulations, are to be understood. [Para 32][549-C-F] 1.7 The SEBI (PIT) Regulation prohibits dealing, communicating etc., on matters relating to insider trading. Even if there is a suspicion about the transgression of the prohibition, the Board has the power to inquire (Regulation 4A) and come to F a prime facie conclusion about the need to investigate (Regulation 5). Chapter III of the said Regulations provides for the entire procedure to be followed in the inquiry process. For an effective exercise of its ex-ante powers, the Board has provided the policy on disclosures in Chapter IV of the said Regulations. Under G Regulation 13, any person holding more than 5% shares or voting rights in a company, shall disclose to the company within four working days, the number of shares or the extent of voting rights held by such person. Regulation 13 places a continual obligation of disclosure. Regulation 14 provides that any person violating H 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the said Regulations shall be liable for action under Sections 11, 11B, 11D, 24 and Chapter VI-A of the SEBI Act. [Para 33][549- F-H; 550-A-B] 1.8 The regulatory regime is all-encompassing. It prescribes the prohibition, which is normative. The Regulation also provides for the method of detecting the violation, the methods of B investigation, the manner of appointment of the investigating authority, the timeline within which the report is to be submitted, the opportunity for an insider to respond to the report as well as the final decision to be taken by the SEBI, and lastly, the consequential s and restitutionary directions which the Board is entitled to pass. The SEBI has the power under C Regulation 11 to pass necessary directions to remedy an act of insider trading in to have a complete and comprehensive control over the securities market. [Para 34][550-C-E] 1.9 Having considered the comprehensive role of the SEBI in regulating the securities market with respect to insider trading, D the important role of the Regulator cannot be circumvented by simply asking for rectification under Section 111A of the 1956 Act. Such an approach is impermissible. The scrutiny and examination of a transaction allegedly in violation of the SEBI (PIT) Regulations will have to be processed through the regulations and remedies provided therein. [Para 35][550-E-F] E 1.10 When Constitutional Courts are called upon to interpret provisions affecting the exercise of powers and jurisdictions of these regulatory bodies, it is the duty of such Courts to ensure that transactions falling within the province of the regulators are necessarily subjected to their scrutiny and regulation. This will ensure that the regulatory body, charged F with the duty to protect the consumers has real time control over the sector, thus, realizing the purpose of their constitution. [Para 36][550-G-H] 1.11 The position with respect to the SEBI (SAST) Regulations is similar to that of the SEBI (PIT) Regulations. G Regulation 7 of Chapter III obligates the acquirer of more than 5% shares in a company to disclose the same to the company and the stock exchange.