If he has no jurisdiction to try the case or commit it for trial, and considers further detention unnecessary, he may F the accused to be forwarded to a Magistrate having such jurisdiction Provided that- (a) no Magistrate shall authorise detention in any custody G under this section unless the accused is produced before him; (b) no Magistrate of the second class not specially empowered in this behalf by the High Court shall authorise detention in the custody of the police. H 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (4) Any Magistrate other than the Chief Judicial Magistrate making such shall forward a copy of his , with his reasons for making it, to the Chief Judicial Magistrate.” 20.On the recommendation made by the Law Commission through the aforesaid reports recommending to curtail the abuse of such power, B Section 167(2) as it exists today in the statute was incorporated in the Cr.PC, 1973, which provides for a longer period of maximum remand, but also guarantees default bail, to ensure that accused persons are bereft of arbitrary detention.7 The Statement of Objects and Reasons of CrPC,1973 also refer to the 41st law Commission Report and inter alia reads as follows:- C “(2).....A comprehensive report for the revision of the Code, namely, the Forty-first Report, was presented by the Law Commission in September, 1969. This report took into consideration the recommendations made in the earlier l Reports of the Commission dealing with specific matters D namely, the Fourteenth, Twenty-fifth, Thirty-second, Thirty- third, Thirty-sixth, Thirty-seventh and Fortieth Reports. (3) The recommendation of the Commission were examined carefully by the Government, keeping in view, among others, the following basic considerations- E (i) an accused person should get a fair trial in accordance with the accepted principles of natural justice; (ii)every effort should be made to avoid delay in investigation and trial which is harmful not onlv to individuals involved but also to society; and F (iii) the procedure should not be complicated and should, to the utmost extent possible, ensure fair deal to the poorer sections of the community. The occasion has been availed of to consider and adopt where G appropriate suggestions received from other quarters, based on practical experience of investigation and the working of criminal courts” H 7 Law Commission in its Report No. 41 (September, 1969), Para. 14.19. RITU CHHABARIA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 839 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 21. A bare perusal of the abovementioned statement of objects A strongly indicates that Section 167(2) of the Cr.PC was enacted to ensure that the investigating agency completes the investigation within the prescribed time limit, failing which no accused could be detained if they are willing to avail bail. This position was also laid emphasis on by a three-judge bench of this Court in the case of M. Ravindran Vs. B Directorate Of Revenue Intelligence (Supra), the relevant paragraphs of the same are being reproduced hereunder: “The suggestion made in Report No. 14 was reiterated by the Law Commission in Report No.