That being so, and given the large number of candidates eligible for consideration the Government was entitled to adopt the method of restricting the zone of consideration based on the number of vacancies. Inasmuch as the Government relied upon the DoPT guidelines for achieving that objective it committed no fault. The question, however, is C whether the Government could draw-up a list of eligible candidates not by reference to the length of service in the cadre but by reference to the date on which the candidates acquired the eligibility which, as noticed earlier, was itself dependent upon the date on which the candidate acquired the degree qualification. Since, D however, the acquisition of a degree qualification itself was not based on any consistently uniform criterion, test or procedure, the date on which such a qualification was acquired and resultantly the date on which the candidate attained their eligibility was also bound to be anything but uniform and non-discriminatory. As between the date of acquiring eligibility and the date of entering E service as a Section Officer/Junior Engineer the latter was, in our opinion, a more intelligible, fair and reasonable yardstick to be applied for drawing-up the list of eligible candidates by the review DPC. Inasmuch as the review DPC relied upon the date of acquiring eligibility as the basis for preparation of the list of eligible F candidates, it committed a mistake which needs to be corrected.” 20.A reading of the aforesaid paragraph shows that the promotion to the post of Assistant Engineer was to be based on merit and merit alone. The seniority of candidates could not be taken into account for determining such merit. In this merit-based selection, there was a G qualifying prescription to be so considered on merits. The time period spent in the service as Junior Engineer was at variance dependent on whether the person had a qualifying Degree or a qualifying Diploma. There was no necessity for a Degree to perform the job of a Junior Engineer, and all persons were alike. The distinction only came into play when the merit-based promotion had to take effect. Thus, as to when H 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the person obtained the degree as a method of advancement of his knowledge and entitling him to an earlier consideration in the time period would not be relevant. 21.The Department of Personnel and Training, “Instructions and Guidelines on Seniority”, have been placed before us. As far as the B seniority of promotees is concerned, the relevant portion is as under: “2.2. SENIORITY OF PROMOTEES ......... 2.2.1 Where promotions to a grade are made from more than one grade and quotas have been laid down for each feeder grade, the C eligible persons shall be arranged in separate lists in the of their relative seniority in their respective grades. The officers in each grade, assessed as fit by the Departmental Promotion Committee shall be interpolated in the ratio prescribed for each grade in the recruitment rules for the post.” D 22.A three Judges Bench of this Court in Chandravathi P.K.