and “mortgagee” etc. have been defi ned. Sub-section (c) which deals with “mortgage by conditional sale” relevant for the point in issue, are extracted below: “58. “Mortgage”, “mortgagor”, “mortgagee”, “mortgage-money” and “mortgage-deed” defi ned.- (a) ××× ××× ××× (b) ××× ××× ××× (c) Mortgage by conditional sale. - Where, the mortgagor ostensibly sells the mortgaged property- On condition that on default of payment of the mortgage-money on a certain date the sale shall become absolute, or On condition that on such payment being made the sale shall become void, or On condition that on such payment being made the buyer shall transfer the property to the seller, the transaction is called mortgage by conditional sale and the mortgagee a mortgagee by conditional sale: Provided that no such transaction shall be deemed to be a mortgage, unless the condition is embodied in the document which eff ects or purports to eff ect the sale.” 24. A perusal of the aforesaid proviso to sub-section (c) of Section 58 of the 1882 Act4 provides that no transaction shall be deemed to be a mortgage, unless the condition is embodied in the document which eff ects or purports to eff ect the sale. It is the undisputed case in hand that it was not a single document, the conditions contained wherein have to be considered by this Court to opine that the transaction was not a sale, but a mortgage. Admittedly, there are two separate documents. 25. Similar argument, where two separate documents were executed, came up for consideration before this Court in Bishwanath Prasad Singh’s case (supra). One was the Sale Deed and the second was the agreement for sale. Both were executed on the same date. It was opined therein that to appreciate a document its contents are to be read in entirety and the intention PRAKASH (DEAD) BY LR. v. G. ARADHYA AND ORS. 1045 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] of the parties is to be gathered from the language used therein. Para 16 of the aforesaid is referred to for ready reference: “16. A deed as is well known must be construed having regard to the language used therein. We have noticed hereinbefore that by reason of the said deed of sale, the right, title and interest of the respondents herein was conveyed absolutely in favour of the appellant. The sale deed does not recite any other transaction of advance of any sum by the appellant to the respondents which was entered into by and between the parties. In fact, the recitals made in the sale deed categorically show that the respondents expressed their intention to convey the property to the appellant herein as they had incurred debts by taking loans from various other creditors.” 25.1. Further, in the aforesaid , this Court while interpreting the terms of the agreement executed along with the Sale Deed and opined that the same cannot be treated to be a mortgage as the expression used therein were ‘vendor’, ‘vendee’, ‘sold’ and ‘consideration’. Fixed period was granted for execution of the Sale Deed.