636 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. which gives rise to an action, and that is why it is necessary for the courts to recognise that a cause of action which results in a must lose its identity and vitality and merge in the when pronounced. It cannot therefore survive the , or give rise to another cause of action on the same facts. This is what is known as the general principle of res judicata. 4. But it may be that the same set of facts may give rise to two or more causes of action. If in such a case a person is allowed to choose and sue upon one cause of action at one time and to reserve the other for subsequent litigation, that would aggravate the burden of litigation. Courts have therefore treated such a course of action as an abuse of its process and Somervell, L.J., has answered it as follows in Greenhalgh v. Mallard [(1947) All ER 255 at p. 257] : “I think that on the authorities to which I will refer it would be accurate to say that res judicata for this purpose is not confi ned to the issues which the court is actually asked to decide, but that it covers issues or facts which are so clearly part of the subject-matter of the litigation and so clearly could have been raised that it would be an abuse of the process of the court to allow a new proceeding to be started in respect of them.” This is therefore another and an equally necessary and effi cacious aspect of the same principle, for it helps in raising the bar of res judicata by suitably construing the general principle of subduing a cantankerous litigant. That is why this other rule has some times been referred to as constructive res judicata which, in reality, is an aspect or amplifi cation of the general principle.” (Emphasis Applied) 47. The doctrine of constructive res judicata will not be applicable in the present case for the simple reason that the issues raised in the Second SCN were never adjudicated upon in the fi rst place as explained above. The plea that the same should have been raised in the earlier proceedings, is irrelevant in light of the liberty granted by the High Court in its dated 21.04.2006 whereby the Revenue authorities were expressly permitted YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 637 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] to initiate fresh proceedings for violation of assignment conditions. The Division Bench of the High Court is therefore right in holding that this liberty was not for ‘future contraventions only’ as perceived by the Single Judge in his dated 05.02.2010, for it would render the liberty granted in dated 21.04.2006 as obsolete. We thus hold that in light of the liberty granted by the High Court vide dated 21.04.2006, the Second SCN would neither constitute an abuse of process of court nor will attract the doctrine of constructive res judicata.