Words & Phrases – “material facts” – What constitutes – D Discussed – Representation of the People’s Act, 1951 – s.83(1)(a). Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 Section 83(1)(a) of RP Act, 1951 mandates that an Election petition shall contain a concise statement of material facts on which the petitioner relies. If material facts are not stated E in an Election petition, the same is liable to be dismissed on that ground alone, as the case would be covered by Clause (a) of Rule 11 of 7 of the Code. The material facts must be such facts as would afford a basis for the allegations made in the petition and would constitute the cause of action, that is every fact which it would be necessary for the plaintiff/petitioner to prove, if F traversed in to support his right to the judgement of court. Omission of a single material fact would lead to an incomplete cause of action and the statement of plaint would become bad. Material facts mean the entire bundle of facts which would constitute a complete cause of action. Material facts would include G positive statement of facts as also positive averment of a negative fact, if necessary. In to get an election declared as void under Section 100(1)(d)(iv) of the RP Act, the Election petitioner must aver that on account of non-compliance with the provisions of the Constitution or of the Act or any rules or s made H 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A under the Act, the result of the election, in so far as it concerned the returned candidate, was materially affected. The Election petition is a serious matter and it cannot be treated lightly or in a fanciful manner nor is it given to a person who uses it as a handle for vexatious purpose. An Election petition can be summarily dismissed on the omission of a single material fact leading to an B incomplete cause of action, or omission to contain a concise statement of material facts on which the petitioner relies for establishing a cause of action, in exercise of the powers under Clause (a) of Rule 11 of VII CPC read with the mandatory requirements enjoined by Section 83 of the RP Act. [Para 28][825- B-H; 826-A] C 1.2 The election petitioner i.e., the respondent has made very bald and vague allegations without stating the material facts as to how there was non-compliance of any of the provisions of the Constitution of India or of the RP Act or of the rules made thereunder. If the averments made in the Election petition are D read in juxtaposition to the information furnished by the appellant- returned candidate in Form No. 26, it clearly emerges that against the information sought about the PAN number of the spouse of the appellant, it has been stated that “No PAN No.”, “Spouse K. Aravindhan Foreign Citizenship”. Against the information sought with regard to “The financial year for which the last income tax E return has been filed”, the information supplied by the appellant about her spouse is “Not applicable”.