She also drew our attention to the objects and reasons of the 1950 Act. It is pointed out that the law was enacted to provide for an exhaustive Code. It is a complete Code. It provides for self-regulation. According to her, the decision of this Court in Joseph Shine (supra) must be viewed E in the context of the institution of Marriage. It was not rendered in the context of a workplace. Expanding further, learned Additional Solicitor General would point out that the setting in which the Armed Forces operate makes it a unique workplace. Discipline among the members of the Force is a matter which is indispensable. Discipline would indeed be impaired, according to her, if the high moral ground to be occupied by F the officers is diluted. The obstacle for the authorities invoking Sections 45 and 63 of the 1950 Act as also the corresponding provisions in the other two Acts will ultimately result in a situation where, in the sensitive Forces, which the Armed Forces are, it would engender and breed rank indiscipline. The Forces which act as one and proceed on the existence G of a sense of brotherhood would face breakdown of their morale. This was not what was in contemplation of this Court when it pronounced Section 497 IPC as unconstitutional. Section 497 IPC has been struck down on the basis that it offended Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution. The Court it is contended was distressed by the resort to values of a bygone era [the Victorian era] and the considerations which H 590 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A persuaded this Court to hold Section 497 IPC as unconstitutional are not germane for the purposes of deciding on the validity or the legality of actions taken under Sections 45 and 63 of the 1950 Act. She, in fact, did point out that there was an element of discord even in the matter of right of privacy which has been advocated in the of one of the learned Judges whereas it has not been so evidenced in the of B another Judge. There is a command structure in the Armed Forces which it is indispensable to maintain. Such command structure would be disturbed. She would, in this regard, ask us to focus attention on the words ‘unbecoming conduct’ in Section 45 of the 1950 Act. She would submit that in a case where the officer is charged with what is unbecoming C conduct and it consists of an act of adultery, nothing can stand in the way of the authorities taking action. (12) Pertinently, the learned ASG would also point out that the provisions are gender neutral and it does not suffer from the vice found by this Court when it struck down Section 497 IPC. Whoever, it may be, D man or woman, who acts in a manner which is found to be unbecoming can be proceeded against, therefore, under Section 45 of the 1950 Act. Equally, she drew our attention to Section 63 and points out the importance of the words ‘military discipline’, viz-a-viz, good .