[2023] 13 S.C.R. 861 : 2023 INSC 809 CASE DETAILS EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK AND ANR. (Civil Appeal No.7906 of 2021) SEPTEMBER 06, 2023 [B. V. NAGARATHNA AND UJJAL BHUYAN, JJ. ] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Appellate Tribunal whether justifi ed in upholding the decision of the Liquidator to cancel the auction sale without assigning any reasons. Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 – Auction sale cancelled by Liquidator without assigning any reasons – Appellant submitted its bid dtd.16.07.21 to Respondent No.2-Liquidator in respect of the assets of the corporate debtor (in liquidation) – On 20.07.21, appellant received an E-auction certifi cate from certifying that it had won the auction of the subject property– On 21.07.21, the appellant received an email from Respondent No.2 simply informing that he had cancelled the E-auction u/Clause 3(k) of the Disclaimer Clause in the E-Auction Process Information Document and that a fresh E-auction would be conducted– Appellant fi led application before the Tribunal– Tribunal directed the respondent No.2 vide dtd. 12.08.21 to send a communication to the appellant requiring him to deposit the balance sale consideration– Letter issued to the appellant, entire sum was deposited – Sale certifi cate issued in favour of the appellant – Respondent No.1-fi nancial creditor fi led appeal against dtd. 12.08.21– Appellate Tribunal set aside the said and reversed the steps taken pursuant thereto, liberty given to the Respondent No.2 to initiate fresh process of auction – He issued sale notice dtd. 24.12.2021 for E-auction sale of the subject property – Auction scheduled stayed: Held: No reasons were assigned by the Liquidator for cancellation of the E-auction – While the highest bidder has no indefeasible right 861 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. to demand acceptance of his bid, the Liquidator if he does not want to accept the bid of the highest bidder has to apply his mind to the relevant factors – Such application of mind must be visible or manifest in the rejection itself – It is incomprehensible that an administrative authority can take a decision without disclosing the reasons for taking a decision aff ecting the rights of parties – Further, while it is true that para 1(11A), stating that where the Liquidator rejects the highest bid in an auction process, he shall intimate the reasons for such rejection to the highest bidder and mention it in the next progress report, came to be inserted in Schedule 1 to the Regulations w.e.f 30.09.21, it does not imply that an auction sale or the highest bid prior to the aforesaid date could be cancelled by the Liquidator exercising unfettered discretion and without furnishing any reason – Furthermore, in the present case, even after cancelling the highest bid of the appellant, in the subsequent sale notice dtd. 24.12.21, Respondent No.2 again fi xed the reserve price of the subject property at Rs.10 crores which was the reserve price in the previous round of auction sale and which was also the bid value of the appellant – There was no rationale or justifi cation in rejecting the bid of the appellant and going for another round of auction at the same reserve price – Merely because the Liquidator has the discretion of carrying out multiple auction it does not necessarily imply that he would abandon or cancel a valid auction fetching a reasonable price and opt for another round of auction process with the expectation of a better price – There can be no absolute or unfettered discretion on the part of the Liquidator to cancel an auction which is otherwise valid – Tribunal rightly held that there were no objective materials before the Liquidator to cancel the auction process and to opt for another round of auction – Appellate Tribunal not justifi ed in setting aside the of the Tribunal dtd.12.08.2021 – Impugned set aside, dtd.12.08.2021 restored – Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 2016– Regulation 33; Schedule 1, Para 1(11A)– Auction– National Company Law Tribunal Rules, 2016– Administrative Law – Principles of natural justice.