If it is said that F on account of this anger, I and my daughter Mumtaz colluded and murdered my grand daughter, it is false. If it is said that Shamudeen who came from abroad had given the money and by using his influence, had used me and made a false case to be filed against the accused, all of them are wrong. If it is said that after hearing the news of the child’s death, the accused who came to Perambalur G at 5.00 P.M. from Kollakudi Village, was taken by all of us and handed over to the police, all are incorrect.” 5.2. The testimony of PW-2 Mumtaz, daughter of PW-1, assumes relevance in view of her close connectivity with the occurrence, as asserted by PW-1. The relevant parts of her statement read as under: - H 956 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A “…..The name of the daughter of the margin accused is Farhana. The child died on the 21st day of June, 2007. Two days earlier, the accused and her daughter stayed at Perambur as guests. My mother is residing separately in a house which is away slightly from my house. By that time, along with my mother, the margin accused and her daughter were staying when they came to B Perambalur. The accused and her daughter were residing in my mother’s house separately. On the date of incident, between 7.30 to 8.00 A.M. my mother went to get idli. When my mother got idli and went home, my mother shouted. People gathered there. We went to that place. I saw that the accused’s daughter was C dead…..When I asked margin accused, she said that she had killed the child. (The witness once again said this). At about 7.00 A.M. on that day, my younger brother Abdul Raheem had called me over phone and said that Vahida i.e. the margin accused should not go anywhere and that the accused’s daughter has to be admitted in the school. My younger brother Abdul Raheem told me over D phone that I have to tell the accused to admit the school in Perambalur and to stay along with my mother. When my mother got idli and came back, I told the details as said by my younger brother, Abdul Raheem over phone. My younger brother told me over phone to bring the margin accused and keep her in my house E and before I could do the same, the incident had taken place. When I saw, Farhana was dead with the blood coming out of the nose and mouth. When the police authorities examined me, I deposed the above details. That is all. Cross Examination: After my mother got idli she shouted within 5 F minutes. By that time 20 or 30 persons gathered there. Immediately, between 9.30 and 9.45 A.M. the police authorities came there. When I went and saw and asked the accused, the accused was silent and this had been deposed by me in the chief examination and the same had not been deposed during the investigation by the police authorities.