The Court also relied on the Statement of Objects and Reasons. It also referred to Srinivasa (supra). Still further, the Court set down the position at law prior to amendment, as follows: “23. From the above discussion the following position of law emerges. A Mahant of a mutt is incompetent to create any interest F in respect of muth property to enure beyond his lifetime. He can alienate the property permanently only for legal necessity or benefit to the estate. In the case of an alienation made by him, which was not for legal necessity or benefit the said alienation becomes voidable at the instance of his successor. The right to question the alienation accrues to the successor only on the alienor’s death. G The adverse possession of the alienee also begins to run only from the date of his death and not until then. A permanent lease of temple lands is also an alienation of this nature. If it was not for legal necessity or benefit it is not binding on the mutt. The cause H 20 AIR 1974 AP 175 SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 967 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] of action which once accrues continues. The right of the mutt A would be extinguished in regard to that property at the end of the period prescribed by the law of limitation. Each succeeding mahant does not get a revival of the cause of action in his favour. The appointment of successor was never considered to give a fresh start of limitation, under the law as it stood prior to 1963. Whether B it was an alienation made for legal necessity or not was a question depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case.” 29. Thereafter, the learned Judge went on to lay bare the true purport of Article 134B: “24. Such was the state of law when the Limitation Act was C amended in 1963. The legislature must be presumed to know the existing law and the interpretation given by the courts to the law then in force. If the right to question a voidable alienation in respect of a Hindu or Muhammadan religious or charitable endowment is denied to a mutt or religious institution, such an institution looses D the properties once for all. As the State was interested in protecting and safeguarding the properties of such institutions, it brought about an amendment to achieve that purpose in 1963. The Law Commission, which was appointed to go into that question suggested that in the case of Hindu, Muslim and Buddhist religious or charitable endowments, a fresh start or a terminus quo should E be given for actions brought by the succeeding Mahant to set aside such alienations, which were not made for legal necessity or benefit of the institution. The Legislature also accepted that view and inserted in column 3 to Article 96, which previously had only the following words: “the death, resignation or removal of F the transferor” the following words: “or the date of appointment of the plaintiff as manager of the endowment, whichever is later”.