Section 26 of the Act: Interpretation: 15. With a view to lend perspective to the discussion to follow, a bird’s eye view of my analysis and conclusions has been expressed in a tabular form as under: H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 187 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] A B C D E F G H 188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 189 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] A B C D 15.1 Section 26 of the Act deals with legal tender of notes. Sub- E section (1) of Section 26 declares that every bank note shall be a legal tender at any place in India in payment or on account for the amount expressed therein, and shall be guaranteed by the Central Government. There are two aspects to this provision: the first is, every bank note shall be a legal tender in any place in India and, secondly, that F the Central Government shall guarantee the amount expressed on the bank note. The expression “bank note” is defined in Section 2 (aiv) of the Act to mean, a bank note issued by the Bank whether in physical or digital form, under Section 22 of the Act. Section 22 of the Act categorically G states that the Bank has the sole right to issue bank notes in India, on the recommendations of the Central Board of the Bank. The provision further provides that the Bank has the sole right to issue currency notes of the Government of India. The provisions of the Act would be applicable in a like manner, to all currency notes of the Government of H 190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A India, issued either by the Central Government or by the Bank, as if such currency notes were bank notes. 15.2 Further, it is only on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank that the Central Government may direct the non-issue or discontinuation of the issue of bank notes B of such denominational value as it may specify in this behalf. Even the design, form and material of bank notes has to be approved by the Central Government, after considering the recommendations made by the Central Board of the Bank. Thus, the scheme of the Act envisages that the issuance of the bank notes, the various denominations of the bank notes, C the design and form of the bank notes, are all to be specified by the Central Government only on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank. Therefore, on perusal of Sections 24, 25 and 26 of the Act, it is observed that it is only on the recommendation of the Central Board of the D Bank that the Central Government would actqua the aforestated matters, on the strength of the respective provisions. It need not be emphasised that the Bank, being the only institution, which carries out the function of currency management and formulates credit rules in the country, is recognised as having a say in the issuance of currency notes, E and also in specifying the denominations of the notes, as well as the design and form of the bank notes.