That the Bank F has been created as a central bank with powers of supervision, advice and inspection, over banks, particularly those desiring to be included in the Second Schedule or those already included in the Schedule. The Reserve Bank thus, safeguards the economy G and the financial stability of the country. This Court in the said case also sounded a caveat in stating that it cannot be said that the Reserve Bank can never act mistakenly or even negligently. b) Subsequently, in Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. vs. Reserve Bank of India H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 181 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (1992) 2 SCC 343 this Court once again recognized A the status of the Reserve Bank in the Indian economy. In the said case it was observed that the Reserve Bank of India is a Banker’s Bank and a creature of statute. That the Reserve Bank of India has a large contingent of expert advice relating to the matters B affecting the economy of the entire country. It was further observed that the Reserve Bank has an important role in the economy and financial affairs of India and one of its many important functions is to regulate the banking system in the country. C The aforesaid discussion is relevant for the purpose of interpreting sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act.The said provision clearly states that it is only on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, that any series of bank notes of any denomination shall be declared to have ceased to be legal tender. D Economic/Fiscal Policies: Interference by Courts 13.3 Before proceeding to interpret the said provision, it would be necessary to consider another aspect of the matter which has been emphasized by the learned Attorney General,i.e., with regard to the Court’s deference to the economic and E monetary policies of the government and restraint that the Court must exercise in interfering with the said policies, unless the same are so irrational or unreasonable, so as to be declared to be unconstitutional. The above submission was made in the context of the contention of the petitioners, that the decision-making F process in the present case was deeply flawed as it was contrary to the scheme and procedure contained in sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Actand hence, this Court may review the same and declare it to be in contravention, inter-alia, of statutory provisions of the Act.The aforesaid G contention was vehemently opposed by learned Attorney General who submitted that courts cannot sit in over economic policy matters of the Government. In this regard the following discussions could be made. H 182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Judicial Review of Economic Policy: The Indian judiciary has consistently exercised restraint with regard to judicial review of policy decisions. A few instances on which such restraint has been demonstrated, have been discussed as under: (a) In this regard reliance was placed by the learned Attorney B General on a of this Court in State of Tamil Nadu vs.National South Indian River Interlinking Agriculturist Association 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1114.