Decision of National Company Law Appellate Tribunal in Comp. App. (AT) (Ins.) No.43-43A/2021 – not the correct position in law. India Private Limited v. Satish Kumar Gupta & Ors, (2019) 2 SCC 1 : [2018] 12 SCR 362; Swiss Ribbons Private Limited and Anr. v. Union of India & Ors, (2019) 4 SCC 17 : [2019] 3 SCR 535 – referred to. Insolvency Law Committee Report 2018 – referred to. OTHER CASE DETAILS INCLUDING IMPUGNED AND APPEARANCES CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 4422 of 2023. From the and dated 02.06.2023 of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal, Chennai Bench in Company Appeal (AT) (CH) (Ins) No.110 of 2023. Appearances: Bishwaji Dubey, Ld. Amicus Curiae, Adhitya Srinivasan, Nikhil Saran, Advs. Ms. Pritha Srikumar Iyer, Arun Srikumar, Ms. Neha Mathem, Shubhansh Thakur, Advs. for the Appellant. HARI BABU THOTA 919 Praveen Kumar Jha, S. Thennavan, Bholle Taguru Phanendra, N. Sakthivel, Chembugari Abheeshna, Sunil Fernandes, Zeeshan Diwan, Ms. Priyansha Indira Sharma, Faraz Ahmed, Praveen Kumar Jha, Advs. for the Respondent. / OF THE SUPREME COURT SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J. 1. Shree Aashraya Infra-Con Limited went into CIRP under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 [for short “the Code”] and the appellant before us was appointed as the Resolution Professional. The Resolution Professional presented a plan before the National Company Law Tribunal, Bengaluru as propounded by the promoters and approved by the Committee of Creditors [COC] but in terms of the dated 28.02.2023, the application was dismissed on the ground that the promoters could not have presented the plan. It is the say of the appellant before us that this has far reaching consequences for him and his role as the Resolution Professional as: a) the appellant is ineligible to continue as a Resolution Professional; b) the applicant is ineligible to be considered as Board is liquidator of the corporate debtor; c) the case of the appellant is required to be referred to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) for further action in accordance with law on the ground that the appellant had erred in putting up a plan that was not in consonance with law for consideration of the adjudicating authority. 2. Since there was really no representation on behalf of the other side, we appointed Mr. Bishwajit Dubey, learned counsel as Amicus in the matter. 3. We have heard learned counsel for the appellant/Resolution Professional and the learned Amicus not only because it would aff ect the professional abilities of the appellant but because certain issues required 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. adjudication by us, more so, in view of the impugned relying on an earlier of the National Company Law Appellant Tribunal in Digamber Anand Rao Pingle v. Shrikant Madanlal Zawar & Ors.1 4. There are two aspects to be examined out of the contours of the submissions: Firstly: Whether the resolution applicant was disqualifi ed under the primary conditions as specifi ed under Section 29 A of the Code; and Secondly: Whether the corporate debtor not having an MSME status at the time of commencement of CIRP proceedings would disqualify the Resolution applicant under Section 29A of the Code as benefi t of Section 240A would not be available.