That in matters concerning co-ordination and laying down of standards in higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions, power rests with the Union/Parliament to the F exclusion of the State Legislatures. However, in so far as other facets of education, including technical and medical education, as well as governance of universities are concerned, even State Legislatures are vested with power by virtue of Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule of G the Constitution. That the field covered by Entry 25 of List III is wide enough and as circumscribed to the limited extent of it being subject to Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I. It was observed that most educational activities, including admissions, have two aspects: the first of such H 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A aspects being the adoption and setting of the minimum standards of education. That it was essential to lay down a uniform minimum standard for the nation, with a view to provide a benchmark quality of education being imparted by various educational institutions across the country. To this end, Entry 66 of List I was formulated with the objective B of maintaining uniform standards of education in fields of research, higher education and technical education. The Court went on to observe that the second aspect of regulation of education is with regard to the implementation of the standards of education determined by Parliament, C and the regulation of the complete activity of education. This activity necessarily entails the application of the standards determined by Parliament in all educational institutions in accordance with the local and regional needs. Therefore, it was held that while Entry 66 of List I dealt D with determination and co-ordination of standards, on the other hand, the original Entry 11 of List II granted the States the exclusive power to legislate with respect to all other aspects of education, except the determination of minimum standards and co-ordination which was in national interest. Subsequently, vide the Constitution (Forty-second E Amendment) Act, 1976, the exclusive legislative field of the State Legislature with regard to education was removed and deleted, and the same was replaced by amending Entry 25 of List III granting concurrent powers to both Parliament and State Legislature the power to legislate with respect to F all other aspects of education, except that which was specifically covered by Entries 63 to 66 of List I. In a concurring , Bhanumati J. in paragraphs 131 to 134 and 147 to 149, has held as under: “131. In to answer the concern of other Constitution G Framers, Dr Ambedkar went on to clarify the limited scope of List I Entry 66 (as in the present form), as proposed by him in the following words: (CAD Vol. 9, p. 796) Entry 57-A merely deals with the maintenance of H certain standards in certain classes of institutions, BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 961 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] namely, institutions imparting higher education, A scientific and technical institutions, institutions for research, etc.