The appeal against conviction preferred by the appellant was admitted by the High Court and by PURUSHOTHAMAN v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 183 [ABHAY S.OKA, J.] the dated 12th January, 2018, the substantive sentence of the appellant was suspended and he was ed to be enlarged on bail. 4. On 7th July, 2023, the said Criminal Appeal of the year 2017 was called out before the learned Single Judge of the High Court for hearing. The Advocate for the appellant sought adjournment for four weeks. Only on the ground that the appellant is enjoying the facility of bail and that his advocate applied for adjournment, the High Court proceeded to cancel the bail. 5. In a given case, if the advocate appearing for the appellant-accused seeks adjournment on untenable and unreasonable grounds, the Appellate Court is well within its power to refuse the prayer for adjournment. In such a case, one of the courses suggested by a decision of this Court in the case of Bani Singh v. State of U.P.1 can always be adopted by the High Court. The High Court has a discretion to appoint an advocate to espouse the cause of the appellant when the advocate appointed by the appellant refuses to argue the appeal on unreasonable grounds. Though the High Court has an option of considering the merits of the appeal and deciding the same on merits, the High Court could always adopt the fi rst course of appointing an advocate to espouse the cause of the appellant. 6. Sub-section 1 of Section 389 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short “CrPC”) reads thus: “389. Suspension of sentence pending the appeal; release of appellant on bail - (1) Pending any appeal by a convicted person, the Appellate Court may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, that the execution of the sentence or appealed against be suspended and, also, if he is in confi nement, that he be released on bail, or on his own bond. Provided that the Appellate Court shall, before releasing on bail or on his own bond a convicted person who is convicted of an off ence punishable with death or imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years, shall give opportunity to the Public Prosecutor for showing cause in writing against such release: 1 (1996) 4 SCC 720 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Provided further that in cases where a convicted person is released on bail it shall be open to the Public Prosecutor to fi le an application for the cancellation of the bail.” (underline supplied) 7. Under sub-section 1 of Section 389, while suspending the sentence of the appellant-accused who is in Jail, the Appellate Court has to enlarge the accused on bail till the fi nal disposal of the appeal. The second proviso to sub-section 1 of Section 389 permits the Public Prosecutor to fi le an application for cancellation of the bail granted under sub-section 1.