Kumar (PW-15), who were all injured in the fi ring, have categorically deposed that those accused were present with Babu Ram at the time of altercation and they all left simultaneously with Babu Ram and were noticed at the roof top exhorting Babu Ram to fi re. The High Court observed that though there had been minor variations in the testimony of witnesses as to which accused did what, but such minor variations were natural as memory fades with passage of time and it is diffi cult for anyone to remember each and every minute aspect of the incident. Consequently, by relying on their testimony, all appeals were dismissed. 9. We have heard Sri Sudarshan Rajan, learned counsel for the appellants and Shri Jayant K. Sud, learned Additional Solicitor General, for the State (NCT of Delhi). Submissions on behalf of appellants 10. The learned counsel for the appellants submitted that it is a case where the principal accused, namely, Babu Ram, had admitted that he opened fi re at the mob from his licensed weapon. Once such is the position, the court was required to carefully consider whether the appellants, who were part of the family, were implicated due to general animosity, by assigning role of exhortation to them. Further, as per prosecution case, gunshots were fi red from the roof-top at people who were on the street. It would thus be diffi cult for the witnesses present on the street to gauge as to who was exhorting and who was not, particularly, when there were more than three persons at the roof-top. Moreover, it is well settled that mere presence with the assailant is not enough to assume that all of them share common intention with the principal accused and that the criminal act has been done in furtherance of the common intention of all. Otherwise also, the prosecution evidence is not clear whether the gunshots fi red at the two deceased i.e., Anil and Vijay were in furtherance of the common intention of all the accused. Therefore, even if it is assumed that at some stage the appellants had exhorted Babu Ram to fi re shots, in absence of clear and cogent evidence that Babu Ram was instigated/exhorted to fi re shots at the two deceased, the appellants cannot be convicted for the off ence punishable under Section 302 with the aid of Section 34 of the IPC. Thus, in a worst-case scenario, the appellants can only be convicted under Section 307/34 of the I.P.C. It was argued that since each of the three appellants have already served more than fi ve years SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 393 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] of sentence, which they were awarded for off ence punishable under Section 307/34 of the I.P.C., their appeals be allowed and their sentence be reduced to the period of sentence already undergone for the off ence punishable under Section 307/34 of the I.P.C. 11. In addition to above, the learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the trial of the appellants suff ers from a fundamental defect inasmuch as the incriminating circumstance about the appellants exhorting/ instigating Babu Ram to fi re shots at the two deceased/public/injured, was never put to the appellants while recording their statements under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (in short, “the Cr.P.C.”).