But, this does not amount to saying that the of the Court, tribunal or authority below has stood merged in the of the Supreme Court rejecting the special leave petition or that the of the Supreme Court is the only binding as res judicata in subsequent E proceedings between the parties. (vi) Once leave to appeal has been granted and appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court has been invoked the passed in appeal would attract the doctrine of merger; the may be of reversal, modification or merely F affirmation. (vii) On an appeal having been preferred or a petition seeking leave to appeal having been converted into an appeal before the Supreme Court the jurisdiction of the High Court to entertain a review petition is lost thereafter as provided by G sub-rule (1) of 47 Rule 1 CPC” 35. While the law laid down by the two s relied upon by the appellants, and other s in line with the said two s explicitly state that specific liberty is a requirement for filing a subsequent Special Leave Petition after the withdrawal of the first Special Leave H S. NARAHARI AND ORS. v. S.R. KUMAR AND ORS. 1019 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Petition, however, a crack seems to appear in the foundation of the A said s when the of Khoday Distilleries (Supra) is read into in detail. 36. In the case of Khoday Distelleries (Supra), the question that was raised before this Court was different from the present case, however, the underlying logic of the said , in our opinion, has B bearing on the issue raised before us in the present case. In the said case, a three judge bench of this Court was tasked with answering the question of whether a review petition in the High Court is maintainable, once Special Leave Petition raising the same issue has been dismissed. This Court, while relying upon the case of Kunhayammed Vs. State of C Kerela4, held that even after the dismissal of the Special Leave Petition, a review before the High Court is still maintainable. 37. While the conclusion of the said is not relevant to the present case at hand, however, the reasoning behind coming to the said conclusion, in our opinion, has bearing on the present case. This D Court, in the abovementioned case, while holding that a review is maintainable even after the dismissal of Special Leave Petition, observed that the dismissal of Special Leave Petition by way of a non-speaking does not attract the doctrine of merger. 38. In simpler terms, this would essentially mean that even in E cases where the Special Leave Petition was dismissed as withdrawn, where no reason was assigned by the Court while dismissing the matter and where leave was not granted in the said Special Leave Petition, the said dismissal would not be considered as laying down law within the ambit of Article 141 of the Constitution of India. 39. If a dismissal of Special Leave Petition by way of a non- F speaking is not considered law under Article 141 of the Constitution of India, the same also cannot be considered as res judicata, and therefore, in every such dismissal, even in cases where the dismissal is by way of a withdrawal, the remedy of filing a fresh Special Leave Petition would still persist.