7, 7.1,7.2, & 7.11 and the summary thereof is stated in para 10 of the fourth Supplementary Complaint fi led by the respondent. The role of the appellant in the commission of the alleged off ence of money laundering in terms of Section 3 of PML Act reads as under: “Tarun Kumar was Vice President (Purchases) in Shakti Bhog Limited and was also a director in various Shakti Bhog Group companies. He was actively involved in the bank fraud committed by Shakti Bhog Foods Ltd. Tarun Kumar was directly involved in procuring fake invoices from shell companies operated by Devki Nandan Garg and Ashok Kumar Goel, Entry Operators. Investigation revealed that emails from and related to the shell entities supplying fake invoices to Shakti Bhog Foods Ltd. were also marked to Tarun Kumar. Further, Tarun Kumar used to transfer proceeds of crime to the shell companies for procuring fake invoices without any genuine business transactions and collected part thereof in cash from Vivek Prasad, Entry Operator. Besides, he used to verify the fake bills for LC settlement with the lending banks. He also was involved in the criminal conspiracy of stock manipulation and infl ation of the fi nancial results of Shakti Bhog Foods Ltd. Tarun Kumar also used the platform of group companies under his directorship and control for diversion, rotation and siphoning of the proceeds of crime. Further, he played active role in the export activities of Shakti Bhog Foods Ltd. and then in siphoning and stashing the proceeds of crime abroad. Tarun Kumar along with his directed company Goal Securities Pvt. Ltd. acquired proceeds of crime to the tune of Rs.3.69 Crore. Tarun Kumar was knowingly a party and actually involved in process TARUN KUMAR v. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR DIRECTORATE 821 OF ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] and activity connected with proceeds of crime including its acquisition, use, possession, concealment and/or projecting as well claiming the same as untainted. He was benefi ciary of proceed of crime acquired through the criminal activities related to scheduled off ences. Therefore, Tarun Kumar has committed off ence of money laundering u/s r.w.s. 4 of PMLA, 2002.” 5. The learned Senior Counsel Mr. Sidharth Luthra for the appellant taking the Court through the documents on record made the following submissions: (i) The off ending transactions in the ECIR/Prosecution Complaints and FIR were common, yet the appellant was not named in the FIR or in the fi rst three prosecution/supplementary complaints. (ii) The co-accused Raman Bhuraria, who is similarly placed as the appellant has been granted bail by the High Court of Delhi vide the and dated 08.02.2023, and therefore the appellant is entitled to the bail on the ground of parity. (iii) The investigation qua the appellant is complete and the further investigation is kept open with regard to the other accused persons, if any, and the trial of the case is likely to take long time. Hence, the appellant ought not to be incarcerated indefi nitely. The right to bail in cases of delay, coupled with incarceration for a long period, depending on the nature of the allegations, should be read into Section 439 of the Cr.P.C.