[Para 13][671- B-C] 1.2 There can be no doubt with respect to the fact that in a case where the conviction is based on circumstantial evidence, D motive assumes great significance. Just like complete absence of motive failure to establish motive after attributing one, should also give a different complexion in a case based on circumstantial evidence and it will certainly enfeeble the case of prosecution. [Para 18][674-A, C-D] E 1.3 The prosecution alleged a motive. According to the prosecution on 29.09.2001, the deceased along with his friend assaulted the brother of appellant in the latter appeal (the first accused in the Sessions Trial). It is also the case of the prosecution that after the accused persons entered the house of PW-8, the first accused/the appellant in the latter appeal hurled abuses on F the deceased and asked him why he along with his friend assaulted his brother. It is also the case of the prosecution that though the deceased denied any such occurrence, the said appellant continued to say that the deceased had done dishonesty and assaulted his brother. After alleging motive the prosecution had G failed to establish the same. In this context, it is to be noted that the trial court made a positive finding that the prosecution had miserably failed to establish the alleged motive. Despite the said finding of the trial court and despite that issue was pointedly raised before the High Court, obviously the High Court in the impugned H SHANKAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 663 did not consider the said aspect at all. This failure on A the part of the High Court is a ground specifically taken in this appeal. The failure to establish the alleged motive in a case based on circumstantial evidence, had weakened the case of the prosecution. This aspect should have been given proper weight by the courts below. [Para 21][675-G; 676-A-D] B 1.4. When the factual position obtained from the oral testimonies of PW-8 and PW-10, the High Court which observed that the circumstance of ‘last seen’ is an important circumstance in the case on hand and its proof would depend upon the quality and nature of the testimonies of PW-8 and PW-10 should have C bestowed a threadbare, serious consideration to answer the question whether the evidence of PW-10 would lend corroboration to the evidence of PW-8. So also, the courts below in the overall circumstances, ought to have carefully considered the question whether the solitary oral evidence of PW-8 would conclusively prove the factum of the deceased lastly seen in the company of D the deceased. On the careful scrutiny of the evidence of PW-8 and PW-10 it is held that both the trial court and the High Court have failed to make a proper exercise of that task taking into account the fact that the prosecution relies only on circumstantial evidence to establish the guilt of the accused. Thus, virtually the E evidence of PW-10 not only failed to lend corroboration to the evidence of PW-8 but also puts it under a shadow of doubt.