The prosecution examined seven witnesses and also filed four documentary evidences to prove the charges. The seven witnesses are as follows: i. PW 1- informant and eye-witness: Smt. Nareswari Phukan E (sister-in-law of the deceased); ii. PW2-Eye-witness and injured: Robi Phukan (brother of the deceased); iii. PW 3 – Eye-witness: Smt. Jogmaya Phukan(sister in law of the deceased) ; F iv. PW 4- Eye-witness: Smt. Anjana Phukan, (relative of the deceased); v. PW 5 – Bhuban Phukan, relative of the deceased; vi. PW 6 –Dr. Naleswar Sonowal who conducted the autopsy G on the dead-body of the deceased; and vii. PW 7 – Nilo Chiring, the Investigating Officer who submitted the charge-sheet (Ex.-4). 5. The documentary evidence produced and proved by the prosecution are: H PULEN PHUKAN & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ASSAM 623 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] i. FIR (Ejahar)-Ex.-1; A ii. Seizure of the axe-Ex.-2; iii. Post-mortem report-Ex.-3; iv. Charge-sheet-Ex.-4. 6. The Trial Court and the High Court came to the conclusion that B the evidence led by the prosecution was unquestionable and have accordingly recorded the conviction and sentence as afore-stated. 7. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the material on record. C 8. Learned counsel for the appellants made the following submissions: A. The prosecution has not come forward with fair and honest version for the following reasons: i. The FIR is very sketchy. The statement of the first informant D (PW-1) before the Trial Court is a clear improvement from the version mentioned in the FIR. ii. PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3 have clearly stated that at least five police personnel were present at the time the incident took place. It is also stated that the police personnel had E accompanied the accused. There is no explanation given regarding the presence of the police throughout the occurrence. iii. If the police personnel were present outside the house of the deceased then the matter ought to have been reported F by them regarding the incident rather than PW-1 going to the Police Station to lodge the FIR. iv. The accused accompanied the police to the Police Station along with PW-2 who was throughout assaulted on the way. v. Why did the police personnel who were five in number not G make any attempt to apprehend the accused and not only let them go scot-free but also accompanied them to the Police Station. B. There is no evidence whatsoever to show that all the accused had come with a common object with regard to the offence to be H 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A committed and if that be so invoking sections147,148 and 149 IPC would be untenable in law. The ingredients of Section 142 of IPC are not established by any evidence. C. There is material inconsistency in the evidence of the eye- witnesses PW-1 to PW-4 which completely discredits their testimony B not only for the reason that they are interested witnesses being relatives of the deceased but also on careful scrutiny of the evidence, their testimony cannot be regarded as reliable.