x x x A 19A. Minimum standards of medical education.— (1) The Council may prescribe the minimum standards of medical education required for granting recognised medical qualifications (other than post-graduate medical qualifications) by Universities B or medical institutions in India. (2) Copies of the draft regulations and of all subsequent amendments thereof shall be furnished by the Council to all State Governments and the Council shall, before submitting the regulations or any amendment thereof, as the case may be, to the C Central Government for sanction, take into consideration the comments of any State Government received within three months from the furnishing of the copies as aforesaid. (3) The Committee shall from time to time report to the Council on the efficacy of the regulations and may recommend to the Council such amendments thereof as it may think fit. D x x x 21. The Indian Medical Register.— (1) The Council shall cause to be maintained in the prescribed manner a register of medical practitioners to be known as the E Indian Medical Register, which shall contain the names of all persons who are for the time being enrolled on any State Medical Register and who possess any of the recognised medical qualifications. (2) It shall be the duty of the Registrar of the Council to keep the F Indian Medical Register in accordance with the provisions of this Act and of any s made by the Council, and from time to time to revise the register and publish it in the Gazette of India and in such other manner as may be prescribed. (3) Such register shall be deemed to be a public document within G the meaning of the India Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872) and may be proved by a copy published in the Gazette of India. 22. Supply of copies of the State Medical Registers.— Each State Medical Council shall supply to the Council six printed copies of the State Medical Register as soon as may be after the H 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A commencement of this Act and subsequently after the first day of April of each year, and each Registrar of a State Medical Council shall inform the Council without delay of all additions to and other amendments in the State Medical Register made from time to time. B 23. Registration in the Indian Medical Register.— The Registrar of the Council may, on receipt of the report of registration of a person in a State Medical Register or on application made in the prescribed manner by any such person, enter his name in the Indian Medical Register: C Provided that the Registrar is satisfied that the person concerned possesses a recognised medical qualification.” 17.1. On a conjoint reading of the aforesaid provisions, it is noted that the IMC Act, 1956, is an Act which repealed the erstwhile Act of 1933 with the object of providing for the reconstitution of the Medical D Council of India and for the maintenance of a Medical Register for India and for matters connected therewith.