Acceptances: MRL has already received acceptance from PNB about their Hundi acceptances settlement as per option (a). Efforts are being made to settle with other banks E namely Federal Bank, Dhanlakshmi Bank, etc in respect of Hundi Acceptances. The negotiations are at advance stage.” 4.2 Clause 5.1.4 provides for payment to other unsecured creditors as under:- F “5.1.4 OTHER unsecured creditors (Rs. 1840.42 lacs) To accept 20% of the principal outstanding as full and final payment. The payment shall be made at the end of 3rd year from the sanction of the Scheme by the BIFR.” G 4.3 That the respondent herein was an unsecured creditor – a carbon black supplier, who did not accept the amount offered under the rehabilitation scheme sanctioned under SICA. According to the original writ petitioner – respondent No. 1 herein, the debts recovered in the scheme due to it were much less than the actual debts. Therefore, H 1036 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A aggrieved by the rehabilitation scheme, the respondent No. 1– unsecured creditor preferred an appeal before the AAIFR to the extent it provided a dispensation for payment of unsecured creditors. 4.4 The AAIFR dismissed the appeal vide dated 23.06.2011. The passed by the AAIFR was the subject matter of writ petition B before the High Court. 4.5 By the impugned and , the Division Bench of the High Court has allowed the writ petition and has set aside the passe by the AAIFR dated 23.06.2011 by holding that the respondent No. 1 – original writ petitioner as an unsecured creditor has the option C not to accept the scaled down value of its dues and wait till the scheme of rehabilitation of the respondent company has worked itself out with an option to recover its debt post such rehabilitation. Holding so, the Division Bench was of the view that the contract inter se the parties arrived at whereafter the company has become sick, cannot be compulsorily overridden by the provisions of the SICA if the creditor is D willing to wait till such time as the company is financially rehabilitated to claim its dues. The High Court is of the opinion that there would be only suspension of legal proceedings as envisaged under Section 22 of the SICA and the enforcement of the remedy remains suspended and that is why even in computing period of limitation, the period is excluded as per E sub-section (5) of Section 22 of the SICA. The impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court is the subject matter of present Civil Appeal No. 375 of 2017. 5. Shri Jayant Bhushan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant - Modi Rubber Limited in Civil Appeal No. 375 of 2017 while assailing the impugned and passed by the High F Court has submitted as under:- (i) That in the instant case, notwithstanding the mandatory provisions of Section 18(8) of SICA read with Section 32 of SICA, the High Court by the impugned and has allowed the unsecured creditor to stay outside G the rigours of the scheme sanctioned under Section 18(4) of SICA read with Section 32 of SICA, thus, putting at naught the very purpose, rationale and scheme of SICA; (ii) The schemes whether under the Companies Act or under specific insolvency legislations like, SICA are binding on all H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1037 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.]