7. Claims under Dispute III as well as Dispute IV were to be considered in terms of the relevant clauses of the contract, which are Clauses 5.1.2, 7.1.1, 7.1.2, and 11.7. These clauses are extracted hereinbelow for ready reference. Relevant part of Clause 5 of Chapter 5, titled ‘Sales Tax, Turn Over Tax/Local Tax, Duties etc’, is as under: “Clause 5.1 Sales Tax/Turn Over Tax/Local Tax, Duties Etc. ... Clause 5.1.2 Sales Tax including turn over tax on works contract, octroi, royalty, toll tax, Duties/Levies as well as services and any other tax levied by central govt., state govt. or local bodies, as applicable 15 days prior to the date of opening of tender shall be considered to be included in the percentage rates quoted by tenderer/s in the Schedule of Items, Rates & Quantities. In case of any increase/ decrease in the taxes during the period from 15 days prior to the date of opening of tender to the completion of the work, the net increase/ decrease for the balance portion of the work shall be borne/recovered by the Corporation. The prevailing rate of Works Contract Tax (WCT) in J & K states to be deducted at source is 4.2% for the registered fi rms with state taxation department from fi rms not having the registration, the rate is 8.2%. Clause 5.1.3 Corporation shall deduct the sales tax/Turn Over Tax or any other tax from the Contractor’s bill at the rate as applicable as per rules framed by concerned Govt./Local bodies from time to time and remit it to concerned department and shall issue a certifi cate regarding Tax/levies so deducted on demand by the contractor.” 7.1. Clauses 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 from Chapter 7, titled ‘Price Variation’, are as under: “Clause 7.1.1 The rates quoted by tenderer and accepted by the Corporation shall hold good till the completion of the work and 220 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. no additional, individual claim shall be admissible on account of fl uctuation in market rates, increase in taxes/any other levies/tolls etc. except the payment/recovery for overall market situation shall be made as per price variation clause given below. Clause 7.1.2 No cognizance shall be given for any sort of fl uctuations in taxes and other market conditions etc. for any individual item for the purpose of making adjustments in payments. The contract shall, however, be governed by the general price variation clause as under.” 7.2. Clause 11.7, in Chapter 11, titled ‘Schedule of Items, Rates & Quantities - Bill of Quantities’, is as follows: “Clause 11.7 The rates and prices tendered in the priced Bill of Quantities, shall except in so far as it is otherwise provided under the contract, include all construction plant, labour, supervision, materials, all temporary works, false works, all leads and lifts, erection, specifi ed fi nishes, maintenance, establishment and overhead charges, insurance, profi ts, foreign taxation and levies, taxes, royalties and duties together with all general risks, liabilities and obligations set out or implied in the contract and including remedy of any defects during the Defects Liability Period.” 8.