E (2) The debts payable under the proviso to sub-section (1) shall be paid in full before any payment is made to secured creditors and thereafter debts payable under that sub- section shall be paid in full, unless the assets are insufficient to meet them, in which case they shall abate in equal proportions. Explanation.—For the purposes of this section, and Section 327— (a) “workmen”, in relation to a company, means the employees of the company, being workmen within the meaning of clause(s) of Section 2 of the Industrial Disputes Act, F 1947; (b) “workmen’s dues”, in relation to a company, means the aggregate of the following sums due from the company to its workmen, namely— (i) all wages or salary including wages payable for time or piece work and salary earned wholly or in part by way of commission of any workman in respect of services rendered to the company and any compensation payable to any workman under any of G the provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947; (ii) all accrued holiday remuneration becoming payable to any workman or, in the case of his death, to any other person in his right on the termination of his employment before or by the effect of the winding up or resolution; (iii) unless the company is being wound up voluntarily merely for the purposes of reconstruction or amalgamation with another company or unless the company has, at the commencement of the winding up, under such a contract with insurers as is mentioned H in Section 14 of the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923, rights capable of being MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 125 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] Companies Act, 2013 deals with overriding preferential payments which A have to be paid in priority to all other debts. These include the workmen debts, and dues of the secured creditor where the secured creditor has realised the secured asset but could not realise the entire amount, or the amount of workmen’s portion in his security payable under the law, whichever is less, pari passu with the workmen’s dues. Thus, this B balances and equates the rights of the secured creditor to realise the secured asset, but in case the secured creditor is not able to realise the full amount or has paid an amount to the workmen if payable under the law, whichever is less, these dues rank pari passu with the workmen’s dues. Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 defines ‘workmen’, which means employees within the meaning of Section 2(s) C of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947; and the expressions “workmen’s dues”; and “workmen’s portion”, which expressions are terms of the Companies Act, 2013 specially used in clause (b) of sub-section (1) to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013. The workmen’s portion in relation to the security of any secured creditor of a company means the D amount which bears to the value of security, the same proportion as the amount of workmen’s dues bears to the aggregate of the amount of workmen’s dues and the amount of debts due to the secured creditors.