The workmen also have a stake and benefit from the revival of the company, and therefore unless it is found that the sacrifices envisaged for the workmen, which certainly form a separate E class, are onerous and burdensome so as to be manifestly unjust and arbitrary, we will not set aside the legislation, solely on the ground that some or marginal sacrifice is to be made by the workers. We would also reject the argument that to find out whether there was a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India or whether the right to life under F Article 21 Constitution of India was infringed, we must word by word examine the waterfall mechanism envisaged under the Companies Act, 2013, where the company is wound up in terms of grounds (a) to (e) of Section 271 of the Companies Act, 2013; and the rights of the workmen when the insolvent company is sought to be revived, rehabilitated or wound up under the Code. The grounds and situations in the context of G the objective and purpose of the two enactments are entirely different. 10. We now turn to the difference in the waterfall mechanism provided in the Companies Act, 2013 and the Code. As per Section 3246 6 324. Debts of all descriptions to be admitted to proof.— In every winding up (subject, in the case of insolvent companies, to the application in accordance with the H 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of the Companies Act, 2013, all debts payable on a contingency, or all claims against the company, present or future, certain or contingent, ascertained or sounding only in damages, are admissible to proof against the company. A just estimate can be made so far as possible in respect of value of such debts or claims as may be subject to any contingency, damages, etc. and do not bear a certain value. Section 3267 of the B provisions of this Act or of the law of insolvency), all debts payable on a contingency, and all claims against the company, present or future, certain or contingent, ascertained or sounding only in damages, shall be admissible to proof against the company, a just estimate being made, so far as possible, of the value of such debts or claims as may be subject to any contingency, or may sound only in damages, or for some other reason C may not bear a certain value. 7 326. Overriding preferential payments.—(1) In the winding up of a company under this Act, the following debts shall be paid in priority to all other debts: (a) workmen’s dues; and; (b) where a secured creditor has realised a secured asset, so much of the debts due to such secured creditor as could not be realised by him or the amount of the workmen’s portion in his security (if payable under the law), whichever is less, pari passu with the D workmen’s dues: Provided that in case of the winding up of a company, the sums referred to in sub- clauses (i) and (ii) of clause (b) of the Explanation, which are payable for a period of two years preceding the winding up or such other period as may be prescribed, shall be paid in priority to all other debts (including debts due to secured creditors), within a period of thirty days of sale of assets and shall be subject to such charge over the security of secured creditors as may be prescribed.