As per the contents of the information sought and as per the answer given by the respondent, he is not required to furnish information regarding pending criminal case. Therefore, supply of such information by the respondent does not fall within the expression ‘suppression of material information’. This Court had an occasion to deal with the similar issue in the case of B. Chinnam Naidu (supra). The relevant paragraph of the said is reproduced herein below – “9. …The State Government and the Tribunal appeared to have proceeded on the basis that the respondent ought to have indicated the fact of arrest or pendency of the case, though column 12 of the attestation form did not require such information being furnished. The learned counsel for the appellants submitted that such a requirement has to be read into an attestation form. We fi nd no reason to accept such contention. There was no specifi c requirement to mention as to whether STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. MITUL KUMAR JANA 619 [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] any case is pending or whether the applicant had been arrested. In view of the specifi c language so far as column 12 is concerned the respondent cannot be found guilty of any suppression.” 11. In the above case, the Court has distinguished the of “Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan & Others Vs. Ram Ratan Yadav, (2003) 3 SCC 437”, on the pretext that the details of information sought in the verifi cation roll in said case was diff erent. In the facts of the present case, the information sought from the respondent in the verifi cation form was vague. Similar was the position in the case of Chinnam Naidu (supra). Therefore, the said squarely applies in the facts of this case. Though in the said case, fi nding regarding desirability for appointment of a person in government service was not decided because it was not the subject matter. 12. In view of the discussion made herein above, the opinion given by the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Intelligence Branch, and the stand taken by the Department before the Tribunal and the High Court regarding suppression of material information by the respondent cannot be countenanced. The Tribunal and the High Court have rightly recorded the fi nding that it is not a case of suppression of material information and we affi rm such fi nding. Simultaneously, the criminal case registered against the respondent were for petty off ences. The allegations in the said case were neither of heinous/serious off ences, nor related to an off ence involving moral turpitude. In the said case, the respondent was honourably acquitted because the prosecution had miserably failed to prove the charges. Hence, in our view, prima-facie there appears no impediment to issue the of appointment in favour of the respondent. 13. It is relevant to state here that on the issues relating to suppression of information and/or submitting false information and as to the question of having been arrested or regarding pendency of a criminal case and eff ect of conviction/acquittal in such criminal cases, there were confl icting opinions of Division Bench s of this Court.