In a later rendered by the same High Court, the above decision was found to be of no assistance to the assessee. Therefore, in The Commissioner, Commercial Tax Lko. vs. S/S Maskat Motors Pvt. Ltd., decided on 08.12.2016, the said Court reversed the finding of the Tribunal that the imposition of the tax was not justified G because defective parts of motor vehicles have been replaced free of cost and the manufacturer had issued credit notes. The High Court found the above conclusion to be perverse, self-contradictory, and ‘contrary to the charging section as well as the definition of “Sale” under the U.P. Act and Central Act.’ Applying Mohd. Ekram Khan, the High Court H 1290 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A found all elements of sale to be completed as the transaction of supply of spare parts to consumers was concluded by the payment of valuable consideration by the manufacturer in the form of credit notes to the dealer. Therefore, the High Court held that the assessee has sold spare parts for valuable consideration attracting liability to tax under the U.P. Act. B 7.4. The assessees have impugned four decisions of the Karnataka High Court. All these decisions have followed the reasoning and conclusions arrived at in the case of Dy. Commissioner of Commercial Taxes (Assessment), Bangalore vs. Prerana Motors (P) Ltd., disposed of on 19.10.2005. In the aforementioned case, an against the C Revenue, by Customs, Excise and Service Tax Appellate Tribunal was reversed on revision under Section 23(1) of Karnataka Sales Tax Act, 1957, on the ground that the dispute is covered by the decision in Mohd. Ekram Khan. It was reasoned that in Mohd. Ekram Khan, the assessee was a dealer registered under the provisions of the U.P. Trade Tax D Act,1948 and also an agent of M/s. Mahindra and Mahindra (manufacturer). The manufacturer had a warranty agreement with the purchasers of vehicles to replace defective parts during the warranty period. The conclusion of Mohd. Ekram Khan was relied upon to conclude that the transaction was taxable as the manufacturer had made payment to its agent by issuing credit notes for the supply of defective E parts during the warranty period. 7.5. In a similar vein, the five impugned decisions rendered by the High Court of Kerala followed the reasoning and conclusions in the case of M/s TVS and Sons Ltd. vs. State of Kerala, decided on 06.06.2007. Clause 23 of the Dealership Agreement states: F “The Dealer is not and shall not be the agent of the Company for any purpose, and the dealer has no right or authority to assign or create any obligation of any kind, express or implied, on behalf of the Company to bind the Company in any way, to accept any service or process upon the Company or to G receive any notice of any nature whatsoever.” 7.6. Also Warranty Policy of Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. on ‘Warranty Repair Attention’ states that the dealer should not charge the customer for warranty repairs.