A benefit of the previously enjoyed concession, under the First Notification, and was liable to pay customs duty at 39.2% on the value of the Imported Machine amounting to 1,92,54,318. Assesee filed a writ before the High Court5 for declaring the Amended Notification ultra vires Section 25(1) of the Customs Act 1962 (hereafter, “the Act”) and thus sought, a declaration for withdrawal of the Amended Notification. On 18.03.2004, B a single judge made an interim 6 directing the release of the imported machinery provisionally on payment of a concessional rate of duty against the bank guarantee for the differential amount of 1,67,98,410. 4. On December 5, 2005, a single judge bench7 set aside the amended notification on the ground that no intelligible differentia existed C for granting concession on one type of machinery and withdrawing concession to other types of machinery. The court therefore, directed that the exemption be granted to the imported machinery of the assessee. Aggrieved by the of the single judge bench, the Union preferred an appeal to the Division Bench of the High Court. The Union contended that its power to grant exemption also includes the power to modify or D alter any of the exemption, already granted and that delegation done is within the powers of the legislature. The Union further argued before the Division Bench that the subject matter involves economic policy over which the legislature has exclusive domain. 5. The High Court by its impugned upheld the E and of the single judge bench. The High Court observed that the imported machine was neither manufactured in any part of the country at the relevant point of time nor any copy of representation received from domestic manufacturers questioning the exemption granted to the imported machine was shown by the revenue. F 6. The High Court relied upon the affidavit of the Union where it was contended that the imported machine has no indigenous angle. The High Court further placed reliance upon the decision of this court in Indian Express Newspapers v. Union of India8 (hereafter, “Indian Express Newspapers”) and observed that actions of the Government under Section 25(1) of the Act are not immune from judicial scrutiny and G the power must be exercised reasonably and in furtherance of “public interest”. In the absence of any intelligible differentia between the 5 Writ Petition No 298/ 2004 6 dated 18.03.2004 in WP No 298/ 2004 7 By dated 5 December, 2005 in WP No 298/ 2004 H 8 [(1985) 2 SCR 287] UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. A. B. P. PVT. LTD. & ANR. 1119 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] imported machine and newly exempted machine (as both have the same A capacity of production and neither of them was manufactured in the country), no case for exemption in furtherance of ‘public interest’ is made out. 7. The High Court further noted that the assessee is entitled to claim the benefit of the concessional rate of customs duty paid on the B imported goods instead of the higher tariff as sought by the amended notification.