Ultimately, the question which ought to consider and assess by this Court is whether the State police machinery could have B possibly prevented the said occurrence. The response is certainly a “yes”. The State is duty-bound to protect the fundamental rights of its citizens; and an inherent aspect of Article 21 of the Constitution would be the freedom of choice in marriage. Such offences are resultant of the State’s incapacity or inability to protect the fundamental rights of its citizens.” C In fact, this Court observed in the aforesaid decision that the obligation of the State does not get extinguished upon payment of compensation and that the rehabilitation of the victims of such nature was a must. 100. In Shakti Vahini vs. Union of India & Ors.105, while dealing D with a writ petition seeking a direction to the State Governments and Central Government to take preventive measures to combat honour crimes and to submit a National/State plan of action, this Court issued a slew of directions directing the State Governments to take both punitive and remedial measures, on the ground that the State has a positive E obligation to protect the life and liberty of persons. In paragraph 49 this Court said, “We are disposed to think so, as it is the obligation of the State to have an atmosphere where the citizens are in a position to enjoy their fundamental rights.” After quoting the previous decision in S. Rangarajan (supra), which arose out of the infringement of the freedom of expression in respect of a cinematograph film, this Court F said in Shakti Vahini (supra) as follows:- “49. … We are absolutely conscious that the aforesaid passage has been stated in respect of a different fundamental right, but G the said principle applies with more vigour when the life and liberty of individuals is involved. We say so reminding the States of their constitutional obligations to comfort, nurture the sustenance of fundamental rights of the citizens and not 104 (2011) 6 SCC 405 H 105 (2018) 7 SCC 192 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 691 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] to allow any hostile group to create any kind of trench in A them.” 101. At last, while dealing with the right to privacy, in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy, this Court made it clear that, “it is a right which protects the inner sphere of the individuals from interference by both the State and non-State actors”. B 102. Before we conclude this chapter, we must point out that some academics feel that the same level of justification for infringement by the State, for all rights recognized by the Court, end up being problematic106 and that the idea of a hierarchy of rights, as articulated by Das, J. in A.K. Gopalan may have to be examined. In fact, Rohinton C Nariman, J. articulated this idea in Mohd. Arif (supra) where the question was as to whether a petition for review in the Supreme Court should be heard in open Court at least in death penalty cases.