13; it arises from the inherent diff erence between Art. 13 (1) and Art. 13 (2) arising from the fact that one is dealing with pre-Constitution laws, and the other is dealing with post- Constitution laws, with the result that in one case the laws being not still-born the doctrine of eclipse will apply while in the other case the laws being still born-there will be no scope for the application of the doctrine of eclipse. Though the, two clauses form part of the same Article, there is a vital diff erence in the language employed in them as also in their content and scope. By the fi rst clause the Constitution recognises the existence of certain operating laws and they are declared void, to the extent of their inconsistency with fundamental rights. Had there been no such declaration, these laws would have continued to operate. Therefore, in the case of pre- Constitution laws what an amendment to the Constitution does is to remove the shadow cast on it by this declaration. The law thus revives. However, in the case of the second clause, applicable to post Constitution laws, the Constitution does not recognise their existence, having been made in defi ance of a prohibition to make them. Such defi ance makes the law enacted void. In their case therefore there can be no revival by an amendment of the Constitution, MO though the bar to make the law is removed, so far as the period after the amendment is concerned. In the case of post- Constitution laws, it would be hardly appropriate to distinguish between laws which are wholly void-as for instance, those which contravene Art. 31-and those which are substantially void but partly valid, as for instance, laws contravening Art. 19. Theoretically, the laws 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. falling under the latter category may be valid qua non-citizens; but that is a wholly unrealistic consideration and it seems to us that such nationally partial valid existence of the said laws on the strength of hypothetical and pedantic considerations cannot justify the application of the doctrine of eclipse to them. All post Constitution laws which contravene the mandatory injunction contained in the fi rst part of Art. 13 (2) are void, as void as are the laws passed without legislative competence, and the doctrine of eclipse does not apply to them. We are therefore of opinion that the Constitution (Fourth Amendment) Act cannot be applied to the Transfer Act in this case by virtue of the doctrine of eclipse It follows therefore that the Transfer Act is unconstitutional because it did not comply with Art. 31 (2), as it stood at the time it was passed. It will therefore have to be struck down, and the petitioner given a declaration in his favour accordingly. (emphasis supplied)” (vii) In the case of State of Manipur (supra), recently a three-judge Bench of this Court, was dealing with an appeal against the judgement of the Manipur High Court which had declared the Manipur Parliamentary Secretary (Appointment, Salary and Allowances and Miscellaneous Provisions) Act, 2012 (Manipur Act No.