Then, PW-1 states that accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar left his place with a threat that he would return along with other members of his family. It is further stated by Atmaram (PW-1) that, thereafter, he went to lodge a report to Suhela Police Station along with his wife, son and daughter. H 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 16. Atmaram (PW-1) further stated that when he returned from the Police Station, his son came and told him that PW- 1’s father was murdered and PW-1 again went to the Police Station to lodge the report. As such, it is clear that PW-1 is not an eye witness to the second incident. 17. Mangtin Bai (PW-2) is the wife of the deceased Kartikram. B She, in her evidence, stated that all the accused persons had entered her house and started abusing them. Her husband was in the TV room. All the accused persons started assaulting her husband in the said TV room. Thereafter, they came to the second room where nobody was there. Her son had hidden himself in a dhan kothi. The accused persons went there and started assaulting her son. Thereafter, she went to inform her C neighbour, Jeevan Lal Sahu (PW-6). She, along with PWs 9 and 13, then went by a tractor to Baloda Bazar. They could not get treatment there since no report had been lodged with the police. They took a jeep from there and went to Suhela Police Station. From there, they were taken to Bhatapara Hospital for treatment. D 18. In the cross-examination of Mangtin Bai (PW-2), on being asked as to whether she knows the relatives of the accused persons present in the court, she stated that she knows them but she cannot name them. 19. Khomlal (PW-9) is the injured son of the deceased Kartikram. E His evidence is also of similar nature. He, too, testifies about the earlier incident pertaining to Atmaram (PW-1). He states that after Atmaram (PW-1) went to the Police Station at around 08.30 PM, all the accused persons came to his house. He states that all the accused persons entered the room of his father and started assaulting his father. He, therefore, went to hide himself in the dhan kothi. The accused persons came F there and assaulted him and thus, he received severe injuries. Thereafter, they went to Baloda Bazar for treatment. However, the doctor refused to treat them. As such, they went to Suhela Police Station and lodged the report. In his cross-examination, he admits that in the merg report lodged by him, there is no mention of Nand Lal, Bhagwant and Ramdular, G i.e., accused Nos. 8 to 10 respectively. Though he states that he had informed the police of all the details, it is only the police who can say why the names of the aforesaid three appellants are not there. 20. Purnima (PW-13), wife of Khomal (PW-9), also states that Atmaram (PW-1) was going to the Police Station to lodge a report at H around 7:00 PM.