These reasons were not irrelevant to the decision as to whether a tribunal ought to be continued; b. The State Government’s act of consulting the Orissa High Court (upon receiving a request to this effect from the Union Government) before deciding to abolish the OAT was not C irrelevant or extraneous. The cases before the OAT were to be transferred to the Orissa High Court and the opinion of the latter was relevant to State Government’s decision; c. The State Government did not consider factors which were irrelevant or extraneous to its decision; and D d. The decision to abolish the OAT was not one which was so absurd that no reasonable person or authority would ever have taken it. The decision to abolish a tribunal which it had established, based on an analysis of relevant factors is, by no stretch of imagination, an absurd or unreasonable decision. E 83. This Court reached a similar conclusion in the MPAT Abolition Case (supra). The appellants in that case argued that the decision to abolish the MPAT was arbitrary, unreasonable, and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. This Court rejected their argument in the following terms: F “57. … The notification was issued by the Central Government in 1988 and the State Administrative Tribunal was established for the State of Madhya Pradesh. At that time, as per well-settled legal position, decisions rendered by the Administrative Tribunals constituted under the Act of 1985 were “final” subject to jurisdiction G of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution. … If, in view of subsequent development of law in L. Chandra Kumar [(1997) 3 SCC 261 : 1997 SCC (L&S) 577 : AIR 1997 SC 1125] the State of Madhya Pradesh felt that continuation of State Administrative Tribunal would be “one more tier” in the administration of justice inasmuch as after a decision is rendered by the State Administrative H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 789 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Tribunal, an aggrieved party could approach the High Court under A Articles 226/227 of the Constitution and, hence, it felt that such Tribunal should not be continued further, in our opinion, it cannot be said that such a decision is arbitrary, irrational or unreasonable. From the correspondence between the State of Madhya Pradesh and the Central Government as well as from the affidavit-in-reply, B it is clear that the decision of this Court in L. Chandra Kumar [(1997) 3 SCC 261 : 1997 SCC (L&S) 577 : AIR 1997 SC 1125] had been considered by the State of Madhya Pradesh in arriving at a decision to abolish State Administrative Tribunal. Such a consideration, in our opinion, was relevant, germane and valid.” C The decision to abolish the MPAT was based on similar considerations as the decision to abolish the OAT. For these reasons, the abolition of the OAT is not arbitrary or unreasonable. It does not violate Article 14 of the Constitution. 84. Our choice of the test articulated in Wednesbury D Corporation (supra) must not be understood to mean that no other yardstick may be utilized to test the constitutional legitimacy of executive action, under Article 14.