However, the question would be; whether the appellant had any claim to the said property either to be her property on the death of the husband or has a claim to be entitled to succeed. The fact that the husband died on 09.08.2016 will indicate that as on that day the right to succession had opened and the property would not continue to be the property of the husband. In that circumstance, technically if the appellant had succeeded to the same, the said properties could be considered as her own to be disclosed and the question of indicating it as that of the spouse would not arise. The case as set up by the appellant therefore is that as per the custom followed by the Mishmi tribe it is only the fi rst wife who would succeed to the properties of the husband if the deceased at the time of death had more than one wife and as such the appellant had no claim whatsoever over the said properties. It is in that light, the appellant has examined the witnesses who have spoken with regard to the manner of inheritance among persons belonging to Mishmi tribe. Though the learned senior counsel for the respondent seeks to point out that there is no uniformity in the opinion expressed by the witness with regard to the custom followed by the Mishmi tribe, we are of the opinion that in the scope available to this Court in an election petition it would not be appropriate for this Court to either examine the customary right or the right to inheritance. It would be appropriate only to notice as to whether in the facts and circumstances of the case where the appellant herself has no claim to the properties after the succession has opened, the non-mentioning of the properties as belonging to that of the spouse was a substantial defect. 10. In that circumstance, the undisputed fact is that much prior to the fi ling of the nomination on 22.03.2019 a legal heir certifi cate was issued on 04.05.2017 in favour of Smt. Dangwimsai Pul by the Court of Judicial Magistrate, First Class Tezu, Lohit District, Arunachal Pradesh i.e., in favour of the fi rst wife of Late Khaliko Pul. Para-3 of that certifi cate in fact recognises her right as the legal heir being the fi rst wife and property details are mentioned therein. The case of the respondent is that the appellant had 102 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. challenged the issue of the legal heir certifi cate and the learned Sessions Judge vide dated 20.12.2018 had set aside the legal heir certifi cate and had remitted the case to the Court of Deputy Commissioner, Tezu for consideration of the application for issuance of legal heir certifi cate made by Smt. Dangwimsai Pul i.e., the fi rst wife of Late Khaliko Pul. It is in that light contended that as on 22.03.2019 when the nomination papers were fi led, the legal heir certifi cate had been set aside and as such the appellant being one of the wives was required to indicate the property belonging to her spouse.