According to the learned Senior Counsel such power should not be read in a negative form to clothe the governing body with the power to prescribe lesser age of superannuation than what has been prescribed by the Central Government from time to time. We are afraid, we are not in a position to accept such an argument. The language of Clause 34 is very clear. What is important to note while reading the Clause 34 is the word “or”. Thereafter, there is a proviso which says that an employee can be retained in service after prescribed age of superannuation if he continues to be physically fi t and effi cient and it is in the interest of the Central Counsel to retain him in the service. 31. The expression “the rules governing the retirement of employees of Government of India as amended from time to time” is separated from the rest of the part of the Bye-Law by the word “or” which is disjunctive and giving natural meaning to the said word separates the rules that may be framed by the Government of India and the rules that the Council may desire to frame as regards the age of retirement of the employees of the Council. 32. It is a well-established principle of statutory interpretation that the word “or” is normally disjunctive and the word “and” is normally conjunctive. Both of them can be read as vice-versa, but that interpretation is adopted only where the intention of the legislature is manifest. 33. Justice G.P. Singh in the Principles of Statutory Interpretation (Thirteenth Edition 2012) page 485 has stated as follows: “The word ‘or’ is normally disjunctive and ‘and’ is normally conjunctive but at time they are read as vice versa to give eff ect to the manifest intention of the Legislature as disclosed from the context. As stated by SCRUTTON, L.J. : “You do sometimes read “or” as ‘and’ and in a statute. But you do not do it unless you are obliged because ‘or’ does not generally mean ‘and’ and ‘and’ does not generally mean ‘or’. CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 765 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] And as pointed out by LORD HALSBURY the reading of ‘or’ as ‘and’ is not to be resorted to, “unless some other part of the same statute or the clear intention of it requires that to be done”. Where provision is clear and unambiguous the word ‘or’ cannot be read as ‘and’ by applying the principle of reading down. But if the literal reading of the words produces an unintelligible or absurd, result ‘and’ may be read for ‘or’ and ‘or’ for ‘and’ even though the result of so modifying the words is less favourable to the subject provided that the intention of the Legislature is otherwise quite clear. Conversely if reading of ‘and’ and ‘or’ produces grammatical distortion and makes no sense of the portion following ‘and’, ‘or’ cannot be read in place of ‘and’. The alternatives joined by ‘or’ need not always be mutually exclusive.” 34.