Submissions on behalf of the respondent No. 1- CPCB: 15. Mr. Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General submitted that there was no need for the NGT to issue the impugned directions as contained in para 69(iii) and para 69(iv) resply, more particularly in view F of the detailed guidelines issued by the CPCB vide the Office Memorandum dated 07.01.2020. According to Mr. Mehta, what is sought to be achieved by asking the ROs to obtain CTE and/or CTO can very well be taken care of by ensuring that all the existing ROs and the ROs that may come up in future scrupulously abide by the guidelines issued G by the CPCB. The CPCB has ensured that all the State Pollution Control Boards keep a very strong vigil on the ROs across the country so as to ensure that the guidelines issued by it are scrupulously followed. Even, according to Mr. Mehta, to ask all the existing ROs to obtain CTO is something very unreasonable. According to Mr. Mehta, the same requires a lot of paper work and is very time consuming. H M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 225 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 16. Mr. Mehta would submit that it is highly debatable that the A NGT could have directed the CPCB that it should in exercise of powers under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (for short, ‘the Act 1986’) make it mandatory to obtain CTE and/or CTO. 17. Mr. Mehta in the last submitted that so far as directions contained in para 69(i) & 69(ii) resply are concerned, the same shall be B complied with in its true perspective and the State Pollution Control Boards shall ensure due compliance of the same. He would submit that the CPCB shall also ensure that the guidelines issued by it referred to above are strictly adhered to by the all State Pollution Control Boards and, if there is any lapse at the end of any retail outlet, then necessary action C shall be taken in accordance with law. 18. In such circumstances referred to above, Mr. Mehta prays that the directions contained in para 69(iii) and 69(iv) may be set aside or modified appropriately. Analysis: D 19. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is : (i) whether the NGT has the jurisdiction to direct the CPCB that it should in exercise of its powers under Section 5 of the Act 1986 make obtaining of the CTE and CTO resply mandatory E for all the petroleum retail outlets across the country? 20. This Court, while issuing notice vide dated 07.02.2022 in one of the connected appeals i.e. Civil Appeal 494 of 2022, observed thus:- “Issue notice, returnable in six weeks. F Meanwhile, the directions issued vide impugned of the National Green Tribunal dated 23.12.2021 shall remain stayed provided the petitioner complies with the directions issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) dated 04.06.2021 prescribing fresh timeline for completion of installation of Vapor G Recovery Devises (VRD).