Gouthaman, Ms. Kiran Kumar SB, M. Naveen, Prashant Singh, Siddharth Agrawal, Ashutosh Ghade, Ardhendumauli Kumar Prasad, Ms. Taruna Ardhendumauli Prasad, F Nirmal Ambastha, Ms. Anjul Dwivedi, Ms. Shreya Srivastava, Ashish Madaan, Ms. Ananya Sahu, Ms. Radhika, Vishwajeet Mishra, Sai Girdhar, Mukesh Kumar Maroria, Mrs. Nandini Gore, Pai Amit, Anirudh Sanganeria, Dr. Joseph Aristotle S., Ms. Mayuri Raghuvanshi, Vyom Raghuvanshi, Ms. Akanksha Rathore, V. P. Singh, Ms. Rajshree Rai, G Siddhant Gupta, Arnav Mittal, Ms. Banshika Garg, Shashank Rai, Ms. Ritika Gaur, Vipin Bharti, Aishwariya Pratap Shahi, Karan Singh Chaudhary, Akshat Singh, Avinash Sharma, Udita Singh, Tamim Qadri, Saeed Qadri, Shravan Kumar Verma, Sangeet Singh, Rajesh Ranjan, Ms. Shraddha Deshmukh, Kanu Agarwal, Digvijay Dam, Anandh Venkataramani, Mrs. Vijayalakshmi Venkataramani, Vinayak Mehrotra, H 436 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Ms. Mansi Sood, Chitvan Singhal, Ms. Sonali Jain, Abhishek Kumar Pandey, Raman Yadav, Ms. Sneha Kalita, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Bhoparai, Aditya Soni, Rishi Malhotra, Tuhin, B.A. Wadhmare, Hitesh Kumar Sharma, Akhileshwar Jha, Ms. Niharika Dwevedi, Amit Kumar Chawla, Ms. Shweta Sand, Nitin Shrma, Advs. for the Respondent. B Applicant-in-person The of the Court was delivered by SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J. History and rationale for designation of Senior Advocates in India: C 1. The practice of having a distinguished class of senior pleaders with considerable status and experience in India can be traced back to legal practice in the United Kingdom. This category is said to have originated in the 13th century, as a distinguished class of senior pleaders known as Serjeants-at-Law. In the 18th century, selection in another D such category, known as King’s/Queen’s Counsel became a matter of honour and a recognition of professional eminence. 2. The designation of Senior Advocates in India is a privilege awarded as a mark of excellence to advocates who have distinguished themselves and have made a significant contribution to the development E of the legal profession. It identifies advocates whose standing and achievements would justify an expectation on the part of the clients, the judiciary, and the public, that they can provide outstanding services as advocates in the best interest of the administration of justice. 3. Presently, the designation of Senior Advocates in India is F provided by Section 16 of the Advocates Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Advocates Act’), wherein advocates are classified in two categories, namely as a ‘Senior Advocate’ and ‘Advocate’. Criteria for designation of Senior Advocates over the years: G 4. Under Section 16(2) of the Advocates Act, the Supreme Court and the High Court have the power to designate an advocate as a Senior Advocate with his consent. In the case of the Supreme Court, this power is provided in Rule 2 of IV of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013. 5. Before the introduction of the Advocates (Amendment) Act, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Amendment Act’), the criteria for H MS. INDIRA JAISING v. SUPREME COURT OF INDIA, 437 THROUGH SECRETARY GENERAL [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] designation as Senior Advocate was based on “ability, experience and A standing at the Bar”.