Thereafter, he was transferred to Zaidpur, Barabanki and then to Shahjanhanpur in August 1978. On 14.06.1982, he was suspended on account of his disly behaviour. On enquiry, the workman was found guilty of the charges and awarded punishment of stoppage of two graded increments with cumulative eff ect vide dated 28.09.1983. Vide the same , he was advised to report for duty to the Manager, Branch Offi ce, Bhagwantnagar, Unnao. The workman failed to join duty. In terms of Clause XVI9 of the Bipartite Agreement10 between Indian Banks’ Association and Workmen Unions, vide dated 05.12.1984, the workman was deemed to have voluntarily retired from service. Aggrieved by the aforesaid action of the Bank, six years later, the workman raised a dispute about his deemed retirement before the Assistant Labour Commissioner. On 15.11.1991, the dispute was referred to the Tribunal for adjudication. The question referred was answered by the Tribunal in favour of the workman. However, the learned Single Judge reversed the award of the Tribunal and the Division Bench upheld the passed by the learned Single Judge. 4. The workman, even as per the material available on record, has joined active practice as a lawyer after his deemed voluntary retirement from service with the Bank, has appeared in person and argued before this Court. Even the Tribunal had recorded that the workman had appeared himself in person and had addressed arguments. 6 Award dated 27.08.2003. 7 Central Government Industrial Tribunal-cum-Labour court 8 Punjab National Bank 9 Clause XVI- Voluntary Cessation of Employment by the Employees 10 Fourth Bipartite Agreement dated 17.09.1984. U.P. SINGH v. PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK 897 5. The workman, who appeared in person, submitted that the Disciplinary Authority, while passing the of punishment after enquiry, could not have ed his transfer in the same as the competence to transfer of the workman lied with a diff erent authority. The workman had been raising that issue before the authority, however, the same was not addressed and in an illegal manner, he was deemed to have voluntarily retired. He was not given joining time also. He made number of representations to revoke his suspension to enable him to join the place of posting after his reinstatement. He had even gone on hunger strike but none of the authorities redressed his grievance. He was not even paid subsistence allowance for the period he was under suspension. After passing of the punishment in the enquiry initiated against him, he could not be continued on suspension as the dated 28.09.1983 stated that he shall be deemed to be reinstated only on joining at the new place of posting. He sought to explain his reasons for not complying with the of transfer by explaining that the Branch Offi ce, Bhagwantnagar, Unnao, was at a distance of 350 kilometers. There was non-payment of allowances including subsistence allowance for the previous period, and if he was stated to be under suspension, he could not have been transferred as the transfer was possible only after his reinstatement.