He submitted that a member of the Dawoodi Bohra community who is already ex-communicated, will not be a member of the community within the meaning of the Social Boycott Act. Therefore, the Social Boycott Act gives no protection to the members of the Dawoodi Bohra community from the unjust and illegal practice of ex-communication. C 9. He urged that as held in the case of Sabrimala Temple 5JJ6, the word ‘morality’ found in Article 26 would subsume within itself the concept of Constitutional morality and takes colour from the ideals of justice, liberty, equality and fraternity on which our Constitution has been founded. He urged that the practice of Baraat is regressive, which resulted D in practically civil death of the person excommunicated. Therefore, the practice of Baraat will have to be held as contrary to Constitutional morality. 10. He urged that even the issue whether any protection is afforded by Article 17 to an ex-communicated person belonging to the Dawoodi E Bohra community needs examination. He submitted that though Article 26 has not been expressly made subject to other provisions of Part III, in the event of its conflict with Articles 14, 19 and 21, it must give way to these three Articles unless the conflict can be reconciled. In other words, he submitted that the rights of a religious denomination under Article 26 cannot be determined in isolation and interpreted in a manner that renders F the rights guaranteed to its members under other provisions of Part III nugatory. He urged that much water has flown after Sardar Syedna1 and therefore, it requires reconsideration. 11. Shri Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General of India, appearing for the State Government submitted that even if the G Ex-communication Act has been repealed, the question whether the practice of Baraat/ex-communication is protected by Article 26(b) of the Constitution of India, survives for consideration. He invited our attention to the of this Court in the case of Kantaru Rajeevaru v. Indian Young Lawyers Association & Ors.7 (Sabarimala Temple H 72020 (2) SCC 1 CENTRAL BOARD OF DAWOODI BOHRA COMMUNITY 303 v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Review – 5 JJ.). He submitted that the Constitution Bench has held A that freedom of religion guaranteed under Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution needs authoritative pronouncement by a larger Bench of not less than seven Hon’ble Judges. He invited our attention to the questions formulated under the said . He pointed out that on the basis of the said , a Bench of nine Judges in Kantaru Rajeevaru B (Right to Religion; in Re – 9 JJ.) v. Indian Young Lawyers Association & Ors.8 (Sabrimala Temple Review – 9 JJ), has framed seven issues and at least, the first three issues framed by the said Bench will arise even in the present case. Therefore, he urged that this petition be tagged along with the case before the Bench of Hon’ble nine Judges. C 12. Shri Fali S. Nariman, the learned senior counsel appearing for the 2nd Respondent urged that in view of the repeal of the Ex- communication Act, nothing survives in the petition considering the prayers made in the petition.