DISCUSSION 26. PW1 has not acted after the deceased pleaded for help, particularly from him. There is absolutely no evidence available on record as to how the deceased was aware of the fact that PW1 was outside. Be that as it may, it is rather strange that he did not even venture to get into the house. Added to that, he went away after being threatened by the accused. Strangely, he undertook the unnecessary exercise of making further inquiries with the mother-in-law of the deceased. If he had seen the accused leaving towards the hill area, he should have entered the house of the deceased and checked her condition. Rather, he was waiting for his wife (PW2). His evidence is also not in tune with PW5 with respect to motive. PW5 has stated that there was no prior enmity. We are of the considered view that the High Court has misconstrued the concept of reputation and blindly believed the evidence of PW1. 27. The fact that PW1 immediately advised the children of the deceased to tell their mother to register a complaint with the police coupled with the further fact that PW11 deposed that Police station was near to the Magistrate’s complex creates doubt on the origin of the fi rst information report. 28. The trial court has given substantial reasons for arriving at its conclusion. One has to keep in mind that it is the prosecution which has to prove the charges beyond reasonable doubt. The approach of the High Court in dealing with the case of circumstantial evidence is not in line with the caution expressed in R. v. Hodge, (1838) 2 Lew 227. The High Court after holding that a homicide had occurred, blindly placed reliance upon the evidence of PW1. 29. Apart from the non-availability of the fi ngerprint report, the non-examination of the witnesses, as noted by the trial court, would go to the root of the very case of the prosecution. It is nobody’s case that the witnesses were not available. That is the reason why the defense has marked Exhibits D1 and D2, statement recorded under section 161 of the CrPC rendered by the children of the deceased. We have to take into consideration the fact that when PW1 came back the children were very much available in the house of the deceased. They were not toddlers but studying in 5th and 7th standard. It is impossible to accept that they did not 118 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. know that their mother was dead lying in a pool of blood and that too in half-naked condition. 30. When it comes to the recovery of jewels, even the High Court did not give its approval. But nonetheless it proceeded to rely upon the recovery made from the place of occurrence on the basis of the observation in the inquest report. It is the very case of the prosecution that the material object-sword, was used to commit murder and therefore in the absence of the availability of any fi ngerprint belonging to the accused, one cannot come to the conclusion that it was used by them alone.