F 97. The last recommendation is that on the income limit prescribed by States to be eligible for family pension. The minimum limit prescribed by the Commission was Rs. 30,000/-. This limit is reasonable but it must be left to the discretion of the States to prescribe a higher limit which is more beneficial to the judicial officers. Thus, the recommendation is G accepted. VII. Recommendations on Additional Quantum of Pension/ Family Pension (Recommendation Nos. 21.1 to 21.4) 98. On account of the additional assistance required on increasing age, it has been the policy of the Central Government to grant additional H quantum of pension. The Commission has recommended the payment ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 79 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] of additional quantum of pension from the age of 75 years onwards at A the rates mentioned in the table on p.44 of the Report. 99. It is seen that different states have different ages for the grant of additional quantum of pension and family pension. The 7th CPC suggested the age of 80 years as the minimum. High Court and Supreme Court judges also receive additional quantum of pension at the age of 80 B years. It was however argued by Gourab Banerji, Senior Advocate that as District Judges retire at a younger age, the additional quantum of pension should accrue to them at a younger age as well. 100. Given that many of the States granted this benefit from the age of 70 and the Commission recommended the grant of additional C quantum of pension from the age of 75. This reasoning of the Commission merits acceptance. If States have been granting more beneficial pension rates, it cannot be denied to the judicial officers. Judicial Officers cannot be left worse off than officers of the State. Therefore, this Court accepts this recommendation. D 101. The Commission has further recommended that this benefit be paid from 01.01.2016. As with the other similar recommendations for the aspects of pay and pension, this recommendation is accepted. 102. The concern of the Commission, reflected in Recommendation No.21.3, that recovery will be initiated against officers who have been E given additional pension from the age of 65 or 70 is genuine. If judicial officers have already been granted a more beneficial regime and are moved to the regime suggested by the Commission and accepted by the Court, no recovery ought to be made against them. Consequently, it is left to the States to continue the benefits upto the age of 75 years as well. These recommendations are accordingly accepted. F VIII. Recommendations on Gratuity (Recommendation Nos. 21.1 to 21.4) 103. The first recommendation on Gratuity by the Commission is to bring the calculation of gratuity on par with Rule 50(1)(a) of the Central G Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972. There cannot be any dispute regarding this recommendation as it is to bring about uniformity in conditions of service. Therefore, this recommendation merits acceptance by this Court. 104. The Commission further recommended that the maximum H limit for retirement gratuity/death gratuity shall be Rs.