However, this does not mean that the State Governments can, at their whims and fancies, declare any co-operative society to be a “State co-operative bank”. Before such a declaration can be made, the State Government must necessarily be satisfi ed- (a) that it is a principal co-operative society in the State; (b) that it is carrying on business in the State; and (c) that the business is of fi nancing other co-operative societies in that State. Further, elucidating on the expression “carrying on business in the State” it was held that the same means carrying on banking business only. Further, reading of the provisions would make it clear that what is necessary is that theco-operative society must be carrying on the business of fi nancing other co-operative societies. The proviso has to be read in light of the main provision. If read in light of the main provision, it is clear that even though banking business, as understood in the strict sense, may not be carried on, yet the business of fi nancing other co-operative societies in the State must be carried on. It was ultimately observed that the Reserve Bank of India could not have granted the licence to the appellants in the said case unless they were fi rst declared to be a state co-operative bank under the NABARD Act, 1981. Since, such a declaration was struck down, the Reserve Bank of India could not have issued licence to carry on banking business. Therefore, Reserve Bank of India would have to cancel the licence granted by it to the appellant therein. Hence, a direction was issued to the Reserve Bank of India to forthwith revoke the banking licence granted to the appellants therein. d) In A.P. Varghese, while considering Section 56 of the BR Act, 1949 in the context of co-operative bank which has been defi ned to mean a state co-operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co-operative bank which have been assigned the defi nitions under NABARD Act, 1981 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. and while considering the defi nitions of clause (u) and (d) in Section 2 of NABARD Act, 1981, it was observed, inter alia, that a state co-operative bank is one defi ned in Section 2(rb) of the State Act, 1969 to mean an apex society having only district co-operative banks as its members. District co-operative bank as defi ned in clause (ia) of Section 2 of the said Act, is a central society, the principal object of which is to raise funds to be lent to its members, with jurisdiction over one revenue district and having as its members any type of primary societies and federal and central societies having headquarters in such district. Therefore, Kerala State Co-operative Bank is a “state co-operative bank” as defi ned in the NABARD Act, 1981 and the district co-operative banks are central co-operative banks as defi ned in that Act. Hence, they are “co-operative banks” as defi ned in Section 5 (cci) of BR Act, 1949, falling within the BR Act, 1949.