Hence, we accept the finding that death was homicidal and a consequence B of injuries caused by use of sharp-edged weapon. Likewise, there is no challenge to the finding that blood etc. was lifted from the apartment thereby confirming that murder took place there. However, in addition to blood or blood-stained cot/ linen there were whisky bottle, empty packets/ pouches of salted snacks, cigarette butts, etc. lifted from that C apartment but there is no evidence to connect those articles with either of the two accused so as to confirm their presence and rule out the presence of some other person at the relevant time. Circumstance (d) — Re: Recovered Suicide Letter being in the writing of Neeraj D 38. Insofar as recovery of suicide letter from a pocket of the trouser which the deceased was wearing at the time of his death is concerned, the same has been proved by the testimonies of Investigating Officer J.L. Meena (PW28) and SI Rajesh (PW15) and in proof thereof, the seizure memorandum and the suicide letter were produced and E exhibited. No doubt PW3, a public witness, signatory to the seizure memorandum, has denied seizure in his presence but the two courts below, relying on the testimony of police witnesses, have concurrently found recovery of the suicide letter proved. To us there appears no reason to interfere with the said finding. However, the real issue is whether it was duly proved that the suicide letter was written by Neeraj. If it F were so, according to the prosecution, it was written to mask a homicidal death, which, coupled with recovery of knife/dagger at the instance of Neeraj, is reflective of his culpability in the crime. 39. Indisputably, except the FSL report there is no admissible evidence that the suicide letter is in the writing of Neeraj. Even G admissibility of the FSL Report has been questioned by the defence contending (a) that it is predicated on specimen signature and handwriting forcibly obtained during investigation, without permission of the Court, therefore, using such specimens would violate the rule against self- incrimination, hence the report is to be treated inadmissible; and (b) that H 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A in absence of production of the expert as a witness, the report is not proved. The Trial Court did not accept the objections to its admissibility and, therefore, relied on the expert report to hold that Neeraj was the author of the suicide letter. The High Court, however, accepted the objection to its admissibility and held there is no admissible evidence to prove that the suicide letter was written by Neeraj. B 40. Assailing the finding of the High Court, on behalf of the State, it has been contended that the High Court erred in holding — (a) that the specimen signature could not be obtained by the investigating agency without permission of the Court; and (b) that the FSL report carried no evidentiary value. C 41. Per contra, on behalf of defence, it is contended - (a) that even if it is assumed that the expert report was admissible, it cannot be the sole basis to conclude that the suicide letter was written by Santosh, rather, the Court must look at all the evidences to find out whether the proven facts and circumstances support the said issue; and (b) the Trial D Court ought to have undertaken an exercise to find for itself whether the writing on the suicide letter matched with that of Neeraj and whether the proven facts and circumstances support the proposition that the suicide letter was indeed written by Neeraj and no one else.