(3) “To be a witness” is not equivalent to “furnishing evidence” in its widest signifi cance; that is to say, as including not merely making of oral or written statements but also production of documents or giving materials which may be relevant at a trial to determine the guilt or innocence of the accused. (4) Giving thumb impressions or impressions of foot or palm or fi ngers or specimen writings or showing parts of the body by way of identifi cation are not included in the expression “to be a witness”. (5) “To be a witness” means imparting knowledge in respect of relevant facts by an oral statement or a statement in writing, made or given in court or otherwise. (6) “To be a witness” in its ordinary grammatical sense means giving oral testimony in court. Case law has gone beyond this strict literal interpretation of the expression which may now bear a wider meaning, namely, bearing testimony in court or out of court by a person accused of an off ence, orally or in writing.” It is clear from the above discussion, that witnesses and parties to a suit, for the purposes of adducing evidence, either documentary or oral are on the same footing. The discussion as aforesaid, emphasises the lack of diff erentiation between a party to suit acting as a witness and a witness simpliciter in the suit proceedings. The presence of these provisions also begs the question that if the legislature had the intent to diff erentiate between a party to a suit as a witness, and a witness simpliciter, it would have done so, explicitly. MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 883 On this we may only highlight what the High Court had to observe: “Merely because XVI Rule 21 provides that the Rules as to witnesses are to apply to parties summoned, that would not mean that the party is being equated with a witness. The Rule only applies for regulating the conduct of a party when he enters the witness box in his own cause, otherwise in absence of such a provision, there would be a void and the conduct of a party entering the witness box in his own cause, would go unregulated. This is further substantiated from the use of the expression “in so far as they are applicable” occurring in Rule 21 of XVI.” A simple brushing off by saying that “merely because” one provision mentions them to be performing similar functions, they are not to be equated, cannot be allowed. No proper reason is forthcoming from a perusal of the extracted portion or otherwise for the differentiation which is between a witness in the witness box and the conduct of a party appearing as a witness in the witness box. In our considered view, this distinction does not rest on firm ground. This is so because the function performed by either a witness or a party to a suit when in the witness box is the same. The phrase “so far as it is applicable” in XVI Rule 21 does not suggest a difference in the function performed.