We are not oblivious of the fact that certain witnesses in certain circumstances may be frightened and behave in a diff erent manner and due to that, they may make themselves available to the police belatedly and their examination gets delayed. But in the case at hand, regard being had to the evidence brought on record and, especially, non-mentioning of any kind of explanation for rushing away to Pune, the said factors make the veracity of his version doubtful. His evidence cannot be treated as so trustworthy and unimpeachable to record a conviction against the appellants. The learned trial court as well as the High Court has made an endeavour to connect the links and inject theories like fear, behavioural pattern, tallying of injuries infl icted on HARVINDER SINGH @ BACHHU v. 1167 THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] the deceased with the post-mortem report and convicted the appellants. In the absence of any kind of clinching evidence to connect the appellants with the crime, we are disposed to think that it would not be appropriate to sustain the conviction.” (emphasis supplied) 20. In Narendrasinh Keshubhai Zala v. State of Gujarat, 2023 (4) SCALE 478, “8. It is a settled principle of law that doubt cannot replace proof. Suspicion, howsoever great it may be, is no substitute of proof in criminal jurisprudence [Jagga Singh v. State of Punjab, 1994 Supp (3) SCC 463]. Only such evidence is admissible and acceptable as is permissible in accordance with law. In the case of a sole eye witness, the witness has to be reliable, trustworthy, his testimony worthy of credence and the case proven beyond reasonable doubt. Unnatural conduct and unexplained circumstances can be a ground for disbelieving the witness. This Court in the case of Anil Phukan v. State of Assam, (1993) 3 SCC 282 has held that: “3. … So long as the single eyewitness is a wholly reliable witness the courts have no diffi culty in basing conviction on his testimony alone. However, where the single eyewitness is not found to be a wholly reliable witness, in the sense that there are some circumstances which may show that he could have an interest in the prosecution, then the courts generally insist upon some independent corroboration of his testimony, in material particulars, before recording conviction. It is only when the courts fi nd that the single eyewitness is a wholly unreliable witness that his testimony is discarded in toto and no amount of corroboration can cure that defect…” (emphasis supplied) 21. On the issue of appreciation of evidence, we wish to place reliance upon the decision of this Court in Rajesh Yadav And Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2022) 12 SCC 200, “13. The definition of the word “proved” though gives an impression of a mere interpretation, in eff ect, is the heart and soul 116 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. of the entire Act. This clause, consciously speaks of proving a fact by considering the “matters before it”.