G 46. In our considered opinion, the aforesaid observations also do not come to the aid of the Appellant herein, inasmuch as, even in the in Ganesh Trading Co. (supra), it had not referred to the three-Judge Bench of this Court in Firm Sriniwas Ram Kumar (supra). H 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 47. In the event, if the pleas sought to be introduced by plaintiff by way of an amendment is also the plea, which the defendant has set up in his written statement and such a plea of the plaintiff is an alternative plea, even though it is inconsistent with the original plea, since there is no prejudice caused to the defendant, the Court is not precluded from allowing the amendment. B 48. At this stage, we may refer to rely upon the decision of this Court in the case of State of Madhya Pradesh v. Union of India and Another reported in (2011) 12 SCC 268. We quote the relevant observations as contained in para 8 of the : - “8. The purpose and object of 6 Rule 17 of the Code is C to allow either party to alter or amend his pleadings in such manner and on such terms as may be just. Amendment cannot be claimed as a matter of right and under all circumstances, but the courts while deciding such prayers should not adopt a hypertechnical approach. Liberal approach should be the D general rule, particularly in cases where the other side can be compensated with costs. Normally, amendments are allowed in the pleadings to avoid multiplicity of litigations.” (Emphasis supplied) 49. The Appellant Defendant has also put forward an argument E as regards the applicability of IX Rule 9 of the CPC to make good his submission that the amendment should not be permitted as the present suit by itself is not maintainable as the earlier suit filed in the Small Causes Court came to be dismissed for non-prosecution under the provisions of IX Rule 8 of the CPC. 50. We could have at this stage closed the matter saying that if it F is the case of the Appellant Defendant that the present suit is not maintainable in view of IX Rule 9 of the CPC, then it shall be open for him to raise such a plea before the trial court by filing an application under VII Rule 11 for rejection of plaint. However, we are of the view that as an important question of procedural law has G been raised, we take this opportunity of explaining in this appeal itself as to why the plea of IX Rule 9 of the CPC should fail. 51. IX Rule 9 reads thus: “9. Decree against plaintiff by default bars fresh suit.-(1) Where a suit is wholly or partly dismissed under rule 8, the H GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 923 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] plaintiff shall be precluded from bringing the fresh suit in A respect of the same cause of action.