Substance of the complaint made by the first respondent, also an Insurance and Re-insurance Brokerage entity was that the appellant had paid bribe to one Mr. Jagdish Gupta (“respondent no.5”), the Chairman of Jagson for obtaining the brokerage contract. Jagson is involved in the business of oil exploration E and such insurance is mainly with regard to its exploration equipments. 3. The basis of complaint of the first respondent was certain emails referred to by the first respondent by which the respondent no.5 allegedly had made demand for illegal gratification in exchange of handing over the brokerage contract to the appellant. There is F also allegation against the respondent no.5 of informing the respondent no.1, through telephonic conversation, about demand of bribe from the appellant. We find from pleadings that there was increase in the number and size of rigs of Jagson subsequent to the year 2012, which required enhanced coverage. Contention of the respondent represented by Mr. T. Srinivasa Murthy, learned counsel is that the G appellant has used an India based direct insurance broker to pay money to respondent no.5, as part of the appellant’s commission to India. The case of the first respondent is that the payment, as is alleged to have been made to the respondent no.5, is violative of the provisions of Section 41(1) of the Insurance Act, 1938 as also Clause 37(1) of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority H (Insurance Brokers) Regulations, 2013. MARSH INDIA INSURANCE BROKERS PVT. LTD. v. M/S 1303 ATKINS SPECIAL RISKS LTD. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 4. A complaint to that effect was made with the IRDA on 11th A August 2015 on behalf of the first respondent, which was followed by a writ petition in the High Court (at that time it was the High Court for the State of Telangana and the State of Andhra Pradesh) seeking an inquiry in respect of the said complaint. This writ petition, th registered as W.P. No. 27220 of 2017, was disposed of on 19 September 2017 with a direction on the IRDA to consider the complaint B of M/s. Atkins Special Risk Limited by following due process; preferably within a period of four weeks from the date of receipt of copy of the . In the ensuing hearing, IRDA disposed of the complaint finding lack of any evidence substantiating the complaint. In its passed on 9th January 2018, P.J. Joseph, Member (Non- Life) of IRDA who heard the complaint recorded that it was C established that no proof of evidence had been brought in by the representative of the first respondent to prove his allegations and the authority could not further proceed with the complaint. 5. The Insurance Regulator i.e., IRDA, represented by Mr. Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel has reiterated this stand before D us. 6. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has argued that there was no foundation of the complaint made by the first respondent. As a result, there was no scope of interference by the Tribunal with the of the IRDA.