Primary evidence is the document produced before the court and the expression “document” is defined in Section 3 C of the Evidence Act to mean any matter expressed or described upon any substance by means of letters, figures or marks, or by more than one of those means, intended to be used, or which may be used, for the purpose of recording that matter. (emphasis supplied) D 36. The Court in Shafi Mohammed even diluted the requirement of the Section 65B certificate. This led to contradictory positions in these cases vis-à-vis the law laid down by Anvar P.V. which was settled by a reference to a three judge bench of this Court in Arjun Panditrao Khotkar. The Court reiterated Anvar P.V. and held Tomaso Bruno per E incuriam and overruled Shafi Mohammed. It held that: 73. The reference is thus answered by stating that: 73.1. Anvar P.V., as clarified by us hereinabove, is the law declared by this Court on Section 65-B of the Evidence Act. The in Tomaso Bruno, being per incuriam, F does not lay down the law correctly. Also, the in Shafhi Mohammad and the dated 3-4-2018 reported as Shafhi Mohd. v. State of H.P., do not lay down the law correctly and are therefore overruled. 73.2. The clarification referred to above is that the required G certificate under Section 65-B(4) is unnecessary if the original document itself is produced. This can be done by the owner of a laptop computer, computer tablet or even a mobile phone, by stepping into the witness box and proving that the device concerned, on which the original information is first stored, is owned and/or operated by him. In cases where the “computer” happens to H 1040 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A be a part of a “computer system” or “computer network” and it becomes impossible to physically bring such system or network to the court, then the only means of providing information contained in such electronic record can be in accordance with Section 65-B(1), together with the requisite certificate under Section 65-B(4). The last sentence in para B 24 in Anvar P.V. which reads as “… if an electronic record as such is used as primary evidence under Section 62 of the Evidence Act …” is thus clarified; it is to be read without the words “under Section 62 of the Evidence Act,…”. With this clarification, the law stated in para 24 of Anvar P.V. does not need C to be revisited. (emphasis supplied) 37. Therefore, the law is now settled: a Section 65B certificate is mandatory in terms of this Court’s in Anvar P.V. as confirmed in Arjun Panditrao Khotkar. D 38. However, Anvar P.V. was decided on 18 September 2014. Till then, the interpretation of law in Navjot Sandhu, which was decided on 4 August 2005 prevailed. In the instant case, the Trial Court pronounced its on 30 July 2010. Two months later, on 30 September 2010, the High Court affirmed the decision of the Trial Court to award the E death sentence.