We therefore allow the application to be proceeded with u/s 245D(1) of the Act.” The aforesaid fi ndings of the Settlement Commission, demonstrate that it had applied its mind to the aspect of whether there was wilful concealment of income by the assessee. Having noted that non-disclosure was on account of RBI guidelines, which required a diff erent standard of disclosure, the Commission decided to grant immunity to the appellant from prosecution and penalty. Accrodingly, the Commission passed the following : “TERMS OF SETTLEMENT: 18.1 The computation of the undisclosed income and the tax payable thereon is furnished in the annexure 1 to 5 to this . Tax payable along with interest as per law shall be paid within 35 days of receipt of this . 18.2 Considering the co-operation extended by the applicant in the completion of the present settlement proceedings and the true and full disclosure made, we grant immunity u/s 245H(1) from the imposition of penalty and prosecution under the income-tax Act and relevant sections of IPC, relating to the matters covered in the present . Penalty u/s 271(1)(c) was levied by the Assessing Offi cer for AY 1997-98 in respect of non disclosure of lease rental as income. The penalty is annulled considering 24 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. that the non disclosure was on account of RBI guidelines and the subsequent disclosure of additional income of lease income before the Settlement Commission when the applicant realized the omission to disclose the same as per Income tax law. However, the immunity so granted shall be withdrawn, if it is subsequently found that the conditions prescribed in subsections 1(A)/(2) of Sec.245H are satisfi ed. 18.3 The Settlement passed in the above case shall be declared void, if it is subsequently found by the Settlement Commission that it has been obtained by fraud or misrepresentation of facts.” ii. The Commission’s further reveals that the appellant off ered additional income and disclosed particulars of the income pertaining to the following transactions/activities: a) Two aspects of the appellant’s leasing activity, namely, undeclared lease rent liable to income tax; additional income on account of disallowance of depreciation on 26 assets claimed to be leased. b) Treatment of bonus payments to employees. c) Treatment of share issue expenses. d) Treatment of depreciation on permanent assets and securities. iii. The Commission’s dated 11.12.2000, makes multiple references to the Report of the Commissioner, as required under Section 245D (1). Therefore, we fi nd no substance in the submission of the Ld. ASG appearing on behalf of the Revenue that the procedure contemplated under Section 245D was not followed and in the absence of a report, the Commission was not correct in entertaining the appellant’s application for settlement. 7.5. In the light of the aforesaid discussion, we are of the view that the learned Single Judge of the High Court was not right in holding that the reasoning of the Settlement Commission was vague, unsound and contrary to established principles. Division Bench was also not justifi ed in KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. COMMISSIONER OF 25 INCOME TAX BANGALORE [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.]