She submitted that the was issued to enable acquisition of minimum qualifi cation and training of around 11 lakhs in-service Untrained Teachers by 31st March 2019 all over India so as to implement 2017 Amendment Act. Reliance in this respect is placed on the of this Court in the case of Ram Sharan Maurya v. State of U.P.6. 15. In support of her proposition, Ms. Karia submitted that NCTE was entitled to provide for the qualifi cations for appointment of teachers and once it had issued the recognition dated 22nd September 2017 providing for D.El.Ed. programme to be conducted by NIOS through ODL mode, the diplomas granted were at par with the candidates who had undergone 2 years course. It is therefore submitted that the impugned and warrants no interference. 16. For considering the rival submissions, it will be relevant to refer to Section 23 of the RTE Act, which reads thus: “23. Qualifi cations for appointment and terms and conditions of service of teachers.—(1) Any person possessing such minimum qualifi cations, as laid down by an academic authority, authorised by the Central Government, by notifi cation, shall be eligible for appointment as a teacher. (2) Where a State does not have adequate institutions off ering courses or training in teacher education, or teachers possessing minimum qualifi cations as laid down under sub-section (1) are not available in suffi cient numbers, the Central Government may, if it deems 6 (2021) 5 SCC 401/2020 INSC 646 608 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. necessary, by notifi cation, relax the minimum qualifi cations required for appointment as a teacher, for such period, not exceeding fi ve years, as may be specifi ed in that notifi cation: Provided that a teacher who, at the commencement of this Act, does not possess minimum qualifi cations as laid down under sub-section (1), shall acquire such minimum qualifi cations within a period of fi ve years: [Provided further that every teacher appointed or in position as on the 31st March, 2015, who does not possess minimum qualifi cations as laid down under sub-section (1), shall acquire such minimum qualifi cations within a period of four years from the date of commencement of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (Amendment) Act, 2017.] (3) The salary and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of service of, teachers shall be such as may be prescribed.” 17. It could thus be seen from sub-section (1) of Section 23 of the RTE Act that a person, to be eligible for appointment as a teacher, must possess such minimum qualifi cations, as laid down by an academic authority, authorised by the Central Government. Sub-section (2) thereof permits the Central Government to relax the minimum qualifi cations required for appointment as a teacher, for such period, not exceeding fi ve years, as may be specifi ed in that notifi cation. This can be done where a State does not have adequate institutions off ering courses or training in teacher education, or teachers possessing minimum qualifi cations as laid down under sub-section (1) are not available in suffi cient numbers.