In the event of the case falling within any of those exceptions, the off ence would be culpable homicide not amounting to murder, falling within Part 1 of Section 304 of the IPC, if the case of the accused is such as to fall within Clauses (1) to (3) of Section 300 of the IPC. It would be off ence under Part II of Section 304 if the case is such as to fall within Clause (4) of Section 300 of the IPC. Again, the intention or knowledge of the accused may be such that only 2nd or 3rd part of Section 299 of the IPC, may be attracted but not any of the clauses of Section 300 of the IPC. In that situation also, the off ence would be culpable homicide not amounting to murder under Section 304 of the IPC. It would be an off ence under Part I of that section, if the case fall within 2nd part of Section 299, while it would be an off ence under Part II of Section 304 if the case fall within 3rd part of Section 299 of the IPC. (3) To put it in other words, if the act of an accused person falls within the fi rst two clauses of cases of culpable homicide as described in Section 299 of the IPC it is punishable under the fi rst part of Section 304. If, however, it falls within the third clause, it is punishable under the second part of Section 304. In eff ect, therefore, the fi rst part of this section would apply when there is ‘guilty intention,’ whereas the second part would apply when there is no such intention, but there is ‘guilty knowledge’. N. RAMKUMAR v. THE STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR 857 OF POLICE [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] (4) Even if single injury is infl icted, if that particular injury was intended, and objectively that injury was suffi cient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, the requirements of Clause 3rdly to Section 300 of the IPC, are fulfi lled and the off ence would be murder. (5) Section 304 of the IPC will apply to the following classes of cases : (i) when the case falls under one or the other of the clauses of Section 300, but it is covered by one of the exceptions to that Section, (ii) when the injury caused is not of the higher degree of likelihood which is covered by the expression ‘suffi cient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death’ but is of a lower degree of likelihood which is generally spoken of as an injury ‘likely to cause death’ and the case does not fall under Clause (2) of Section 300 of the IPC, (iii) when the act is done with the knowledge that death is likely to ensue but without intention to cause death or an injury likely to cause death. To put it more succinctly, the diff erence between the two parts of Section 304 of the IPC is that under the fi rst part, the crime of murder is fi rst established and the accused is then given the benefi t of one of the exceptions to Section 300 of the IPC, while under the second part, the crime of murder is never established at all.