It must immediately be clarifi ed that the per incuriam rule is strictly and correctly applicable to the ratio decidendi and not to obiter dicta. It is often encountered in High Courts that two or more mutually irreconcilable decisions of the Supreme Court are cited at the Bar. We think that the inviolable recourse is to apply the earliest view as the succeeding ones would fall in the category of per incuriam.” 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 17. In view of the afore-stated proposition of law propounded by the Constitution Benches, there remains no shadow of doubt that the law laid down by the Three-Judge bench in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary case (supra) that Section 19(1) of the PMLA has a reasonable nexus with the purposes and objects sought to be achieved by the PML Act and that the said provision is also compliant with the mandate of Article 21(1) of the Constitution of India, any observation made or any fi nding recorded by the Division Bench of lesser number of Judges contrary to the said ratio laid down in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) would be not in consonance with the jurisprudential wisdom expounded by the Constitution Benches in cases referred above. The Three-Judge Bench in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary case (supra) having already examined in detail the constitutional validity of Section 19 of PMLA on the touchstone of Article 22(1) and upheld the same, it holds the fi eld as on the date. 18. It is true that the expression “as soon as may be” has not been specifi cally explained in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra). Even the said expression has not been interpreted in either V. Senthil Balaji or in Pankaj Bansal case. In V. Senthil Balaji, it is held inter alia that after forming a reason to believe that the person has been guilty of an off ence punishable under the PMLA, the concerned offi cer is at liberty to arrest him, while performing his mandatory duty of recording the reasons, and that the said exercise has to be followed by way of an information being served on the arrestee of the grounds of arrest. In Pankaj Bansal case also the court after highlighting the inconsistent practice being followed by the respondent-ED about the mode of informing the person arrested, held that it would be necessary henceforth, that a copy of such written grounds of arrest is furnished to the arrested person as a matter of course and without exception. 19. In view of the above, the interpretation of the expression “as soon as may be” assumes signifi cance. In our opinion, the interpretation of the said expression should not detain us more in view of the Constitution Bench in case of Abdul Jabar Butt and Another vs. State of Jammu & Kashmir.8 In the said case, the Constitution Bench while interpreting Section 8 AIR 1957 SC 281 RAM KISHOR ARORA v. DIRECTORATE OF 761 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 8 of Jammu & Kashmir Preventive Detention Act 2011, had an occasion to interpret the expression “as soon as may be” and it observed thus:- “6.