The transcendental eff ect of technology is not only to further the constitutional right of individuals to access justice, but it also strengthens the rule of law and democracy. 22. It is a constitutional duty of every adjudicatory institution, may it be courts, tribunals, or commissions, to adopt technological solutions such as video-conferencing and make them available to litigants and the members 16 Brij Mohan Lal v. Union of India, (2012) 6 SCC 502 17 (2018) 10 SCC 639 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of the Bar on a regular and consistent basis. The use of technology is no longer an option. Properly deployed for the purpose of conducting hybrid or virtual hearings, technology has the potential to ensure access to justice by obviating the need for citizens to travel long distances to secure the right of being heard. 23. In view of the above discussion, we are of the considered view that access to the Information Commissions is integral to securing the right to information, which is a necessary concomitant of right to equality under Article 14, the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, and the right to life under Article 21. Accordingly, we direct that all SICs across the country must provide hybrid modes of hearing to all litigants for the hearing of complaints as well as appeals. All SICs must provide an option for availing of a hybrid mode of hearing which shall be at the discretion of the applicant, or as the case may be, the appellant. The links for availing of the option must be stipulated in the daily cause list of the Information Commissions across the country. This shall be operationalized no later than by 31 December 2023. 24. That apart, there can be no gainsaying the fact that e-fi ling provides round the clock access to courts, and in the process, facilitates the convenience of lawyers and litigants.18 We direct that all SICs must ensure that e-fi ling of complaints and appeals is provided in a streamlined manner to every litigant. Steps should also be taken having regard to the provisions of Section 26 of the RTI Act to ensure that service is eff ected on the Public Information Offi cers through the electronic mode. This shall also be implemented by 31 december 2023. 25. All Central and State Ministries shall take steps within a period of one month from the date of this to compile the email addresses of the Central and State Public Information Offi cers which shall be furnished to the CIC and to all the SICs, as the case may be. 26. In to facilitate the implementation of this , we direct that the Secretary, Department of Personnel and Training shall convene a meeting of all the Central and State Information Commissioners within a 18 M P High Court Bar v. Union of India, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 365 KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 491 period of one month from the date of this .