The same is reproduced hereunder: “272. Use of unfiltered water.- (1) Unfiltered water shall be B used for the following purposes : (a) extinguishing of fire; (b) street watering; (c) flushing of drains of the Corporation, gully-pits, public C privies and urinals. (2) Unfiltered water may also be used, free of charge, (a) for flushing privies and urinals in private premises connected with sewers; D (b) for flushing of drains in private premises; (3) Unfiltered water shall not be used for domestic purposes or, without the written permission of the Municipal Commissioner, for any purposes other than those specified in sub-sections (1) and (2). E (4) Notwithstanding anything contained hereinbefore in this Chapter, wholesome water may be used in lieu of unfiltered water for non-domestic purposes where the supply of unfiltered water is not available for the time being.” 12. The Municipal Commissioner under Section 275 of the Act is F vested with the power to cut off or turn off supply of water to premises under various conditions which are enlisted therein. Under Clause (c) of Section 275(1) of the Act, one of the conditions provided is where the occupier of the premises contravenes Section 238 of the Act. As this case does not relate to any other violation except contravention of Section 238 of the Act, Section 275(1)(c) of the Act is reproduced hereunder: G “275. Power of Municipal Commissioner to cut off or turn off supply of water to premises:- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Municipal Commissioner may cut off the connection between H TRUST ESTATE KHIMJI KESHAWJI & ANR. v. THE KOLKATA 837 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION & ORS. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] any water works of the Corporation and any premises to which A water is supplied from such works, or may turn off such supply, in any of the following cases, namely: .................... (c) if the occupier of the premises contravenes section 238;” B 13. The arguments advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant are summarized hereunder: (i) The impugned notice is bad in law as it is a non-speaking notice and does not give any details of the violation. It is vague and general in nature to which no specific reply can be given. C (ii) Despite the fact that KMC was well aware of the other occupiers of 1st to 5th Floor of the building in question, as trade licenses were already issued to such occupiers, no notice was given to them thereby vitiating the entire proceedings. (iii) The appellant, who is the owner of the building and occupied D only the ground floor and the 6th Floor had been using the water supply only for domestic purposes and not for any other purpose, as such, the notice to the appellant was liable to be discharged. (iv) It is admitted position that there is no supply of unfiltered water in the locality where the building in question is situate and, E as such, the use of wholesome water for non-domestic purposes is permitted under Section 272(4) of the Act.