The prosecution cannot be allowed to fi ll up the lacuna in the evidence by fi ling an application under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. The certifi cate was sought to be produced after a delay of six years. Hence, the same was rightly not permitted to be produced on record. Great prejudice shall be caused to the respondents now if the same is permitted. The respondents will be deprived of their right of fair trial. The appeal deserves to be dismissed. 6. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant referred record. 7. The facts of the case have been briefl y noticed in the preceding paragraphs. Serial bomb blasts took place in Bangalore on 25.07.2008 which shocked not only the Bangalore city or the State but the entire country, as in such terror attacks it is only the innocents who suff er. The investigation had to be scientifi c. At the instance of the accused no.3, electronic devices such as one Laptop, one external Hard Disc, 3 Pen Drives, 5 fl oppies, 13 CDs, 6 SIM cards, 3 mobile phones, one memory card and 2 digital cameras etc. were recovered and seized. These were sent for examination to the CFSL, Hyderabad. Report was received on 29.11.2010. The same was submitted before the Trial Court on 16.10.2012 and sought to be proved at the time of recording of statement, M. Krishna, Assistant Government Examiner, Computer Forensic Division, CFSL, appeared as PW-189. The accused vide application dated 06.03.2017 objected to taking the report dated 29.11.2010 in evidence in the absence of a certifi cate under Section 65-B of the Act. STATE OF KARNATAKA v. T. NASEER @ NASIR @ THANDIANTAVIDA 235 NASEER @ UMARHAZI @ HAZI [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] Immediately, thereafter a certifi cate dated 27.04.2017 was got issued under Section 65-B of the Act and an application was fi led under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. seeking to recall M. Krishna (PW-189) and to produce the aforesaid certifi cate in evidence. The trial was still pending. Learned Trial Court without appreciating the legal position in this regard had dismissed the application. The was upheld by the High Court. It was primarily for the reason of delay in producing the certifi cate under Section 65B of the Act. 8. This Court in Anwar’s case (supra) has opined that a certifi cate under Section 65B of the Act is not required if electronic record is used as a primary evidence. Relevant paragraph thereof is quoted herein below: “24. The situation would have been diff erent had the appellant adduced primary evidence, by making available in evidence, the CDs used for announcement and songs. Had those CDs used for objectionable songs or announcements been duly got seized through the police or Election Commission and had the same been used as primary evidence, the High Court could have played the same in court to see whether the allegations were true. That is not the situation in this case. The speeches, songs and announcements were recorded using other instruments and by feeding them into a computer, CDs were made therefrom which were produced in court, without due certifi cation.