... The scope of judicial review in matters involving challenge to the disciplinary action taken by the employers is very limited. The courts are primarily concerned with the question whether the enquiry has been held by the competent authority in accordance with the prescribed procedure and whether the rules of natural justice have been followed. The court can also consider whether there was some tangible evidence for proving the charge against the delinquent and such evidence reasonably supports the conclusions recorded by the competent authority. If the court comes to the conclusion that the enquiry was held in consonance with the prescribed procedure and the rules of natural justice and the conclusion recorded by the disciplinary authority is supported by some tangible evidence, then there is no scope for interference with the discretion exercised by the disciplinary authority to impose the particular punishment except when the same is found to be wholly disproportionate to the misconduct found proved or shocks the conscience of the court.” (Emphasis supplied) 91. This Court in Aureliano Fernandes (supra) while discussing upon the extent to which a court can interfere with respect to the departmental proceedings conducted pursuant to the allegations of sexual harassment, made the following relevant observations: - “62. … Disciplinary Authority is the sole judge of facts and once fi ndings of fact, based on appreciation of evidence are recorded, the High Court in its writ jurisdiction should not normally interfere with those factual fi ndings unless it fi nds that the recorded fi ndings were based either on no evidence or that the fi ndings were wholly perverse and/or legally untenable. The Court is under a duty to satisfy itself that an inquiry into the allegations of sexual harassment by a Committee is conducted in terms of the service rules and that the concerned employee gets a reasonable opportunity to vindicate his position and establish his innocence.” (Emphasis supplied) ii) Standard of Proof in Disciplinary Proceedings 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 92. In another decision of this Court in West Bokaro Colliery (TISCO Ltd.) v. Ram Pravesh Singh reported in (2008) 3 SCC 729, it was held that in a departmental inquiry, the standard of proof is based on preponderance of probability and not beyond reasonable doubt. The relevant observation made in it are given below: - “20.The Tribunal has set aside the report of the enquiry offi cer and the of dismissal passed by the punishing authority by observing that the charges against the respondent were not proved beyond reasonable doubt. It has repeatedly been held by this Court that the acquittal in a criminal case would not operate as a bar for drawing up of a disciplinary proceeding against a delinquent. It is well-settled principle of law that yardstick and standard of proof in a criminal case is diff erent from the one in disciplinary proceedings. While the standard of proof in a criminal case is proof beyond all reasonable doubt, the standard of proof in a departmental proceeding is preponderance of probabilities.” (Emphasis supplied) 93.