[2023] 1 S.C.R. 931 931 SHRI RAM SHRIDHAR CHIMURKAR A v. UNION OF INDIA & ANR. (Civil Appeal No. 386 of 2023) JANUARY 17, 2023 B [K. M. JOSEPH AND B. V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 – r. 54(14)(b) – Pension Rules – Adoption after the death of Government servant – Right of adopted son to claim pension – The ‘S’, a retired C Superintendent, died issueless in 1994 – His wife adopted the appellant in 1996 – Appellant claimed family pension payable to the family of the deceased government employee – The claim of the appellant was rejected on the ground that children adopted by widow of a government servant, after the death of the government servant, would not be entitled to receive family pension – CAT directed D the respondents to consider the appellant’s claim – High Court reversed the passed by the CAT – High Court held that the appellant herein could have been entitled to receive family pension had he been legally adopted by the deceased government servant, which was not the case in the instant matter – On appeal, E held: The heirs listed u/r. 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules are the immediate dependents of the deceased government servant – Rule 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, requires that the family member must have a close nexus with the deceased government servant, and must have been dependent on him during his lifetime – The definition of the term ‘family’ cannot be extended to include F those persons who were not even dependents of the government servant, at the time of his death – The context requires that association or connection of such persons with the deceased government servant must be direct and not remote – Therefore, a son or daughter adopted by the widow of adeceased government G servant, after the death of the government servant, could not be included within the definition of ‘family’ under said Rule. Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956: ss. 8 & 12 – Effect of Adoption – On Family Pension – On adoption by a widow, the adopted son or daughter is deemed to be a member of the family of the deceased husband of the widow - There exists a vital difference H 931 932 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A between the rights of an adopted son under Hindu Law and his rights to draw family pension, which creates a burden on the public exchequer – The word “adoption” in Rule 54(14)(b)(ii) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, in the context of grant of family pension, must be restricted to an adoption made by a government servant during his/her lifetime and must not be extended to a case of adoption B made by a surviving spouse of the government servant after his/ her death. Maxim - Nocitur a Sociis - Explained and Discussed Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD : 1. The provisions of the HAMA Act, 1956 C determine the rights of a son adopted by a Hindu widow only vis- aÌ-vis his adoptive family.