4.1 It is submitted that therefore, the impugned and passed by the High Court granting relief for specific performance of the sale agreement may not be interfered with by this Court. Reliance is H 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A also placed on the decision of this Court in the case of P. D’souza (supra). 5. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. 6. At the outset, it is required to be noted that as such there are B concurrent findings of facts recorded by all the courts below on the readiness and willingness of the plaintiff to perform his part of the contract which are not required to be interfered with by this Court in exercise of powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. However, at the same time, what is required to be considered is whether in the facts and C circumstances of the case, the High Court is justified in overturning the (s) of the learned Trial Court as well as the First Appellate Court refusing to pass the decree for specific performance of the sale agreement? 6.1 At the outset, it isrequiredto be noted that as such while allowingthe second appeal and overturning the (s) and (s) D passed by the learned Trial Court as well as the First Appellate Court, the High Court has not framed the substantial question of law, which is required to be framed under Section 100 of the CPC. 6.2 Even otherwise on merits also looking to the terms and conditions stipulated in the sale agreement the High Court has erred in passing the E decree for specific performance which was refused by the learned Trial Court as well as the First Appellate Court. The relevant clause in the sale agreement reads as under: - “2. That if the 2nd party fails to pay the balance amount within stipulated time, the advance will be forfeited and if the first party F fail or refuse to execute the sale deed and other necessary document in favour of the purchaser or in the name of his nominees within the stipulated time, the seller will be responsible to pay the double of the amount given as advance.” 6.3 Thus, as per clause 2 of the sale agreement, if the second G party fails to pay the balance amount within stipulated time, the advance will be forfeited and if the seller fail or refuse to execute the sale deed and other necessary document in favour of the purchaser/buyer or in the name of his nominees within the stipulated time, the seller will be responsible to pay double the amount given as an advance.Therefore, H T. D. VIVEK KUMAR & ANR. v. RANBIR CHAUDHARY 545 [M. R. SHAH, J.] on failure on the part of the seller to execute the sale deed within the A stipulated time, the purchaser/buyer shall be entitled to the double of the amount given as an advance. It cannot be disputed that the plaintiff being a party to the agreement to sell is bound by the terms and conditions stipulated in the sale agreement.