Moreover, right from the beginning, the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes were treated as a separate category and nobody ever disputed identification of such classes. So long as E “creamy layer” is not applied as one of the principles of equality, it cannot be applied to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes. So far, it is applied only to identify the socially and educationally backward classes. We make it clear that for the purpose of reservation, the principles of “creamy layer” are not applicable F for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.” 18. So far as Economically Weaker Section category is concerned, the Parliament by 103rd amendment had inserted Clause (6) in Article 15 and Clause (6) in Article 16 of the Constitution of India. In the statement of objects and reasons of the said Amendment, it was stated that the G Economically weaker sections of the citizens were not eligible for the benefit of reservation, and with a view to fulfil the mandate of Article 46 and to ensure that economically weaker sections of the citizens get a fair chance of receiving higher education and participation in the employment in the services of the State, it was decided to amend the Constitution of India. The Constitutional validity of the said 103rd H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 629 OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] amendment was challenged before this Court in caseofJanhit Abhiyan A Vs. Union of India9and by 3:2 the validity of the said amendment was upheld, vide the dated 07.11.2022. 19. The reason for quoting the aforesaid s is only to demonstrate that the status of the candidates claiming reservation under the category SCs and STs would be static, whereas the status of the B candidates claiming reservation under the category OBC-NCL, MBC- NCL and EWS would be fluid, dynamic and not static. Under the circumstances, the State Governments are issuing the guidelines from time to time laying down the eligibility criteria for deciding the economic status of a person and the methodology or procedure to be followed for C issuing the certificates to the persons belonging to the OBC-NCL/EWS categories. 20. In the instant case, the State of Rajasthan had issued the Circular dated 09.09.2015 with regard to the validity period of caste certificate, in which it was stated inter alia that the validity of caste D certificates issued for SC/ST will be lifetime whereas the certificate for OBC will be issued only once, and that the certificate of non-creamy layer will be valid for one year. However, once the certificate of “non- creamy layer” is issued, and if the applicant remains in the category of non-creamy layer in the subsequent year also, then in such a situation an affidavit in the prescribed form will be furnished by him, in which case E the earlier issued “non-creamy layer” certificate shall be deemed valid, and such procedure could be followed for a maximum period of three years. The said Circular 09.09.2015 was further clarified vide Circular dated 08.08.2019 in which it was stated that the caste certificate of other backward classes shall be valid for one year, however in a situation F where the applicant has been issued a certificate of “not falling in the creamy layer” category, and if such applicant does not fall within “creamy layer” in the subsequent year as well, in that situation, previously issued certificate of falling within the “non-creamy layer” will be treated as valid on his furnishing an attested affidavit, which could be followed for maximum period of three years.