• in clause (c), it is stated that in Section 5 as per clause (cci), “co-operative bank” means a state co-operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co-operative bank. • clause (ccv) defi nes “primary co-operative bank” while clause (ccvii) defi nes “central co-operative bank” and “state co-operative bank” to have the meanings assigned to them in the NABARD Act, 1981. Since the expression ‘banking company’ is defi ned under theBR Act, 1949, it would be useful to consider the defi nition of banking company in Section 5(c) thereof which means any company which transacts the business of banking in India. “Banking” is defi ned in Section 5(b) of the said Act to mean the accepting, for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or otherwise, and withdrawal by cheque, draft, or otherwise. Therefore, a banking company must transact banking business vis-à-vis the public. Thus, in the fi rst place a co-operative society must be engaged in banking business as defi ned in Section 5(b) of the said Act. For that, Section 22 of the BR Act, 1949, speaks about licence to be obtained by a bank to do banking business which is modifi ed as per clause (o) of Section 56 thereof which states that no co-operative society shall carry on banking business in India unless it is KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 365 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] a co-operative bank and holds a licence issued in that behalf by the Reserve Bank, subject to such conditions, if any, as the Reserve Bank may deem fi t to impose. Secondly, a co-operative society must obtain a licence under Section 22 of the BR Act, 1949, only if it functions as a co-operative bank and not otherwise. Thus, a co-operative society including a co-operative credit society which is not a co-operative bank does not require a licence to function as such. 15.5. Further, Section 2(d) of NABARD Act, 1981 defi nes central co- operative bank while Section 2(u) defi nes a state co-operative bank to mean the principal co-operative society in a State, the primary object of which is fi nancing of other co-operative societies in the State which means, it is in the nature of an apex co-operative bank having regard to the defi nition under Section 56 of the BR Act, 1949, in relation to co-operative bank. The proviso states that in addition to such principal society in a State, or where there is no such principal society in a State, the State Government may declare any one or more co-operative societies carrying on business of banking in that State to be also or to be a state co-operative bank or state co-operative banks within the meaning of the defi nition. Section 2(v) of NABARD Act, 1981 defi nes state land development bank to mean the co-operative society which is the principal land development bank (by whatever name called) in a State and which has as its primary object the providing of long-term fi nance for agricultural development.