They face immense physical and sexual violence. They are often forced to undergo sex-reassignment surgeries before their rights as transgender persons are recognized, and are frequently subjected to hate speech. Stereotypes about the community are also reinforced in the media. 26 Centering Familial Violence in the Lives of Queer and Trans Persons in the Marriage Equality Debates, A report on the fi ndings from a closed door public hearing on April 1, 2023 organised by PUCL and National Network of LBI Women and Transpersons. 27 ibid 28 ibid 29 Sejal Singh and Laura E. Durso (n 22) 30 “Transgender Persons Act” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1247 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 18. The grievance of the petitioners (who are members of the LGBTQIA+ community) is not that society discriminates against them in an informal (and invisible) manner. That is a secondary but an equally important stage of how discrimination pans out against a marginalised class. The petitioners claim that they are discriminated on a more formal (and visible) level. The petitioners contend that the State through the operation of the current legal regime discriminates against the queer community by impliedly excluding the queer community from a civic institution: marriage. The petitioners have invoked the equality code of the Constitution to seek legal recognition of their relationship with their partner in the form of marriage. The petitioners do not seek exclusive benefi ts for the queer community, which are unavailable to heterosexuals. They claim that the State ought to treat them on par with the heterosexual community. B*. Submissions 19. Learned counsel appearing for the petitioners made the submissions detailed below. Since this Court is a court of record, the submissions of each of the counsel are set out. 20. Mr. Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. This Court’s existing jurisprudence on LGBTQIA+ rights declares that LGBTQIA+ persons are entitled to dignity, equality, and privacy, which encompasses the fundamental right of LGBTQIA+ persons to marry a person of their choice. Accordingly, statutory recognition of such fundamental rights of LGBTQIA+ persons is merely a consequence of this Court’s jurisprudence31; b. Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution guarantee all persons the right to marry a person of their choice, including LGBTQIA+ persons; * Ed. Note: PART B 31 Reliance was placed on K.S. Puttaswamy v. Union of India (2017) 10 SCC 1 [9-Judge Bench], Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India (2018) 10 SCC 1, National Legal Services Authority v. Union of India (2014) 5 SCC 438, and Deepika Singh v. Central Administrative Tribunal 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1088 124 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. c. The Special Marriage Act (SMA) violates the right to dignity and decisional autonomy of LGBTQIA+ persons and therefore violates Article 2132; d. Excluding LGBTQIA+ persons from the SMA discriminates against them on the basis of their sexual orientation and the sex of their partner. This violates Article 15 of the Constitution; e. The SMA is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution because: i.