On the other hand, if the grounds are those enumerated in the Fifth Schedule with respect to independence or impartiality, the same has to be decided as a matter of fact by the Tribunal. If unsuccessful, that becomes the ground for challenge by virtue of Section 13(5), under Section 34. Learned Counsel also relied upon the observations in Bharat Broadband (supra), which recognize that Section 12(5) is a new provision. 15. Refuting the submissions of the ASG that there is a distinction between two terms “bias and impartiality” it was submitted that bias is synonymous with partiality and therefore opposed to the concept of impartiality. If an individual is biased, automatically he cannot be deemed impartial. Both bias and partiality are interchangeable, and the underlying premise for both is the existence of a prejudiced outlook which is opposed to the fundamental tenet of impartiality. Learned counsel points out that the expression used by the Chennai Metro in its Section 14 petition is only “impartial”. 10 International Bar Association 100 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 16. It is pointed out that in two other references, the Tribunal members, had directed parties to pay revised fees on 09.11.2020 and 15.09.2021. Both Afcons and Chennai Metro paid the revised fee. It was submitted that the tribunal’s dated 09.11.2020 in the other arbitration (UAA-01 reference I-A) and its dated 15.09.2021 and UAA-05 (reference I-A) and its in the present case demonstrate these facts. Learned counsel stated that on this premise, having regard to the past conduct of Chennai Metro in paying the revised fee, Afcons informed Chennai Metro by an e-mail dated 28.07.2022 that they had paid the revised fee in the present case. It was lastly argued that the threshold for establishing bias, is extremely high; reliance was placed on International Airport Authority v. K.D. Bali & Another11, where it was underlined that there must be a real likelihood of bias and not mere suspicion of bias. Legal provisions 17. The relevant provisions of the Act, after its amendments in 2015 and 2019, read as follows: “12. Grounds for challenge.—[(1) When a person is approached in connection with his possible appointment as an arbitrator, he shall disclose in writing any circumstances,— (a) such as the existence either direct or indirect, of any past or present relationship with or interest in any of the parties or in relation to the subject-matter in dispute, whether fi nancial, business, professional or other kind, which is likely to give rise to justifi able doubts as to his independence or impartiality; and (b) which are likely to aff ect his ability to devote suffi cient time to the arbitration and in particular his ability to complete the entire arbitration within a period of twelve months. Explanation1.—The grounds stated in the Fifth Schedule shall guide in determining whether circumstances exist which give rise to justifi able doubts as to the independence or impartiality of an arbitrator. 11 1988 (3) SWWCR 370 CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1005 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.]