Part-VI of the R.P. Act, 1951 deals with the disputes regarding Elections, and Chapter II thereof deals with the presentation of the Election petitionsto the High Court. Section 80 thereof states that no election shall be called in question H KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 809 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] except by an election petition presented in accordance with the provisions A of Part-VI. 12. Section 80A confers jurisdiction on the High Court to try election petitions. Section 81 deals with the presentation of petitions which reads as under: B “Section 81. Presentation of Petitions- (1) An election petition calling in question any election may be presented on one or more of the grounds specified in [sub-section (1)] of Section 100 and Section 101 to the High Court by any candidate at such election or any elector [within forty-five days from, but not earlier than the date of election of the returned candidate or if there are more C than one returned candidate at the election and dates of their election are different, the later of those two dates]. Explanation. —In this sub-section, “elector” means a person who was entitled to vote at the election to which the election petition relates, whether he has voted at such election or not. D (2) [***] [(3) Every election petition shall be accompanied by as many copies thereof as there are respondents mentioned in the petitionand every such copy shall be attested by the petitioner under his own signature to be a true copy of the petition.] E 13. Section 82 mandates as to who shall be the parties to the Election petition. Section 83 pertains to the contents of the petition, which reads as under:- 83. Contents of petition- (1) An election petition— F (a) shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies; (b) shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the petitioner alleges, including as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt G practice and the date and place of the commission of each such practice; and (c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verified in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) for the verification of pleadings: H 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A [Provided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affidavit in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof.] (2) Any schedule or annexure to the petition shall also be signed B by the petitioner and verified in the same manner as the petition.] 14. As per Section 86, the High Court is empowered to dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of Section 81 or Section 82 or Section 117. Section 87 deals with the procedure to be followed by the High Court which reads as under: C “87.