Preferential and other transactions.—(1) On or before the seventy-fifth day of the insolvency D commencement date, the resolution professional shall form an opinion whether the corporate debtor has been subjected to any transaction covered under Sections 43, 45, 50 or 66. (2) Where the resolution professional is of the opinion that E the corporate debtor has been subjected to any transactions covered under Sections 43, 45, 50 or 66, he shall make a determination on or before the one hundred and fifteenth day of the insolvency commencement date, under intimation to the Board. F (3) Where the resolution professional makes a determination under sub-regulation (2), he shall apply to the adjudicating authority for appropriate relief on or before the one hundred and thirty-fifth day of the insolvency commencement date.” G 90. As opposed to this, the liquidator, in liquidation proceedings under the Code, has to consolidate and verify the claims, and either admit or reject such claims under Sections 38 to 40 of the Code. Sections 41 and 42, by way of contrast between the powers of the liquidator and that of the H resolution professional, are set out hereinbelow: AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1015 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “41. Determination of valuation of claims.—The liquidator A shall determine the value of claims admitted under Section 40 in such manner as may be specified by the Board. 42. Appeal against the decision of liquidator.—A creditor may appeal to the adjudicating authority against the decision of the liquidator accepting or rejecting the claims B within fourteen days of the receipt of such decision.” It is clear from these sections that when the liquidator “determines” the value of claims admitted under Section 40, such determination is a “decision”, which is quasi- judicial in nature, and which can be appealed against to C the adjudicating authority under Section 42 of the Code. 91. Unlike the liquidator, the resolution professional cannot act in a number of matters without the approval of the Committee of Creditors under Section 28 of the Code, which can, by a two-thirds majority, replace one resolution D professional with another, in case they are unhappy with his performance. Thus, the resolution professional is really a facilitator of the resolution process, whose administrative functions are overseen by the Committee of Creditors and by the adjudicating authority.” (d) Section 29 of the IBC deals with the information memorandum E on the basis of which the resolution plan would be submitted. In this regard, Regulation 36 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2016, assumes importance wherein Regulation 36(2)(d) covers the claims of different kinds of creditors. Regulation 36(2)(d) reads thus: F “36. Information memorandum.-(1) Subject to sub-regulation (4), the resolution professional shall submit the information memorandum in electronic form to each member of the committee within two weeks of his appointment, but not later than fifty-fourth day from the insolvency commencement date, G whichever is earlier. (2) The information memorandum shall contain the following details of the corporate debtor- (a) xxxx Xx xx xx H 1016 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R.