Therefore, the legislative intent is clear that only under section 25 of the CPC a direction that any suit, appeal or other proceeding may be D transferred from a Civil Court in one State to a Civil Court in any other State and that can only be made by this Court. 12. Resting on the aforesaid arguments, Mr. Sharma too urged that no case for interference had been made out by the appellants and the appeal deserves dismissal. E THE RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF LAW 13. Sections 24 and 25 of the CPC being at the heart of the debate, the same need to read carefully. To the extent relevant, the said provisions read as follows: “24. General power of transfer and withdrawal.— (1) On the F application of any of the parties and after notice to the parties and after hearing such of them as desire to be heard, or of its own motion, without such notice, the High Court or the District Court may, at any stage— (a) transfer any suit, appeal or other proceeding pending G before it for trial or disposal to any court subordinate to it and competent to try or dispose of the same, or (b) withdraw any suit, appeal or other proceeding pending in any court subordinate to it, and H 996 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (i) try or dispose of the same; or (ii) transfer the same for trial or disposal to any court subordinate to it and competent to try or dispose of the same; or (iii) retransfer the same for trial or disposal to the court B from which it was withdrawn. (2) Where any suit or proceeding has been transferred or withdrawn under sub-section (1), the court which thereafter tries such suit may, subject to any special directions in the case of an of transfer, either retry it or proceed from the point at which C it was transferred or withdrawn. ***” “25. Power of Supreme Court to transfer suits, etc.— (1) On the application of a party, and after notice to the parties, D and after hearing such of them as desire to be heard, the Supreme Court may, at any stage, if satisfied that an under this section is expedient for the ends of justice, direct that any suit, appeal or other proceeding be transferred from a High Court or other Civil Court in one State to a High Court or other Civil Court in any other State. E ***” 14. Prior to its amendment in 1976, section 25 of the Code read as follows: “25. Power of State Government to transfer suits.—(1) Where F any party to a suit, appeal or other proceeding pending in a High Court presided over by a Single Judge objects to its being heard by him and the Judge is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for the objection, he shall make a report to the State Government, which may, by notification in the Official Gazette, transfer such G suit, appeal or proceeding to any other High Court.