H 76 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 7. CONSIDERATIONS OF RECOMMENDATIONS ON PENSION, GRATUITY ETC 85. Individual recommendations made by the SNJPC on pension are considered hereinbelow. I. No Change in Percentage of Pension for Retirees On or B After 01.01.2016 (Recommendation 39.1) 86. The Commission has not recommended any change in the current percentage of pension, fixed at 50% of last drawn pay for pension and 30% for last drawn pay for family pension. The FNJPC had also recommended this position and this Court had accepted it. Therefore, when no change is recommended, no real objections can be raised C regarding the recommendation. II. Revised Pension of Retired Judicial Officers should be 50% of the Last Drawn Pay 87. After considering the opinions of the FNJPC and the One- Person Commission, the Commission recommended that for judicial D officers who retired before 01.01.2016, the revised pension should be 50% of the last drawn pay of the post held at the time of retirement. This is also unchanged in its formulation and thus remains the same. III. Multiplier and Fitment of Pensioners in Pay Matrix (Recommendation No.39.3, 39.4) E 88. As a result of the recommendations of the SNJPC on pay, the pensioners also will be equally benefitted. The recommendation of the Commission is that the multiplier of 2.81 will equally apply to pensioners as well. As a consequence thereof, the pensioners will also be fitted into the table and pension will be paid to them on this basis.In other words, to F ensure parity of pension between judicial officers who retired at the same level but under different pay scales, the pension must be brought on par. After extensive analysis, the Commission has also included certain illustrations to make its recommendations clear. The illustrations lend clarity to the recommendation and thus ought to be read along with the recommendation. G 89. It may be noted that as with the recommendation on fitment in pay, the SNJPC has issued a corrigendum on fitment in its Supplemental Report dated March 2021. This Corrigendum corrects arithmetical mistakes made in the original report. Therefore, the fitment table must be construed in accordance with the corrected table on fitment. H ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 77 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] 90. There is merit in the recommendation of the Commission. A The revision of pay must also reflect in the revision of pension. Therefore, the multiplier which applies to pay must also apply to pension. Consequently, the pensioners must be therefore fitted into the same scheme in the pay matrix. The recommendation is thus accepted. IV. Consequential Re-fixation of Judicial Officers who B Retired Prior to 01.01.1996 (Recommendation no. 39.5) 91. The Commission noted that due to a discrepancy in the report of the One-Person Commission, the pension granted to judicial officers who retired after 2006 was not being given in parity to those who retired before 2006. This Court in All India Judges Assn. v. Union of India, C (2014) 14 SCC 444 (dated 08.10.2012) was apprised of the error committed by the One-Person Commission and directed this to be corrected.