Relevant Facts 4. The facts, insofar as they are necessary for the adjudication of this Appeal, are set out hereinbelow: a) Disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the respondent for certain acts of misconduct allegedly committed by him when he was working as Field Offi cer of the Mahadevapura Branch of the Bank. Broadly stated, the charges in the Charge Sheet dated 13.02.1992 were: i) That he recommended and obtained sanction from the Branch Manager, credit limits to various units as detailed therein and permitted excess drawings on an on-going basis; that he did not report to the controlling offi ce the excess drawings permitted; that he did not conduct periodical inspections as per the extant instructions; that loan sanctions were given and credit limit extended to entities operating in the premises of another entity; ii) That credit limit was recommended and sanction obtained for M/s Saraswathi Fabricators even though the unit was located away from the area of operation; sanction of the advance was not reported to the Controlling Offi ce; and formalities for creating equitable mortgage over immovable property off ered as collateral security were not completed; iii) That the respondent recommended and obtained sanction of advance to M/s ACE Photo Reprographers and M/s Sangeetha Refreshments STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY 657 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] both from Shivajinagar, even though the units were non-existent and the particulars furnished were fi ctitious as another fi rm M/s All Arts Company was operating from the same premises; that the sanction of these advances were not reported to the controlling offi ce and periodical inspection of the units were not conducted. iv) That the respondent had recommended and obtained sanction on 20.05.1987 cash credit limit to M/s. Rajeswari Enterprises and the respondent did not submit control return; that periodical inspections were not carried out and formalities for creation of equitable mortgage over immovable property stipulated as pre-condition for sanction of limit were not completed. Certain other charges set out, which are not directly relevant for the adjudication of the Appeal, have not been highlighted hereinabove. v) It was alleged in the charge memo that by the acts committed, the respondent failed to comply with the extant instructions with regard to sanction and follow-up of advances and failed to take all possible steps to ensure and protect the interest of the Bank and did not discharge his duties with utmost diligence and integrity and thereby violated the service rules. b) As part of the charge, it was further alleged that he purchased agricultural land in October 1987 ad-measuring 21.36 acres and got it registered in his name for a nominal amount, using the infl uence of one Shri Ramamurthy of M/s Bindu Enterprises who are enjoying credit facilities with the branch and he failed to declare to the Bank the purchase of immovable property as per the extant instructions. It was alleged that by the above acts, he placed himself under pecuniary obligations to the party. c) The statement of imputations were also furnished.