The reasoning of NCDRC on these facets suffers from a clear perversity and patent errors of law which have been noticed in the earlier part of this . Allowing the appeals in part, we set aside the impugned and of NCDRC dated 2- 7-2019 [Rasheed Ahmad Usmani v. DLF Ltd., 2019 SCC OnLine B NCDRC 84] dismissing the consumer complaint. While doing so, we issue the following directions: 69.1. Save and except for eleven appellants who entered into specific settlements with the developer and three appellants who have sold their right, title and interest under the ABA, the first and C second respondents shall, as a measure of compensation, pay an amount calculated @ 6 per cent simple interest per annum to each of the appellants. The amount shall be computed on the total amounts paid towards the purchase of the respective flats with effect from the date of expiry of thirty-six months from the execution of the respective ABAs until the date of the offer of D possession after the receipt of the occupation certificate.” 14.3. The case of DLF Homes Developers Ltd. (supra), dealt with by a 3-Judge Bench of this Court, had also been of delay in delivery of possession and therein, this Court held that compensation for such delay over and above contractual rate was allowable even when the E seller had given the option to the buyer to exit with interest. In that context, this Court held that such exit option would not disentitle the flat purchaser from claiming compensation. This Court observed, inter alia, as under: - “8….The fact that the developer offered an exit option with F interest at 9% would not disentitle the flat purchasers from claiming compensation. For a genuine flat buyer, who has booked an apartment in the project not as an investor or financier, but for the purpose of purchasing a family home, a mere offer of refund would not detract from the entitlement to claim compensation. A genuine flat buyer wants a roof over the head. The developer G cannot assert that a buyer who continues to remain committed to the agreement for purchase of the flat must forsake recourse to a claim for compensation occasioned by the delay of the developer. Mere refund of consideration together with interest would not provide a just recompense to a genuine flat buyer, who desires H 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A possession and remains committed to the project. It was for each buyer to either accept the offer of the developer or to continue with the agreement for purchase of the flat. 9. Similar is the position in regard to the submission on the appreciation of the value of the flats. Undoubtedly, this is one B factor which has to be borne in mind in considering whether and, if so to what extent, compensation for delay should be awarded. Having regard to the principles which have been enunciated in the earlier two decisions [Arifur Rahman Khan v. DLF Southern Homes (P) Ltd., (2020) 16 SCC 512] , [Pioneer Urban Land & Infrastructure Ltd. v. Govindan Raghavan, (2019) 5 SCC 725 : C (2019) 3 SCC (Civ) 37] which have been noted above, we are unable to subscribe to the submission that the flat buyers are not entitled to any payment whatsoever on account of delayed compensation.” 14.3.1.