Cas. 891 (“Mersey Docks”). In the said case it is held that the mode of application of the surplus generated out of a trading activity has no bearing on its taxability. To borrow from the conclusion in that case, the Revenue’s “right to be paid the tax out of it in the least degree depends on what they do with it afterwards.” SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1031 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 39. In the circumstances, we fi nd that the reasoning given by the Coordinate Bench of this Court in Bangalore Club is just and proper and would not call for reconsideration. 40. The reasoning in Bangalore Club is also fortifi ed by s from overseas jurisdictions, discussed above,such as Municipal Mutual Insurance Limited vs. Hills; Walter Fletcher; Re: Commissioner of Taxation And: Australian Music Traders Association. 41. In the circumstance, we do not fi nd that the in Bangalore Club is not a binding precedent for the reason that it does not refer to the earlier of this Court in Cawnpore Club. Secondly, on a close reading of reasons assigned by this Court in Bangalore Club we fi nd that they are justifi ed and squarely apply to the cases at hand. 42. In this context, the sagacious dictum of seven learned Judges of this Court in Keshav Mills Co. Ltd. vs. CIT, (1965) 2 SCR 908 ought to guide the exercise of jurisdiction on questions that have been duly settled by s of this Court. In the said case, it was observed as follows: “23. … [I]n reviewing and revising its earlier decision, this Court should ask itself whether in the interests of the public good or for any other valid and compulsive reasons, it is necessary that the earlier decision should be revised. When this Court decides questions of law, its decisions are, under Article 141, binding on all courts within the territory of India, and so, it must be the constant endeavour and concern of this Court to introduce and maintain an element of certainty and continuity in the interpretation of law in the country. Frequent exercise by this Court of its power to review its earlier decisions on the ground that the view pressed before it later appears to the Court to be more reasonable, may incidentally tend to make law uncertain and introduce confusion which must be consistently avoided. That is not to say that if on a subsequent occasion, the Court is satisfi ed that its earlier decision was clearly erroneous, it should hesitate to correct the error; but before a previous decision is pronounced to be plainly erroneous, the Court must be satisfi ed with a fair amount of unanimity amongst its members that a revision of the said view is fully justifi ed. It is not possible or desirable, and in any case it would be inexpedient to lay down any principles which should govern the 1032 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. approach of the Court in dealing with the question of reviewing and revising its earlier decisions.