If the expression “in respect of” is thus construed, the immunity conferred under Article 105(2) would be confi ned to liability that arises out of or is attributable to something that has been said or to a vote that has been given by a Member in Parliament or any committee thereof. The immunity would be available only if the speech that has been made or the vote that has been given is an essential and integral part of the cause of action for the proceedings giving rise to the liability. The immunity would not be available to give protection against liability for an act that precedes the making of the speech or giving of vote by a Member in Parliament even though it may have a connection with the speech made or the vote given by the Member if such an act gives rise to a liability which arises independently and does not depend on the making of the speech or the giving of vote in Parliament by the Member. Such an independent liability cannot be regarded as liability in respect of anything said or vote given by the Member in Parliament. The liability for which immunity can be claimed under Article 105(2) is the liability that has arisen as a consequence of the speech that has been made or the vote that has been given in Parliament.” 20. Signifi cantly, Justice Agarwal, in the course of his also dwelt on the issue as to when the off ence of bribery is complete. According to the view of the learned Judge, the off ence of bribery is complete against the receiver of a bribe, if he takes or agrees to take money for a promise to act in a certain way. The off ence would be complete with the acceptance of the money or on the agreement to accept the money being concluded and is SITA SOREN v. UNION OF INDIA 763 not dependent on the performance of the illegal promise by the receiver. The receiver of the money will be treated to have committed the off ence even if he were to default in the performance of the bargain. Hence, it was Justice Agarwal’s view that for proving the off ence of bribery, all that is required to be established is that the off ender had received or agreed to receive money for a promise to act in a certain way and it was not necessary to prove further that he had actually acted in the way as promised. 21. The third in the case was delivered by Justice G.N. Ray. A reading of the of Justice GN Ray indicates that the learned Judge concurred with Justice S.C. Agarwal in concluding that: (i) A Member of Parliament is a public servant under Section 2(c) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988; and (ii) Since there is no authority competent to grant sanction for the prosecution of a Member of Parliament under Section 19(1) of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988, the Court can take cognizance of the off ences mentioned in the provision but the prosecuting agency must obtain the permission of the Chairperson of the Rajya Sabha or, as the case may be, the Speaker of the Lok Sabha before fi ling a charge-sheet against the Member of Parliament in a criminal court.