facts. The present case the fraudulent mis-representation was not only to the contents of the document but also to the character of the document. Thus, the reasoning given by the High Court contrary to the settled legal position cannot be sustained. 21. From a perusal of the plaint, it is more than clear that the plea of non est factum was well pleaded, in clear and strict terms. Whether or not the plaintiff s were able to prove it would be a diff erent question but the fact that it was pleaded is more than apparent. The High Court was thus not right in recording the fi nding that plaintiff s did not plead with respect to the plea of non est factum. 22. It would be appropriate at this stage itself to refer to the settled legal position on the above aspect. This Court in the case of Bhagwati Prasad vs. Chandramaul14very aptly put that the question for the Courts to consider in such matters is whether the parties knew that the matter in question was involved and whether they led evidence about it. We may profi tably extract para 10 of the aforesaid report: “10. But in considering the application of this doctrine of the facts of the present case, it is necessary to bear in mind the other principle that considerations of form cannot over-ride the legitimate considerations of substance. If a plea is not specifi cally made and yet it is covered by an issue by implication, and the parties knew that the said plea was involved in the trial, then the mere fact that the plea was not expressly taken in the pleadings would not necessarily disentitle a party from relying upon it if it is satisfactorily proved by evidence. The general rule no doubt is that the relief should be founded on pleadings made by the parties. But where the substantial matters relating to the title of both parties to the suit are touched, though indirectly or even obscurely, in the issues, and evidence has been led about them, then the argument that a particular matter was not expressly taken in the pleadings would be purely formal and technical and cannot succeed in every case. What the Court has to consider in dealing with such an objection is : did the parties know that the matter in question was involved in the trial, and did they lead evidence about it? If it appears that the parties did not know that the matter was in issue at the trial 14 AIR 1966 SC 735 RAMATHAL AND ORS. v. K. RAJAMANI (DEAD) 363 THROUGH LRS. AND ANR. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] and one of them has had no opportunity to lead evidence in respect of it, that undoubtedly would be a diff erent matter. To allow one party to rely upon a matter in respect of which the other party did not lead evidence and has had no opportunity to lead evidence, would introduce considerations of prejudice, and in doing justice to one party, the Court cannot do injustice to another.” 23.