278.29 Crores. For the period subsequent to 31st October 2017, the Claimant shall be entitled to interest calculated at the same rate as for the period prior to that date, till the date of the award. The Claimant shall also be entitled F to payment of interest at the rate of 15% per annum on the above amount from the date of the award till the actual payment of the full amount awarded together with interest. If the full payment of the amount awarded together with interest is made within the period of two months from the date of the award, the Respondent G shall not be liable to pay interest for any period subsequent to the date of the award, otherwise, it shall be liable to pay interest at the rate of 15% per annum from the date of the award till the date of payment/realisation in full. In this view of the matter the Tribunal makes the following. H 396 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A AWARD 1. The Respondent shall pay to the Claimant a sum of Rs.278.29 Crores by way of payment of the principal amount together with interest for the period up to October 31, 2017. B 2. The Respondent shall pay to the Claimant interest on the above amount, for the period from October 31, 2017 till the date of the award, calculated at the same rate as for the period prior to October, 31,2017. 3. The Respondent shall pay to the Claimant interest on the total C amount awarded together with interest payable on October 31, 2017, at the rate of 15% per annum from the date of the Award till full payment of the amount, including interest as on the date of the Award is paid/realised. 4. Provided that, in case the Respondent pays to the Claimant the D entire amount together with interest awarded within two months of the date of the Award, it shall not be liable to pay interest for the period subsequent to the date of the Award. 5. The parties shall bear their own respective costs of this proceeding.” E Challenge to the award under Section 34 of the Act 6. The award so made by the Arbitral Tribunal was challenged by the State under Section 34 of the Act before the Commercial Court. A vast variety of contentions urged on behalf of the parties were duly F considered by the Court and the relevant points were answered in favour of the claimant and thereby, the award was upheld while rejecting the application under Section 34. 6.1. The relevant observations and findings of the Commercial G Court, to the extent necessary, shall be referred hereafter at the appropriate stage. However, we may extract the points for determination formulated by the Commercial Court and their answers, as indicated in the impugned and dated 12.09.2019, as follows: - “27. Following points arise for my determination: H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 397 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] A B C D E F G H 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.