While considering the nature of the said transaction, this Court indicated that “in the infi nite variety of situational diversities in which the concept of what is capital expenditure and what is revenue arises,” it is not possible “to formulate any general rule even in the generality of cases, suffi ciently accurate and reasonably comprehensive, to draw any clear line of demarcation”. This Court further held that there is no single defi nitive criterion which by itself demarcates whether a particular outlay is capital or revenue. Therefore, the “once for all” test as well as the test of “enduring benefi t” may not be conclusive. Consequently, the various terms and conditions of the agreement, the advantages derived by an assessee under the agreement, the payment made by the assessee under the agreement are all to be taken into account and then it has to be decided whether the whole or a part of the payment thus made is a capital expenditure or a revenue expenditure. This Court observed that courts have applied diff erent tests like starting of a new business on the basis of technical know-how received from the foreign fi rm; exclusive right of the company to use the patent or trademark which it receives from the foreign fi rm; the payments made by the company to the foreign fi rm whether, a defi nite one or dependent upon certain contingencies; right to use the technical know-how for production even after the completion of the agreement; obtaining enduring benefi t for a considerable part on account of the technical information received from a foreign fi rm, payment whether made “once for all” or in diff erent installments co-relatable to the percentage of gross turnover of the product, C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 423 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] etc. to ultimately fi nd out whether the expenditure or payment thus made makes an accretion to the capital asset(s) and after the court comes to the conclusion that it does, then, has to be held to be a capital expenditure. It was further observed that no single defi nitive criterion by itself would be determinative and therefore, bearing in mind the changing economic realities of business and the varieties of situational diversities, the various clauses of the agreement are to be examined. On fact, as regards the question as to whether “once for all” payment made under an agreement with a foreign fi rm by the assessee to obtain technical knowhow, for increasing yield of penicillin in its existing plant with a condition to keep the said know-how confi dential, constituted business expenditure allowable for deduction, this Court held in the affi rmative. M.N. Venkatachalia, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) held that in computing the income chargeable under the head “Profi ts and Gains of Business or Profession”, Section 37 of the Act enables the deduction of any expenditure laid out or expended wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the business or profession, as the case may be.