It is further found that it is for the very good reason that the court does not while deciding an application under Section 11 decide 27 (2018) 6 SCC 534 H 348 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A any preliminary issue. The Court further found that it was giving effect to the provisions of a mandatory enactment, which enjoins upon the Court, under the provisions of the Stamp Act, to first impound the agreement, and if only the penalty and the duty is paid thereafter, to act upon it. The Court had also found that it was not possible to bifurcate the arbitration clause. We would find that as found by us, being unstamped B or insufficiently stamped, the agreement would not be enforceable till it is ‘validated’ which is permissible only in the manner provided in the Stamp Act and till then it would not exist ‘in law’. 66. In the context of Article 136 of the Limitation Act, 1963, a Bench of three learned Judges in Dr. Chiranji Lal (D) by Lrs. v. Hari C Das (D) by Lrs.28 had to deal with the argument that a Final Decree for partition passed on 07.08.1981 became enforceable only on 25.05.1982, on which day the Decree came to be engrossed with stamp papers. Under Article 136, the period of twelve years begins to run when the ‘Decree or ’ becomes ‘enforceable’, inter alia. The Court, inter D alia, held as follows: “23. Such an interpretation is not permissible having regard to the object and scheme of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. The Stamp Act is a fiscal measure enacted with an object to secure revenue for the State on certain classes of instruments. It is not enacted to arm a litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of E his opponent. The stringent provisions of the Act are conceived in the interest of the Revenue. Once that object is secured according to law, the party staking his claim on the instrument will not be defeated on the ground of initial defect in the instrument (Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Co. [(1969) 1 SCC F 597]). …” xxx xxx xxx 25. The engrossment of the final decree in a suit for partition would relate back to the date of the decree. The beginning of the period of limitation for executing such a decree cannot be made G to depend upon date of the engrossment of such a decree on the stamp paper. The date of furnishing of stamp paper is an uncertain act, within the domain, purview and control of a party. No date or period is fixed for furnishing stamp papers. No rule has been shown H 28 (2005) 10 SCC 746 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 349 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] to us requiring the Court to call upon or give any time for furnishing A of stamp paper. A party by his own act of not furnishing stamp paper cannot stop the running of period of limitation.