Relevant portion reads as under: “..Every assault in a public place like a public road and terminating in the death of a victim is likely to cause horror and even panic and terror in those who are the spectators. But that does not mean that all of such incidents do necessarily cause disturbance or dislocation of the community life of the localities in which they are committed. There is nothing in the two incidents set out in the grounds in the present case to suggest that either of them was of that kind and gravity which would PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 577 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] jeopardise the maintenance of public . No doubt bombs were said to have been carried by those who are alleged to have committed the two acts stated in the grounds. Possibly that was done to terrify the respective victims and prevent them from off ering resistance. But it is not alleged in the grounds that they were exploded to cause terror in the locality so that those living there would be prevented from following their usual avocations of life. The two incidents alleged against the petitioner, thus, pertained to specifi c individuals, and therefore, related to and fell within the area of law and . In respect of such acts the drastic provisions of the Act are not contemplated to be resorted to and the ordinary provisions of our penal laws would be suffi cient to cope with them.” 60. In Kuso Sah v. The State of Bihar & Others, (1974) 1 SCC 185, this Court had also considered the issue of “public ”. The Court observed thus:- “These acts may raise problems of law and but we fi nd it impossible to see their impact on public . The two concepts have well defi ned contours, it being well established that stray and unorganised crimes of theft and assault are not matters of public since they do not tend to aff ect the even fl ow of public life. Infractions of law are bound in some measure to lead to dis but every infraction of law does not necessarily result in public dis....” 61. This Court in yet another important case of Ashok Kumar v. Delhi Administration & Others, (1982) 2 SCC 403, clearly spelled out a distinction between “law and ” and “public ”. In this case, the Court observed as under:- “13. The true distinction between the areas of “public ” and “law and ” lies not in the nature or quality of the act, but in the degree and extent of its reach upon society. The distinction between the two concepts of “law and ” and “public ” is a fi ne one but this does not mean that there can be no overlapping. Acts similar in nature but committed in diff erent contexts and circumstances might cause diff erent reactions. In one case it might aff ect specifi c individuals only and therefore touch the problem of law and , while in another it might aff ect public .