It was omitted from the Tenth Schedule by the Constitution (Ninety-first Amendment) Act 2003. Prior to its omission, Paragraph 3 read as follows: “3. Disqualification on ground of defection not to apply in case of split.—Where a member of a House makes a claim that he and B any other members of his legislature party constitute the group representing a faction which has arisen as a result of a split in his original political party and such group consists of not less than one-third of the members of such legislature party,— (a) he shall not be disqualified under sub-paragraph (1) of C paragraph 2 on the ground— (i) that he has voluntarily given up his membership of his original political party; or (ii) that he has voted or abstained from voting in such House contrary to any direction issued by such party or by any person or D authority authorised by it in that behalf without obtaining the prior permission of such party, person or authority and such voting or abstention has not been condoned by such party, person or authority within fifteen days from the date of such voting or abstention; and (b) from the time of such split, such faction shall be deemed to be E the political party to which he belongs for the purposes of sub- paragraph (1) of paragraph 2 and to be his original political party for the purposes of this paragraph.” a. The defence of a ‘split’ is no longer available to members who face disqualification proceedings F 163. The question before this Court is – what is the impact of the deletion of Paragraph 3 of the Tenth Schedule? This question has arisen in the context of both factions of the Shiv Sena claiming to be the “real” Shiv Sena. In effect, this points to the existence of a split within the SSLP. However, no faction or group can argue that they constitute the original political party as a defence against disqualification on the ground G of defection. 164. The inevitable consequence of the deletion of Paragraph 3 from the Tenth Schedule is that the defence of a split is no longer available to members who face disqualification proceedings. In cases where a split has occurred in a political party or in a legislature party, members of H 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A neither faction may validly raise the defence that they are the political party in the event that each faction files petitions for the disqualification of members of the other faction. The defence sought to be availed of must be found within the Tenth Schedule as it currently stands. 165. Members of multiple groups or factions can all continue as B members of the House if the requirements of Paragraph 4(1) of the Tenth Schedule are satisfied. Two (or more) factions of a political party can both remain in the House if one of the factions has opted to merge with another political party in terms of Paragraph 4(1)(a) and the other faction has chosen not to accept the merger.