FIR No.220/99 was registered initially under Section 364, IPC read with Section 34, IPC in P.S. Rai Sonepat. Name of the appellants KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF 867 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] were not mentioned therein. Later, pursuant to the recording of statements from PW-10 Mukesh and PW-8 Azad, off ences under Sections 302 and 201 read with Section 34, IPC were added and the appellants herein were arraigned as accused. 3. In view of the peculiar context of the case it is proper and profi table to go through the charges framed and read over to the appellants, on 15.11.1999. They read thus: - “Firstly: That on 25.06.1999 in the area of village Nahri, you both accused in furtherance of your common intention kidnapped Devinder s/o Sukhbir in that he be murdered and thus you both hereby committed an off ence punishable under Section 364 read with Section 34, IPC and within the cognizance of this Court. Secondly: That on the said date at night in the area of village Nahri you both in furtherance of your common intention did commit murder by intentionally causing the death of Devinder s/o Sukhbir and thereby you both committed an off ence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and within the cognizance of this Court. Thirdly: That on the said dates, time and place you both in furtherance of your common intention knowing or having reasons to believe that certain off ence to wit, off ence of murder is punishable with death or imprisonment for life has been committed, did cause certain evidence of the said off ence to disappear, to wit, thrown the dead body in the Delhiwali canal with intention of screening yourselves from legal punishment and thereby you both committed an off ence punishable under Section 201/34 IPC and within the cognizance of this Court.” 4. Consequently, they were tried on the above charges. The necessity and relevance of referring to charges would be discussed later. On appreciating the documentary as well as the oral evidence consisting of testimonies of seventeen witnesses on the side of the prosecution, the trial Court convicted the appellants herein based on circumstantial evidence. 868 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. In the appeals preferred by the convicts, their conviction and sentences were confi rmed. The revision, being C.R.R.No.2242/2002, fi led by the complainant Krishan Kumar S/o Sukhbir Singh, heard along with their appeals, seeking enhancement of their sentence of imprisonment for life to capital punishment was also dismissed. Aggrieved by the dismissal of their appeals Krishan Kumar and Joginder Singh, the convicts have fi led the captioned appeals. 5. Heard learned counsel for the appellants and learned Additional Advocate General of the State of Haryana. 6. A scanning of the impugned and would reveal that the conviction of the appellants based on circumstantial evidence, consisting of evidence of last seen, extra judicial confession, recovery of weapon of off ence and motive, was confi rmed by the High Court.