Whereas the right to possess is a right in the strict sense, these rights are in fact liberties: E the owner has a liberty to use the thing, i.e., he is under no duty not to use it, in contrast with others who are under a duty not to use or interfere with it.” 74. We may however notice the following: “This does not mean, however, that an owner whose property is F unencumbered has completely unlimited rights. To describe someone as an absolute owner of property is to say two things; it is to assert that his title to the property is indisputable, and that he has all the rights of ownership allowed by the legal system in question. We have seen that the rights of ownership may be limited by the adverse dominant rights of an encumbrancer or by the G rights of the possessor (who is in fact one very special type of an encumbrancer). They may also be limited by special provisions of law such as Town & Country planning law, which regulates for social purposes the use which an owner may make office land. But in addition to being restricted by such specific provisions of H 1092 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A public law, and owner’s rights are restricted by a whole variety of provisions of the ordinary law, according to which various harmful and dangerous types of conduct qualify as criminal or tortious; the fact that I am the owner of a knife will not entitle me to use it to kill Smith. We may say that an owner is free to use and dispose of his property as he pleases, except in so far as he does not B infringe his duties to specific encumbrancers, his duties under special regulations concerning the use of property (f) and his general duties under the general law of the land (f).” (Emphasis supplied) C 75. In T. Vijayalakshmi v. Town Planning Member,35 this Court while dealing with a case arising under the Town Planning Law had this to say: “13. Town Planning legislations are regulatory in nature. The right to property of a person would include a right to construct a building. Such a right, however, can be restricted by reason of a legislation. D 15. The law in this behalf is explicit. Right of a person to construct residential houses in the residential area is a valuable right. The said right can only be regulated in terms of a regulatory statute but unless there exists a clear provision the same cannot be taken away.It is also a trite law that the building plans are required to be E dealt with in terms of the existing law. Determination of such a question cannot be postponed far less taken away. Doctrine of legitimate expectation in a case of this nature would have a role to play.” (Emphasis supplied) F 76. In Indore Vikas Pradhikaran v. Pure Industrial Coke & Chemicals Ltd.,36 this Court was again dealing with a case under the town Planning Law.