For considering the rival submissions, it will be relevant to refer to certain documents placed on record. G 47. The MoP notified the Competitive Bidding Guidelines, 2005 (hereinafter referred to as “the said Guidelines”) on 19th January 2005. The said Guidelines were framed under Section 63 of the Electricity 6 (2022) 4 SCC 657 7 (2014) 11 SCC 53 H 110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Act. It will be relevant to refer to the following part of the preamble of the said Guidelines. “1. Preamble ……….. These guidelines have been framed under the above provisions of B section 63 of the Act. The specific objectives of these guidelines are as follows: 1. Promote competitive procurement of electricity by distribution licensees; 2. Facilitate transparency and fairness in procurement C processes; 3. Facilitate reduction of information asymmetries for various bidders; 4. Protect consumer interests by facilitating competitive conditions in procurement of electricity; D 5. Enhance standardization and reduce ambiguity and hence time for materialization of projects; 6. Provide flexibility to suppliers on internal operations while ensuring certainty on availability of power and tariffs for buyers.” E 48. Paragraph 2 of the said Guidelines deals with the scope of the Guidelines. Para 2.2 of the said Guidelines reads thus: “2.2. The guidelines shall apply for procurement of base-load, peak-load and seasonal power requirements through competitive bidding, through the following mechanisms: F (i) Where the location, technology, or fuel is not specified by the procurer (Case 1); (ii) For hydro-power projects, load center projects or other location specific projects with specific fuel allocation such as captive mines available, which the procurer intends to G set up under tariff based bidding process (Case 2). However separate RFP shall be used for procuring base load or peak load or seasonal load requirements as the case may be.” 49. It can thus be seen that Para 2.2 distinguishes two types of cases, viz., Case-1 and Case-2. Case-1 deals with the case where the H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 111 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] location, technology, or fuel is not specified by the procurer. Case-2 A deals with hydro-power projects, load center projects or other location specific projects with specific fuel allocation such as captive mines available, which the procurer intends to set up under tariff based bidding process. 50. Paragraph 3 of the said Guidelines deals with preparation for B inviting bids. Clause (I) of Para 3.2 deals with Case-2, whereas clause (II) of Para 3.2 deals with Case-1. Sub-clause (i) of clause (II) of Para 3.2 requires the bidder to undertake site identification and land acquisition. The bidder is required to submit a copy of notification issued for the land in question under Section 4 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. For the C part of land excluding that which is to be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894, the bidder is required to furnish documentary evidence to establish allotment/ lease/ ownership/ vesting of at least one-third area of the said land.