6 was set ex-parte. No plea with respect to the jurisdiction of the Wakf Tribunal was raised, while the aborted attempt to raise a defense of oral lease was rightly repelled. 7. Not being satisfi ed with the decree passed, respondents no(s). 1 and 2 fi led a revision petition before the High Court being C.R.P. No. 5863 of 2002. It was dismissed inter alia holding that there is no legal basis to continue in occupation after the expiry of the lease. 8. The dilatory tactics adopted by respondent no(s). 1 and 2 continued even thereafter, to the extent that the appellant had to fi le an execution petition in E.P. No. 29 of 2014 on 18.10.2014. Even during the execution proceedings, respondent no. 2 did not raise the plea of maintainability of the suit. However, after four years during which time also the Court was successfully prevented through a series of applications/objections, obviously at the instance of the respondents, an additional counter was fi led raising 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the plea that the suit as laid and decreed ought not to have been entertained in view of the dictum rendered by this Court in Faseela M. v. Munnerul Islam Madrasa Committee and Another, (2014) 16 SCC 38 which in turn relied upon the decision rendered in Ramesh Gobindram (Dead) through LRs. v. Sugra Humayun Mirza Wakf, (2010) 8 SCC 726. The objection raised was not found to be tenable by the Executing Court by dismissing the application fi led under Section 47 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as “the Code”). On a revision, the High Court of Telangana reversed the decision of the Executing Court by placing reliance upon the decision of this Court in Ramesh Gobindram (Supra). The said passed is under challenge in this appeal. SUBMISSIONS 9. Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Shri Huzefa Ahmadi, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, fervently submitted that there was absolutely no objection raised by the contesting respondents till the stage of the execution petition. The decision rendered in Ramesh Gobindram (Supra) has been considered and explained by this Court in Rashid Wali Beg v. Farid Pindari and Others, (2022) 4 SCC 414. Such an exercise was also undertaken by this Court even on the earlier occasions. By the amendment brought in under the Act 27 of 2013, the basis of the decision in Ramesh Gobindram (Supra) has been removed. Even assuming that the impugned is correct, the resultant situation would be that the appellant will have to fi le a suit before the Wakf Tribunal once again. 10. Supplementing the said submission, Shri K. Parameshwar, learned counsel appearing for respondent no. 8, the Wakf Board, submitted that even prior to the decision rendered in Ramesh Gobindram (Supra), there was ample jurisdiction to try all suits pertaining to a Wakf and Wakf property, a fact correctly taken note of in Rashid Wali Beg (Supra). Section 83 read with Section 85 of the Wakf Act, 1995 being distinct and independent provisions clothed the Wakf Tribunal with adequate jurisdiction.