A constitutional court, by virtue of its power under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution can decide whether an MLA is disqualified under the provisions of the Tenth Schedule. This Court has recognised this exceptional power in D Rajendra Singh Rana (supra). The following exceptional circumstances indicate that this Court must decide the disqualification petitions in these proceedings: i. The constitutionality of events which succeeded the filing of the disqualification petitions, namely, the E direction of the Governor on 28 June 2022 to the then Chief Minister Mr. Uddhav Thackeray to facea floor test, the swearing in of Mr. Eknath Shinde as the Chief Minister on 30 June 2022, the appointment of the Speaker on 3 July 2022, the floor test held on F 4 July 2022, and the petition filed by a faction led by Mr. Eknath Shinde under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols , have been challenged before this court; ii. The Speaker was appointed with the support of the faction of the Shiv Sena legislators led by Mr. Eknath G Shinde. The Speaker has conducted himself in a biased and mala fide manner. In a communication dated 3 July 2022, the Speaker de-recognised Mr. Ajay Choudhari and Mr. Sunil Prabhu as the Leader of the SSLP and the Chief Whip of the Shiv Sena respectively, and instead recognised Mr. Eknath H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 887 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] Shinde and Mr. Bharat Gogawale respectively. The A decision of the Speaker in the disqualification proceedings would depend on who was recognized as the Chief Whip which is also under challenge in the instant batch of proceedings; iii. A Constitutional Court while deciding disqualification B petitions must decide if a per se case of disqualification is made out against the MLAs; iv. In the facts of the present case, a per se case of disqualification is made out under Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule against the faction of legislators C led by Mr. Eknath Shinde because: I. They deliberately did not attend the SSLP meetings held on 21 June 2022 and 22 June 2022; II. On 22 June 2022, they passed illegal resolutions D appointing Mr. Shinde as the Leader of the SSLP, and Mr. Gogawale as the Chief Whip; and III. The faction led by Mr. Shinde met the Governor along with Mr. Devendra Fadnavis, the then Leader of Opposition. The alliance E of legislators of Mr. Shinde’s faction with the BJP was against the wishes of the Shiv Sena political party. v. In the facts of the present case, a per se case of disqualification is made out under Paragraph 2(1)(b) F of the Tenth Schedule against the faction of legislators led by Mr. Eknath Shinde. On 2 July 2022, Mr. Sunil Prabhu issued a whip for the election of the Speaker. The faction of legislators led by Mr. Shinde violated the whip and voted in favour of Mr. Rahul Narwekar, who was the candidate nominated by the BJP.