A this aspect, and proceeded on the assumption that only specified goods were subject to the ‘pre-import condition’. The existence of paragraph 4.13 (i) reserving the power to insist upon the ‘pre- import condition’, meant that the policy was capable of change, depending on the exigencies of the time. This omission, together with the High Court’s failure to notice paragraph 4.27 (d) of the B HBP are serious infirmities in the impugned . [Paras 56, 57][217-G-H; 218-A-D] 1.3 ‘Physical export’ is defined in paragraph 4.05(c) and paragraph 9.20 of the FTP read with Section 2(e) of the FTDRA. Essentially, therefore, export involves taking goods out of India. C AAs can be issued either to a manufacturer exporter or merchant exporter tied to supporting manufacturer (as per paragraph 4.05). However, paragraph 4.05 of the FTP defines categories for which AAs can be issued, somewhat expansively. The definition extends in specific terms (under Chapter 4 of FTP) - supplies made to D SEZ are considered as ‘physical exports’ despite not being an event in which goods are being taken out of India. The other three categories defined under (c) (ii), (iii) & (iv) are ineligible as ‘physical exports’. Supplies of intermediate goods are covered by letter of invalidation, whereas supplies covered under Chapter 7 of the FTP are considered as ‘deemed exports’. These supplies E are ineligible for being considered ‘physical exports’. Therefore, any category of supply, be it under letter of invalidation and/or to EOU and/or under International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and/ or to Mega Power Projects, other than actual exports to other country and supply to SEZ, cannot be considered as ‘physical F exports’. One of the objects behind the impugned notifications was to ensure that the entire exports made under AAs towards discharge of export s were physical exports. In case the entire exports were not physical exports, the AAs were automatically ineligible for exemption. [Para 59][218-F-H; 219- A-E] G 1.4 The introduction of the ‘pre-import condition’ may have resulted in hardship to the exporters, because even whilst they fulfilled the physical export criteria, they could not continue with their former business practices of importing inputs, after applying for AAs, to fulfil their overseas contractual obligations. The new H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 189 dispensation required them to pay the two duties, and then claim A refunds, after satisfying that the inputs had been utilized fully (wastage excluded) for producing the final export goods. The re- shaping of their businesses caused inconvenience to them. Yet, that cannot be a ground to hold that the insertion of the ‘pre- import condition’, was arbitrary, as the High Court concluded. B [Para 62][220-D-F] 1.5 The respondents had alleged discrimination on two counts: one, that for purposes of classification, all exporters who were granted AAs were to be treated alike; and two, that insisting on the ‘pre-import condition’ in respect to exemption from two C levies only, while granting that benefit in respect of other AAs, was discriminatory.