This is because the transaction H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1321 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] between the dealer and the customer is one as an agent of automobile A manufacturer and the spare part is given on the basis of the warranty for replacement even though the dealer may have purchased the spare part by giving the ‘C’ form. It is purely for replacement and not for sale. Credit notes are also issued by the manufacturer reducing the sale value. Therefore, the spare parts which are given for replacement have to be B exempted from the turnover. 19. In the Reference , an attempt has been made to distinguish the in Mohd. Ekram Khan by contending that a car manufacturer would enter into an agreement with the manufacturer of components, providing for a warranty so far as the components are C concerned. During the period of warranty, the car manufacturer or his dealer has to replace the defective part free of cost. The whole object behind the warranty is that a consumer who has made a heavy investment, while purchasing a car, is assured of proper performance of the vehicle in a trouble-free manner for a reasonable length of time. According to the appellants this fundamental concept had been lost while deciding D Mohd. Ekram Khan. 20. This Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan distinguished the factual situation in Premier Automobiles and Prem Nath Motors. In other words, after distinguishing the aforesaid cases, it was noted that “in a case the manufacturer may have purchased from the open market E parts for the purpose of replacement of the defective parts. For such transaction, it would have paid taxes. The position is not different because the assessee had supplied the parts and had received the price.” In other words, in Mohd. Ekram Khan, a situation where a manufacturer has purchased the part from the open market for F the purpose of replacement of the defective part and for which taxes have been paid by the manufacturer and a situation where the dealer/ assessee supplies the part from his own stock and has received the price for the same in the form of credit note on return of the spare part to the manufacturer have been considered to be not different to each G other, but the same. 21. The question is, whether, this Court in Mohd. Ekram Khan was right in equating both the factual situations and holding that in the latter case, the dealer was liable to pay sales tax on the premise that the transaction between the manufacturer and dealer was one of sale. H 1322 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 22. In Mohd. Ekram Khan, the facts were that the dealer/ assessee therein had received the amount from the manufacturer for supply of spare parts to the customer as a part of the warranty, the manufacturer had the warranty agreement with the purchaser of automobiles to replace defective parts during the warranty period.