2 make regulation under Section 36(2) of the said Act B introducing pension scheme as per the Resolution of the Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board dated 10.02.2009. And further be pleased to direct the Opposite Parties to grant pension to the Employees of Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board from the date of their respective retirement. C Or pass appropriate direction(s) and (s) as this Hon’ble Court thinks fit and proper.” 7.1. A learned Single Judge of the High Court disposed of the writ petition so filed by respondent No. 1 by way of the impugned dated 25.10.2010, with directions to the State Government to amend the D Regulations of 1960 and to take appropriate steps to incorporate the pension scheme for the Board’s employees at par with the State Government employees. The learned Single Judge took note of the exchange of communications as above noticed and deduced that the State Government was desirous of extending the benefit to the Board’s E employees but, ultimately the proposition was rejected only on the ground that the State Government could not bear the liabilities of pension scheme for the Board. The learned Single Judge observed that if one benefit was extended to the counterpart employees, the same could not be denied to the others and in this regard, took note of pensionary benefits extended to the employees of a couple of Universities as also the Social Welfare F Advisory Board; and found that not introducing pension scheme in favour of the employees of the Board on the ground of financial stringencies, where similarly situated organisations were enjoying the benefits, was a matter of sheer discrimination and as a result, violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. The learned Single Judge also observed G that the Board is a part and parcel of the State Government when all service rules of the State Government employees were adopted and, therefore, it was a moral duty of the opposite parties to enact the provisions for providing pensionary benefits to the employees of the Board. A reference was also made to certain decisions relied upon on behalf of the employees with regard to the pensionary benefits extended H 1062 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A to the employees of different Khadi and Village Industries Boards of other States and the learned Single Judge observed that consistently, it was held by the Courts that financial hardship was not at all a criterion or ground for depriving the employees of the Board of service benefits, such as pension. With these observations and analysis, the learned Single Judge proceeded to set aside the impugned communication dated B 14.12.2009 and issued directions to the State Government in the following terms: - “17. As such the dated 14.12.2009 vide Anenxure-12 is not sustainable and the same is quashed. In view of the aforesaid submission my considered opinion is that the Board employees C are entitled to pension at par with the Government employees of the State and like other State Government organizations and for which the State Government should amend the Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board Regulation by extending the pensionary benefit to the employees of the Orissa Khadi and Village Industries D and accordingly, the Opposite Party Nos.