DEPONENT ENCLOSURE II Details for Affi davit for Agrarian Deponents (Krishi) 260 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 1. Total extent of the rural land(s) owned, or the specifi c shareholding in the same land: 2. Jamabandis/Mutations to show ownership. 3. Location of the land owned by the party. 4. Nature of land : whether wet land or dry land. 5. Whether such land is agricultural land or non-agricultural land: 6. Nature of agriculture/horticulture: 7. Nature of crops cultivated during the year: 8. If rural land is not cultivable, whether the same is being used for business, leasing or other activity: 9. Income generated during the past 3 years from the land. 10. Whether any land is taken on lease/battai (or any other term used for a lease in the local area of the jurisdiction concerned where rural/agricultural land is located.) 11. (a) Whether owner of any livestock, such as buff aloes, cows, goats, cattle, poultry, fi shery, bee keeping, piggery, etc. the number thereof and income generated therefrom? (b) Whether engaged in dairy farming, poultry, fi sh farming or any other livestock activity. 12. Loans, if any obtained against the land. Furnish details of such loans. 13. Any other sources of income: 14. Liabilities, if any. 15. Any other relevant information: Declaration 1. I declare that I have made a full and accurate disclosure of my income, expenditure, assets and liabilities from all sources. I further declare that I have no assets, income, expenditure and liabilities other than as stated in this affi davit. ADITI ALIAS MITHI v. JITESH SHARMA 261 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 2. I undertake to inform this Court immediately with respect to any material change in my employment, assets, income, expenses or any other information included in this affi davit. 3. I understand that any false statement in this affi davit, apart from being contempt of court, may constitute an off ence under Section 199 read with Sections 191 and 193 of the Indian Penal Code punishable with imprisonment up to seven years and fi ne, and Section 209 of the Indian Penal Code punishable with imprisonment up to two years and fi ne. I have read and understood Sections 191, 193, 199 and 209 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. DEPONENT Verifi cation Verifi ed at ___on this ___day of_____that the contents of the above affi davit are true to my personal knowledge, no part of it is false and nothing material has been concealed therefrom. I further verify that the copies of the documents fi led along with the affi davit are the copies of the originals. DEPONENT ENCLOSURE III Affi davit for the State of Meghalaya 1. Whether the woman is the youngest daughter of the family. 2. Whether the woman is staying with her husband in her family property. 3. Whether she has any maternal uncle, who plays a very important role in their family matters, which includes settlement of matrimonial disputes. The woman should also disclose her clan and her lineage.