7.4. Learned counsel for the State of Karnataka submitted that having regard to the relevant judicial precedents on Section 438 of CrPC, an appropriate may be made in this case. 7.5. Smt. Anjana Sharma, learned counsel for the accused-husband submitted as under: i. The complainant-wife had fi led a frivolous FIR against him and his family members based on false allegations and accusations. It is alleged that the sole objective of complainant-wife is to extort money as the accused-husband had refused to pay an amount of Rs. 50,00,000/-. ii. That the anticipatory bail applications had been fi led for securing protection from immediate arrest as the liberty of the petitioner was at stake and instant protection was necessary to protect his fundamental rights. iii. That the apprehension of arrest was during the subsistence of the COVID-19 pandemic and he was under continuous pressure and threat of being arrested. The accused-husband being the only earning member having a younger brother and an elderly ailing father, was compelled to seek protection of his life and 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. limb because the complainant-wife’s father had infl uential local contacts in the place where the FIR was registered, i.e., Chirawa, Rajasthan. There was a reasonable apprehension of his arrest, which was the guiding factor in fi ling the application before the Bengaluru Court. iv. Learned counsel of the accused-husband also questioned the bona fi des of the complainant-wife by relying upon the delay in fi ling the present petition. It was further contended that the FIR was fi led in Chirawa Police Station with the sole objective of causing harassment to accused-husband and his family as the alleged off ences were committed in Bengaluru. That the complainant- wife is familiar with Bengaluru as even earlier, she was working with a Mumbai-based company in Bengaluru. Points for Consideration: 8. Having heard learned amicus and senior counsel and counsel for the respective parties and on perusal of the material on record, the following points would emerge for our consideration: i. Whether the power of the High Court or the Court of Session to grant anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the CrPC could be exercised with respect to an FIR registered outside the territorial jurisdiction of the said Court? ii. Whether the practice of granting transit anticipatory bail or interim protection to enable an applicant seeking anticipatory bail to make an application under Section 438 of the CrPC before a Court of competent jurisdiction is consistent with the administration of criminal justice? iii. What ? The aforesaid questions shall be considered together as they are intertwined. Legal Framework: 9. Before discussing the points for consideration in the present appeal, the relevant provisions of the CrPC are exposited as under: PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 543 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 9.1. Section 2(e) of the CrPC defi nes “High Court” to mean ‘the High Court for that State,’ in relation to any State. In relation to the Union Territory, it is defi ned as that High Court for a State to which the Union Territory’s jurisdiction has been extended.