j) The correctness of an granting bail can be considered by the appellate or superior Court at the behest of the State or investigating agency, and set aside the same on the ground that the Court granting it did not consider material facts or crucial circumstances. This does not amount to cancellation in terms of Section 439(2) CrPC. 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. k) In Siddharam Satlingappa Mhetre vs. State of Maharashtra, (2011) 1 SCC 694 (and other similar s), it was held that no restrictive conditions at all can be imposed, while granting anticipatory bail are hereby overruled. Likewise, the decision in Salauddin Abdulsamad Shaikh vs. State of Maharashtra, (1996) 1 SCC 667 and subsequent decisions which laid down restrictive conditions, or terms limiting the grant of anticipatory bail, to a period of time were overruled.” 13. In Nathu Singh, the complainants fi led a Special Leave Petition challenging the of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, which dismissed the anticipatory bail application fi led by the accused and on granting them 90 days to surrender before the trial Court and to seek regular bail, granted them protection from coercive action during the said period of 90 days. 13.1. The Court after referring to the Constitution Bench in the case of Sushila Aggarwal considered the proviso to Section 438(1) of CrPC and observed that the proviso does not create any rights or restrictions. It is only clarifi catory in nature. The Court then considered the question whether, while dismissing an application seeking anticipatory bail, the plea made by the applicant seeking protection for some time as he or she is the primary caregiver or breadwinner of his or her family members and needs to make arrangements for them and therefore even if a strict case for grant of anticipatory bail is not made out, and rather, where the investigating authority has made out a case for custodial investigation, whether the Court may exercise its discretion to grant protection against arrest for a limited period. It was observed that if such an has to be passed, it must be narrowly tailored to protect the interests of the applicant while taking into consideration the concerns of the investigating authority and must be supported by reasons. 13.2. It was held that in the impugned of the High Court, it had dismissed the application seeking anticipatory bail on the basis of the nature and gravity of the off ence by not granting protection from arrest without assigning any reason. Secondly, the granting of the relief for a period of 90 days did not take into consideration the concerns of the investigating agency, the complainant or the proviso under Section 438(1) of CrPC, which PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 559 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] necessitates that the Court pass such an exceptional discretionary protection for the shortest duration that is reasonably required. A period of 90 days, or three months, is an unreasonable period. Therefore, the impugned s were set aside leaving it open to the investigating agency to proceed with the matters in accordance with law and complete the investigation.