At this point we got into heated argument and quarrelled between us and Abhishek put me on fi re with matchstick to the poured oil. I got injured from back portion of my body with burning of Kameej and salwar and in the meantime PCR van came at the site and Abhishek absconded from the place of occurrence and PCR van got me admitted at JPN Hospital. Abhishek has attempted to kill me after pouring the oil. Legal action may kindly be taken against Abhishek Sharma. Statement heard right. Sd/English Mandeep Kaur attested Balwant Singh SIPS Model Town Delhi 21.09.07 Duty Offi cer PS Model Delhi it is submitted that today after receiving DD No.8A, I went to JPN Hospital with Ct. Paramjeet Singh No. 2678/NW, found patient Mandeep Kaur fi t for statement vide MLC No. 105892 and Kumari Mandeep Kaur gave her statement, her statement was read by me in front of her. She got her statement right and signed in English. I got it verifi ed, from the statement, conditions and MLC the occurrence of crime U/s 307 IPC is made out. Thus, rukka is sent with Ct Paramjeet ABHISHEK SHARMA v. STATE (GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI) 907 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] No. 2673/NW to register the FIR and to inform IO with FIR No and crime team be directed to the place of occurrence. Date & Time of occurrence 1.40 AM dated 21.09.07, Place of occurrence in front of Queen Marry School, Model Town, Delhi, Date & Departure of Rukka: 2.50 AM dated 21.09.07 SI Balwant Singh D-800 PS Model Town Delhi PIS No. 29680224. After registering the FIR the original rukka with FIR copy was sent to SI who was busy in investigation at the place of occurrence. The information of the FIR will be sent to senior offi cer by post.” 19. Despite this being the third statement given, no attempt was made to have the same made before a doctor or magistrate, which, as a rule of prudence, lends support to the prosecution. It refl ects from the record that at the time when the third statement was recorded, the deceased had been administered treatment for her injuries. However, it has not come forth as to the nature of treatment and what kind of medicines were given to her. In the absence of a positive statement by the medical team responsible for her treatment, it cannot be stated, with certainty, that the medicines administered had no eff ect of impairing the mental fi tness of the deceased. There is no medical opinion placed on record in this behalf. Therefore, with the cloud of doubt surrounding DD-III, it is but natural that the court looks to other circumstances and evidence to satisfy the requirement of the statement made as being true and voluntary. The other circumstances present shall be discussed at a later stage. 20. The credibility of DD-IV has been assailed on the ground that it is, in fact, the statement of the deceased to the mother and that the latter would be an interested witness.