G Our finding on proposition No. 3, therefore, that the Administration will apply their mind to the additional seats with a view to determine which of them have contravened which rules and to what extent. They will bear in mind that the compliance with the Rules is to be substantial and not rigid and inflexible. H 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A With these guidelines furnished by the Act itself, they will determine which of the additional seats infringe upon the Rules and in respect of only such seats they will have the power to removal of such seats.” “Proposition 4 B It is not disputed that some of the cinema theatres had existed prior to the promulgation of 1953 rules. Advisedly, Rule 3(3) makes a distinction between these theatres and other theatres which have come into existence after the promulgation of these Rules. It would appear from the opening words of Rule 3(3) that licences may be C granted or reviewed in respect of preexisting theatres which were already licensed prior to 1953 for buildings exhibition without their compliance with Rule 3(2). This is the effect of the words “Notwithstanding anything in the preceding sub-rule” with which Rule 3(3) begins. The preceding sub-rule is Rule 3(2) which insists that the requirements set forth in the First Schedule of the Rules D have to be fulfilled before a licence can be granted to a building which is permanently equipped for cinematograph exhibition. This distinction will surely be bore in mind by the Administration in dealing with these two kinds of buildings. This will also be in accordance with the requirement already set out in sections E 12(1)(a) and 17 that the compliance with the Rules has to be substantial and not rigid or inflexible.” (24) The Court found that affording an opportunity of hearing would have been a mere formality but the Court further notes that the appellant would be well advised in giving a hearing to the writ petitioners before the cancellation. This would be necessary, it was found, because F the question, as to, how many of the additional seats substantially complied with the Rules and how many contravened the Rules as at present has not been determined and has to be determined by the Administrator later. “The main has been passed during the currency of the G licenses. But this is inevitable. Any any rate, in the light of the observations made above, the dismantling of the seats on the ground that they do no substantially comply with the Rules will be done in future after the Administration apply their mind to the question. H AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 689 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. It cannot be expected as to exactly when this would occur. It is A not, therefore, possible to ensure that any change in the sitting accommodation would be enforced by the Administration only at the end of any particular licensing period. For the above reasons, the writ petitions are disposed of in the light of the findings given above and in the light of the observations B as to the existing additional seats and as to the changes which may have to be made to them in future after the Administration examine the questions on merits and take steps.