In the result the appeals D are allowed holding that the product ‘Selsun’ will fall under Tariff Item 3003.19.” (emphasis supplied) 13.3. In Vicco Laboratories (supra), this Court was dealing with the question of classifying turmeric skin cream, vajradanti toothpaste E and tooth powder as under Chapter 30 with pharmaceutical products or as under Chapter 33 with essential oils and resinoids, perfumery, cosmetics or toilet preparations. After applying the common parlance test of classification, and while relying on BPL Pharmaceuticals (supra) and other decisions, this Court held against the attempt at re-classification in the following words: - F “4. The mere decision of a court of law without more cannot be justification enough for changing the classification without a change in the nature of a product or a change in the use of the product, or a fresh interpretation of the tariff heading by such decision.” G 14. At this juncture, it shall be apposite to refer to the two decisions pertaining to the assessee Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. 14.1. In the decision rendered on 13.04.2009, which has been referred to by the learned counsel for the parties [reported in (2009) 12 SCC 419], extensive reference has been made to the previous decision H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 323 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] rendered on 30.03.1995 in relation to the same assessee and concerning A the classification of the same product namely Dant Manjan Lal12. In the said previous decision, being the case of Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise, Nagpur: (1996) 9 SCC 402, the issue was as to whether DML manufactured by the assessee was falling within the meaning of an Ayurvedic Medicine to qualify for B exemption from payment of excise duty under Notification No. 62/78- CE dated 01.03.1978 issued in exercise of power conferred by Rule 8(1) of the Central Excise Rules, 1944. The relevant entry introduced by amendment was reading as ‘all drugs, medicines, pharmaceuticals and drug intermediates not elsewhere specified’. The appellant contended that the product in question was a scientific medicine which would attract C the aforesaid entry and would, therefore, be exempt from the payment of excise duty. The Tribunal disagreed with these submissions and held that the product in question could rightly be described as a toilet preparation. In that regard, after noticing that the ingredient for the product was stated to be Geru (red earth) to the extent of 70% having a cooling D quality, the Tribunal observed that the same was largely used as a filler or coloring agent and was not described as a medicine in common parlance. After going through various texts, definition of ‘drug’ under the Act of 1940 and ayurvedic books as well as opinion of experts in this behalf, the Tribunal concluded that the product in question could not be described as a medicinal preparation and, accordingly, rejected the claim E of the appellant. This Court approved the reasoning and findings of the Tribunal while observing, inter alia, as under:- “3.