Section 35 of the Stamp Act is distinct and different from Section 49 of the Registration Act in regard to an unregistered document. Section 35 of the Stamp Act, does not contain a proviso like Section 49 of the Registration Act enabling the instrument to B be used to establish a collateral transaction. 21. Therefore, when a lease deed or any other instrument is relied upon as contending the arbitration agreement, the court should consider at the outset, whether an objection in that behalf is raised or not, whether the document is properly stamped. If it comes to C the conclusion that it is not properly stamped, it should be impounded and dealt with in the manner specified in Section 38 of the Stamp Act. The court cannot act upon such a document or the arbitration clause therein. But if the deficit duty and penalty is paid in the manner set out in Section 35 or Section 40 of the Stamp Act, the document can be acted upon or admitted in evidence.” D 6. The above decision was followed in the case of Naina Thakkar v. Annapurna Builders,4 wherein it was held as follows: “7. It is true that the consequences provided in the Stamp Act, 1899 must follow where sufficient stamp duty has not been paid E on an instrument irrespective of the willingness of a party to the instrument to pay deficit stamp duty but the procedure where the arbitration clause is contained in a document which is not registered although compulsorily registrable and which is not duly stamped as summed up by this Court in SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. case shall not be applicable to the proceedings under Section 8 of the F [Arbitration and Conciliation] Act where the party making such application does not express his/her readiness and willingness to pay the deficit stamp duty and the penalty. It is not the duty of the Court to adjourn the suit indefinitely until the defect with reference to deficit stamp duty concerning the arbitration agreement is cured. Accordingly, we are of the opinion that no fault can be found in the G of the trial court in rejecting the application made under Section 8 of the Act as the document on which the petitioner relied upon was admittedly unregistered and insufficiently stamped.” 4 (2013) 14 SCC 354 H 388 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 7. An amendment was brought in the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (hereinafter being referred to as the “Act, 1996”), and Section 11(6A) was inserted in 2016. 8. A two-Judge Bench in Garware Wall Ropes Limited v. Coastal Marine Constructions and Engineering Limited,5 dealt with B the issue whether an arbitration clause in an agreement which requires compulsorily to be stamped under the relevant Indian Stamp Act, 1899(hereinafter being referred to as the “Act, 1899”), but is not duly stamped, would be enforceable even after the insertion of clause (6A) to Section 11 of the Act, 1996. The Bench followed the reasoning and upholding of the decision in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited (supra), C and held: “19….A close look at Section 11(6-A) would show that when the Supreme Court or the High Court considers an application under Sections 11(4) to 11(6), and comes across an arbitration clause in an agreement or conveyance which is unstamped, it is enjoined D by the provisions of the Stamp Act to first impound the agreement or conveyance and see that stamp duty and penalty (if any) is paid before the agreement, as a whole, can be acted upon.