Citizenship Act, 1955 – s.7B(2) – Plea of the petitioners that D since s.7B(2) does not exclude the right u/Article 14, it is available to be invoked and discrimination contemplated in the impugned notification to exclude the OCI Cardholders should be struck down – Held: Article 14 can be invoked and contend discrimination only when persons similarly placed are treated differently – The OCI E Cardholders being a class by themselves cannot claim parity with the Indian citizens, except for making an attempt to save the limited statutory right bestowed – Constitution of India – Article 14. Partly allowing the petitions/appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 Most of the petitioners are all persons who are F either of full age or are yet to reach the full age but are all children, whose both parents or one of them are Indian citizens. All the petitioners are registered as Overseas Citizens of India cardholders is not in dispute. The right to which they are making a claim is conferred under Section 7B(1) to Act, 1955. The right to education which was conferred under the notification dated G 11.04.2005, in parity with the Non-Resident Indians is due to the fact that the Non-Resident Indians which is a separate class, had such right similar to that of the Indian citizens in matters relating to education. It is based on such right being conferred as far back as in the year 2005, the OCI Cardholders were taking part H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 245 ORS. in the process of selections conducted for undertaking educational A courses in India. Such benefit was extended to appear for the All India Pre-Medical Test or such other tests to make them eligible for admission in pursuance of the provisions contained in the relevant acts, through the notification dated 05.01.2009. The said benefit is being enjoyed by all the OCI Cardholders in the same B manner as the Non-Resident Indians were enjoying along with the Indian citizens. In that circumstance, most of such OCI Cardholders have been pursuing their entire educational career in India. The extracted details would indicate that in all the cases the petitioners have studied for more than six years in India and in most of the cases, almost the entire educational career up to C the stage of the qualifying examination for the Pre-Medical Test has been undertaken in India. Apart from the specific cases noted herein, there are also petitioners/persons who had become citizens of a foreign country for compelling reasons, but hold benefit of OCI card. This would demonstrate that though in terms D of law, the petitioners were ‘foreigners’ due to the incident of birth in a foreign country or such other compelling circumstances, they continue to remain in India and to pursue their education and had fully justified the mid-path benefit given to them based on the OCI card. [Paras 38, 39, 41 and 42][287-E; 288-C-F; 291- A-C] E 1.2 The right which was bestowed through the notification dated 11.04.2005 and 05.01.2009 insofar as the educational parity, including in the matter of appearing for the All India Pre-Medical Test or such other tests to make them eligible for admission has been completely altered.