With the matter being reported to the police, FIR No. 2261 / 2008 dated 22.10.2008 was registered at Police Station, Theynampet. The investigation was conducted by Police Officer Kuppusamy (PW-23) and after recovering the body of the deceased, the post-mortem was conducted by Dr. K.Mathiharan B (PW-21). Initial investigation revealed complicity of A-1 and A-3. As such, the latter was arrested on 16.12.2009, who disclosed the cause and the manner of commission of crime. 5. With the completion of investigation, challan was presented before the Court for Trial. Vide dated 04.12.2009 in S.C. No. C 113 of 2009 titled as State v. Panneerdass & Ors. the Ld. Trial Court, convicted all the accused in relation to the offences charged for and sentenced them to a term of life imprisonment. 6. Significantly, the High Court, by disbelieving the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses, repelling the case of conspiracy, acquitted A- D 1 and A-3 on all counts and only on the basis of identification of A-2 by PW-1, upheld the conviction and sentence with respect to the offence punishable under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. It is a matter of record that no appeal against the judgement of acquittal of A-1 and A-3 stands preferred by the prosecution / State. Hence, this Court has been E called upon only to examine the guilt or innocence of A-2. 7. We may reiterate that other than the identification of A-2 being the assailant as witnessed by PW-1, there is no material on record, be it of whatsoever nature, linking the Appellant to the crime. There is no material to indicate that A-1 or A-3 hired the services of A-2 for murdering deceased Purushotaman. Further, there is no material indicating the F accused to have murdered the victim with a sickle, the alleged weapon of offence. No tell-tale signs or evidence, be it of any nature, scientific or otherwise, is on record, even remotely linking the convict to the crime. 8. Examining the testimony of PW-1, we notice him to have firstly reported the matter to the police and in the FIR there is no description of G the assailant, much less identity of A-2 to have been disclosed. Yet, the High Court, even while discarding the disclosure statement of A-3, convicted A-2, which in our considered view has resulted into travesty of justice. H UDAYAKUMAR v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 947 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 9. This Court in the case of Anil Phukan v. State of Assam, A (1993) 3 SCC 282 has held that: “ 3. … So long as the single eyewitness is a wholly reliable witness the courts have no difficulty in basing conviction on his testimony alone. However, where the single eyewitness is not found to be a wholly reliable witness, in the sense that there are some B circumstances which may show that he could have an interest in the prosecution, then the courts generally insist upon some independent corroboration of his testimony, in material particulars, before recording conviction.