Placing reliance on Section 3(2) Mr. Garg urged that since the impugned detention did not specify the period for which the detenu was required to be detained, the was rendered illegal. On an analysis of Section 3 of the Act as quoted above, we fi nd no merit in the submission. Section 3(1) confers power on the State Government to detain a bootlegger or drug off ender, or forest off ender or goonda or an off ender in immoral traffi c or a slum grabber with a view to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public . Section 3(2) empowers the State Government to delegate its power as conferred on it under sub-section (1) to District Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police, if it is satisfi ed that the circumstances prevailing, or likely to prevail in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, make it necessary to delegate the power to them. It further PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 555 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] provides that the of delegation shall be in writing and it shall also specify the period during which the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, are authorised to exercise the powers of the State Government under sub-section (1) of Section 3. Proviso to sub-section (2) lays down that the delegation should not be for an unlimited period, instead it should not be for a period of more than three months. If the State Government is satisfi ed that it is necessary to extend the period of delegation it may amend its , extending such period from time to time but at no time the extension shall be for a period of more than three months. Once the State Government’s power under Section 3(1) is delegated to the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, they are authorised to exercise that power on the grounds, specifi ed in Section 3(1) of the Act. Neither sub-section (1) nor sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Act require the detaining authority to specify the period of detention for which a detenu is to be kept under detention. 9. Section 3(3) requires that where detention is made by the delegate of the State Government, namely, the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, they should report the fact to the State Government together with the grounds on which the may have been made and such other particulars as, in their opinion, may have a bearing on the matter. A detention made by a District Magistrate or Commissioner of Police in exercise of their delegated authority does not remain in force for more than twelve days after the making thereof, unless in the meantime the detention is approved by the State Government. Section 8 requires the detaining authority to communicate to the detenu, grounds on which, the is made within fi ve days from the date of detention to enable the detenu to make representation against the to the State Government.