Many of the non-judicial members attend to the F place of work only to sign s which have been drafted by the Presiding Officer. 5. The Committee has furnished concrete examples of how bureaucratic and political influence has marred the selection process as a result of which the functioning of consumer fora is G detrimentally affected. Three instances furnished in the Report of the Committee provided a telling example of the state of affairs: “(15) The Committee could make out that there has been considerable bureaucratic and political influence/interference in the “selection process” and functioning of the consumer fora. H 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Just to cite a few instances, the Committee found that relatives of politicians, bureaucrats and judicial fraternity have been selected. A non-Judicial Member Mr Jamal Akhtar posted at District Forum, Meerut has been absenting without permission since 11-5-2015. The State Government has failed to take any action against him. Even the plea of the President, State Commission has gone B unheeded. The result is that his post has not been declared vacant and another non-Judicial Member posted elsewhere has been attached in his place. (16) One non-Judicial Member who had her first term at Lucknow and has now been enjoying her second term, having C been appointed for District Forum, Barabanki but has been attached to Greater Noida and as per the reports, comes to Forum once or twice a week. Another woman non-Judicial Member who happens to be wife of a bureaucrat was appointed for District Forum, Baghpat but was attached/posted at Greater Noida. These D few instances make it crystal clear that there is definite political influence and interference and in such a scenario, the work of District Consumer Fora is affected as it results in lowering the morale of the President. (17) In Haryana, a non-Judicial Woman Member did/does E not attend the District Forum regularly, as she has to travel around 150/160 km every day. The President of one District Forum who happens to be former President of Bar Association has been serving the second term as President. Such non-Judicial Members manage to get selected and then misuse their position as Members, as they call themselves “Judges”.” F 6. The selection of persons as Presiding Officers and as Members of the fora lacks transparency without a fixed criteria for selection. The Committee has, in our view with justification, proposed that a written test should be conducted to assess the knowledge of persons who apply for posts in the District Fora. Issues of conflict G of interest also arise when persons appointed from a local area are appointed to a District Forum in the same area.” Ultimately in paragraph 28, this Court issued the following directions: - H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 315 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] “28.1. The Union Government shall for the purpose of A ensuring uniformity in the exercise of the rule-making power under Section 10(3) and Section 16(2) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 frame model rules for adoption by the State Governments.