(3) The chances of the accused of not indulging in commission of the crime again and the probability of the accused being reformed and rehabilitated. (4) The condition of the accused shows that he was mentally defective and the defect impaired his capacity to appreciate the circumstances of his criminal conduct. (5) The circumstances which, in normal course of life, would render such a behaviour possible and could have the eff ect of giving rise to mental imbalance in that given situation like persistent harassment or, in fact, leading to such a peak of human behaviour that, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the accused believed that he was morally justifi ed in committing the off ence. (6) Where the court upon proper appreciation of evidence is of the view that the crime was not committed in a preordained manner and MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 801 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] that the death resulted in the course of commission of another crime and that there was a possibility of it being construed as consequences to the commission of the primary crime. (7) Where it is absolutely unsafe to rely upon the testimony of a sole eyewitness though the prosecution has brought home the guilt of the accused. 77. While determining the questions relatable to sentencing policy, the court has to follow certain principles and those principles are the loadstar besides the above considerations in imposition or otherwise of the death sentence. Principles (1) The court has to apply the test to determine, if it was the “rarest of rare” case for imposition of a death sentence. (2) In the opinion of the court, imposition of any other punishment i.e. life imprisonment would be completely inadequate and would not meet the ends of justice. (3) Life imprisonment is the rule and death sentence is an exception. (4) The option to impose sentence of imprisonment for life cannot be cautiously exercised having regard to the nature and circumstances of the crime and all relevant considerations. (5) The method (planned or otherwise) and the manner (extent of brutality and inhumanity, etc.) in which the crime was committed and the circumstances leading to commission of such heinous crime.” 57. Applying the aforesaid principles, as laid down by this Court in the aforesaid s, it can be seen that in the present case, the appellants along with other accused came behind the innocent persons and exhorted and started fi ring indiscriminately, fi rstly, in front of the house of Rashid. As a result of which two persons namely Satendra and Sunil fell down and died on the spot. When Masooq Ali, after hearing the sound of fi ring, came out from his house, the accused persons shot fi re at him also. As a result, he also fell down. Ram Kishan and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) were also injured. The injured Ram Kishan and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) went towards the house 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of Rizwan to save their lives.