The fact remains that no mitigating circumstances were placed before any of the appellate courts. 88. On the basis of these details, it cannot be said that there is no possibility of reformation even though the petitioner has committed a E ghastly crime. We must consider several mitigating factors: the petitioner has no prior antecedents, was 23 years old when he committed the crime and has been in prison since 2009 where his conduct has been satisfactory, except for the attempt to escape prison in 2013. The petitioner is suffering from a case of systemic hypertension and has attempted to acquire some F basic education in the form of a diploma in food catering. The acquisition of a vocation in jail has an important bearing on his ability to lead a gainful life. 89. Considering the above factors, we are of the view that even though the crime committed by the petitioner is unquestionably grave G and unpardonable, it is not appropriate to affirm the death sentence that was awarded to him. As we have discussed, the ‘rarest of rare’ doctrine requires that the death sentence not be imposed only by taking into account the grave nature of crime but only if there is no possibility of reformation in a criminal. H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1065 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 90. However, we are also aware that a sentence of life A imprisonment is subject to remission. In our opinion, this would not be adequate in view of the gruesome crime committed by the petitioner. 91. This court has been faced with similar situations earlier where it has noticed that the sentence of life imprisonment with remission may be inadequate in certain cases. For instance, in Swamy Shraddananda B (2) @ Murali Manohar Mishra v State of Karnataka31 the Court noted that: 92. The matter may be looked at from a slightly different angle. The issue of sentencing has two aspects. A sentence may be excessive and unduly harsh or it may be highly disproportionately C inadequate. When an appellant comes to this Court carrying a death sentence awarded by the trial court and confirmed by the High Court, this Court may find, as in the present appeal, that the case just falls short of the rarest of the rare category and may feel somewhat reluctant in endorsing the death sentence. But at D the same time, having regard to the nature of the crime, the Court may strongly feel that a sentence of life imprisonment subject to remission normally works out to a term of 14 years would be grossly disproportionate and inadequate. What then should the Court do? If the Court’s E option is limited only to two punishments, one a sentence of imprisonment, for all intents and purposes, of not more than 14 years and the other death, the Court may feel tempted and find itself nudged into endorsing the death penalty. Such a course F would indeed be disastrous.