It is important to remember that the Stamp Act applies to the agreement or conveyance as a whole. Therefore, it is not possible to bifurcate E the arbitration clause contained in such agreement or conveyance so as to give it an independent existence, as has been contended for by the respondent. The independent existence that could be given for certain limited purposes, on a harmonious reading of the Registration Act, 1908 and the 1996 Act has been referred to by Raveendran, J. in SMS Tea Estates when it comes to an F unregistered agreement or conveyance.However, the Stamp Act, containing no such provision as is contained in Section 49 of the Registration Act, 1908, has been held by the said to apply to the agreement or conveyance as a whole, which would include the arbitration clause contained therein. It is clear, G therefore, that the introduction of Section 11(6-A) does not, in any manner, deal with or get over the basis of the in SMS Tea Estates, which continues to apply even after the amendment of Section 11(6-A). H 5 (2019) 9 SCC 209 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 389 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 22. When an arbitration clause is contained “in a contract”, it is A significant that the agreement only becomes a contract if it is enforceable by law. We have seen how, under the Stamp Act, an agreement does not become a contract, namely, that it is not enforceable in law, unless it is duly stamped. Therefore, even a plain reading of Section 11(6-A), when read with Section 7(2) of B the 1996 Act and Section 2(h) of the Contract Act, would make it clear that an arbitration clause in an agreement would not exist when it is not enforceable by law. This is also an indicator that SMS Tea Estates has, in no manner, been touched by the amendment of Section 11(6-A).” C 9. The decision in Garware Wall Ropes Limited (supra)was cited in approval by a three-Judge Bench in the case of Vidya Drolia and Others (supra) wherein it was held: “146. We now proceed to examine the question, whether the word “existence” in Section 11 merely refers to contract formation D (whether there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes the question of enforcement (validity) and therefore the latter falls outside the jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage. On jurisprudentially and textualism it is possible to differentiate between existence of an arbitration agreement and validity of an arbitration agreement. Such interpretation can draw support from E the plain meaning of the word “existence”. However, it is equally possible, jurisprudentially and on contextualism, to hold that an agreement has no existence if it is not enforceable and not binding. Existence of an arbitration agreement presupposes a valid agreement which would be enforced by the court by relegating F the parties to arbitration. Legalistic and plain meaning interpretation would be contrary to the contextual background including the definition clause and would result in unpalatable consequences.