6. In the present case, the respondent was engaged in manufacture of Wind Turbine Generator (WTG). It entered into ‘product development H COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE & SERVICE 335 TAX v. M/S SUZLON ENERGY LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] and purchase agreement’ with three of its sister companies. Relevant A clauses of the agreement, more particularly which defined the ‘product’ read as under: 1.10.1 ‘Design and Development’ of all models of rated capacity geared WTG together with all related and pertinent components and therein required; B 1.10.2 ‘Design and Development’ of ‘Suzlon Flexislip System’ together with all related and pertinent components and therein required; 1.10.3 All and any products that is developed by M/s SEG C conceived (whether or not actually conceived during regular business hours), discovered, or made by M/s SEG and its agents and employees during the course of performing its obligations under the Agreement; 1.10.4 Documentation including material and documents containing studies planning activities, manufacturing D process details in respect of above. 1.10.5 All modifications made to the above, from time to time, and all other improvements developed and incorporated within the above. E 1.10.6 Intellectual property and intellectual property rights relating thereto in so far it belongs to German Inventions Law. 7. At this stage, it is required to be noted that the said designs were to be exclusively used by the respondent in the territory of India F and it was a tailormade design. The respondent engaged the sister concern M/s SEG for the activity of “Engineering Design & Drawings” used in manufacturing of WTG, that was reduced as blue print on paper and delivered to the respondent on the same medium. Such “designs” were subjected to the service tax even as per the clarification by the Board dated 18.03.2011 on the issue of applicability of indirect taxes on packaged G software. Therefore, as such, the respondent was liable to pay service tax on the “design services” received from abroad under reverse charge. It was also found that M/s SEG was a related unit, i.e., subsidiary of the assessee and the amount received for service by M/s SEG from the assessee-respondent for the said “Engineering design & drawings” H 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A services therefore was liable to service tax under reverse charge in terms of the concept of ‘associated enterprise’. 8. Despite the above, M/s SEG raised the invoice/bill on the assessee treating it as ‘paper’. However, when the said bill of entry was presented treating the same as ‘paper’ for which the duty payable was B ‘Nil’. Therefore, neither any custom duty was paid due to exemption from payment of duty treating it as ‘paper’ nor the service tax was paid. By a detailed and , the Commissioner held that the respondent was liable to pay the service tax under taxable category ‘“design services”. However, by the impugned and , the CESTAT has held that the respondent is not liable to pay the service tax C under “design services” under the Finance Act, 1994 mainly on the ground that the custom authority considered the same as ‘goods’ and therefore the same activity cannot be taxed as ‘goods’ and ‘services’.