Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The prosecution’s case rests solely on F circumstantial evidence, as none was found present at the scene of the incident. Further, it is also not the case of the prosecution that the present appellant had either used or shot the deceased with the gun allegedly recovered based on his statement, which was purportedly made before the police officer-PW-23 in the G presence of independent witnesses PW-6 and PW-7. [Paras 10 and 11][837-G-H] 1.2. Neither of the independent witness PW 6 and PW 7 supported the prosecution case. Despite extensive cross examination conducted by the Public Prosecutor, nothing H MAGHAVENDRA PRATAP SINGH @ PANKAJ SINGH v. 831 STATE OF CHHATTISGARH substantial could be elicited from their testimonies indicating any A guilt of the accused. PW-1, nephew of the deceased, has not made out any person to be responsible for the offence, nor has he expressed any doubt or pointed fingers against any of the accused, much less the present appellant. Close examination of the testimony of the Investigating Officer-PW-23 reveals that the B witness miserably failed to investigate as is expected and required of a police officer to investigate a crime of murder, especially when not even a single eyewitness exists, and the entire case rests entirely on circumstantial evidence. [Paras 14, 18 and 19][838-F; 839-C-D] C 1.3. The homicidal death of the victim is not in dispute. It has come in the testimony of the Investigating Officer that on 27.9.2009, after registration of the complaint, he visited the spot; carried out the preliminary investigation; sent the dead body for post-mortem and collected several incriminating articles. His testimony reveals that the prime accused was SP, who stands D acquitted on all charges by the Court below, and this Court is not called upon examine the complicity of the other accused. It further emanates from the testimony of PW 23 that the present appellant was not present at the spot of the crime. In fact, not even one person has disclosed his complicity in the crime. His testimony E further reads the complicity of the appellant in the crime, to be suspected only based on the disclosure statements of co-accused SP to the effect that the former could get recovered pistol/bullets/ live cartridges from the house of co-accused AS. The courts below disbelieved this part of the version of the deponent qua the other accused. Hence, the High Court’s reasoning in arriving at F appellant’s guilt is illogical if not self-contradictory. [Paras 20- 22][839-E-H; 840-A] 1.4 Nothing on the record suggests that the instant appellant had conspired to commit the offence. At best, as shown from the testimony of this deponent, the present appellant has G only concealed the relevant incriminating evidence/articles. The materials on record in no way establish that before the commission of the offence, the accused had any common purpose, object or intention of committing the crime, without the same being borne out of the records, the charge of criminal conspiracy H 832 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R.