The relevant paragraph 4 of the Circular dated 09.09.2015 with regard to issuance of caste certificates reads as under: “4. Validity Period of Caste Certificate: - 1. The validity of caste certificates issued for SC / ST will be G lifetime whereas the certificate for OBC will be issued only once but the fact that the person is not in the creamy layer will be recognised on the basis of a valid affidavit up to three years. H 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 2. The certificate of non-creamy layer will be valid for one year. Once the certificate of non-creamy layer is obtained, if the applicant is not in the creamy layer in the next year as well, then in such a situation an affidavit (Appendix-D) will be obtained from him, where the earlier issued non-creamy layer certificate shall be deemed valid, this can be done for a B maximum period of three years.” 10.The relevant part of the Circular dated 08.08.2019 clarifying the aforesaid direction contained in the circular dated 09.09.2015 reads as under: C “Government of Rajasthan Department of Social Justice and Empowerment No. F-11/S.C.S.T.OBC/S.B.C Date: 08.08.2019 …Therefore, it is once again clarified in this regard that the caste certificate of Other Backward Classes shall be valid for one year, D however, in a situation where the applicant has been issued a certificate for not falling in the creamy layer category and if such applicant does not fall within the creamy layer in the subsequent year as well, in that situation, previously issued certificate of falling within the non-creamy layer will be treated as valid after obtaining E an attested affidavit from the applicant, which can be done maximum for a period of three years.” 11.The substance of the above circulars was that the certificate of OBC-NCL issued to a person would be valid for one year, however in the subsequent year also if he continues to remain in the “non-creamy F layer” category, the previously issued certificate would be treated valid after obtaining an attested affidavit from such person, and such procedure could be followed for a maximum period of three years. Submissions: 12. The Learned Counsels appearing for the appellants made G following submissions: (i) The appellants having complied with all requisites in form as well as in substance have been wrongly not considered for the post of Civil Judge and the lesser meritorious candidates in the respective categories have been selected H for the said post. SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 623 OTHERS [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (ii) In absence of any specification with regard to the date of A certificates to be produced by the candidates applying under the reserved categories either in the recruitment advertisement dated 22.07.2021 or in the said Rules of 2010, the prescriptions contained in the notice dated 04.08.2022 requiring the candidates to produce the certificates as per B Clause 3 thereof tantamount to changing the rules of game in the midst of the recruitment process, which is not permissible in the eye of law.