The Magistrate in terms of the ratio in Lalita Kumari’s case can for good reasons direct preliminary enquiry. [Para 22][164-F-H] 1.2. The operandi for registration of information in a cognizable offence and eventual investigation is not limited to E Police, and sub-section (3) to Section 156, subject to legal stipulations, gives the ameliorating power to a Magistrate empowered under Section 190 to an investigation in a cognizable offence. Two different powers vested with two distinct authorities, namely the Police and the Magistrate, who discharge distinct functions and roles under the Code as indicated above F are not entirely imbricating. The power of Magistrate to direct investigation falls under two limbs of the Code: one is pre- cognizance stage under Section 156(3), and another on cognizance under Chapter XIV (‘Conditions Requisite for Initiation of Proceedings’; Sections 190-199) read with Chapter XV G (‘Complaints to Magistrates’; Sections 200-210). These two powers are different and there also lies a procedural distinction between the two. [Para 23, 24][165-B-D] H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 137 AND OTHERS 1.3. The direction for registration of an FIR should not be A issued in a routine manner. The Magistrate is required to apply his mind and exercise his discretion in a judicious manner. If the Magistrate finds that the allegations made before him disclose commission of a cognizable offence, he can forward the complaint to the Police for investigation under Section 156 and thereby B save valuable time of the Magistrate from being wasted in inquiry as it is primarily the duty of the Police to investigate. However, the Magistrate also has the power to take cognizance and take recourse to procedure under Section 202 of the Code and postpone the issue of process where the Magistrate is yet to determine existence of sufficient ground to proceed. In a third C category of cases, the Court may not take cognizance or direct registration of an FIR, but direct preliminary inquiry in terms of the dictum in Lalita Kumari’s case. [Para 27][167-D-F] 1.4 In the instant case, the preliminary inquiries conclude that in the communications made to the police between 2018 to D 2020, there is no allegation that rape took place on 29th November 2018. As per the report the complainant had failed to give any logical and satisfactory account for the delay in lodging the complaint. The accused assert that the complaint is an abuse of the process of law and has been filed to put pressure on the E accused in view of the rape case filed by her against the third person. At the same time, it is noticeable that the complainant/ informant has made several allegations of rape, sexual harassment, etc. against persons with whom she had been acquainted and working. The complainant/informant has pleaded threat and harassment at the hands of the persons named as perpetrators, F who are people of influence and power as the ground and reason for delay. She pleads that period of limitation prescribed in section 468 of the Code does not apply to an offence punishable with imprisonment exceeding three years.