2.32 per unit to the assessee. Revenue had questioned computation of market value of electricity supplied by the captive generating plants of the assessee to its industrial units as being on the higher side and 502 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. thereafter contended that the rate at which the assessee sold surplus power to the State Electricity Board was the market value of electricity. 13.3. Reverting back to Section 80 IA of the Act, learned counsel has drawn the attention of the court to clause (iv) of sub-section (4) and submits that an undertaking involved in generation or distribution of power is entitled to claim deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act. Respondent assessee fulfi ls the conditions for claiming such deduction and is, therefore, entitled to claim such deduction. Sub-section (8) of Section 80 IA provides that for the purpose of deduction under Section 80 IA, profi ts and gains of eligible business are to be computed as if the transfer was done on the market value on that date. Proviso to Section 80 IA(8) requires the assessing offi cer to compute the profi ts and gains in the manner provided. If the assessing offi cer fi nds diffi culty while computing in such manner, he is empowered to compute profi ts and gains on such reasonable basis as he may deem fi t. Referring to the explanation below the proviso to sub-section (8) of Section 80 IA, he submits that the market value as contemplated in sub-section (8) would mean the price that such goods would ordinarily fetch on sale in the open market. 13.4 Adverting to the facts of the present case, learned counsel submits that adoption of the rate of Rs. 2.32 per unit by the revenue was purely on a presumptive basis. He submits that the industrial units of the assessee arethe consumers. The captive power plants of the assessee supplies electricity to the industrial units. Had the industrial units not obtained power from the captive power plants of the assessee, then it would have had to purchase power from the State Electricity Board. State Electricity Board was supplying electricity to the industrial consumers at the rate of Rs. 3.72 per unit. Therefore, the industrial units of the assessee would have had to pay the aforesaid amount for electricity. In such situation, Tribunal was fully justifi ed in holding that the rate at which electricity was supplied by the State Electricity Board to the industrial consumers was the market value of electricity supplied by the captive power plants of the assessee to its industrial units. He further submits that the rate at which the assessee had supplied surplus electricity to the State Electricity Board i.e. Rs. 2.32 per unit could not be termed as the market value in as much as that was the contracted price as per the power purchase agreement. Being a contracted COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 503 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.]