It is further relevant to note that Dr. Jatinder Pal Singh (PW-8), in his deposition itself, states that Shri Sadhu Singh (PW-5), Executive Magistrate had recorded the dying declaration of the deceased on 8th November 1991 PHULEL SINGH v. STATE OF HARAYANA 801 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] at 04.40 p.m. whereas the opinion with regard to her fi tness was given by him at 06.00 p.m. on 8th November 1991. He has further admitted that he had not mentioned in the bed-head ticket that he had attested the statement of the deceased at 04.40 p.m. on 8th November 1991. It is thus doubtful as to whether Dr. Jatinder Pal Singh (PW-8) had really examined the deceased with regard to her fi tness prior to her statement being recorded by Shri Sadhu Singh (PW-5), Executive Magistrate. 13. It is further relevant to note that Dr. Jasmeet Singh Dhir (PW-7) has stated that the history recorded by him while admitting the deceased, was narrated by the deceased herself. He has further stated that the deceased had also narrated that her husband had extinguished fi re by pouring water on her. 14. In the totality of the circumstances, it cannot be said that the dying declaration (Ex. P.L.) is free from doubt. 15. The most glaring aspect that is required to be considered is that the High Court itself has disbelieved the dying declaration insofar as Jora Singh, father-in-law of the deceased is concerned. We fail to understand as to how the same dying declaration could have been made basis for conviction of the appellant when the same was disbelieved insofar as another accused is concerned. 16. It will also be apposite to refer to the deposition of Shri Bhagwan, ASI, Investigating Offi cer (PW-9). He has stated in his deposition that he had come to the conclusion that the present case was not a case under Section 307 of IPC or Section 498-A of IPC but a case under Section 309 of IPC. He has further stated that the higher authorities that is Shri Sukhdev Singh, DSP and Shri Rajinder Singh, SHO had verifi ed the investigation conducted by him and found the same as correct and agreed with his conclusions. He has further stated that during investigation, it was revealed that the deceased was short-tempered and that accused Jora Singh was not there in the village on the fateful day and that he had gone to Rama Mandi for making purchases for Diwali. 17. Insofar as the evidence regarding harassment on account of non- fulfi llment of demand of dowry is concerned, the prosecution relies on the evidence of Pavitar Singh (PW-3), brother of the deceased, Randhir Singh (PW-4), father of the deceased and Major Singh (PW-6), Sarpanch of the 802 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. village. Insofar as PWs 3 and 4 are concerned, they are relatives of the deceased and their evidence will have to be scrutinized with greater care, caution and circumspection. Insofar as harassment with regard to non- fulfi llment of demand of dowry is concerned, except the vague allegation, there is nothing in their evidence to support the prosecution case.