The expression “patent illegality” has D been exposited by this Court in the cases referred hereinbefore. The significant aspect to be reiterated is that it is not a mere illegality which would call for interference, but it has to be “a patent illegality”, which obviously signifies that it ought to be apparent on the face of the award and not the one which is culled out by way of a long-drawn analysis of E the pleadings and evidence. Of course, when the terms and conditions of the agreement governing the parties are completely ignored, the matter would be different and an award carrying such a shortcoming shall be directly hit by Section 28(3) of the Act, which enjoins upon an Arbitral Tribunal to decide in accordance with the terms of contract while taking into account the usage of trade applicable to the transaction. As said by F this Court in Associate Builders (supra), if an Arbitrator construes the term of contract in a reasonable manner, the award cannot be set aside with reference to the deduction drawn from construction. The possibility of interference would arise only if the construction of the Arbitrator is such which could not be made by any fairminded and reasonable person. G 19. The case of SAL Udyog Private Limited (supra) cited by learned Attorney General is an apposite example as to when the principles governing “patent illegality” come into operation. In that case, in the contract concerning supply of Sal seeds, the respondent-contractor had continued to operate until 21.12.1998, when the contract was terminated H 434 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A in accordance with the change in legislation. The respondent thereafter levied a claim for refund of a sum of about 1.72 crore, allegedly paid in excess to the State. The dispute ultimately led to arbitration and an arbitral award was made in favour of the respondent which was not interfered with under Sections 34 and 37 of the Act. B 19.1. Therein, the specific ground of challenge by the appellant- State had been that the Arbitrator ignored the binding term of contract governing the parties relating to recovery of “supervision charges”. Such a binding term was brushed aside by the Arbitrator while observing that there was no basis to admit any such “indirect expenses”. This Court found that the supervision charges were levied by the State and paid by C the respondent without any demur right from the date parties entered into agreement and it was only after termination of the contract that the respondent raised a dispute towards supervision charges. It had been a classic case of the Arbitrator ignoring and rather overriding the terms of contract, as would appear from the following observations of this Court D with reference to the facts of the case: “23. On a conspectus of the facts of the case, it remains undisputed that though the appellant State did raise an objection before the Arbitral Tribunal on the claim of the respondent Company seeking deduction of supervision charges, for which it relied on Clause E 6(b) of the agreement and the Circular dated 27-7-1987 to assert that recovery of supervision charges along with expenses was a part and parcel of the contract executed with the respondent Company, the said objection was turned down by the learned sole arbitrator by giving a complete go-by to the terms and conditions of the agreement governing the parties and observing that there is F no basis to admit any such “indirect expenses”.