(C) No.3099 of 2010, on C.M. No.6215 of 2010, an application fi led seeking for interim in the said writ petition. LAL BAHADUR SHASTRI EDUCATIONAL SOCIETY 841 v. DELHI DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY [A.S. BOPANNA, J.] 10. In the writ petition, it is recorded that notice was issued to the respondents and insofar as the application for interim it would indicate that the notice was accepted by the counsel for the respondents therein but there was no hearing of both sides, in that sense. It would be relevant to extract the portion as contained in the relating to deposit of the amount: “The petitioner states that he will deposit the disputed amount but in case excess amount is found to be deposited at the stage of fi nal decision in the writ petition, the same should be refunded to the petitioners by the respondents with appropriate interest. We are of the view that the aforesaid is a fair suggestion and in case the petitioners succeed in the petition, the question of refund of amount with interest would be examined at that stage. On deposit of the amount and on completion of requisite formalities by the petitioners, the respondents will proceed to grant Revised Sanction Plan as well as the Completion Certifi cate.” (Emphasis Supplied) 11. If the above-noted is deciphered, it indicates that the amount to be deposited was voluntarily off ered to be done on behalf of the appellant. Since obviously the learned counsel for the respondent had taken notice just then and no submission on his behalf has been recorded the respondents at that stage had not played any part. Further, there is no indication that the Court had insisted for the deposit. It is no doubt true, it is however indicated in the that the said suggestion was accepted as a fair one by the Court and it was also observed that the question of the refund of the amount with interest would be examined at that stage in case the petitioners succeed in the petition. If the said aspects are kept in view and the nature of the issues raised before the High Court in the writ petition is taken note of, the prayer in the writ petition was for quashing the demand dated 09.03.2010 raising the demand for Rs.7,67,79,600/-. The basis to challenge such demand is also due to the fact that the notifi cation dated 10.10.2008 and 23.12.2008 issued by the respondent due to which such demand was raised was also assailed and sought to be quashed as not being sustainable. Therefore, it is evident that the quashing of the demand for the amount would only follow if the notifi cation imposing the additional FAR charges was quashed by adjudicating it to be unsustainable and consequently the demand not being in accordance with the law. 842 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 12. Pending consideration of the adjudication with regard to the validity of the said notifi cations dated 10.10.2008 and 23.12.2008, the respondents through a subsequent notifi cation dated 17.07.2012 had exempted certain categories from the imposition of additional FAR charges and had indicated in the said notifi cation that the other contents of the notifi cation dated 23.12.2008 will remain unchanged.