However, the Investigating Officer could not proceed with the investigation effectively and meaningfully in view of the restraining s passed by the High Court resulting in the investigative process being aborted. D 19. Our attention was next invited by Mr. Sibal to the decisions of this Court in State of Uttar Pradesh Vs. Naresh & Ors.2 and Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Maharashtra & Ors.3, in support of the contention that when an investigation by the police is in progress, the courts should not go into the merits of the E allegations in the FIR; on the contrary, the police must be permitted to complete the investigation. It was also contended that if after investigation the Investigating Officer does not find any substance in the complaint/ first information report, he is obliged to file appropriate closure report before the concerned court for its due consideration in accordance with F law; however, it would be premature to pronounce any conclusion that the first information report does not disclose any cognizable offence based on hazy facts. 20. Mr. Sibal, thus, prayed that the impugned and of the High Court be set aside and investigation into the FIR be permitted G to be taken to its logical conclusion. 21. Mr. Sanjay Hegde, learned senior counsel for the other appellant, i.e., US, contended that the High Court clearly applied a wrong test while quashing the FIR. According to him, the test of a prima-facie 2 (2011) 4 SCC 324 H 3 2021 SCC OnLine SC 315 THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 145 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] or probable case is only required to be shown at the time of framing of A charge; however, for an investigation to proceed on the basis of a first information report, all that is required to be shown is that the contents of the complaint/first information report, when taken at face value, make out an offence. 22. It was further contended by Mr. Hegde that the High Court B conducted a mini-trial while arriving at a conclusion that no offence against AS and YS has been made out in the FIR which, this Court has repeatedly held, cannot be conducted in proceedings for quashing of a first information report. At the stage of considering a prayer for quashing of first information report, the probable defence of the accused cannot C be considered. 23. Inviting our attention to the interim dated 6th September, 2021 passed by the High Court, Mr. Hegde contended that such an exercise could not have been undertaken by the Court in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. D 24. Referring to the decision of this Court in Central Bureau of Investigation & Anr. Vs. Thommandru Hannah Vijayalakshmi @ T.H. Vijayalakshmi & Anr.4, Mr. Hegde submitted that a similar exercise that was undertaken by the relevant high court was held to be impermissible by this Court. E 25. The decisions of this Court in R.P.