A lower. The third issue was answered holding that the Start date for the ‘Change in Law’ event for the NCDP, 2013 is 1st April 2013. 24. As such, Issue Nos. 2 and 3, which were framed by the learned APTEL in the impugned and dated 3rd November 2020 stand fully covered by the of this Court in the case of MSEDCL B v. APML and Others (supra). The remaining two issues that are required to be considered in the present appeal are thus: C D 25. Before we proceed to consider the aforesaid two issues, we may note that the present appeal arises out of the concurrent s passed by the CERC and the learned APTEL. E 26. This Court, in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra), after considering the relevant provisions under the Electricity Act, 2003 with regard to constitution of various expert bodies like the CEA, CERC and the learned APTEL, held that these bodies are bodies consisting of experts in the field. After considering various s on F the issue, this Court observed thus: “123. Recently, the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Vivek Narayan Sharma v. Union of India has held that the Courts should be slow in interfering with the decisions taken by the experts in the field and unless it is found that the expert bodies G have failed to take into consideration the mandatory statutory provisions or the decisions taken are based on extraneous considerations or they are ex facie arbitrary and illegal, it will not be appropriate for this Court to substitute its views with that of the expert bodies.” H UTTAR HARYANA BIJLI VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. S ADANI 479 POWER (MUNDRA) LIMITED [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 27. Though the present appeal arises out of the concurrent s A passed by CERC as well as APTEL, in view of the submissions made, we will proceed to consider the rival submissions. 28. Insofar as the first issue with regard to the bifurcation of 70% domestic and 30% imported coal is concerned, we have examined the documents placed on record by the parties. B 29. None of the documents placed on record would reveal that a representation was given by AP(M)L that its bid is based on 70% domestic and 30% imported coal. Insofar as the document on which Shri Ramachandran has relied i.e. the Executive Summary of the bid is concerned, the same reads thus: C “Adani Enterprises Ltd., the promoter of APL, is the largest coal importing company of the country. The strategic advantage of the Power Plant is its proximity to MUNDRA PORT, where coal is being imported. Mundra Port possesses World Class Coal handling facilities with 17 meter deep draft permitting capsize vessels to D berth alongside.” 30. It could thus be seen that what has been stated in the Executive Summary by AP(M)L is that its Power Plant had a strategic advantage inasmuch as it had proximity to Mundra Port. It further states that Mundra Port possesses World Class Coal handling facilities with 17 meter deep E draft permitting capsize vessels to berth alongside.