(C) No.14729 of 2007. But the State Government on the ground that it cannot take extra burden of providing pension to the employees of the Board did not comply with the directions F of this Court. Admittedly, when all conditions of service of the State Government employees are applicable to the Board employees, refusal to extend the pensionary scheme to such employees of the Board, in our considered view, amounts to discrimination and violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution of India. The learned Single Judge has dealt with the important G aspect in detail in the impugned . It was brought to our notice that the Board on several occasions moved the State Government through the Industries Department which is the controlling authority of the Board for extending pensionary benefits to the employees of the Board, but the same did not find favour H 1064 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A with the Government on the ground that the State Government cannot carry the extra financial burden. In our opinion, the view taken by the learned Single Judge with regard to making provision for providing pension to the employees of the Board is quite justified and calls for no interference, as the same is in conformity with the decisions of Gujarat and Bombay High Courts in the cases B referred to supra upon which learned Senior Counsel has rightly placed reliance. For all practical purposes, the Board is an instrumentality of the State and therefore, it is covered under the Article 12 of the Constitution of India and undoubtedly amenable to the writ jurisdiction of this Court. We are quite aware of our C limitations under Article 226 of the Constitution. The direction of the learned Single Judge to Opposite Party Nos.1 and 2 to take appropriate steps to incorporate the pension scheme for the employees of the Board at par with the State Government employees is only advisory in nature and the same is in the welfare of the employees of the Board. The State Government shall honour D such advisory note keeping in view that the interest of the retired employees shall be taken care of by the State Government as mandated under Article 41 of the directive principles of the State policy by discharging its constitutional obligations towards aged persons who have served the State through Board, as the State E has decentralized its power and functions through its instrumentalities such as the Board and other statutory Corporation for good governance of the people under the Constitution of India. 11. In the result, after making a threadbare analysis and appraisal of factual and legal profile and proposition highlighted before us, F we find no merit in this writ appeal and the impugned of the learned Single Judge does not call for any interference in any manner. Accordingly, the writ appeal stands dismissed.” 9. The appellant State of Orissa is aggrieved by the s so G passed by the High Court. Before proceeding further, it may be noticed that while entertaining the petition seeking leave to appeal in this matter, on 11.04.2014, this Court stayed the operation of the impugned and of the High Court; and on 07.09.2015, while granting leave to appeal, the interim dated 11.04.2014 was continued.