Paragraph 258 of this rendered by a Constitution Bench of this Court was cited to canvass that once title of the land vests in the State, consequent to acquisition and taking of possession, even if the landholder has retained possession or otherwise trespassed upon it after possession has been taken by the State, he remains a trespasser and his possession would be deemed to be on behalf of the State. (v) Banda Development Authority vs. Moti Lal Agarwal13. In this case, this Court culled out principles concerning the mode of taking possession of a piece of land from the landholder. The relevant portion of the is extracted below: “37. The principles which can be culled out from the above- noted s are: (i) No hard-and-fast rule can be laid down as to what act would constitute taking of possession of the acquired land. 11 (2000) 2 SCC 48 12 (2020) 8 SCC 129 13 (2011) 5 SCC 394 STATE OF U.P. & ANR. v. EHSAN & ANR. 915 (ii) If the acquired land is vacant, the act of the State authority concerned to go to the spot and prepare a panchnama will ordinarily be treated as sufficient to constitute taking of possession. (iii) If crop is standing on the acquired land or building/ structure exists, mere going on the spot by the authority concerned will, by itself, be not sufficient for taking possession. Ordinarily, in such cases, the authority concerned will have to give notice to the occupier of the building/structure or the person who has cultivated the land and take possession in the presence of independent witnesses and get their signatures on the panchnama. Of course, refusal of the owner of the land or building/structure may not lead to an inference that the possession of the acquired land has not been taken. (iv) If the acquisition is of a large tract of land, it may not be possible for the acquiring/designated authority to take physical possession of each and every parcel of the land and it will be suffi cient that symbolic possession is taken by preparing appropriate document in the presence of independent witnesses and getting their signatures on such document. (iv) If beneficiary of the acquisition is an agency/ instrumentality of the State and 80% of the total compensation is deposited in terms of Section 17(3-A) and substantial portion of the acquired land has been utilised in furtherance of the particular public purpose, then the court may reasonably presume that possession of the acquired land has been taken. 38. In the light of the above discussion, we hold that the action of the State authorities concerned to go to the spot and prepare panchnama showing delivery of possession was suffi cient for recording a fi nding that actual possession of the entire acquired land had been taken and handed over to BDA. The utilisation of the major portion of the acquired (cid:0) MANOJ MISRA, J. (cid:1) 916 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. land for the public purpose for which it was acquired is clearly indicative of the fact that actual possession of the acquired land had been taken by BDA.