The burden then shifts on the respondents to prove that the procedure that was followed was reasonable and in compliance with the requirements of Articles 14 and 21 of the Constitution. The standard of proportionality has been C used to test the reasonableness of the procedure. (c) The s of this court in Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services (supra) and Digi Cable Network (supra) held that the principles of natural justice may be excluded when on the facts of the case, national security concerns D overweigh the duty of fairness; (d) Though confidentiality and national security are legitimate aims for the purpose of limiting procedural guarantees, the state has been unable to prove that these considerations arise in the present factual scenario. A blanket immunity E from disclosure of all investigative reports cannot be granted; (e) The validity of the claim of involvement of national security considerations must be assessed on the test of (i) whether there is material to conclude that the non-disclosure of information is in the interest of national security; and (ii) whether a reasonable prudent person would draw the same F inference from the material on record; (f) Even assuming that non-disclosure is in the interest of confidentiality and national security, the means adopted by the respondents do not satisfy the other prongs of the proportionality standard. The non-disclosure of a summary G of the reasons for the denial of security clearance to MBL, which constitutes the core irreducible minimum of procedural guarantees, does not satisfy the suitability prong; H 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (g) The courts assess the validity of public interest immunity claims, which address the same harms as the sealed cover procedure, based on the structured proportionality standard. The power of courts to secure material in a sealed cover when contradistinguished with the scope of assessment of public interest immunity claims is rather unguided and ad- B hoc. The standard of review that is used by the courts in public interest immunity claims and the lack of such a standard in sealed cover proceedings to protect procedural safeguards indicates that public interest immunity claims constitute less restrictive means. Additionally, while public C interest immunity claims conceivably impact the principles of natural justice, sealed cover proceedings infringe the principles natural justice and open justice; (h) The courts could take the course of redacting confidential portions of the document and providing a summary of the D contents of the document to fairly exclude materials after a successful public interest immunity claim; and (iii) The challenge to the of MIB is allowed on substantive grounds. The non-renewal of permission to operate a media channel is a restriction on the freedom of the press which E can only be reasonably restricted on the grounds stipulated in Article 19(2) of the Constitution. The reasons for denying a security clearance to MBL, that is, its alleged anti- establishment stance and the alleged link of the shareholders to JEI-H, are not legitimate purposes for the restriction of the right of freedom of speech protected under Article F 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.