2021 permitting the candidates who have obtained Diploma of 18 months duration through ODL mode from NIOS to participate in the selection process, it was not permissible for the State to withdraw the same vide communication dated 10th February 2021. It is submitted that the decision of the State Government taken in letter dated 10th February 2021 is patently arbitrary. It is submitted that once the 18 months Diploma through ODL mode by NIOS was recognized by NCTE which is a competent authority, the State could not have discriminated amongst the candidates who were having Diploma through a regular 2 years course or 18 months course through ODL mode. It is submitted that the said would amount to creating an artifi cial discrimination amongst the Diploma Holders when both of them are duly recognized by NCTE. It is submitted that once the candidates have possessed a Diploma duly recognized by NCTE, they are eligible to participate in the selection process. 12. Mr. Khurshid, on behalf of the candidates who have completed 18 months diploma in elementary education, submitted that the court will have to apply the principle of purposive interpretation. He submitted that making a special provision for 18 months Diploma through ODL mode by NIOS was for the purpose of providing a qualifi cation to the Untrained Teachers who were already working. Once they have acquired that qualifi cation, all the parties become equal and it is not permissible to discriminate between the candidates who have completed 18 months diploma and the candidates who have acquired 2 years Diploma. It is submitted that the court will have to invoke the principle of implied equivalence. It is submitted that otherwise the very purpose would be frustrated. 13. Mr. Shukla, on behalf of the candidates who have completed 18 months diploma in elementary education, submitted that NCTE is a competent authority having the fi nal word in the matter. It is submitted that once NCTE, vide its communication dated 6th January 2021 had decided to accept the verdict of the High Court of Patna in the case of Sanjay Kumar Yadav (supra) and directed the candidates who have completed D.El.Ed. course of NIOS through ODL mode to apply for fresh recruitment, the State could not have acted contrary to the same. 14. Ms. Karia, on behalf of NCTE, submitted that the High Court has rightly allowed the writ petitions. It is submitted that the recognition JAIVEER SINGH AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF 607 UTTARAKHAND AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] dated 22nd September 2017 was issued by NCTE in exercise of its powers under Section 14(3)(a) and 15(3)(a) of the National Council for Teacher Education Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as “NCTE Act”) and Clause 7(6) of the NCTE (Recognition Norms and Procedure) Regulations, 2014 for D.El.Ed. programme vide which it granted recognition for the course of 18 months including 6 months internship, for the teachers appointed on or before 10th August 2017. She submitted that the said was issued as per the direction of the Central Government received under Section 29 of the NCTE Act which was binding upon NCTE.