(2) Every political party, whose member as an elector casts a vote at a polling station, shall, for the purposes of sub- rule (1), appoint, in Form 22A, two authorised agents. (3) An authorised agent appointed under sub-rule (2) shall C be present throughout the polling hours at the polling station and the other shall relieve him when he goes out of the polling station or vice versa.” 5. The petitioner has sought to challenge the constitutional validity of Rule 39-AA on the ground that it is (i) ultra vires Article 80(4) of the D Constitution; (ii) violative of Article 14; and (iii) contrary to the provisions of Section 123(2) of the 1951 Act. 6. We have heard Mr S N Shukla, petitioner, who appears in person, Mr K M Nataraj, Additional Solicitor General for the Union of India and Mr Amit Sharma, counsel appearing on behalf of the Election Commission E of India. 7. Though in the petition, the entirety of Rule 39-AA is sought to be challenged, Mr S N Shukla, submits that the Rule should be read down in an appropriate manner. 8. In to appreciate the submission, it would be necessary to F advert to the salient provisions of Rule 39-AA. Rule 39-AA stipulates that when an elector who is a member of a political party records his vote on a ballot paper, they must allow the authorised agent of that party to verify as to whom such an elector has cast his vote before the ballot paper is inserted into the ballot box. If the elector refuses to show the G marked ballot paper to the authorised agent of his political party, the ballot paper has to be taken back by the Presiding Officer or Polling Officer and is to be dealt with in the manner prescribed in sub-Rules (6) to (8) of Rule 39A, as if the ballot paper had been taken back under sub- Rule (5). H 362 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 9. Sub-Rules (6) to (8) of Rule 39A are in the following terms: “(6) After the ballot paper has been taken back, the presiding officer shall record on its back the words “Cancelled: voting procedure violated” and put his signature below those words. B (7) All the ballot papers on which the words “Cancelled: voting procedure violated” are recorded, shall be kept in a separate cover which shall bear on its face the words “Ballot papers: voting procedure violated”. (8) Without prejudice to any other penalty to which an elector, C from whom a ballot paper has been taken back under sub- rule (5), may be liable, vote, if any, recorded on such ballot paper shall not be counted.” Sub-Rules (6) to (8) of Rule 39A stipulate that after the ballot paper has been taken back, the Presiding Officer shall record an D endorsement on it that it has been cancelled. 10. The submission which has been urged is that, as a consequence of the above procedure, the elector would lose the right to vote under Article 80(4) of the Constitution.