You also note that, if these written submissions not given within stipulated time, it will be assumed that you have nothing to say on this Application & F decision will be taken accordingly.” 63. As is evident from the above, the Deputy Speaker did not consider the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) as an impediment, from proceeding to adjudicate upon the complaint made under the Tenth Schedule. G 64. The sixteen MLAs filed a Writ Petition under Article 32 before this Court being W.P. (C) Nos. 468-469 of 2022 raising two grounds. The first relates to the disability of the Speaker in proceeding with the hearing in view of the decision in Nabam Rebia(supra). The second ground relates to the legality of the summons issued by the Deputy H 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Speaker granting only forty-eight hours for filing a written statement. What is important is the passed by this Court on 27 June 2022 which is as under: “Meanwhile as an interim measure, the time granted by the Deputy Speaker of the Assembly to the petitioners or other similarly placed B Members of the Legislative Assembly to submit their written submissions upto today by 5.30P.M., is extended till 12.07.2022.” 65. It is clear that this Court did not injunct the Deputy Speaker from proceeding with the hearing of the cases under the Tenth Schedule. In fact, this Court merely extended the time for filing a written statement C till 12 July 2022, which goes to show that this Court intended that the proceedings must go on. 66. The petitioners urge that that the of this Court dated 27 June 2022 relied on the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) to injunct the Deputy Speaker from adjudicating the disqualification petitions. This submission cannot be accepted. Although the parties may have addressed D this Court on the applicability of Nabam Rebia (supra), the dated 27 June 2022 did not rely on Nabam Rebia (supra) to injunct the Deputy Speaker from adjudicating the disqualification petitions on the ground that a notice of intention to move a resolution for his removal had been issued. This Court instead granted an extension of time to the persons E against whom disqualification petitions were filed, to file their written submissions, in view of the principles of natural justice. 67. The election of the Speaker was conducted shortly thereafter, and Mr. Rahul Narwekar was appointed as the Speaker. As a consequence, the Deputy Speaker was no longer required to discharge F the functions of the Speaker. It fell to the Speaker to adjudicate any disqualification petitions that were pending. This being the case, Nabam Rebia (supra) does not apply to the lis before us. We will therefore render a verdict on the merits of the matter. 68. The reason why the Deputy Speaker did not proceed with the G hearing is completely attributable to events that happened thereafter. After the notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Deputy Speaker was issued, the subsequent events such as the Governor calling upon the then Chief Minister to prove the majority on the floor of the House, followed by the resignation of the then Chief Minister, formation of the new government, election of the new Speaker and H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 907 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] passing of the trust vote, all in quick succession, happening within a A fortnight relegated the issue now referred to seven Judges to the backseat.