It is also the fact that on 28th April Respondent No.2 had submitted the bid and on 2nd May it had submitted the revised bid, however, with the B same Annexure-Y clearly stating that it would require opportunity charging tune of one hour. The same would not be in tune with the tender conditions. 21. From the aforesaid facts, it is clear that; (i) the tender documents submitted by the Petitioner contained deviation in C Annexure-Y i.e. the undertaking from OEM stating that one hour charging time would be required for achieving operating range of 200 Kms. ; and (ii) Respondent No.2 submitted the revised Annexure-Y on 6th morning i.e. two days after the opening of technical bids and after acceptance of revised Annexure-Y on 6tb May morning, the technical bid of D Respondent No.2 was accepted in the afternoon of the same day. 22. The aforesaid does not depict fair play in action. The facts create doubt about, whether the decision was a fair one or was the decision reached fairly? The same does not appear E to be so in view of the facts discussed above while accepting the bid of Respondent No.2 as responsive.” (Emphasis supplied) 25. In view of the aforesaid, the High Court thought fit to declare EVEY also as an unsuccessful bidder. The High Court in paragraphs 23 F and 24 respectively held as under: “23. We are aware that the principle of equity and natural justice stay at a distance and no judicial interference is warranted in case of an error in assessment. However, the same holds good, if the decision is bona fide. We are also G aware that interference of the Court would lead to some delay. It would be seen that earlier also the tenders were issued. However, because of non-sanction of subsidy, the earlier tender process was scrapped and fresh tender process was issued. For accepting the bid of Respondent No.2, 90 days’ H 706 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A time is provided to it for getting the prototype vehicle. The said period is not over. It is not even one month. The Respondent No.2’s tender is accepted. The Courts upon coming to the conclusion that the decision making process was not fair. The same lacked fair play in action and arbitrary, will have to step in. B 24. In the light of the above, we set aside the decision of the Respondents of acceptance of tender of Respondent No.2. Respondent No.1, if it so desires, may proceed with a fresh tender process.” (Emphasis supplied) C 26. In such circumstances referred to above, all the three parties are here before this Court with their respective petitions. 27. It is pertinent to note that during the pendency of the proceedings before the High Court and after submitting the subsidy guarantee, EVEY had already supplied total 8 buses between 04.07.2022 D to 05.07.2022. However, this Court by an interim dated 14.07.2022 granted an interim stay of the impugned insofar as EVEY is concerned.