The reference is limited to the scope of executive and legislative power of NCTD over “services” with reference to the interpretation of Article 239AA(3)(a). C C. Interpretation of Article 239AA: The 2018 Constitution Bench (a) Delhi: A sui generis model 12. The 2018 Constitution Bench decision held that NCTD is not D similar to other Union Territories. The decision elucidates the manner in which the insertion of Article 239AA accorded a “sui generis” status to NCTD setting it apart from other Union Territories. The noted that the constitutional entrenchment of a Legislative Assembly, Council of Ministers, and Westminster style cabinet system of government brought E into existence the attributes of a representative form of government. As a consequence, the residents of Delhi have been, through their elected representatives, afforded a voice in the governance of NCTD, while balancing the national interests of Union of India. The majority decision, speaking through Chief Justice Dipak Misra, held: F “196. Thus, NDMC [NDMC v. State of Punjab, (1997) 7 SCC 339] makes it clear as crystal that all Union Territories under our constitutional scheme are not on the same pedestal [...] S. Essence of Article 239-AA of the Constitution 206. It is perceptible that the constitutional amendment conceives G of conferring special status on Delhi. This has to be kept in view while interpreting Article 239-AA… 207. At the outset, we must declare that the insertion of Articles 239-AA and 239-AB, which specifically pertain to NCT of Delhi, is reflective of the intention of Parliament to accord H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 513 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Delhi a sui generis status from the other Union Territories as well A as from the Union Territory of Puducherry to which Article 239- A is singularly applicable as on date. The same has been authoritatively held by the majority in NDMC case to the effect that the NCT of Delhi is a class by itself… 209. The exercise of establishing a democratic and representative B form of Government for NCT of Delhi by insertion of Articles 239- AA and 239-AB would turn futile if the Government of Delhi that enjoys the confidence of the people of Delhi is not able to usher in policies and laws over which the Delhi Legislative Assembly has power to legislate for NCT of Delhi. C 210. Further, the Statement of Objects and Reasons for the Constitution (Seventy-fourth Amendment) Bill, 1991 which was enacted as the Constitution (Sixty-ninth Amendment) Act, 1991 also lends support to our view as it clearly stipulates that in to confer a special status upon the National Capital, arrangements D should be incorporated in the Constitution itself.” 13. The concurring opinion of Justice Chandrachud emphasized the significance legislative and constitutional history in interpreting Article 239AA. In that context, the notes: “383. Having regard to this history and background, it would be E fundamentally inappropriate to assign to the NCT a status similar to other Union Territories. Article 239-AA(4) is a special provision which was adopted to establish a special constitutional arrangement for the governance of the NCT, albeit within the rubric of Union Territories.