The power of the Court to issue a Writ of Habeas Corpus is a precious and undeniable feature of the Rule G of law. 120. A constitutional democracy can survive when citizens have an undiluted assurance that the Rule of law will protect their rights and liberties against any invasion by the state and that judicial remedies would be available to ask searching questions and expect H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 777 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] answers when a citizen has been deprived of these, most precious A rights. The view taken by Justice Khanna must be accepted, and accepted in reverence for the strength of its thoughts and the courage of its convictions.” [Emphasis by me] B 39. What emerges from the aforesaid decisions of this Court, may be culled out as follows: i) That some natural/primordial rights of man have been accorded a secure position under the Constitution so as to protect such rights against undue encroachments by organs C of State. The object of elevation of such common law rights/ natural rights to the Constitutional plane was to make them specifically enforceable against the State and its agencies through Courts of Law. ii) Notwithstanding that such rights have been placed in Part III of the Constitution of India, the rights are concurrently D preserved in the field of natural law or common law. Remedies available in common law for actualising such rights are also preserved. There are therefore two spheres of rights, and corresponding remedies: first, relatable to the Fundamental Rights enshrined under Part III the Constitution E of India, which correspond to the remedies under Article 32 and Article 226 of the Constitution of India; second, inalienable/natural/common law rights, which are pre- constitutional rights, and may be protected by having recourse to common law remedies. F iii) While the content of a certain common law right, may be identical to a Fundamental Right, the two rights would be distinct in two respects: first, incidence of the duty to respect such right; and second, the forum which would be called upon to adjudicate on the failure to respect such right. While the content of the right violated may be identical, the status G of the violator, is what is relevant. With that primer, I shall proceed to consider whether the Fundamental Rights under Article 19 or 21 of the Constitution of India can be claimed against any person other than the State or its instrumentalities. H 778 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 40. With historical and political changes and the advent of democracy and of Constitutional government, the “State”was created under and by a constitution and placed at a position which renders it capable of interfering with natural and common law rights. On the other hand, as is evident from the text of the Preamble of the Constitution of India, the “We the People of India created the State as an entity to serve B their interests. In to reconcile the competing effects of creation of the State, certaincommon law rights were elevated to the constitutional plane by accommodating them in Part III of the Constitution of India to make them specifically enforceable against the State and its agencies through the Courts.