A will has to be proved in terms of Section 63(c) of the Succession Act read with Section 68 of the Evidence Act. That takes us to the crucial issue involved in the present case, viz. with respect to the validity and proving of the concerned will. A Will, has to be executed in the manner required by F Section 63 of the Succession Act. Section 68 of the Evidence Act requires the will to be proved by examining at least one attesting witness. Section 71 of the Evidence Act is another connected section “which is permissive and an enabling section permitting a party to lead other evidence in certain G circumstances”, as observed by this Court in paragraph 11 of Janki Narayan Bhoir v. Narayan Namdeo Kadam reported in 2003 (2) SCC 91 and in a way reduces the rigour of the mandatory provision of Section 68. As held in that Section 71 is meant to lend assistance and come to the rescue H 8 Civil Appeal No. 1071/2006, decided on 03.05.2013. ASHUTOSH SAMANTA (D) BY LRS. v. SM. RANJAN BALA 243 DASI [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] of a party who had done his best, but would otherwise be let A down if other means of proving due execution by other evidence are not permitted.” 13. In view of the above decision, wills cannot be proved only on the basis of their age – the presumption under Section 90 as to the regularity of documents more than 30 years of age is inapplicable when B it comes to proof of wills, which have to be proved in terms of Sections 63(c) of the Succession Act, 1925, and Section 68 of the Evidence Act, 1872. 14. There are often situations when wills which otherwise may have satisfied the requirements of being attested, as provided by law, C cannot be proved in terms of the said two provisions, for the reason that the attesting witnesses are not available, or if one of the witnesses denies having attested the will. Sections 69 and 71 of the Evidence Act, 1872 then come to the aid of the propounder. Section 69 reads as follows: “Section 69 - Proof where no attesting witness found D If no such attesting witness can be found, or if the document purports to have been executed in the United Kingdom, it must be proved that the attestation of one attesting witness at least is in his handwriting, and that the signature of the person executing the documents is in the handwriting of that person.” E Section 71 reads as follows: “Section 71 - Proof when attesting witness denies the execution If the attesting witness denies or does not recollect the execution of the document, its execution may be proved by F other evidence” 15. In Babu Singh & Ors. v. Ram Sahai alias Ram Singh9, the Court held as follows with regard to Section 69: “It would apply, inter alia, in a case where the attesting witness is either dead or out of the jurisdiction of the court or kept G out of the way by the adverse party or cannot be traced despite diligent search.