4. Based on the rival pleadings, the trial Court formulated the C following issues and answered them in the following manner, as can be seen from paragraph 6 of its :- ISSUES FINDINGS. 1. Does the Plaintiff proves In the negative. D that he purchased the suit field from Defendants as alleged? 2. Does he further proves In the negative. E that the suit sale deed is for legal necessity? 3. If the Plaintiff entitled to In the negative. the possession of the suit F field along with enquiry into mesne. 4. Does the Defendant No.2 In the affirmative. proves that the suit sale G deed is bogus, sham and nominal as alleged? 5. Does the further proves In the affirmative. that the Plaintiff deals in H DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 185 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] money landing without A licence? 6. Does he further proves In the affirmative. that the sale deed in suit was made as per the B agreement given in para 9 of the Written Statement? 7. Does he further prove that In the affirmative. C the suit field is owned by other persons? 8. Does he further proves In the affirmative. that the permission of the D District Judge, is required for the suit sale deed as alleged? 9. Does he further proves In the affirmative. E that he is a marginal owner as alleged in para 14 of the Written Statement. 10. Reliefs and costs? As per final . F 5. On the basis of the findings returned on the issues thus formulated, the trial Court came to the conclusions that the plaintiff had not purchased the suit field as claimed, that he had failed to prove that the execution of the sale deed was for a legal necessity of the second defendant. Further, it came to the conclusion that the sale deed was a G sham document and it was executed only as a security for a money lending transaction and consequently, the original suit was dismissed with costs. 6.In Regular Civil Appeal No.98 of 1987, filed by the unsuccessful plaintiff, the First Appellate Court framed the following points for H 186 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A consideration based on the rival submissions and returned the following findings: - POINTS FINDINGS 1. Whether it is proved by the plaintiff Yes B that defendant No.2 had executed sale deed in his favour under Ex. 128 and he has become owner of the property? C 2. Whether it is proved by the No defendant No.2 that the sale deed Ex. 128 was a nominal document and was executed by way of D collateral security for money lending transaction? 3. Whether Plaintiff is entitled to the Yes possession of suit property? E 4. What ? As per final . 7. Thus, it is evident that upon finding that the trial Court had virtually ignored the legal impact and effect of registered sale deed (Exhibit 128), in respect of suit land executed in favour of the appellant therein viz., the plaintiff, the First Appellate Court considered the issues F formulated by focusing that aspect.