Ekram Khan & Sons case [Mohd. Ekram Khan & Sons v. CTT, (2004) 6 SCC 183]. There are observations referred to above, again in Mohd. Ekram Khan & Sons C case [Mohd. Ekram Khan & Sons v. CTT, (2004) 6 SCC 183], of the possibility of the manufacturer having purchased, from open markets, the parts for replacement, on which taxes would be paid. In that context, it was observed that “the position is not different because the assessee had supplied the parts and received the D price”. The assessee actually had purchased the parts and paid sales tax on it, but on return of the defective part to the manufacturer, was given a credit note. 16. We have some reservations in respect of the observations and legal propositions laid down in Mohd. Ekram Khan & Sons E case [Mohd. Ekram Khan & Sons v. CTT, (2004) 6 SCC 183] and consider it appropriate that the matter be considered by a larger Bench.” 4. The point for consideration under the Reference is, whether, a credit note issued by a manufacturer to a dealer of automobiles in consideration of the replacement of a defective part in the automobile F sold pursuant to a warranty agreement being collateral to the sale of the automobile is exigible to sales tax under the sales tax enactments of the respective States. While considering the said question, the Reference doubts the correctness of the observations made in Mohd. Ekram Khan & Sons vs. CTT, (2004) 6 SCC 183 (Mohd. Ekram Khan). G 5. It may be mentioned that in the aforesaid decision three other s of the Delhi High Court, Madhya Pradesh High Court and Kerala High Court in Commissioner of Sales Tax vs. Prem Nath Motors, (1979) 43 STC 52 (Delhi), (Prem Nath Motors); Prem Motors, Gwalior vs. Commissioner of Sales Tax, Gwalior 1986 (61) H 1286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A STC 244 MP (Prem Motors) and Geo Motors vs. State of Kerala (2001) 122 STC 285 (Geo Motors) respectively were considered and the latter two s were overruled. Factual Background: 6. Of the thirty-four cases before us, the factual conspectus B involves provisions of the respective Sales Tax Act and similar questions of law. Thus, the facts in Commercial Tax Officer vs. M/s Marudhar Motors, C.A. No. 3856/2013 only are encapsulated for the sake of convenience as under: i. The assessee, M/s Marudhar Motors is a dealer of TATA C Vehicles. Under the dealership agreement, the dealer/ assessee would provide replacement of warranty goods sold to the customer. ii. There exists a separate warranty agreement between the manufacturer and the ultimate customer to whom such D vehicles are sold by the assessee. iii. In the normal course of business transactions involving the sale of automobile parts, Tata Motors sells vehicles and spare parts to Marudhara Motors by charging CST against “C” form. Thereupon, Marudhara Motors sells these goods E to customers through invoices collecting local sales tax at a price not exceeding the maximum price prescribed by the manufacturer.