The cycle of the deceased was also recovered and the recovery memo Ex-P8 was also signed by him. The recovery of clothes vide Ex-P9 was also signed by him and the recovery of plain earth and blood-stained earth vide Ex-P10 was also signed by G him. He is also signatory of site plan Ex-P11 and the arrest memo of the appellant Ex-P12. In his cross-examination, he states that he is brother of the deceased. In paragraph 9 of the cross-examination, he states a meeting of the villagers was held at night in the village. He then denies the suggestion that the appellant in that meeting denied H SHATRUGHAN v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 767 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] assaulting the deceased and instead had stated that the deceased A had tripped and fallen. He further denies the fact that the appellant had said the same thing to Deepak and Narottam. In paragraph 10, he admits that the Sarpanch was there in the meeting and he also admits that in the said meeting, the appellant had said that while he was passing, he saw the deceased had fallen on the ‘Pharsa’. B He also states that he was not aware at what time the inquest took place and he also states that the contents of the recovery memos and inquest were not read out to him. 17. PW-6 is Dr. Sunil Singh who had conducted the autopsy on the dead body of the deceased on 20.07.2008 at 02.00 PM. He has C proved the Post Mortem report Ex.-P13. In his examination-in-chief, he states that on 20.07.2008, the Tabbal was sent to him for inspection. He has mentioned the length and breadth of the same in his report and that the injury on the deceased could be possible from the said weapon and that he had advised that the Tabbal be sent for Chemical examination. This report he had proved and is marked as Ex.-P14. D 18. He further states that on 21.07.2008, he had examined the appellant and had noticed some scratches on his right leg for which he had prepared an injury report which he proved and marked as Ex.-P15. He also states that on 20.07.2008, the clothes on the body of the deceased had blood-stains on it and he had advised that the same be E sent for chemical examination. This report, he also proved and marked as Ex.-P16. 19. In his cross-examination, he states that the length of the Tabbal (metal part) was 13.5 cm. He further states that length of the injury on the deceased was 5 cm. He further states that it is F correct in case if the said weapon is used for assault, then the length of the injury would also have been 13.5 cm. He also states that it is correct that from the weapon recovered, the injury could not have been caused on the neck of the deceased. He again admits that the clothes which were seized from the appellant had some stains like blood but he G was not sure whether it was human blood or not.