This bar on the face of it operates on the person insured. If the person who has got the vehicle insured has allowed the vehicle to be driven by a person who is not duly licensed then only that clause shall be attracted. In a case where the person who has got insured the vehicle with the insurance company, has appointed a duly licensed Driver and if the accident takes place when the vehicle is being driven by a person not duly licensed on the basis of the authority of the Driver duly authorised to drive the vehicle whether the insurance company in that event shall be absolved from its liability? The expression ‘breach’ occurring in Section 96(2)(b) means infringement or violation of a promise or obligation. As such the insurance company will have to establish that the insured was guilty of an infringement or violation of a promise. The insurer has also to satisfy the Tribunal or the court that such violation or infringement on the part of the insured was wilful. If the insured has taken all precautions by appointing a duly licensed Driver to drive the vehicle in question and it has not been established that it was the insured who allowed the vehicle to be driven by a person not duly licensed, then the insurance company cannot repudiate its statutory liability under sub-section (1) of Section 96.’ 11. Thereafter, in National Insurance Co. Ltd. vs. Swaran Singh and others3, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court dealt with the interpretation of Section 149 of the Act of 1988. The cases before the Bench involved, amongst others, instances where the driving licence produced by the driver or owner of the vehicle was a fake one. The Bench noted that Section 149(2)(a) opened with the words: ‘that there has been a breach of a specifi ed condition of the policy’, which would imply that the insurer’s defence of the action would 3 (2004) 3 SCC 297 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. depend upon the terms of the policy. It was observed that an insurance company which wished to avoid its liability is not only required to show that the conditions laid down in Section 149 (2)(a) or (b) are satisfi ed but is further required to establish that there has been a breach on the part of the insured. Such a breach on the part of the insured must be established by the insurer to show that the insured used or caused or permitted to be used the insured vehicle in breach of the provisions. The Bench went on to state that where the insurer, relying upon the violation of law by the assured, takes exception to pay the assured or a third party, it must prove a willful violation of the law by the assured. Noting that the proposition of law is no longer res integra that the person who alleges breach must prove the same, the Bench observed that an insurance company would be required to establish the said breach by cogent evidence and in the event an insurance company fails to prove that there has been breach of the conditions of the policy on the part of the insured, such an insurance company cannot be absolved of its liability.