Equally, we must bear in mind Section 36. It provides as follows: “36. Admission of instrument where not to be questioned. — Where an instrument has been admitted in evidence, such admission shall not, except as provided in section 61, be called in question at any stage of the same suit or proceeding on the G ground that the instrument has not been duly stamped.” 48. Section 38 deals with, how instruments, which are impounded, must be dealt with. It reads as follows: “38. Instruments impounded how dealt with. — (1) When the person impounding an instrument under section 33 has by law H 334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A or consent of parties authority to receive evidence and admits such instrument in evidence upon payment of a penalty as provided by section 35 or of duty as provided by section 37, he shall send to the Collector an authenticated copy of such instrument, together with a certificate in writing, stating the amount of duty and penalty levied in respect thereof, and shall B send such amount to the Collector, or to such person as he may appoint in this behalf.” 49. Section 42 is relevant and it reads as follows: - “42. Endorsement of instruments on which duty has been paid C under sections 35, 40 or 41— (1) When the duty and penalty (if any), leviable in respect of any instrument have been paid under section 35, section 40 or section 41, the person admitting such instrument in evidence or the Collector, as the case may be, shall certify by endorsement thereon that the proper duty or, as the case may be, the proper duty and penalty (stating the D amount of each) have been levied in respect thereof, and the name and residence of the person paying them. (2) Every instrument so endorsed shall thereupon be admissible in evidence, and may be registered and acted upon and authenticated as if it had been duly stamped, and shall be E delivered on his application in this behalf to the person from whose possession it came into the hands of the officer impounding it, or as such person may direct: Provided that— (a) no instrument which has been admitted in evidence upon F payment of duty and a penalty under section 35, shall be so delivered before the expiration of one month from the date of such impounding, or if the Collector has certified that its further detention is necessary and has not cancelled such certificate; (b) nothing in this section shall affect clause 3.” G 50. Section 62(1)(b) makes it punishable with fine, which may extend to Rs.500/- for a person to execute or sign otherwise than as a witness, any instrument chargeable with duty, without the same being duly stamped. The proviso, no doubt, contemplates that if any penalty has been paid under Sections 35, 40 or 61, the same shall be reduced. H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 335 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.