Justice Goswami further emphasized on the need of independence of the Election Commission in the following words: “The Election Commission is a high-powered and independent B body which is irremovable from office except in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution relating” to the removal of Judges of the Supreme Court and is intended by the framers of the Constitution, to be kept completely free from any pulls and pressures that may be brought through political influence in a democracy run on party system.” C 79. The importance of periodical elections was also emphasized in the Constitution Bench decision in Manoj Narula v. Union of India,46 which held: “In the beginning, we have emphasized on the concept of democracy which is the corner stone of the Constitution. There D are certain features absence of which can erode the fundamental values of democracy. One of them is holding of free and fair election by adult franchise in a periodical manner… for it is the heart and soul of the parliamentary system.” 80. Thus, the role of the Election Commission is integral to E conducting free and fair elections towards the working of democracy. It is the duty and constitutional obligation of this Court to protect and nurture the independence of the Election Commission. IV. Constitutional and statutory framework: The Constitutional Vacuum F 81. Article 324 of the Constitution provides that superintendence, direction and control of elections shall be vested in an Election Commission. Clause 1 of Article 324 provides: “The superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of G the electoral rolls for, and the conduct of, all elections to Parliament and to the Legislature of every State and of elections to the offices of President and Vice-President held under this Constitution shall be vested in a Commission (referred to in this Constitution as the Election Commission).” 46 (2014) 9 SCC1 H 210 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 82. The composition of the Election Commission is provided under Clause (2) of Article 324. It provides: “The Election Commission shall consist of the Chief Election Commissioner and such number of other Election Commissioners, if any, as the President may from time to time fix and the B appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners shall, subject to the provisions of any law made in that behalf by Parliament, be made by the President.” 83. Article 324(3) states that the Chief Election Commissioner shall act as the Chairman of the Election Commission. C 84. Clause (5) of Article 324 deals with conditions of service and tenure of office of the Election Commissioner. It provides that: “Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the conditions of service and tenure of office of the Election Commissioners and the Regional Commissioners shall be such as D the President may by rule determine: Provided that the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court and the conditions of service of the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment: Provided further that any other Election E Commissioner or a Regional Commissioner shall not be removed from office except on the recommendationof theChief ElectionCommissioner.” 85.