We have indicated on more than one occasion that the process of criminal law, particularly in matters of grant of bail, is not akin to money recovery proceedings but what has been noticed in the present case carries the peculiarities of its own. G 10. We would reiterate that the process of criminal law cannot be utilised for arm-twisting and money recovery, particularly while opposing the prayer for bail. The question as to whether pre- arrest bail, or for that matter regular bail, in a given case is to be 5 (2021) 2 SCC 779 6 (2023) SCC OnLine SC 51 H 1178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A granted or not is required to be examined and the discretion is required to be exercised by the Court with reference to the material on record and the parameters governing bail considerations. Putting it in other words, in a given case, the concession of pre-arrest bail or regular bail could be declined even if the accused has made payment of the money involved or offers to make any payment; B conversely, in a given case, the concession of pre-arrest bail or regular bail could be granted irrespective of any payment or any offer of payment. 11. We would further emphasize that, ordinarily, there is no justification in adopting such a course that for the purpose of being C given the concession of pre-arrest bail, the person apprehending arrest ought to make payment. Recovery of money is essentially within the realm of civil proceedings.” 26. Law regarding exercise of discretion while granting a prayer for bail under section 438 of the Cr. PC having been authoritatively laid D down by this Court, we cannot but disapprove the imposition of a condition of the nature under challenge. Assuming that there is substance in the allegation of the complainants that the appellant (either in connivance with the builder or even in the absence of any such connivance) has cheated the complainants, the investigation is yet to result in a charge- E sheet being filed under section 173(2) of the Cr. PC, not to speak of the alleged offence being proved before the competent trial court in accordance with the settled procedures and the applicable laws. Sub- section (2) of section 438 of the Cr. PC does empower the high court or the court of sessions to impose such conditions while making a direction under sub-section (1) as it may think fit in the light of the facts of the F particular case and such direction may include the conditions as in clauses (i) to (iv) thereof. However, a reading of the precedents laid down by this Court referred to above makes the position of law clear that the conditions to be imposed must not be onerous or unreasonable or excessive. In the context of grant of bail, all such conditions that would G facilitate the appearance of the accused before the investigating officer/ court, unhindered completion of investigation/trial and safety of the community assume relevance.