However, ordinarily, “commercial purpose” is understood to include manufacturing/industrial activity or business-to-business transactions between commercial entities. 19.2. The purchase of the good or service should have a close B and direct nexus with a profit-generating activity. 19.3. The identity of the person making the purchase or the value of the transaction is not conclusive to the question of whether it is for a commercial purpose. It has to be seen whether the dominant intention or dominant purpose for the transaction was to facilitate C some kind of profit generation for the purchaser and/or their beneficiary. 19.4. If it is found that the dominant purpose behind purchasing the good or service was for the personal use and consumption of the purchaser and/or their beneficiary, or is otherwise not linked D to any commercial activity, the question of whether such a purchase was for the purpose of “generating livelihood by means of self-employment” need not be looked into.” 33. This Court noticed that the hostel facilities were provided to the nurses employed by Lilavati hospital but after sometime of E completion of the project because of alleged poor building quality, the structure became dilapidated and the nursing staff had to vacate the flats being used by them and a consumer complaint filed by the Lilavati hospital for compensation on account of annual loss of rent was maintainable and whether the Trust was a consumer under Section F 2(1)(d) of the Act. 34. In Lilavati Kirtilal Mehta Medical Trust (supra), this Court observed that there is no nexus between the purchase of flats by the appellant Trust and its profit generating activity as the flats were not occupied for undertaking any medical/diagnostic facilities within the G hospital, but for accommodating the nurses employed by the hospital. In the given circumstances, it has nothing to do with earing of profits in providing facilities to the nurses and held that the Trust is a “consumer” under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986 for the transaction under consideration. H 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 35. Thus, what is important is the transaction in reference to which the claim has been filed under the Act, 1986 by a person who claims himself to be a “consumer” covered under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986, such exposition of law on the subject has been further reiterated by this Court recently in Shrikant G. Mantri v. Punjab National Bank6 and after the analysis on the subject and taking note of the of B this Court in Lilavati Kirtilal Mehta Medical Trust (supra), of which reference has been made, examined the case on the facts in question and recorded a finding that the transaction in question would fall within the definition of the term “consumer” or “services” for the purpose of invoking jurisdiction under the Act, 1986. C 36. Thus, what is culled out is that there is no such exclusion from the definition of the term “consumer” either to a commercial enterprise or to a person who is covered under the expression “person” defined in Section 2(1)(m) of the Act, 1986 merely because it is a commercial enterprise.