It is noteworthy that this irregularity was cured, so to say, because the trial court’s had arrayed all legal representatives of the deceased. Consequently, there is no merit in this submission. 22. The last question relates to the award of damages. Here, this court notices that the arbitrators consciously eschewed the grant of compensation for loss of profi t10. The contractors had led evidence disclosing the idle machinery charges during the reduced turnover of work during the original period of contract. The charges claimed were based upon evidence such as the number of workmen employed, the value of equipment, interest on the value and the total number of working days adopting a shortfall factor of 0.7192. The sum awarded on this head was ₹ 15,72,000. The fi ndings on this aspect are fully supported by evidence. Likewise, the compensation for the 9 Refer para 06.04.2002. 10 Refer Para 6.1.3 of the Award M/S. S.D. SHINDE TR. PARTNER v. GOVT. OF 377 MAHARASHTRA AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] extended period of the contract was granted at ₹ 91,28,000. The contractor’s evidence and computations were not disputed by the respondent state. This court observes that there is nothing wrong as this award was based upon the materials placed by the parties during the arbitration proceeding. The state did not question them apparently during the arbitral proceedings. So far as the balance amount (₹ 1.33 crores is concerned), the tribunal granted interest @ 12 % per annum for the period from when notice or interest was given, i.e., 10.12.1988 till the date of the award. The respondent state was granted a reasonable period of two months for payments. Likewise, in the event of failure, 12% future interest was awarded. Given the prevailing interest rates at that time when the contract was in force, again the court fi nds the award of such rate of interest neither implausible nor illegal. 23. It is axiomatic that courts, while adjudging whether an arbitration award calls for interference has to be conscious that the arbitrator is the sole judge of facts; unless an error of law is shown, interference with the award should be avoided. In Bijendra Nath Srivastava v Mayank Srivastava,11 it was observed, “If the arbitrator or umpire chooses to give reasons in support of his decision it would be open to the court to set aside the award if it fi nds that an error of law has been committed by the arbitrator umpire on the basis of the recording of such reasons. The reasonableness of the reasons given by the arbitrator cannot, however, be challenged. The arbitrator is the sole judge of the quality of the evidence and it will not be for the court to take upon itself the task of being a judge of the evidence before the arbitrator. The court should approach an award with a desire to support it, if that is reasonably possible, rather than to destroy it by calling it illegal. [See Champsey Bhara & Co v Jivraj Baloo Spq and Wvg.