(xvi) the names, designations and other particulars of the Public Information Offi cers; (xvii) such other information as may be prescribed; and thereafter update these publications every year; (c) publish all relevant facts while formulating important policies or announcing the decisions which aff ect public; (d) provide reasons for its administrative or quasi-judicial decisions to aff ected persons. (2) It shall be a constant endeavour of every public authority to take steps in accordance with the requirements of clause (b) of sub-section (1) to provide as much information suo motu to the public at regular intervals through various means of communications, including internet, so that the public have minimum resort to the use of this Act to obtain information. (3) For the purposes of sub-section (1), every information shall be disseminated widely and in such form and manner which is easily accessible to the public. (4) All materials shall be disseminated taking into consideration the cost eff ectiveness, local language and the most eff ective method of communication in that local area and the information should be easily accessible, to the extent possible in electronic format with the Central Public Information Offi cer or State Public Information Offi cer, as the case may be, available free or at such cost of the medium or the print cost price as may be prescribed. Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-sections (3) and (4), “disseminated” means making known or communicated the information to the public through notice boards, newspapers, public announcements, media broadcasts, the internet or any other means, including inspection of offi ces of any public authority.” 2. The statutory obligations of public authorities under Section 4(1) relate to: (a) maintenance of all public records, duly catalogued and indexed for easy accessibility of the information; (b) publishing particulars of the organisational structure, functions and duties of offi cers, procedures that are followed for decision-making, salary structure, budget allocation, publication of facts KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 203 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] relating to policies and announcements which includes providing reasons for quasi-judicial decisions. Sub-section (2) mandates the public authority to take steps for providing information under clause (b) of sub-section (1) suo motu and further to disseminate the said information for easy accessibility to the public. The scope and ambit of Section 4 has already been considered by this Court in a number of decisions.2 3. We may note the observation of this Court in just one of the cases, namely Institute of Chartered Accountants of India v. Shaunak H. Satya and others (2011) 8 SCC 781: “23. The information to which the RTI Act applies falls into two categories, namely, (i) information which promotes transparency and accountability in the working of every public authority, disclosure of which helps in containing or discouraging corruption, enumerated in clauses (b) and (c) of Section 4(1) of the RTI Act; and (ii) other information held by public authorities not falling under Sections 4(1) (b) and (c) of the RTI Act. In regard to information falling under the fi rst category, the public authorities owe a duty to disseminate the information widely suo motu to the public so as to make it easily accessible to the public.