In both the above situations, there is no transaction of sale between the manufacturer and dealer. If the manufacturer of the automobile has purchased the spare part from the open market or from the producer of the spare part, sales tax would have been paid by the manufacturer on it and dispatched to the dealer to replace it in place of the defective part. D 26. But there can also be a situation when the dealer would replace the defective part in the automobile pursuant to a warranty from his own stock of spare parts which he would have purchased either from the manufacturer or from the open market or the manufacturer of the spare part. In the aforesaid three situations, the dealer would have paid sales E tax while purchasing the said stock. When the defective part is replaced by the dealer from a spare part from his stock, the dealer is no doubt acting pursuant to the warranty on behalf of the manufacturer but is sourcing the spare part from his own stock. Simply put, the dealer is not “selling” the spare part to a customer while acting on behalf of the F manufacturer but replacing the defective part free of cost by acting under the warranty. But what is to be borne in mind is that the replacement of the spare part is from the stock of the dealer who would have earlier bought the same by paying the requisite tax on the same. If the said part, instead of being replaced pursuant to the warranty free of cost had been sold, the dealer would have earned a return on his investment and possibly G with a reasonable profit also and would have also collected the sales tax. But when the dealer replaces a defective part with a spare part from his stock pursuant to a warranty, he does not receive anything in return from the customer for the spare part used from his own stock. It is in such a situation that the manufacturer issues a credit note to H 1324 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A recompense the dealer for his investment on the spare part in his stock which was used to replace a defective part pursuant to a warranty in the sale of automobile as nothing would have been received in return from the customer. This is because if the spare part from the stock of the dealer had been sold to any other customer, across the counter and not pursuant to any warranty, he would have received a return on his B investment. But such a return is not received by the dealer from the customer when he replaces a defective part pursuant to a warranty. In such a situation, on return of the defective part to the manufacturer by the dealer, he is issued a credit note by the manufacturer which is to make good the stock of the dealer. C 27. Therefore, we have to assess the nature of the transaction by discerning the manner in which the dealer would have acted under the scope of a warranty on the sale of an automobile.