HRAB was to determine RB0. 5. In para 50 of the , the controversy in relation to HRAB was set out. This Court gave its imprimatur in para 63 to the view adopted by AERA and TDSAT. 6. The submission on behalf of the applicants is that MoCA’s letter dated 24.5.2011 relates back to the core issue of calculation of HRAB by the method of back solving. We have already recognized the cascading eff ect as stated aforesaid. The question was whether in terms of the SSA dated 24.06.2006, the HRAB has been correctly calculated. 7. In eff ect, it has been submitted that this Court confi ned its fi nding to the expression “pertaining to aeronautical services” but the aspect of ‘single till’ had not been dealt with and that HRAB should be computed on the basis of ‘single till’ mechanism. It is conceded that this aspect was not dealt with by the TDSAT either. Suffi ce to say that this Court proceeded on the basis of the opinion of the TDSAT and did not expand beyond the ambit of what the TDSAT had opined on. 8. In substance, the contention on behalf of the applicants is that the ‘single till’ mechanism was prevalent in the year 2008-09 where there was no distinction between aeronautical and non-aeronautical revenue and the entire revenue, i.e., aeronautical and non-aeronautical were considered as composite revenue and tariff was fi xed on a cost-plus basis. Thus, for determining the opening of HRAB for FY 2009-10, the entire revenue of the previous year, i.e., 2008-09 ought to have been considered. 9. A reference has also been made to a letter dated 18.06.2018 of the Airports Authority of India, which stated that “the airport charges were fi xed on cost recovery principle….but allowing for all aeronautical 806 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. revenue plus contribution from non-aeronautical revenues accruing from the operations of the airports to its operations.” This has to be read in the context of the provisions of Schedule 1 of the SSA, and the submission is that the “hypothetical regulatory base will be computed on the entire revenue for the period between 01.04.2008 and 31.03.2009, i.e., aeronautical and non-aeronautical income to calculate the value of the regulatory base.” 10. There are also some grounds raised qua categorization of fuel throughput charge (FTC) as an aeronautical service. 11. The prayer made is in the alternatives, i.e., either to modify the or to remit the matter before the TDSAT for the limited issue of considering afresh the computation of HRAB. 12. In the reply, it has been stated that the issue relating to FTC is no more res integra in view of the of this Court in paras 41 to 45. Insofar as the issue of HRAB is concerned, the letter purported to be “new evidence” is only a clarifi catory communication. The MoCA has subsequently clarifi ed this issue to the eff ect that it has no role in providing any mechanism and has merely quoted that which has been provided in SSA and the ABN AMRO report.