But there is nothing in the Judgement of the Central American Court of Justice to support this. There is no suggestion in that Judgement that Honduras was excluded from the waters between that inner line and the outer closing line subject to the régime of condominium found by the Court.” ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1205 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 84. In Case Concerning Kasikili/Sedudu Island- Botswana v Namibia85 too, practice was given signifi cance. The ICJ held, quoting from the commentary of the ILC, that “(t)he importance of such subsequent practice in the application of the treaty, as an element of interpretation, is obvious; for it constitutes objective evidence of the understanding of the parties as to the meaning of the treaty. Recourse to it as a means of interpretation is well-established in the jurisprudence of international tribunals.” (Op cit., p. 241, para. 15. )” 85. Donald Regan, in a paper “Understanding What the Vienna Convention Says About Identifying and Using ‘Sources for Treaty Interpretation’ Identifying and Using ‘Sources for Treaty Interpretation’86 writes this, about treaty practice: “Article 31 (3) (b) presents a diff erent complication. Article 31 (3) (b) says that the interpreter shall take into account ‘any subsequent practice in the application of the treaty which establishes the agreement of the parties regarding its interpretation’. It is clear why practice is important. The point of the treaty is to direct behaviour. But the treaty is in words, and words are never perfectly clear. In contrast, behaviour is the very stuff the treaty is about. The ILC Commentary says the practice is ‘objective evidence’ of the understanding of the parties, and it quotes the Permanent Court of Arbitration, saying that practice is ‘le plus sûr commentaire du sens’ of the agreement.26 So, it is easy to see why concordant practice should be an authentic source if it is engaged in by all the parties. But Article 31 (3) (b) does not say the practice must be engaged in by all the parties; it says only that it must establish the agreement of all the parties. The ILC Commentary is very clear both that it must be the agreement of all, and that it need not be the practice of all.27 Now, we will see below that even if 31 (3) (b) contemplated only the 85 [1999] ICJ Rep 1045; (General List No. 98) 86 Donald Regan: Understanding What the Vienna Convention Says About Identifying and Using ‘Sources for Treaty Interpretation’ Identifying and Using ‘Sources for Treaty Interpretation’ University of Michigan (2017) < : https://repository.law.umich. edu/book_chapters/257> (accessed on 14.10.2023). 120 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. practice of all the parties, a practice that was engaged in by some parties, but not all, could still be introduced under Article 32; and the interpreter would then consider how strong the partial practice was as evidence of a common understanding.” 86. The material cited in the preceding paragraphs, on the ILC Draft Conclusions and ICJ decisions, though not binding per se on this court, certainly off er valuable insight into treaty interpretation.