8. The sum and substance of the above decisions of this Court as well as various High Courts would be that where the head and seat and directing power of the affairs of the company and the control and management is must be shown is not merely theoretical control and power, G i.e., not de jure control and power, but de facto control and power actually exercised in the course of the conduct and management of the affairs of the firm; that the domicile or the registration of the company is not at all relevant and the determinate test is where the sole right to manage and control of the company lies. H 492 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 9. Applying the above principles of law to the facts of the case at hand, and the findings recorded by the AO, confirmed by the CIT(A), it is rightly concluded that the control and management of the affairs of the respective assessees were with Rattan Gupta, Chartered Accountant in Delhi. The findings of fact recorded by the AO, confirmed by the CIT(A) that the control and management of the affairs of the assessee companies B was with Rattan Gupta are based on the entire material on record. In light of the aforesaid findings, the High Court has not committed any error in reversing the contrary findings recorded by the ITAT and it is rightly observed and held that service of notice upon Rattan Gupta treating him as the principal officer and/or as a principal officer for and on behalf C of the assessee companies were valid notices and the High Court has rightly held that the AO at New Delhi was having the jurisdiction to issue notice under the Income Tax Act, 1961. 10. Insofar as the case on behalf of the respective assessees that the entire income was earned in Sikkim by way of commission on sale of D cardamom and therefore such income shall not be liable to be taxed under the Income Tax Act, 1961 is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that there are concurrent findings recorded by the AO and the CIT(A), as approved by the High Court, that no income by way of commission, as claimed by the assessees, has beenestablished and proved by the assessees. In fact, the AO issued notices/summons to different E persons who had allegedly paid amounts as commission, however, those persons had not responded. Therefore, the AO as such has rightly drawn an adverse inference. At this stage, it is required to be noted that as such the assessees did not produce any worthwhile evidence to prove the genuineness of the commission received. Despite the above, the ITAT F reversed the findings of fact recorded by the AO and the CIT(A) by observing that the AO did not proceed further (after issuing the summons/ notices) and that since no adverse material has been brought on record the AO could not have proceeded to draw an adverse inference as the burden was heavy on the revenue.