IV. The Union’s Contentions before this Court 15. Mr. N. Venkatraman, learned Additional Solicitor General (“ASG”) appearing for the Union, urged that the essence of the AA was C that the exporters were expected to import duty-free materials first, and use them for the purpose of manufacture of products to be exported out of India or be supplied under deemed export, if allowed by the FTP or the customs notifications. This aspect of physical incorporation of input materials in the export goods was covered under paragraph 4.03 of the FTP, which specifically demanded physical incorporation of imported D materials in export goods which was possible only if imports were made prior to export. Therefore, such authorizations principally had an inbuilt ‘pre-import condition’ which had to be followed. Paragraph 4.27 of the HBP for the relevant period allowed exports / supplies in anticipation of an authorization. This was an exception, to meet requirement in case of E exigencies. However, importers and exporters were availing the benefit of that provision without exception and the export goods were made out of domestically or otherwise procured materials and duty-free imported goods were used for purposes other than for the manufacture of the export goods. Paragraph 4.27 (d) of the HBP barred benefit of export in anticipation of authorization for the inputs with ‘pre-import condition’. F The ASG contested the exporters’ argument that there was no change in paragraph 4.27 of HBP and that it merely imposed conditions in terms of paragraph 4.14 of the FTP by way of ‘pre-import condition’. 16. It was stated that under paragraph 4.27(d), exports / supplies made in anticipation of authorisation were not eligible for inputs with G ‘pre-import condition’. That meant that the moment input materials were subject to ‘pre-import condition’, they were ineligible for export in anticipation of authorization, by virtue of paragraph 4.27 (d). Therefore, the respondent pleaded based on wrong notion and understanding and 13 Supra note 1. H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 201 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] knowledge of the relevant provisions, and the High Court erroneously A relied upon such an incorrect submission. 17. It was argued that paragraph 4.27 (a) & (b), i.e., export in anticipation of authorization and the ‘pre-import condition’ on the input materials were mutually exclusive and could not go hand in hand. The impugned did not take into consideration this aspect of paragraph B 4.27(d). Therefore, holding ‘pre-import condition’ as unreasonable as the same was in contrast with paragraph 4.27 (a) and also that the Government did not take enough care to eradicate such apparent paradox, was based on the wrong set of facts, and was contrary to the provisions of the law. C 18. It was argued that the High Court erred in setting aside paragraph 4.14 of the FTP and the corresponding provisions of the customs notifications, that imposed ‘pre-import’ and ‘physical export’ conditions, and held that the contention of physical incorporation of the duty-free materials under paragraph 4.03 of the FTP was contrary to D paragraph 4.27 of the HBP which specifically allowed imports in anticipation of authorization.