Section 21A was introduced in 1976 as a progressive provision. Section 21A links the SMA with the HSA if both the parties belong to a religion to which the HSA applies. Section 21A was introduced to remedy the disability brought in by Section 21. 191. Section 27 deals with divorce. Section 27(1A) grants the wife additional grounds of divorce. Section 31 stipulates the Court to which a petition for divorce must be made. Sub-Section (2) of the Section is a special provision available to the wife for the presentation of a divorce petition. Section 36 stipulates that the husband may be directed to pay expenses of the proceedings and such sum based on the income of the husband when the wife has no independent income, suffi cient to support herself and necessary for divorce proceedings. Section 37 stipulates that the court may the husband to pay the wife permanent alimony and maintenance. 192. The petitioners argue that Section 4 of the SMA is unconstitutional not because it expressly excludes or bars the marriage between two persons of the same-sex but because it excludes the solemnization of marriage between non-heterosexual persons by implication since it only governs a heterosexual union. 134 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. II. The decision of the South African Constitutional Court in Fourie 193. The petitioners have relied on Fourie (supra), a case which emanated from South Africa, to argue that provisions of the SMA must be read in a gender-neutral manner. In Fourie (supra), the common law defi nition of marriage and Section 30(1) of the Marriage Act (Act 25 of 1961)172 were challenged. The common law defi nition of marriage in South Africa is that it is a “union of one man with one woman, to the exclusion, while its lasts, of all others.” The formula for marriage prescribed by Section 30(1) of the Marriage Act is extracted below: “Do you, A.B., declare that as far as you know there is no lawful impediment to your proposed marriage with C.D. here present, and that you call all here present to witness that you take C.D. as your lawful wife (or husband)?’, and thereupon the parties shall give each other the right hand and the marriage offi cer concerned shall declare the marriage solemnized in the following words: ‘I declare that A.B. and C.D. here present have been lawfully married.” (emphasis supplied) 194. The petitioners in Fourie (supra) argued that the reference of “husband or wife” in Section 30(1) excluded same-sex couples. The South African Constitutional Court allowed the petition by holding that Section 30(1) was unconstitutional because it excluded same-sex couples. The opinion of the majority authored by Justice Albie Sachs suspended the declaration of invalidity for one year to cure defects in view of Section 172(1) (b) of the South African Constitution. If the defect was not cured within the time frame stipulated, the word ‘spouse’ was to be read in the place of “wife (or husband)”. Justice Kate O Regan who authored the minority opinion disagreed with the majority on the question of the remedy.