Therefore, the next question which is posed for consideration before this Court is whether this Court was justified/right in following the US Supreme Court s which as such were on interpretation and/or considering the laws of C United States. 12.1 How far the decisions of US Supreme Court on “freedom of speech and/or the public ” can be made applicable vis-à-vis the laws in India, few decisions of this Court on applicability of the US Supreme Court decisions vis-à-vis the laws applicable in India are required D to be referred to and considered. 12.2 In the case of Babulal Parate vs. State of Maharashtra, (1961) 3 SCR 423, it is observed in paragraphs 23 to 27 as under: “23. The argument that the test of determining criminality in advance is unreasonable, is apparently founded upon the doctrine E adumbrated in Scheneck case [Scheneck v. U.S., 249, US 47] that previous restraints on the exercise of fundamental rights are permissible only if there be a clear and present danger. It seems to us, however, that the American doctrine cannot be imported under our Constitution because the fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 19(1) of the Constitution are not absolute rights but, as F pointed out in State of Madras v. V.G. Row [(1952) 1 SCC 410 : 1952 SCR 597] are subject to the restrictions placed in the subsequent clauses of Article 19. There is nothing in the American Constitution corresponding to clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19 of our Constitution. The Fourteenth Amendment to the U.S. G Constitution provides, among other things, that “no State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; ….”. H 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 24. The framework of our Constitution is different from that of the Constitution of the United States. Then again, the Supreme Court of the United States has held that the privileges and immunities conferred by the Constitution are subject to social control by resort to the doctrine of police power. It is in the light of this background that the test laid down in Scheneck B case [Scheneck v. U.S., 249, US 47] has to be understood. 25. The language of Section 144 is somewhat different. The test laid down in the section is not merely “likelihood” or “tendency”. The section says that the Magistrate must be satisfied that immediate prevention of particular acts is necessary to C counteract danger to public safety etc. The power conferred by the section is exercisable not only where present danger exists but is exercisable also when there is an apprehension of danger. 26. Apart from this it is worthy of note that in Scheneck case [Scheneck v. U.S., 249, US 47] the Supreme Court was D concerned with the right of freedom of speech and it observed: “It well may be that the prohibition of law abridging the freedom of speech is not confined to previous restraints, although to prevent them may have been the main purpose….