In such circumstances, the contention of the Revenue that the AO shall still have the jurisdiction to make addition on any issue, despite no incriminating material having been found, shall tantamount to abuse of the process of law and cannot be accepted. It is submitted that only on the satisfaction of the conditions mentioned in sections 132 and D 132A and on recording reasons to believe, there can be search or requisition. It is submitted that therefore in case no incriminating material is found during the course of search, the very reasons to believe forming the basis of search stands vitiated and the search action may say to be bad in the eye of E the law. Consequently, the jurisdiction to assess or reassess ought to be read in a restricted manner in such circumstances, i.e., the jurisdiction to assess or reassess ought to be restricted to only incriminating material unearthed during the course of search. F vi) It is further submitted that the ‘total income’ under section 153A in respect of unabated assessments to be read in light of sections 132 and 132A as the context requires so and omission of expression “undisclosed income” has no bearing. vii) As regards the contention on behalf of the Revenue that G earlier scheme of block assessment under Section 158BA envisaged assessment of “undisclosed income” whereas first proviso to Section 153A(1) envisages assessment of “total income” which manifests the intention of the legislation to bring to tax “total income”, under Section 153A of the Act de hors any incriminating material, it is submitted that the said submission H 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A is without appreciating the object behind introducing the 153A regime as well as without appreciating the fact that definition of “total income” under Section 2 is qualified by the expression “unless the context otherwise requires.” viii) It is submitted that the erstwhile scheme of block B assessment under Section 158BA envisaged assessment of “undisclosed income” for two reasons. First reason was that there were two parallel assessments envisaged under the erstwhile regime i.e. (i) block assessment under Section 158BA to assess the undisclosed income and (ii) the regular assessment in accordance with the provision of the Act to make assessment C qua income other than undisclosed income. Second reason was that the undisclosed income was chargeable to tax at a special rate of 60% under Section 113 whereas income other than undisclosed income was required to be assessed under regular assessment procedure and was taxable at normal rate. D ix) It is submitted that under Section 153A regime, the intention of the legislation was to do away with the scheme of two parallel assessments and tax the undisclosed income too at the normal rate of tax as against any special rate. It is for such reason that distinction made earlier qua undisclosed income vis-a-vis E other income had been done away with under the regime of Section 153A and it is for that reason that the procedure for separate assessments qua undisclosed income and income other than undisclosed income has been done away with.