the vast hiatus between 14 years’ imprisonment and death. It has been held that the Court would be entitled to substitute a death sentence by life imprisonment or by a term in excess of fourteen years and further to direct that the convict must not be released from the prison for the rest of his life or for the actual term as specifi ed in the . 61. This Court, in the case of Shankar Kisanrao Khade v. State of Maharashtra17, after referring to various cases, adopted the middle path and commuted the death penalty into sentence for the rest of the life without remission. Further, in some of the cases, it was directed that only after the convict undertook sentence for a fi xed period as directed without remission, his case for premature release could be considered. 62. This Court, in the case of Gandi Doddabasappa alias Gandhi Basavaraj v. State of Karnataka18, wherein the accused had committed murder of his daughter, who was in the advanced stage of pregnancy, though 17 (2013) 5 SCC 546 18 (2017) 5 SCC 415 808 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. upheld the conviction of the accused under Section 302 IPC, nevertheless commuted the sentence from capital punishment to imprisonment for life. 63. In the case of Prakash Dhawal Khairnar (Patil) v. State of Maharashtra19, the appellant was a Senior Scientifi c Assistant. He wiped out his brother’s entire family. This Court found that this was done by him on account of frustration as his brother was not partitioning the alleged joint property. Though this Court held that the crime was heinous and brutal, but it could not be considered to be ‘rarest of rare’ case. This Court held that, it is diffi cult to hold that appellant is a menace to the society and that there is no reason to believe that he cannot be reformed or rehabilitated. The Court, considering the facts and circumstances of the case, set aside the death sentence and directed that he shall suff er imprisonment for life but shall not be released unless he served at least 20 years of imprisonment including the period already undergone by him. 64. In the case of Mohinder Singh v. State of Punjab20, this Court observed thus: “25. It is well-settled law that awarding of life sentence is a rule and death is an exception. The application of the “rarest of rare” cases principle is dependent upon and diff ers from case to case. However, the principles laid down and reiterated in various decisions of this Court show that in a deliberately planned crime, executed meticulously in a diabolic manner, exhibiting inhuman conduct in a ghastly manner, touching the conscience of everyone and thereby disturbing the moral fi bre of the society, would call for imposition of the capital punishment in to ensure that it acts as a deterrent. While we are convinced that the case of the prosecution based on the evidence adduced confi rms the commission of off ence by the appellant, however, we are of the considered opinion that still the case does not fall within the four corners of the “rarest of rare” cases.” 65.