28. But that position of law has changed now and the Amendment Acts have introduced a new regime for conducting these events. It is a fact that the Amendment Acts per se seeks to legitimize the aforesaid E three bovine sports by including them by their respective names and the body of the Statute themselves do not refer to any procedure by which these sports shall be held. If that was the position these Amendment Acts would have fallen foul of the ratio of the decisions of this Court in the cases of S.S. Bola and Others (supra), State of Tamil Nadu -vs- State of Kerala (supra), Madan Mohan Pathak (supra), National F Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. (supra), In Re Punjab Agreement Act (supra), Mafatlal (supra), S.T. Sadiq (supra) and A.R. Antulay (supra). The stand of the respondents however is that many of the offending elements of Jallikattu, Kambala or Bullock Cart Race have been eliminated by the Rules made under the G Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra Amendment Acts and the State of Karnataka has issued statutory notification laying down rigid regulatory measures for conducting these sports. These Rules specify isolated arena for the sports or events to be conducted including setting up of both bull run and bull collection area, galleries separating spectators from directly coming into contact with bulls. The learned counsel for the respondents H 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A want us to read the Statutes and the Rules together to counter the argument of the petitioners that the Amendment Acts merely reintroduce the offending sports into the main Statute for their respective States without correcting or removing the defects pointed out by this Court in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra). In the case of State of U.P. and Others -vs- Babu Ram Upadhya [(1961) 2 SCR 679], it was inter alia B observed that the fundamental principle of construction was that the Rules made under the Statute must be treated as a part and parcel thereof as if they were contained in the parent Act. In the case of Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. and Another -vs- Reserve Bank of India [(1992) 2 SCC 343], it was held:- C “52. In State of U.P. v. Babu Ram Upadhya [(1961) 2 SCR 679 : AIR 1961 SC 751 : (1961) 1 Cri LJ 773] this Court held that rules made under a statute must be treated, for all purposes of construction or obligations, exactly as if they were in that Act and are to the same effect as if they were D contained in the Act and are to be judicially noticed for all purposes of construction or obligations. The statutory rules cannot be described or equated with administrative directions. In D.K.V. Prasada Rao v. Government of A.P. [AIR 1984 AP 75 : (1983) 2 Andh WR 344] the same view was laid down. Therefore, the directions are incorporated and become part E of the Act itself. They must be governed by the same principles as the statute itself.