But in cases where the line of separation is thin and fi ne between search of a person and an artifi cial object, the test of inextricable connection is to be applied and then conclusion is to be reached as to whether the search was that of a person or not. The above test has been noticed in the case of Namdi Francis Nwazor v. Union of India and Anr. (1998) 8 SCC 534, wherein it is held that if the search is of a bag which is inextricably connected with the person, Section 50 of the Act will apply, and if it is not so connected, the provisions will not apply. It is when an article is lying elsewhere and is not on the person of the accused and is brought to a place where the accused is found, and on search, incriminating articles are found therefrom it cannot attract the requirements of Section 50 of the Act for the simple reason that the bag was not found on the accused person. 11. In the instant case, the bag is brought by A-2 and the contents of the bag are taken out by him and given for search which is thereafter seized by the offi cials after having found contraband substance. In such a case the inextricable connection between the search of a person and the bag cannot be established but rather it is only the search of the bag and therefore the search and seizure conducted by the gazetted offi cer need not comply with the requirements under Section 50 of the Act.” (Emphasis supplied) RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 343 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 80. However, it is important to note that the law down in Yasihey (supra) is no longer a good law. A three-Judge Bench in State of H.P. v. Pawan Kumar reported in (2005) 4 SCC 350, distinguished Namdi (supra) and held that the observations relied upon in it were obiter on this point. It was held as under:- “16. … The Bench then fi nally concluded that on the facts of the case Section 50 was not attracted. The facts of the case clearly show that the bag from which incriminating article was recovered had already been checked in and was loaded in the aircraft. Therefore, it was not at all a search of a person to which Section 50 may be attracted. The observations, which was made in the later part of the (reproduced above), are more in the nature of obiter as such a situation was not required to be considered for the decision of the case. No reasons have been given for arriving at the conclusion that search of a handbag being carried by a person would amount to search of a person. It may be noted that this case was decided prior to the Constitution Bench decision in State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh. After the decision in Baldev Singh, this Court has consistently held that Section 50 would only apply to search of a person and not to any bag, article or container, etc.