Moreover, incidents of violence and heinous crimes against women have come to light.” The Union Home Secretary has also noted that on 26 July 2023, the Government of Manipur recommended the entrustment of two FIRs to the CBI for investigation which was then recommended by the Union Ministry of Home Aff airs on 27 July 2023. The Union Government has also informed the Court of its position that not only should the investigation be completed at the earliest but the trial should also be conducted in a time bound manner outside the State of Manipur. The tardy pace of investigation by the investigating machinery in the State of Manipur has emerged from the material which was placed before this Court which is indicative of: a. Signifi cant delays between the occurrence of incidents involving heinous crimes including murder, rape and arson and the recording of zero FIRs; b. Signifi cant delays in forwarding the zero FIRs to the police stations which have jurisdiction over the incidents; c. Delays in converting the zero FIRs into regular FIRs by the jurisdictional police stations; d. Delays in recording witness statements; e. Lack of diligence in recording the statements under Section 161 and Section 164 CrPC; f. The tardy pace of eff ecting arrests in cases involving heinous off ences; and g. The lack of alacrity in ensuring medical examination of victims. DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1101 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 16. These lapses in the investigative process do not bode well for the State of Manipur. The importance of a speedy and fair justice system should need no reiteration but the magnitude of the off ences that we are dealing with prompts this Court to reiterate their importance: a. When a bodily or sexual off ence is complained of, it is necessary to conduct a medical examination of the victim immediately after the FIR is registered, without any delay (subject to the victim consenting to such examination). This is because one of the crucial pieces of evidence which has great probative value in a trial is the nature and severity of the injuries sustained by the victim. The existence of that injury has to be proved to the satisfaction of the court. A medical examination by a registered medical practitioner appropriately authorised in this regard is necessary to prove that an injury was sustained. As time passes, some injuries heal and it is diffi cult (and in some cases, not possible) for a registered medical practitioner to accurately assess the severity of the injury. It is also diffi cult for the registered medical practitioner to develop an opinion on the nature of the weapon or the type of trauma which caused the injury. These aspects attain importance during the trial when a weapon recovered from the accused may be found to be connected to the injury sustained by the victim. If the prosecution fails to prove that the injury sustained by the victim / survivor was a result of the weapon recovered from the accused, a person who is guilty of an off ence may be unjustly acquitted.