Decision of this Court in Syed Yousuf Yar Khan and others v. Syed Mohammed Yar Khan and others12 is set up to counter the said case. The High Court had rightly C applied Article 65 of the Limitation Act, 1963 in the present case. The first respondent in the Appeals are not beneficiaries, it is next pointed out as no valid waqf has been established. There is no evidence to suggest that the alleged waqf was generating any income which was being distributed amongst the beneficiaries. This meant that the three sons of D the original Wakif were not beneficiaries and were not so treated. It is also pointed out that there is no bar in law preventing the beneficiary of waqf from claiming adverse possession. The bar applies only to a Mutawalli. This is for the reason that the Mutawalli holds a fiduciary duty towards the Waqf. It is open to the first respondent, it is lastly pointed out, to plead both title and adverse possession simultaneously. E Reliance was placed on M. Siddiq (Dead)Through Legal Representatives (Ram Janmabhumi Temple Case) v. Mahant Suresh Das and others13 and Karnataka Board of Wakf v. Govt. of India and others14. SUBMISSIONS OF RESPONDENT NOS. 2 AND 4 F 14. Respondent Nos. 2 and 4 are Assistant Survey Commissioner Waqf, Bulandshehar and the Collector, Waqf, Bulandshehar, U.P., respectively. The learned Senior Counsel, Shri S.R. Singh would submit that the compromise application by the three sons of Akbar Ali Khan without prior approval of the Board, as contemplated in the Act of 1960, G was not maintainable in view of the requirement of Section 69 of the 1960 Act. The of the Deputy Director of Consolidation setting 12 (1967) 2 SCR 318 13 (2020) 1 SCC 1 H 14 (2004) 10 SCC 779 SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 957 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] aside the dated 29.01.1969 and also the dated 02.03.1972 A was illegal. The Controller of the Waqf Board held inquiry on the complaint before the Waqf Board. He found that the disputed property was Waqf property which was registered as such in the Register of Waqfs. It was further found that the property was illegally sold without obtaining the sanction of the Board. Thereupon, the Controller issued the requisition B to the Collector to obtain possession. The High Court placed reliance on of this Court in Thakur Mohd. Ismail v. Thakur Sabir Ali15, that in a waqf-alal-aulad, the property stood transferred to the Almighty but still dismissed the Revisions without considering whether title could be acquired by adverse possession. He points out that the High Court did not consider the question whether Articles 65 and 96 of the Limitation C Act could be invoked against the God/Almighty. The passed by the Deputy Director, Consolidation was a nullity, being bereft of sanction under Section 69 of the 1960 Act. The result was the earlier decisions of the Consolidation Authorities stood restored wherein it was held that the Waqf in question was a valid Waqf.