(j) Clause 13(c) provides that the allotment would be for a period of ten years and at the expiry of the ten years or completion of the project for which land was allotted whichever is earlier, the lease would be converted into a sale subject to fulfi llment of the terms and conditions of allotment and payment of price of land in full as fi nally fi xed. It further records that the decision of the lessor in the said behalf would be fi nal and binding. Clauses 13(b) and 13(c) are reproduced hereunder: “13(b). As soon as it may be convenient the LESSOR shall fi x the price of the demised premises in the allotment letter and at which it will be sold to the LESSEE and communicate it to the LESSEE and the decision of the LESSOR in this regard will be fi nal and binding on the LESSEE. The LESSEE should pay the balance of the value of the property, if any after adjusting the premium and the total amount of the rent paid by the LESSEE and earnest money deposit within one month from the date of KARNATAKA STATE ELECTRONICS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 787 LTD. v. KUMAON ENTERTAINMENT AND HOSPITALITIES PVT. LTD. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] receipt of communication from LESSOR. On the other hand, if any sum is determined as payable by the LESSOR to the LESSEE after the adjustment as aforesaid, such sum shall be refunded to the LESSEE before the date of execution of the sale deed. (c) The allotment of land is on lease cum sale basis for a period of ten year. At the end of ten years or completion of the project for which land is allotted whichever is early, the lease shall be converted into a sale subject to fulfi llment of all the terms and conditions of allotment and payment of price of land in full as fi nally fi xed subject to adjustment of amounts paid by you towards premium and rents. The conversion of lease into a sale shall be subject to the utilization of minimum 50% of the extent handed over as determined by LESSOR on merits of each case. The decision of LESSOR in this behalf is fi nal and binding on you.” 18. The request of the respondent for change of name and status was permitted by issuing a No Objection Certifi cate on 18.05.2007 from Partnership to Private Limited Company. The request for change of activity from IT sector to Hospitality sector was permitted vide communication dated 24.09.2007 subject to payment of charges for change of activity i.e.Rs.5 lakhs at that time. 19. The Government Audit Party, while auditing the records of the appellant, raised an objection at Audit Enquiry No.27 vide communication dated 06.11.2008 that the appellant was suff ering a loss of at least Rs.78.25 lakhs in as much as the change in activity from IT related sector to hospitality sector would amount to a fresh transaction and, therefore, the rate prevailing at the time of seeking change in activity should have been applied treating it to be a fresh transfer.