Therefore, though the notification ex-facie does not specify retrospective operation, since it retroactively destroys the rights which were available, it is to be ensured that such of those beneficiaries of the right should D not be affected by such notification. Though the rule against retrospective construction is not applicable to statutes merely because a part of the requisite for its action is drawn from a time antecedent to its passing, in the instant case the rights were conferred under the notification and such rights are being affected E by subsequent notification, which is detrimental and the same should be avoided to that extent and be allowed to operate without such retroactivity. It is not retrospective inasmuch as it does not affect the OCI Cardholders who have participated in the selection process, have secured a seat and are either undergoing or completed the MBBS course or such other professional course. F However, it will act as retroactive action to deny the right to persons who had such right which is not sustainable to that extent. The goal post is shifted when the game is about to be over. The retroactive operation resulting in retrospective consequences should be set aside and such adverse consequences is to be G avoided. [Paras 53, 54][298-D-H; 299-A] 1.10 Though the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 is based on a policy and in the exercise of the statutory power of a Sovereign State, the provisions as contained therein shall apply prospectively only to persons who are born in a foreign country H 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A subsequent to 04.03.2021 i.e. the date of the notification and who seek for a registration as OCI cardholder from that date since at that juncture the parents would have a choice to either seek for citizenship by descent or to continue as a foreigner in the background of the subsisting policy of the Sovereign State. The respondent No.1 in furtherance of the policy of the Sovereign B State has the power to pass appropriate notifications as contemplated under Section 7B(1) of the Citizenship Act, 1955, to confer or alter the rights as provided for therein. However, when a conferred right is withdrawn, modified or altered, the process leading thereto should demonstrate application of mind, C nexus to the object of such withdrawal or modification and any such decision should be free of arbitrariness. In that background, the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 though competent under Section 7B(1) of Act, 1955 suffers from the vice of non- application of mind and despite being prospective, is in fact ‘retroactive’ taking away the rights which were conferred also as D a matter of policy of the Sovereign State. Hence, the notification being sustainable prospectively, it is hereby declared that the impugned portion of the notification which provides for supersession of the notifications dated 11.04.2005, 05.01.2007 and 05.01.2009 and the clause 4(ii), its proviso and Explanation E (1) thereto shall operate prospectively in respect of OCI cardholders who have secured the same subsequent to 04.03.2021.