(6) While discharging the functions conferred by this article, the Goods and Services Tax Council shall be guided by the need for a harmonized structure of goods and services tax and for the development of a harmonised national market for goods and services. (7) One-half of the total number of Members of the Goods and Services Tax Council shall constitute the quorum at its meetings. (8) The Goods and Services Tax Council shall determine the procedure in the performance of its functions. (9) Every decision of the Goods and Services Tax Council shall be taken at a meeting, by a majority of not less than three-fourths of the weighted votes of the members present and voting, in accordance with the following principles, namely:--- (a) the vote of the Central Government shall be a weightage of one- third of the total votes cast, and (b) the votes of all the State Governments taken together shall have a weightage of two-thirds of the total votes cast, in that meeting. 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (10) No act or proceedings of the Goods and Services Tax Council shall be invalid merely by reason of--- (a) any vacancy in, or any defect in, the constitution of the Council; or (b) any defect in the appointment of a person as a Member of the Council; or (c) any procedural irregularity of the Council not aff ecting the merits of the case. (11) The Goods and Services Tax Council shall establish a mechanism to adjudicate any dispute--- (a) between the Government of India and one or more States; or (b) between the Government of India and any State or States on one side and one or more other States on the other side; or (c) between two or more States, arising out of the recommendations of the Council or implementation thereof.” 13. Section 14 (of the Amendment)had the eff ect of introducing Article 366 (12A), (26-A) and (26-B). A crucial amendment was in the VIIth Schedule to the Constitution. In List I (Union List) for Entry 84, the following entry was substituted: “84. Duties of excise on the following goods manufactured or produced in India, namely:--- (a) Petroleum crude; (b) High speed diesel; (c) Motor spirit (commonly known as petrol); (d) Natural gas; (e) Aviation turbine fuel; and (f) Tobacco and tobacco products.”; Entries 92 and 92 C (Union List)were omitted. Similarly, Entry 52 was omitted and Entry 54 was substituted. The new Entry 54, reads as follows: THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 157 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “54. Taxes on the sale of petroleum crude, high speed diesel, motor spirit (commonly known as petrol), natural gas, aviation turbine fuel and alcoholic liquor for human consumption, but not including sale in the course of inter-State trade or commerce or sale in the course of international trade or commerce of such goods.” Section 19 read as follows: “19. Notwithstanding anything in this Act, any provision of any law relating to tax on goods or services or on both in force in any State immediately before the commencement of this Act, which is inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution as amended by this Act shall continue to be in force until amended or repealed by a competent Legislature or other competent authority or until expiration of one year from such commencement, whichever is earlier.” Section 20 read as follows: “20.