(4) What are the respective shares of the plaintiff, Defendant No. 1 and Defendant No. 2 in the suit property? (5) Which of the properties in suit are ancestral and self- acquired of Kumar Sahu? B (6) What are the shares of plaintiff and Defendant No. 2 in the mesne profit and from what date they are entitled to the same? (7) Are the alienations made by different parties out of the suit property at different points of time to be adjusted to their C respective shares? (8) Whether the settlement deed dated 20.07.1985 executed by late Nisamani Dei has been acted upon and are plaintiff and Defendant No. 2 bound by the same? D (9) Was there sufficient joint family nucleus in the hand of Defendant No. 1 for alleged construction of the estate of the joint family? (10) Whether the property of Khata No. 18 in Schedule E of the amended plaint is available for partition? E (11) To what relief the parties are entitled? The trial court decreed the suit and observed that the plaintiff had one-sixth share in the ancestral property and one-third share in the separate property. The said decree is being challenged by Defendant No. 1.” F 9. The suit between the parties was adjudicated and vide the and dated 30.12.1986 the Civil Judge drew a preliminary decree as under: “ G The suit is decreed preliminarily on contest against defendant No: 1 with costs an D-2 without cost. Plaintiff is entitled to 2 annas 8 pies (1/6th) share and 1/3rd share in respect of ancestral and self acquired properties and super structures thereon (Houses and buildings) respectively of Late Kumar Charan Sahu out of the suit properties. She is also entitled to H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 33 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the same share in respect of mense profits thereof, from the A date of institution of the suit. Defendant No-2 is also entitled to same share of properties and mense profits. Defendant No: 1 is entitled to 10 annas 8 pies (2/3rd) and 1/3rd share in ancestral and self acquired properties respectively and superstructure thereon of Late Kumar Charan Sahu and mense B profits thereof. An Amin Commissioner is to be deputed for effecting partition on the above basis who is the final decree proceeding will apportion shares on above basis after ascertaining the details of ancestral and self acquired properties an superstructures thereon and also the quantum of mense profits in the light of indications and finding reached C on different issues discussed in the . After ascertainment of such share plaintiff and Defendant No:2 are to be put in possession of such properties that would be allotted to them separately in consequence of the final decree proceeding. Hearing fee at contested useable.” D 10. Thus, the Trial Court directed that: (i) the properties listed in the Schedule ‘A’ to ‘F’ referred to above shall be considered as ancestral properties, while the properties listed in the Schedule ‘J’ (1 to 8 properties) were considered as the self-acquired properties of Late Shri E Kumar Sahoo.