D If that were so, it raises the question as to who prepared these memos, which still needs to be answered by the prosecution. 25. Pertinent to note here is that no direct evidence is available which firmly proves the ballistic report, i.e., the expert’s report. Further, neither the expert who analysed and conducted the chemical analysis E nor the author of the report stand examined. 26. Statement of the Investigating Officer that appellant Pankaj Singh was called to the police station itself is uninspiring in confidence, for there is no written communication on record which reflects the same. Further, it is also not his version that he was called by any other mode or F that the co-accused had brought him to the police station. 27. We find PW-23 not to have placed on record any case diary indicating his movements to the spot of recovery. In light of the given facts and circumstances, this fact acquires significance. It is also observed that before arresting the accused, no information was ever supplied to G the family members of any of the accused persons. Moreover, some of the accused, residents of other States, for instance, Uttar Pradesh, were arrested without supplying any information to their relatives. This is in contravention to the directions issued in D.K Basu v. State of WB (1997) 1 SCC 416, the relevant portion thereof is as under:- H MAGHAVENDRA PRATAP SINGH @ PANKAJ SINGH v. 841 STATE OF CHHATTISGARH [SANJAY KAROL, J.] “(3) A person who has been arrested or detained and is being held A in custody in a police station or interrogation centre or other lock-up, shall be entitled to have one friend or relative or other person known to him or having interest in his welfare being informed, as soon as practicable, that he has been arrested and is being detained at the particular place, unless the attesting witness of the memo B of arrest is himself such a friend or a relative of the arrestee. (4) The time, place of arrest and venue of custody of an arrestee must be notified by the police where the next friend or relative of the arrestee lives outside the district or town through the Legal Aid Organisation in the District and the police station of the area C concerned telegraphically within a period of 8 to 12 hours after the arrest.” 28. In pursuance of these directions, Section 79 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 was introduced, laying down the process for “Warrant directed to police officer for executionoutside jurisdiction”. D 29. The record does not reflect that the house from which the recoveries were affected belonged to accused Abhishek Singh. Regarding the conduct of the search, we may also observe that the owner of the house was not examined. This begs the question that if both Abhishek and Sunil were aware of the situs of incriminating articles, then why is it E that recoveries were not affected by their statements or through them?