Rights and entitlements of an adopted son of a Hindu widow, as available in Hindu Law, as against his adoptive family, cannot axiomatically be held to be available to such adopted son, as against the government, in a case D specifically governed by extant pension rules. The provisions of the HAMA Act, 1956, relate generally to the capacity of the female Hindu to take a son or daughter in adoption and the effects that follow such an adoption. The said provisions do not lend much assistance in the instant case which does not pertain to the rights of the adoptee such as the Appellant herein under Hindu Law, E but to his rights and entitlements under the CCS (Pension) Rules. There exists a vital difference between the rights of an adopted son under Hindu Law and his rights to draw family pension, which creates a burden on the public exchequer. It is therefore necessary to determine the rights and entitlements of the F Appellant having regard to Rule 54 (14) (b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules. [Para 10][943-D-G] 2. The use of the phrase “in relation to” in statutes is with a view to bring one person or thing into association or connection with another person or thing. The direct or indirect nature of G such association or connection depends on the context. In Rule 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, the phrase “in relation to a government servant” would indicate that the categories of persons listed thereunder, such as wife, husband, judicially separated wife or husband, son or unmarried daughter who has not attained the age of twenty-five years, adopted son or daughter, H etc. are sought to be brought into association with the deceased SHRI RAM SHRIDHAR CHIMURKAR v. UNION OF INDIA & 933 ANR. government servant. The context requires that association or A connection of such persons with the deceased government servant must be direct and not remote. The said Rule requires that the family member must have a close nexus with the deceased government servant, and must have been dependent on him during his lifetime. Therefore, a son or daughter adopted by the widow B of a deceased government servant, after the death of the government servant, could not be included within the definition of ‘family’ under Rule 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules. Family pension was devised as a means to help the dependents of the deceased government servant tide over the crisis and to extend to them some succour. Therefore, the definition of the C term ‘family’ cannot be extended to include those persons who were not even dependents of the government servant, at the time of his death. [Para 11.1 & 12][944-H; 945-A-D; 946-B] 3. The cannon of construction described in the principle, Nocitur a Sociis, may be applied to the present case. The said D principle posits that the meaning of a phrase must be construed having regard to the words immediately surrounding it. In the present case, the heirs listed under Rule 54(14)(b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules are the immediate dependents of the deceased government servant.