Article 16(1) guarantees a right to an individual citizen whereas Article 16(4) permits protective discrimination in favour of a class. It is, therefore, D mandatory that the opportunity to compete for the reserve posts has to be given to a class and not to the individuals. When direct recruitment to a service is made the ‘backward class’ as a whole is given an opportunity to be considered for the reserve posts. Every member of the said class has a E right to compete. But that is not true of the process of promotion. The backward class as a collectivity is nowhere in the picture; only the individuals, who have already entered the service against reserve posts, are considered. In the higher echelons of State services — cadre strength being small — there may be very few or even a single F ‘backward class’ candidate to be considered for promotion to the reserve post. An individual citizen’s right guaranteed under Article 16(1) can only be curtailed by providing reservations for a ‘backward class’ and not for backward individuals. The promotional posts are not offered to the G backward class. Only the individuals are benefited. The object, context and the plain language of Article 16(4) make it clear that the job reservation can be done only in the direct recruitment and not when the higher posts are filled by way of promotion.” H 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A e. PB Sawant, J “540. However, if it becomes necessary to answer the question, it will have to be held that the reservations both under Articles 16(1) and 16(4) should be confined only to initial appointments. Except in the decision B in Rangachari [(1962) 2 SCR 586 : AIR 1962 SC 36] there was no other occasion for this Court to deliberate upon this question. In that decision, the Constitution Bench by a majority of three took the view that the reservations under Article 16(4) would also extend to the promotions on the ground that Articles 16(1) and 16(2) are intended to give C effect to Articles 14 and 15(1). Hence Article 16(1) should be construed in a broad and general, and not pedantic and technical way. So construed, “matters relating to employment” cannot mean merely matters prior to the act of appointment nor can ‘appointment to any office’ mean D merely the initial appointment but must also include all matters relating to the employment, that are either incidental to such employment or form part of its terms and conditions, and also include promotion to a selection post. The Court further observed that: (SCR headnote p. 587) E “Although Article 16(4), which in substance is an exception to Articles 16(1) and 16(2) and should, therefore, be strictly construed, the court cannot in construing it overlook the extreme solicitude shown by the Constitution for the advancement of socially and educationally backward classes of citizens.The scope of Article 16(4), though not F as extensive as that of Article 16(1) and (2), — and some of the matters relating to employment such as salary, increment, gratuity, pension and the age of superannuation, must fall outside its non-obstante clause, there can be no doubt that it must include appointments and posts in the G services.