The reliance placed by the Appellants on the said provision is, thus, F completely misplaced and is liable to be rejected. Question No. II: 18. Section 493 of the MMC Act reads as follows: - “493. Transitory provisions.- The provisions of Appendix IV shall apply to the constitution of the Corporation and other matters G specified therein.” It may be seen that the provisions of Appendix (IV) shall apply to the constitution of the Corporation and other matters specified therein. Clause (1) of Appendix (IV) pertains to ‘construction of reference in H 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A other enactments’ whereas Clause 2 provides that all rights of the municipality or any other local authority shall, on the date in question, vest in the Corporation constituted for the said area. Clauses (3) and (4) deal with ‘sums due’ and ‘debts, obligations, contracts and pending proceedings’, respectively. B 19. Clause (5) thereafter reads as follows:- “APPENDIX IV TRANSITORY PROVISIONS 1. Construction of references in other enactments. …. C 2. Transfer of rights.- … 3. Sums due. - …. 4. Debts, obligations, contracts and pending proceedings. - …. D 5. Continuation of appointments, taxes, budget estimates, assessments, etc. – Save as expressly provided by the provisions of this Appendix or by a notification issued under paragraph 22 or made under paragraph 23, - (a) any appointment, notification, notice, tax, , scheme, E licence, permission, rule, bye-law or form made, issued, imposed or granted under (the area constituted to be a City immediately, before the appointed day shall, in so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue in force until it is superseded by any appointment, notification, notice, tax, , scheme, licence, permission, rule, bye-law, or form made, issued, F imposed or granted under this Act or any other law as aforesaid, as the case may be; (b) all budget estimates, assessments, valuations, measurements, and divisions made under (the Maharashtra Municipalities Act, 1965) or any other law in force in any area constituted to be a G City immediately before the appointed day shall in so far as they are consistent with the provisions of this Act, be deemed to have been made under this Act; (c) all officers and servants in the employ of the said municipality or local authority immediately before the appointed day shall be H MAHARASHTRA RAJYA PADVIDHAR PRATHAMIK SHIKSHAK VA 995 KENDRA PRAMUKH SABHA v. PUNE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] officers and servants employed by the Corporation under this Act A and shall, until other provision is made in accordance with the provisions of this Act, receive salaries and allowances and be subject to the conditions of service to which they were entitled to subject on such date: Provided that service rendered by such officers and servants B before the appointed day shall be deemed to be service rendered in the service of the Corporation: Provided further that it shall be competent to the Corporation to discontinue the services of any officer or servant who, in its opinion, is not necessary or suitable to the requirements of the municipal C service, after giving such officer or servant, such notice as is required to be given by the terms of his employment and every officer or servant whose services are so discontinued, shall be entitled to such leave, pension or gratuity as he would have been entitled to take or receive on being invalided out of service if this D Act had not been passed.” [Emphasis applied] 20.