Thus, for covering an offence under Section 364-A, apart from fulfilment of first condition, the second condition i.e. “and threatens to cause death or hurt to such person” also needs to be proved in case the case is not covered by subsequent clauses joined by “or”. C 15. The word “and” is used as conjunction. The use of word “or” is clearly distinctive. Both the words have been used for different purpose and object. Crawford on Interpretation of Law while dealing with the subject “disjunctive” and “conjunctive” words with regard to criminal statute made following statement: “… The court should be extremely reluctant in a criminal D statute to substitute disjunctive words for conjunctive words, and vice versa, if such action adversely affects the accused.” xxx 33. After noticing the statutory provision of Section 364-A E and the law laid down by this Court in the above noted cases, we conclude that the essential ingredients to convict an accused under Section 364-A which are required to be proved by the prosecution are as follows: (i) Kidnapping or abduction of any person or keeping a F person in detention after such kidnapping or abduction; and (ii) threatens to cause death or hurt to such person, or by his conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt or; (iii) causes hurt or death to such person in to compel G the Government or any foreign State or any Governmental organisation or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom. Thus, after establishing first condition, one more condition has to be fulfilled since after first condition, word used is “and”. Thus, in H RAVI DHINGRA v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 179 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] addition to first condition either Condition (ii) or (iii) has to be A proved, failing which conviction under Section 364-A cannot be sustained.” Thus, this Court in SK Ahmed set aside the conviction under Section 364A of the IPC and modified the same to conviction under Section 363, for the reason that the additional conditions were not met by observing B as follows: “42. The second condition having not been proved to be established, we find substance in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant that conviction of the appellant is unsustainable under Section 364-A IPC. We, thus, set aside the C conviction of the appellant under Section 364-A. However, from the evidence on record regarding kidnapping, it is proved that the accused had kidnapped the victim for ransom, demand of ransom was also proved. Even though offence under Section 364-A has not been proved beyond reasonable doubt but the offence of D kidnapping has been fully established to which effect the learned Sessions Judge has recorded a categorical finding in paras 19 and 20. The offence of kidnapping having been proved, the appellant deserves to be convicted under Section 363. Section 363 provides for punishment which is imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to E fine.” 15.