v. JAYANTIBHAI 705 ISHWARBHAI PATEL [M. R. SHAH, J.] / paying the compensation, and not taking over the possession, there A shall be deemed lapse under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. It is submitted that in the present case there was no lapse at all on the part of the Acquiring Body and/or State Government in not taking the possession and in not tendering / paying the compensation. It is submitted that as such the original land owner refused to accept the compensation which B has been recorded in the dated 07.03.1995. Making above submissions and relying upon decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (Supra), it is prayed to allow the present appeals. 4. Present appeals are vehemently opposed by Shri Nakul Diwan, C learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the contesting respondent – original writ petitioner – original land owner. 4.1 It is prayed by Shri Diwan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the original land owner that before the High Court there was a challenge to the subsequent communication dated 21.01.2009 by D the Assistant Commissioner communicated vide letter dated 05.04.2010 by the learned Special Land Acquisition Officer suo moto cancelling the earlier dated 07.03.1995. It is submitted that the said issue has not been decided by the High Court and therefore, the matter may be remanded to the High Court to consider the legality and validity of the E dated 21.01.2009 passed by the Assistant Commissioner and the communication dated 05.04.2010 by the Special Land Acquisition Officer calling upon the land owner to remain present in the office of Talati- cum-Mantri, Tarsava to receive / accept the compensation. 4.2 It is further submitted by Shri Diwan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the original land owner that in the present case F the original land owner withdrew his consent and therefore, refused to accept the compensation awarded under the consent award and requested to withdraw the acquisition, which came to be accepted by the Assistant Commissioner vide dated 07.03.1995 and the award was cancelled. It is submitted that in that view of the matter, thereafter, after a period of G 15 years, it was not open for the Assistant Commissioner to cancel the dated 07.03.1995 that too in exercise of suo moto powers and without giving any opportunity of hearing to the original land owner. 4.3 It is further submitted by Shri Diwan, learned senior counsel that even otherwise when the original land owner continued to remain in H 706 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A physical possession and cultivating the land in question even for a period of 15 years after the consent award passed in the year 1993 and the compensation was not paid for number of years, in view of Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013, there shall be deemed lapse of acquisition proceedings. It is submitted that therefore the Division Bench of the High Court has not committed any error in setting aside the consent B award on the ground that the same has not been implemented for number of years and that the land in question is not used by the Acquiring Body for the purpose for which it was acquired and the High Court has rightly declared that the acquisition with respect to the land in question is deemed to have lapsed under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013.