It is true that there was no material on record placed by the appellant in the said case of Pawan Gupta (supra) showing the actual increase in the sale area. Nonetheless, the appellant in the instant case, along with its detailed reply, had produced the documents, i.e. the certifi cate dated 23.09.2020 given by the Architects D-idea, the Report dated 23.09.2020 given by Knight Frank (India) Private Limited, the affi davit dated 31.08.2021 by Mr. Muninder Pal Singh, and the affi davit dated 26.04.2022 by Mr. Anurag Mahajan, to show that there was an actual increase in the sale area, justifying its demand for the extra payment. The respondents, in rejoinder, had neither placed any material to contradict the said Architect’s certifi cates and reports nor had they disputed the contents thereof. The only contention raised by them was that the said documents were produced as an afterthought and, therefore, 17 See Fida Hussain and Others v. Moradabad Development Authority and Another, (2011) 12 SCC 615. EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1143 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] could not be taken into consideration. At this juncture, it is also pertinent to note that clause 8.6 of the agreement, provided for an increase/decrease in the sale area as defi ned and also the corresponding sale price increase of upto 10%. The appellant, by producing the said documents, had sought to justify that the variance, i.e. increase in the built up area of the project, which was less than 5% and such variance was within the permissible limits. 36. Thus, we are clearly of the view that the of this Court dismissing the appeal in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra) cannot be read as a precedent and applied to the cases in hand. In fact, precedents cannot decide questions of fact. The decision in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra) was based on evidence adduced by the appellant/builder/developer, which in the said case was not found to be suffi cient and cogent to justify and substantiate the demand raised in view of the increased sale area. No doubt, the architect’s certifi cate and report dated 23.09.2020 was fi led before this Court as additional documents, but a non-reasoned passed by this Court dismissing the case cannot be read as accepting and considering the additional evidence, or as rejecting justifi cation and reasons given therein for claiming additional/increased sale area. Any additional evidence sought to be produced at the appellate stage can only be introduced when an appropriate application under Rule 27 to XLI of the Code of Civil Procedure,1908 is moved and an is passed taking them on record. Therefore, the passed by this Court dismissing the appeal in the case of Pawan Gupta (supra) is confi ned to the facts of the said case, including the evidence led by the parties before the National Commission. The National Commission was therefore required to consider and examine the contentions of the appellant and not overrule the same on the grounds of the principle of res judicata and on the rule of binding precedent, which do not apply.