and the particular legislation contains a detailed mechanism for redressal of his grievance. xxx xxx xxx CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 143 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 55. It is a matter of serious concern that despite repeated pronouncement of this Court, the High Courts continue to ignore the availability of statutory remedies under the DRT Act and the SARFAESI Act and exercise jurisdiction under Article 226 for passing s which have serious adverse impact on the right of banks and other fi nancial institutions to recover their dues. We hope and trust that in future the High Courts will exercise their discretion in such matters with greater caution, care and circumspection.” 93. In Commissioner of Income Tax & Ors. v. Chhabil Dass Agarwal reported in (2014) 1 SCC 603, this Court in para 15 made the following observations: “15. Thus, while it can be said that this Court has recognised some exceptions to the rule of alternative remedy i.e. where the statutory authority has not acted in accordance with the provisions of the enactment in question, or in defi ance of the fundamental principles of judicial procedure, or has resorted to invoke the provisions which are repealed, or when an has been passed in total violation of the principles of natural justice, the proposition laid down in Thansingh Nathmal case [AIR 1964 SC 1419], Titaghur Paper Mills case [Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. v. State of Orissa, (1983) 2 SCC 433 : 1983 SCC (Tax) 131] and other similar s that the High Court will not entertain a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution if an eff ective alternative remedy is available to the aggrieved person or the statute under which the action complained of has been taken itself contains a mechanism for redressal of grievance still holds the fi eld. Therefore, when a statutory forum is created by law for redressal of grievances, a writ petition should not be entertained ignoring the statutory dispensation.” 94. In Phoenix ARC Private Limited v. Vishwa Bharati Vidya Mandir & Ors. reported in (2022) 5 SCC 345, it was observed as under: “18. Even otherwise, it is required to be noted that a writ petition against the private fi nancial institution — ARC — the appellant herein under Article 226 of the Constitution of India against the proposed action/actions under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act can be said to be not maintainable. In the present case, the ARC proposed to 144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. take action/actions under the SARFAESI Act to recover the borrowed amount as a secured creditor. The ARC as such cannot be said to be performing public functions which are normally expected to be performed by the State authorities. During the course of a commercial transaction and under the contract, the bank/ARC lent the money to the borrowers herein and therefore the said activity of the bank/ARC cannot be said to be as performing a public function which is normally expected to be performed by the State authorities.