In that view of the matter, the High Court has committed a C serious error in drawing a statutory presumption as to the authenticity of the sale deeds. There may be a statutory presumption as per Section 60 of the Registration Act where all other requirements of execution of the sale deed, required to be complied with under the Registration Act are complied with and the genuineness of the PoA on the basis of which the sale deed was executed is not doubted. D 10. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above and as the PoA is not produced on record; the executant of the PoA in favour of plaintiff No.2 has not stepped into the witness box; there is a non- compliance of Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act; and the plaintiff no.2 is claiming title on the basis of the PoA alleged to have been E executed by the original owner which is not forthcoming and that plaintiff no.1 is claiming the title on the basis of the sale deed dated 29.09.1968 executed by plaintiff No.2 as a PoA holder of the original owner which is not forthcoming, I am of the opinion that the learned trial Court was justified and right in dismissing the suit and refusing to pass a decree for F a declaration of title in favour of the plaintiffs. The same was rightly confirmed by the first appellate Court. The High Court has committed a serious error in decreeing the suit. The impugned and of the High Court is unsustainable both, on law as well as on facts. 11. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the G present Appeal Succeeds and is Allowed. The impugned and passed by the High Court decreeing the suit is hereby quashed and set aside and the and decree passed by the trial Court, confirmed by the first appellate Court, is hereby restored. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 163 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS NAGARATHNA, J. A I have had the advantage of reading the proposed by His Lordship M.R. Shah, J. However, I am unable to agree with the reasoning as well as the result arrived at by His Lordship. Hence, my separate . B The defendants in Title Suit No. 201 of 1985 have assailed the and decree dated 05th April, 2018, passed by the High Court of Tripura in Regular Second Appeal No. 01 of 2005. By the impugned , the and decree dated 26th August, 2004 passed in Title Appeal No. 02 of 1996 by the First Appellate Court, i.e., the Court of the District Judge, West Tripura, Agartala, affirming the C and decree dated 11th September, 1995 in Trial Suit No. 201 of 1985 has been set-aside. Consequently, the suit has been decreed by the High Court. Hence, the appeal by the defendants in the suit.