If, in the unlikely event, the contents of the complaint and the supporting statements on oath as well as reports of investigation/inquiry reveal a complete defence under any of the Exceptions to section 499, IPC, the Magistrate, upon due application of 25 (2004) 4 SCC 432 254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. judicial mind, would be justifi ed to dismiss the complaint on such ground and it would not amount to an act in excess of jurisdiction if such dismissal has the support of reasons. 46. Adverting to the aspect of exercise of jurisdiction by the High Courts under section 482, Cr. PC, in a case where the off ence of defamation is claimed by the accused to have not been committed based on any of the Exceptions and a prayer for quashing is made, law seems to be well settled that the High Courts can go no further and enlarge the scope of inquiry if the accused seeks to rely on materials which were not there before the Magistrate. This is based on the simple proposition that what the Magistrate could not do, the High Courts may not do. We may not be understood to undermine the High Courts’ powers saved by section 482, Cr. PC; such powers are always available to be exercised ex debito justitiae, i.e., to do real and substantial justice for administration of which alone the High Courts exist. However, the tests laid down for quashing an F.I.R. or criminal proceedings arising from a police report by the High Courts in exercise of jurisdiction under section 482, Cr. PC not being substantially diff erent from the tests laid down for quashing of a process issued under section 204 read with section 200, the High Courts on recording due satisfaction are empowered to interfere if on a reading of the complaint, the substance of statements on oath of the complainant and the witness, if any, and documentary evidence as produced, no off ence is made out and that proceedings, if allowed to continue, would amount to an abuse of the legal process. This too, would be impermissible, if the justice of a given case does not overwhelmingly so demand. 47. Based on our understanding of the law and the reasoning that we have adopted, issue of process under section 204 read with section 200, Cr. PC does not ipso facto stand vitiated for non-consideration of the Exceptions to section 499, IPC unless, of course, before the High Court it is convincingly demonstrated that even on the basis of the complaint and the materials that the Magistrate had before him and without there being anything more, the facts alleged do not prima facie make out the off ence of defamation and that consequently, the proceedings need to be closed. 48. The above discussion answers the questions of law formulated by us. M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 255 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 49. Moving on to answer question (a), what we fi nd in the present case is that the Trial Court did not take recourse to section 202, Cr.