It is also opposed C to the concept of protecting and preserving the heritage status of Corbusian Chandigarh. As such, it is necessary that the respondent-authorities must take every possible step for preserving the heritage status of Corbusian Chandigarh. XI. ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES: D 145. One another important aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is the adverse impact on environment on account of haphazard urbanization. It will be relevant to refer to Clause 20.3 of the CMP-2031 which we have already reproduced hereinabove. It has been recommended that an Effective Environmental Management Plan be devised for the region including Chandigarh, which includes environmental E strategy, monitoring regulation, institutional capacity building and economic incentives. It is observed that the proposal needs a legal framework and a monitoring committee to examine the regional level proposals/big developments by the constitution of an Inter State high powered Regional Environmental Management Board, as per the proposal of the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India. F 146. The United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) notes in its publication titled “Integrating the Environment in Urban Planning and Management – Key Principles and Approaches for Cities in the 21st Century” that more than half of the world’s population is now living in urban areas. It further noted that by the year 2050, more than G half of Africa and Asia’s population will live in towns and cities. It recognized that City Development Strategies (CDSs) have shown how to integrate environmental concerns in long-term city visioning exercises. It states that environmental mainstreaming can help to incorporate relevant environmental concerns into the decisions of institutions, while emerging ideas about the green urban economy show how density can H 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A generate environmental and social opportunities. It states that the strategies need to be underpinned with governance structures that facilitate integration of environmental concerns in the planning process. 147. The said publication defines EIA to be an analytical process or procedure that systematically examines the possible environmental consequences of the implementation of a given activity (project). It is B aimed to ensure that the environmental implications of decisions related to a given activity are taken into account before the decisions are made. 148. Judicial notice is also taken of the cover story published in the weekly, “India Today”, dated 24th October 2022, titled as “Bengaluru – How to Ruin India’s Best City” by Raj Chengappa with Ajay C Sukumaran. The said article depicts the sorry state of affairs as to how the city of Bengaluru, once considered to be one of India’s best cities, a ‘Garden city’ has been ruined on account of haphazard urban development. It takes note of as to how on account of one major spell of rain in the September of 2022, the city bore the brunt of nature’s fury. Various areas of the city were inundated with heavy rains. The loss the D flood caused to the Outer Ring road tech corridor alone was estimated to be over Rs.225 crore.