SC/ST/ OBC/(without OBC Annexure)/EWS(without EWS Annexure)/PwBD/Ex- Servicemen] and educational qualifi cation with required Examination Fee, within the prescribed time for the same. Any delay, according to Rule 13, in submission of the DAF-I or documents in support beyond the prescribed date was not allowed and will lead to cancellation of the candidature for the CSE-2022. 41. It is very clear that an EWS candidate acquired eligibility to be an EWS candidate for the purpose of CSE-2022 only if the candidate met the criterion prescribed by the Central Government and is in possession of the requisite I&AC based on the income for the F.Y. 2020-2021. Read with Rule 28,the candidate should also be in possession of the certifi cate as on 22.02.2022. So it is beyond cavil that one cannot decide for oneself that the candidate is an EWS candidate and only on the fulfi lment of the criteria and the issuance of the certifi cate before 22.02.2022 will the eligibility as an EWS candidate, enure to the benefi t of the candidate for the CSE-2022. The argument of Shri K. Parameshwar, learned counsel, that being from the “EWS” category is a status and the I&AC to be produced is only a proof and as such the I&AC can be produced at any stage cannot be accepted in the teeth of the clear prescription in the Offi ce Memoranda read with the CSE-2022 Rules. Further, as required under Rule 13, at the stage of DAF-I the document had to be submitted on-line before the prescribed date (in the present case for CSE-2022 the date was 15.07.2022) and that any delay in submission of DAF-I or document beyond the prescribed date was not allowed. These clear stipulations run counter to the submissions of learned counsel that on the rectifi cation of a certifi cate it relates back to the date of the certifi cate. 42. The entire burden of the song of the petitioners is that they were eligible EWS candidates and that it was only a delay caused in the production of proof thereof. They repeatedly urge before us the dictum of Krishna Iyer, J., in Charles K. Skaria (supra),namely:- DIVYA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 65 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] “….To confuse between a fact and its proof is blurred perspicacity. To make mandatory the date of acquiring the additional qualifi cation before the last date for application makes sense. But if it is unshakeably shown that the qualifi cation has been acquired before the relevant date, as is the case here, to invalidate this merit factor because proof, though indubitable, was adduced a few days later but before the selection or in a manner not mentioned in the prospectus, but still above-board, is to make procedure not the handmaid but the mistress and form not as subservient to substance but as superior to the essence.” 43. In Charles K. Skaria (supra), most candidates possessed the eligibility viz. the diploma. Only the proof in the form of certifi cate was awaited.