“Competent court” in Clause 13.1.2 is defined as meaning only the judicial system of India. G …… 56. However, insofar as the applicability of Clause 13 to a change in Indian law is concerned, the respondents are on firm ground. It will be seen that under Clause 13.1.1 if there is a change in any consent, approval or licence available or obtained for the project, H 676 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A otherwise than for the default of the seller, which results in any change in any cost of the business of selling electricity, then the said seller will be governed under Clause 13.1.1. It is clear from a reading of the Resolution dated 21-6-2013, which resulted in the letter of 31-7-2013, issued by the Ministry of Power, that the earlier coal distribution policy contained in the letter dated 18-3-2007 B stands modified as the Government has now approved a revised arrangement for supply of coal. It has been decided that, seeing the overall domestic availability and the likely requirement of power projects, the power projects will only be entitled to a certain percentage of what was earlier allowable……” C 22. It can thus be seen that this Court has held that if there is a Change in any consent, approval or licence available or obtained for the project, otherwise than for the default of the seller, which results in any change in any cost of the business of selling electricity, then the said seller will be governed under Clause 13.1.1 of the PPA. As already D discussed hereinabove, this Court has consistently held that modification to NCDP 2007 by the communication dated 31st July 2013 would amount to Change in Law and the generating companies would be entitled to compensation on account of such Change in Law. Undisputedly, SHAKTI Policy also reduces the ACQ as was assured under the 2007 NCDP. Consequently, SHAKTI Policy will also have to be held to be Change in E Law. 23. A three-Judges Bench of this Court in the case of Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Limited and Others v. ADANI Power Rajasthan Limited and Another3, has also considered the effect of SHAKTI Policy and held that the seller would be entitled to the benefit F occurring on account of SHAKTI Policy. As such, the contention that SHAKTI Policy does not amount to Change in Law is without substance. 24. Following the s in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra) and ADANI Power Rajasthan Limited (supra), this Court, in the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra),observed thus: G “130. The MoP, thereafter, addressed a communication dated 31st July 2013 to the Secretary, CERC specifically pointing out the decision of the CCEA to the effect that the higher cost of imported coal was to be considered for pass-through as per the 3 2020 SCC OnLine SC 697 H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 677 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ] modalities suggested by CERC. The communication states that, A as per the decision of the Government, the higher cost of import/ market based e-auction coal will have to be considered for being made a pass-through on a case to case basis by CERC/SERC to the extent of shortfall in the quantity indicated in the LoA/FSA.