Shrimati Lalmuni Devi (CW-1) was again examined and cross-examined on 29.09.2008 where she fully supported the prosecution story. Prosecution evidence was closed on 29.09.2008. The Trial Court, vide dated 24.10.2008, acquitted all the accused in both the Sessions Trials bearing no. 469 of 2007 and 470 of 2007. There was no challenge to the of acquittal by the State. 12. During the trial, on the date of the statement of CW-1 i.e. 03.11.2006, there was some altercation in the Trial Court where the lawyers and pairokar of the accused, assaulted the family members of CW-1 inside the Courtroom. This was reported in the newspapers inviting attention of the Inspecting Judge. The Inspecting Judge set up an inquiry in which he collected evidence and recorded statements. Based upon the same, he gave a detailed report dated 21.02.2007 criticizing the conduct of the Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court. The judgement in the Habeas Corpus petition incorporates the fi ndings of the Inspecting Judge in the report dated 21.02.2007. Relevant extract from the in the Habeas Corpus petition is reproduced hereunder: “On coming to learn, through some newspaper report about the fracas created in the Court of 7th Additional Sessions Judge, Bhagalpur while the court proceedings were going on, Mr. Justice C.K. Prasad, Inspecting Judge of the judgeship called for reports and ed an enquiry in the matter. After a thorough and painstaking enquiry, he gave a report, dated 21.2.2007. In the beginning of the report, he noted the circumstances in which the trial arising from Masrakh (Panapur) P.S. Case No.62 of 1996, that should normally have taken place at Chapra, was fi rst transferred to Hazaribagh and when as a result of the bifurcation of the State Hazaribagh fell in Jharkhand, it was brought HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 413 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] to Bhagalpur. After taking into account the reports submitted by the District and Session Judge, the 7th Additional Sessions Judge, the Public Prosecutor, statements of witnesses and the report of Dr. D.N. Gautam to whom he entrusted the enquiry, the Hon’ble Judge, in his report, found and held as follows. “I do not have the slightest hesitation in endorsing the reports of the District and Sessions Judge, Bhagalpur as also the Additional Director General of Police that the witness Lalmuni Devi was not produced under proper security. She was frightened and under heavy stress prior to her examination. She was intimidated inside the Court room prior to her examination. She was not normal and the Court atmosphere was highly tensed and abnormal. The materials on record led him to conclude that evidence of Lalmuni Devi cannot be said to have been voluntarily made. I am of the considered opinion that had the Presiding Offi cer of the Court exercised little discretion, this untoward incident ought not have taken place. The Presiding Offi cer of the Court having found that the witness was not looking normal and, in fact, looking frightened and having not been produced under proper security, he ought to have taken these facts seriously and prevented defl ecting the Court of Justice.