1039 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (cid:1) That the Corporate Debtor was required to pay the amount A of Rs.2.70 crores directly to UCO Bank and the Sale Certificate issued by the Bank along with the original title deeds (parent documents) held by the Bank were to be handed over by the Bank to a named solicitor and advocate; (cid:1) That a Definitive Agreement was to be entered into B between Energy Properties and the Corporate Debtor, to enable the Corporate Debtor exclusively to undertake the development of the property; (cid:1) That if no Definitive Agreement was entered into, then the Corporate Debtor shall be entitled to create a charge over C the said property, for securing the repayment of the accommodation amount; (cid:1) That the quid pro quo for the Corporate Debtor providing financial accommodation to Energy Properties, was two- fold, namely, (i)that the shareholders of Energy Properties D should transfer 40% of the total shareholding in Energy Properties to the Corporate Debtor and 20% shareholding to the named Solicitor and Advocate; and (ii) that the Corporate Debtor should be given the exclusive right to develop the property; E (cid:1) That after the Corporate Debtor developed the property, 60% of the total constructed area with the proportionate undivided share of land will go to the Corporate Debtor and the remaining 40% of the constructed area shall go to Energy Properties. F 30. The second document is the Shareholders Agreement executed simultaneously with the MoU on 24.01.2008. This agreement was entered into, for the purpose of transferring 40% of shareholding in Energy Properties to the Corporate Debtor and 20% shareholding to the named Solicitor and Advocate. G 31. Towards fulfilment of their obligation under the MoU dated 24.01.2008, the Corporate Debtor paid necessary amounts to the UCO Bank/Energy Properties/the shareholders of Energy Properties. Therefore, a Sale Certificate was executed by the Authorized Officer of the UCO Bank on 29.01.2008 in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 13(12) of the SARFAESI Act read with Rule 8 of the Security H 1040 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002. The sale price indicated in the said sale certificate was Rs.2,97,03,484/- out of which, a sum of Rs. 2.70 crores was admittedly paid by the Corporate Debtor. 32. The fourth document to be considered is the Development Agreement dated 16.06.2008 entered between Energy Properties and B the Corporate Debtor. This Development Agreement contains a reference to both the MoU and the Shareholders Agreement dated 24.01.2008. It also affirms the fact that the Development Agreement was what was contemplated under the MoU, to be a definitive agreement. The Development Agreement contemplated the handing over of khas and vacant possession of the entire property to the Corporate Debtor. The C Corporate Debtor was imposed with the obligation to develop a housing complex in the said property as per the specifications provided in the Fifth Schedule to the Agreement, at their own cost. One of the covenants contained in the Development Agreement is that Energy Properties will not let-out, lease, mortgage and/or charge the said property without the D consent in writing of the Corporate Debtor.