Submissions on behalf of the Petitioners 37. We have heard Mr Prashant Bhushan and Ms Pritika Kumar, counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners. 38. The petitioners are aggrieved by the non-representation of the Limboo and Tamang Scheduled Tribes in the House of the People and the State Legislative Assemblies, in accordance with Articles 330 and 332 of the Constitution. The provisions stipulate that the Scheduled Tribes will be given reservations in the House of the People as well as the Legislative Assemblies, and that this reservation shall, as nearly as may be, proportionate to their population to the total population of the state. They challenge the 2006 Notifi cation and 2008 on the ground that the Delimitation Commission and the Election Commission have overlooked the Amending Act of 2002 which included, inter alia, these two tribes to the Scheduled Tribes’ List. Accordingly, it has been submitted that the two s, are defective and an election notifi cation based on these s, would also be in violation of Articles 330 and 332. PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1095 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 39. The primary submission urged on their behalf is that unlike Article 15 of the Constitution, which contains enabling provisions for reservation, Articles 330 and 332 contain a mandate for reservation. Moreover, it has been submitted that the mandate is that proportional reservation has to be provided for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes based on the ratio which their population bears to the total population of the State. Hence, it has been urged: • First, that there is a constitutional mandate and the entitlement of the Limboo and Tamang communities as Schedules Tribes which stems from the Amending Act of 2002, whereby they were designated as Scheduled Tribes. Accordingly, it is the plain duty of the Union Government and the Election Commission to act in pursuance of their statutory and constitutional powers. To the extent that the 2006 Notifi cation and the 2008 and Section 7(1A) of the RP Act do not account for the Limboo and Tamang Scheduled Tribes, they violate this mandate; • Second, the Election Commission is empowered, under Article 324 of the Constitution, to issue directions for the readjustment of seats to reserved constituencies; • Third, the provisions of Section 11 of the Delimitation Act and Section 9(1)(aa) of the Representation of People Act 1950 suffi ciently empower the Election Commission to correct any omission. Such an omission, it has been urged, took place when the Delimitation Commission did not include any seats in the reservation list for Limboo and Tamang communities;and • Fourth, the of this Court in Virendra Pratap’s case (supra), which was rendered on 10 January 2012, was not confi ned only to the Respondents in that case, namely, the State of Uttar Pradesh. Just asin the manner that the Election Commission implemented the for the State of Uttar Pradesh, it ought to have done the same thing for other communities designated as Scheduled Castes or Scheduled Tribes since 2002.