… 5.3.1. Steps at the start of the IRP *** B 4. Creation of the creditors committee The creditors committee will have the power to decide the final solution by majority vote in the negotiations. The majority vote requires more than or equal to 75% of the creditors committee by weight of the total financial liabilities. The C majority vote will also involve a cram down option on any dissenting creditors once the majority vote is obtained. … The Committee deliberated on who should be on the creditors committee, given the power of the creditors committee to ultimately keep the entity as a going concern or liquidate it. The D Committee reasoned that members of the creditors committee have to be creditors both with the capability to assess viability, as well as to be willing to modify terms of existing liabilities in negotiations. Typically, operational creditors are neither able to decide on matters regarding the E insolvency of the entity, nor willing to take the risk of postponing payments for better future prospects for the entity. The Committee concluded that, for the process to be rapid and efficient, the Code will provide that the creditors committee should be restricted to only the financial creditors.” F (emphasis in italics is in original) 97.4. In Essar Steel, the Court referred to the above-quoted and other passages from the in K. Sashidhar (supra) and explained the decisive role of the commercial wisdom of the G Committee of Creditors, inter alia, in the following passages: “54. Since it is the commercial wisdom of the Committee of Creditors that is to decide on whether or not to rehabilitate the corporate debtor by means of acceptance of a particular resolution plan, the provisions of the Code H and the Regulations outline in detail the importance of M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 895 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] setting up of such Committee, and leaving decisions to be A made by the requisite majority of the members of the aforesaid Committee in its discretion. … *** *** *** 59. Even though it is the resolution professional who is to run B the business of the corporate debtor as a going concern during the intermediate period, yet, such resolution professional cannot take certain decisions relating to management of the corporate debtor without the prior approval of at least 66% of the votes of the Committee of Creditors. … C 60. Thus, it is clear that since corporate resolution is ultimately in the hands of the majority vote of the Committee of Creditors, nothing can be done qua the management of the corporate debtor by the resolution professional which impacts major decisions to be made in the interregnum between the taking over of D management of the corporate debtor and corporate resolution by the acceptance of a resolution plan by the requisite majority of the Committee of Creditors. Most importantly, under Section 30(4), the Committee of Creditors may approve a resolution plan by a vote of not E less than 66% of the voting share of the financial creditors, after considering its feasibility and viability, and various other requirements as may be prescribed by the Regulations.