If, however, he is temporary in the fi rst appointment, he will cease to have any connection with his old appointment but he shall be given only the benefi t of the past service for leave and pension.” On perusal of the aforesaid Rule, it is clear that if a government servant seeks employment in another unit or department or in another cadre or grade in the same department under the Rules, his/her lien on the original appointment shall be continued to be maintained until absorbed L.R. PATIL v. GULBARGA UNIVERSITY, GULBARGA 113 [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] in the department or cadre in which he/she is newly appointed. In case the employee is absorbed, he/she shall be entitled to the benefi t of the past service for the purpose of leave and pension. 15. Coming to the facts in the present case, the appellant vide dated 08.04.1993 was appointed by the respondent-University as Assistant Registrar and the said fact was duly noted in his service book. His appointment was successfully challenged and resultantly it was quashed by the High Court. Appeals against the said were dismissed. In view of dismissal of appeals, the respondent-University vide Resolution dated 23.12.2000 resolved to retain the appellant back on his previous post i.e., ‘Offi ce Superintendent’. In this context, the ‘Preamble’ of the Resolution reveals that the appellant was relieved to take up the new appointment on permanent post with ‘formal permission’ from the competent authority to avail the benefi t of past service for the purpose of pension and leave as contemplated under Rule 252(b) KCS Rules. It is also subsequently noted in the Resolution that during the pendency of appeal against the quashing the appellant’s appointment, the Division Bench of the High Court passed an interim and stayed the operation of the of learned Single Judge quashing the appointment pending admission of appeal. In the said perspective, it is apparent that, subject to pending litigation assailing the appellant’s appointment as Assistant Registrar, he throughout continued to be on the post of Assistant Registrar as probationer and was never confi rmed or was permanently absorbed on the said post. Be that as it may, if the appellant was never permanently absorbed or confi rmed on the post of ‘Assistant Registrar’, then as per mandate of Rule 20 Note 4 of KCS Rules, his lien shall continue on the original post of the Offi ce Superintendent. 16. On the said issue, the law has been well-settled by this Court in the case of “Ramlal Khurana (dead) by Lrs. Vs. State of Punjab & Others, (1989) 4 SCC 99”, wherein this Court observed that ‘lien’ is not a word of art and it connotes the right of a civil servant to hold the post substantively to which he is appointed, meaning thereby, the appointment of government servant on the said post must be substantive as he/she cannot hold two posts simultaneously in two diff erent cadres and maintain lien on both of them at the same time.