Since it was found that there were proceedings pendingbefore the Commission/Tribunal wherein a similar question would directly arise,transfer petitionswere filed to call for such proceedings to this Court. It is hence, that the H 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Transfer petitions which we are dealing with came to be allowed. This is however, on the understanding that the Court would not go into the merits of the individual cases but would confine itself to ruling on the question of law raised by the appellants, viz., the applicability of the Act to them. 6. We have heard Shri K.K. Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel, B ably assisted by Shri Yaman Verma, learned Counsel. Shri Maninder Singh, learned Senior Counsel, also appears on behalf of the appellant. Also, we have heard Shri N.Venkataraman, learned Additional Solicitor General, on behalf of CCI and Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned Senior Counsel, appearing on behalf of the second respondent in the Appeal/Application. We have further heard learned Counsel appearing in the transferred C cases. SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPELLANTS/APPLICANTS 7. Shri K. K. Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel, would submit that the coal mines operated by the appellants pursuant to the provisions of the Coal Mines (Nationalization) Act, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as D the ‘Nationalisation Act’) would be wholly outside the purview of the Act. This is for the reason that the very purpose and policy underlying the Nationalization Act, was to monopolise the operation of the coal mines and coal mining in the hands of the Central Government and its agencies such as the appellants. It is not an ordinary monopoly. It is a E monopoly created by the Nationalization Act; it is, having regard to the need to immunize it from challenge, that it was accorded protection of Article 31B of the Constitution of India; it has been inserted in the Ninth Schedule to the Constitution; Article 39(b) of the Constitution of India takes it out of the category of ordinary monopoly; this is for the reason that the State has been charged with the duty to bear in mind the principles F of ‘common good’ being secured by the ‘distribution of scarce resources’; coal, with which mineral we are concerned with, is, indeed, a mineral of the highest importance in the economic life of the nation; its equitable distribution in the manner so as to secure the common good which is the directive contained in Article 39(b) led to the creation of a statutorily G mandated monopoly; when such is the thrust of the Nationalisation Act, then, it is wholly inconceivable that the Act would still be applicable to the appellants. It is pointed out, with reference to the Nationalisation Act, that the superintendence of the mines vests with the Central Government or with a corporate body or the company, which it may create. The first appellant is the holding company and there are subsidiary H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 837 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] companies under it.