(3B) Where two or more resolution plans are put to vote simultaneously, the resolution plan, which receives the highest votes, but not less than requisite votes, shall be considered as approved: D Provided that where two or more resolution plans receive equal votes, but not less than requisite votes, the committee shall approve any one of them, as per the tie-breaker formula announced before voting: Provided further that where none of the resolution plans receives E requisite votes, the committee shall again vote on the resolution plan that received the highest votes, subject to the timelines under the Code. *** *** ***] 80[(4) The resolution professional shall endeavour to submit the F resolution plan approved by the committee to the Adjudicating 79 Subs. by Notification No. IBBI/2020-21/GN/REG064, dated 7th August, 2020, for sub-regulation (3) (w.e.f. 7-8-2020). Prior to this substitution, Regulation 39(3) stood as under: “(3) The committee shall evaluate the resolution plans received under sub- G regulation (1) strictly as per the evaluation matrix to identify the best resolution plan and may approve it with such modifications as it deems fit: Provided that the committee shall record its deliberations on the feasibility and viability of the resolution plans. (3A) The committee shall, while approving the resolution plan under sub- section (4) of section (30), specify the amounts payable from resources under the resolution plan for the purposesunder sub-regulation (1) of regulation 38.” H 80 Subs. by Notification No. IBBI/2018-19/GN/REG031, dated 3rd July, 2018, for sub-regulation (4) (w.e.f. 4-7-2018). M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 885 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Authority at least fifteen days before the maximum period for A completion of corporate insolvency resolution process under section 12, along with a compliance certificate in 81[Form H of the 82[Schedule-I] and the evidence of receipt of performance security required under sub-regulation (4A) of regulation 36B].] (5) The resolution professional shall forthwith send a copy of the B of the Adjudicating Authority approving or rejecting a resolution plan to the participants and the resolution applicant. 83[(5A) The resolution professional shall, within fifteen days of the of the Adjudicating Authority approving a resolution plan, intimate each claimant, the principle or formulae, as the case may C be, for payment of debts under such resolution plan: Provided that this sub-regulation shall apply to every corporate insolvency resolution process ongoing and commencing on or after the date of commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate D Persons) (Fifth Amendment) Regulations, 2020;] (6) A provision in a resolution plan which would otherwise require the consent of the members or partners of the corporate debtor, as the case may be, under the terms of the constitutional documents of the corporate debtor, shareholders’ agreement, joint E venture agreement or other document of a similar nature, shall take effect notwithstanding that such consent has not been obtained. (7) No proceedings shall be initiated against the interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, F for any actions of the corporate debtor, prior to the insolvency commencement date.