Therefore, if the plaintiff fails to discharge the burden placed D on him in view of the pleadings and consequent issues despite the opportunity afforded to him the case cannot be adjourned for his evidence ad infinitum and the Court at some stage or the other has to decide it for want of evidence. Even in a contested suit issues are sometimes decided for want of evidence and so can the whole suit. Therefore, in our opinion the existence of material E does not necessarily mean existence of evidence. If a suit can be decided despite the lack of evidence on the material before it XVII Rule 3 can be said to govern the case. Material on record need not be given a technical meaning and equated to evidence. The circumstances of each case will regulate the F exercise of discretion vested in a Court. It is for the Court to exercise its discretion and to indicate without ambiguity whether it is exercising its powers under XVII Rule 3 or not. It is correct that the application, of Rule 3 restricts the future remedies of a defaulting party and is a stringent provision, and, therefore, it should be applied with circumspect caution and judicial restraint, G Ramkaran’s case, ILR (1953) 3 Raj 798 therefore, has to be read with the aforesaid modification. No exception can, however, be taken to the reasoning adopted in Amarsing’s case, 1953 Raj LW 365.” (Emphasis supplied) H 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 47. Thus the Full Bench took the view that if the plaintiff fails to discharge the burden placed on him in view of the pleadings and consequent issues despite the opportunity afforded to him, the case may not be adjourned for his evidence ad infinitum and the court must at some stage or the other decide for want of evidence. The Full Bench took the view that the existence of material would not necessarily mean B existence of evidence. If the suit can be decided despite the lack of evidence on the material before it, then in such circumstances 17 Rule 3 of the CPC would govern the case. 48. The aforesaid dictum as laid by the Rajasthan High Court appears to be in conflict with the decision of this Court in the case of C Prakash Chander Manchanda v. Janki Manchanda, (1986) 4 SCC 699, wherein this Court observed as under:- “6. …It is clear that in cases where a party is absent only course is as mentioned in 17(3)(b) to proceed under Rule 2. It is therefore clear that in absence of the defendant, the Court had no D option but to proceed under Rule 2, Similarly the language of Rule 2 as now stands also clearly lays down that if any one of the parties fail to appear, the Court has to proceed to dispose of the suit in one of the modes directed under 9. The explanation to Rule 2 gives a discretion to the Court to proceed under Rule 3 E even if a party is absent but that discretion is limited only in cases where a party which is absent has led some evidence or has examined substantial part of their evidence.