26. Though the issue is no longer res integra, we shall refer to a few decisions, some of which were cited before the High Court also. H STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. ETC. v. DR. P. A. BHATT & ORS. 311 ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 27. In The State of Mysore vs. P. Narasinga Rao2, which is one A of the earliest cases to be considered by a Constitution Bench of this Court, the classification of two grades of Tracers, one for matriculates with a higher pay scale and the other for non-matriculates with a lower pay scale, was held by this Court to be not violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. In fact, it was a case where both matriculates as B well as non-matriculates were drawing the same scale of pay in the erstwhile State of Hyderabad, but after the reorganization of States in 1956, two different scales of pay came to be given to those who were allotted to the new Mysore State. Yet this Court upheld the classification. 28. In Dr. C. Girijambal vs. Government of Andhra Pradesh3, C the holder of a Diploma in Ayurvedic Medicine (DAM), appointed to the post of Medical Officer, was given a scale of pay lower than the scale of pay given for the holders of Graduate of the College of Integrated Medicine (GCIM) and Licentiate in Indigenous Medicine (LIM). When questioned, the Authorities pointed out that a higher scale of pay was available only to those with Class ‘A’ Registration Certificate under the D Andhra Ayurvedic and Homeopathic Medical Practitioners’ Registration Act, 1956. Therefore, the Medical Officer filed a writ petition seeking a direction to the Andhra Board of Ayurveda to register her as Class ‘A’ Practitioner. The High Court allowed the writ petition and the writ petitioner was granted higher scale of pay with retrospective effect. But when a E revision of the scales of pay of Medical Officers was undertaken in the year 1975, under GOM No.574 dated 20.10.1975, a higher scale of pay was granted to those holding LIM and the petitioner was granted a lower scale of pay. Her challenge to this classification was rejected by the Administrative Tribunal and the claim landed up before this Court. While rejecting the claim, this Court clarified the law pithily in the following words: F “6. Dealing with the first contention we would like to observe at the outset that the principle of equal pay for equal work cannot be invoked or applied invariably in every kind of service and certainly it cannot be invoked in the area of professional services when these are to be G compensated. Dressing of any injury or wound is done both by a doctor as well as a compounder, but surely it cannot be suggested that for doing this job a doctor cannot be compensated more than 2 AIR 1968 SC 349 3 (1981) 2 SCC 155 H 312 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the compounder. Similarly, a case in Court of law is argued both by a senior and a junior lawyer, but it is difficult to accept that in matter of remuneration both should be treated equally.