13. Section 8 clearly postulates that burden of proof, in any proceedings under this Act, in reference to the notice served under Section 6 in regard to the illegally acquired properties shall lie on the H 1096 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A person affected and while exercising power under Section 7, forfeiting the illegally acquired properties in a case where the source of only a part, being less than one-half of the income of which such property is acquired, the acquisition has been subject to proof to the satisfaction of the competent authority, can be offered an option to the person affected to pay in lieu of forfeiture, a fine of the value of such part, as indicated B under Section 9 of the Act 1976. 14. The respondents have initiated the proceedings serving show cause notice under Section 6 of forfeiture of the property which was taken from ill-gotten gains to the first appellant firm and its partners(Appellant nos. 2 to 5) dated 16th October, 1994. The competent C authority, in the first instance, after taking into consideration the material on record returned a finding that the total contribution of the partners in M/s. Platinum Theatre by way of capital was Rs.10,20,000/- as could be seen from the Partnership Deed as well as returns of M/s. Platinum Theatre that clearly indicates that N.A. Yusuf contributed Rs.5 lakhs. D Appellant no.2 (P.M. Saheeda) and her minor son contributed Rs.5.20 lakhs. The partners are the joint owners of the property of a firm by virtue of their capital contribution in terms of Partnership Deed. 15. N.A. Yusuf has not disclosed any source from which he got capital contribution of Rs.5 lakhs. In respect of contribution made by E Appellant no. 2(P.M. Saheeda) and her minor son to the tune of Rs. 5.20 lakhs in the partnership firm, no explanation was tendered about the source of funds infused in the partnership firm. The authorities of the income-tax department on assessment were able to substantiate that neither the source of contribution made by N.A. Yusuf nor anyone else and the entire sum of Rs.4.57 lakhs was assessed as income of Appellant F no. 2(P.M. Saheeda). From the other documentary evidence which has come on record, it reveals that the construction and decoration of the theatre was undertaken by N.A. Yusuf as a proprietor. A finding was recorded that the entire capital in M/s. Platinum Theatre in the names of N.A. Yusuf, P.M. Saheeda(Appellant no. 2)and her minor children was G created through the illegally earned money by N.A. Yusuf through his smuggling activities. It was supported by income-tax returns for the assessment year 1975-76. Appellant no. 2(P.M. Saheeda) which claimed that the land was purchased by her for Rs.33,000/-in the year 1969 from her own funds generated through wedding gifts in support of which no proofs was produced, and with land, the value of the theatre would work H PLATINUM THEATRE v. COMPETENT AUTHORITY SMUGGLERS & 1097 FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANIPULATORS ACT, 1976 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.]