Not only were the units to produce goods but they were also burdened with the goal of providing employment. The economic policy of the State had a distinct socialist flavour. No doubt, under the Five-YearPlans, what was contemplated was, a mixed economy. The economy was highly G regulated. Out of sheer necessity, perhaps, taxation had to be maintained at high levels. From being a toddler, the economy slowly grew. As the life of the nation progressed, the aspirations of its people, not unnaturally, also expanded. The economic life of a nation can never be perceived in isolation. No nation can remain unaffected by the changes inthestate of H 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the world economy. Policies, which are suitable at a given point of time,are not cast in stone. Each generation of people have the right as also the duty to revisit economic policies which found favour with the past. The present cannot put posterity in chains. Equally, the past cannot hold the present hostage to ideas which would then degenerate intowhat was once original and suitable into dogma which no longer can serve the B people. 96. The expression ‘common good’ in Article 39(b) in a Benthamite sense involves achieving the highest good of the maximum number of people.The meaning of the words ‘common good’ may depend upon the times, the felt necessities, the direction that the Nation wishes to take in C the future, the socio-economic condition of the different classes, the legal and Fundamental Rights and also the Directive Principles themselves. As far as the time dictated content of common good goes, it simply means that ‘economics’ itself not being bound in chains,but it is a dynamic concept.The attainment of common good would be dependent D on the appreciation and understanding of a generation as to how economic common good is best achieved. The debate between the advantages and disadvantages of pursuing the policy of State intervention in economic policy which emasculates private enterprise and competition has almost reached its end. The advantages of a fearlessly competitive economy have been realized by the Nation. There is a backdrop to it. In the year E 1991, the Nation was in a manner of speaking compelled to revisit its economic policy having regard to the precarious condition of its foreign exchange reserves. The permit raj, which involved acute regulation of economic activity by the State with all its attendant evils, cried out for reforms. A slew of highly liberal reforms in 1991 set the stage for the F Nation to make a paradigm shift. As discussed in the Raghavan Committee Report, things moved further in the direction of attaining faster economic growth. The Act is a measure which is intended to achieve the same. The role which was envisaged for the public sector company could not permit them to outlive their utility or abuse their unique position. Disinvestment done in a proper manner was perceived as a G solution. However, sans disinvestment, State Monopolies,Public Sector Companies and Government Companies were expected to imbibe the new economic philosophy.