41. There are two aspects, which remain. Firstly, as noted by us, on account of the default of the appellants to effect service on the second respondent, the SLP stood dismissed. We, however, notice that, at the B request of the second respondent, the Company Court ed that the sale deed be executed in favour of its nominee, viz., the first respondent. The first respondent, accordingly, became the vendee under the sale deed. It is the first respondent, which is liable in law as vendee to pay the stamp duty. Therefore, we would think that the absence of the second C respondent, may not affect passing of an as against the first respondent, which, as the vendee, is the entity liable to bear the liability towards stamp duty.Another aspect is that the matter may have to go back to consider the actual plant and machinery as would answer the description of immovable property as correctly pointed out by the learned Amicus. The passage of time may have its bearing. But it may have to D be carried out. 42. As noticed by us, the appellants had also appealed against the of the learned Single Judge. The Single Judge, it must be remembered, while upholding the of the second appellant (District Registrar) in regard to the value of the plant and machinery, had directed E deducting the value of the current assets and also directed making available benefits of GoMS 103 dated 07.02.2001. Apparently, Respondents 1 and 2 in the Appeal gave up their claim to the exemption on the basis that they succeeded in having the sale deed registered without having to include the value of plant and machinery before the F Division Bench. The stand of the appellants would appear to be that GoMS 103 dated 07.02.2001 applied to new industrial units other than those listed as ineligible under GoMS 9 dated 05.01.2001. It appears to be their case that the subject industry is a mini steel industry and mini steel industry plants were not eligible and the item appears as Item 56 in Annexure 1 to GoMS 9 dated 05.01.2001.Since, the respondents gave G up their claim for exemption, the case of the appellants was not gone into by the Division Bench. We are of the view that the second appellant can look into this aspect as well. 43. The upshot of the above discussion is that the Appeal filed against Writ Appeal No. 1873 of 2005 is allowed. The Appeal filed against H 1138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the in Writ Appeal No. 2457 of 2005 is partly allowed. The impugned is set aside and we restore the of the learned Single Judge subject to the modification that we set aside the direction to the second appellant to give the benefit of GoMS 103 dated 07.02.2001. The second appellant will ascertain the value of plant and machinery on the basis of it answering the description of the immovable B property as understood in law.