The conduct of the non-signatory parties is an indicator of the intention of the non-signatory to be bound by the arbitration agreement. The intention of the parties to be bound by an arbitration agreement can 97 Olympus Superstructures (P) Ltd v. Meena Vijay Khetan, (1999) 5 SCC 651 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 695 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] be gauged from the circumstances that surround the participation of the non-signatory party in the negotiation, performance, and termination of the underlying contract containing such agreement. The UNIDROIT Principle of International Commercial Contract, 201698 provides that the subjective intention of the parties could be ascertained by having regard to the following circumstances: (a) preliminary negotiations between the parties; (b) practices which the parties have established between themselves; (c) the conduct of the parties subsequent to the conclusion of the contract; (d) the nature and purpose of the contract; (e) the meaning commonly given to terms and expressions in the trade concerned; and (f) usages. 119. In Dow Chemicals (supra), consent of the non-signatory parties to arbitrate was implied primarily in view of their predominant participation in the conclusion, performance, and termination of contracts. Similarly, this Court in Canara Bank (supra) observed that a non-signatory entity may be bound by an arbitration agreement where a parent or a member of the group of companies is a signatory to the arbitration agreement and the non-signatory entity of the group has been engaged in the negotiation or performance of the commercial contract. 120. In Reckitt Benckiser (supra), this Court was called upon to determine whether the representation of a purported promoter of a non- signatory entity would bind it to the said representation. In that case, the applicant entered into an agreement with an Indian company for the supply of packing materials. During the stage of negotiation, the applicant circulated a draft of the agreement by email with the Indian company. This email was reverted by one Mr. Frederick Reynders, who the applicant claimed was the promoter of a Belgian sister company of the Indian company. The Belgian 98 UNIDROIT Principles of International Commercial Contracts, 2016, Article 4.3 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. company was a non-signatory to the agreement. Yet, the applicant sought to implead the Belgian company on the basis that it had participated during the negotiations preceding the execution of the agreement. This Court refused to allow the joinder of the Belgian company to the arbitration agreement on the grounds that Mr. Reynders was not the promoter of the Belgian company, and was therefore not acting in that capacity on or behalf of the company and the applicant failed to discharge its burden to prove that the Belgian company consented to the arbitration agreement. 121. Evaluating the involvement of the non-signatory party in the negotiation, performance, or termination of a contract is an important factor for a number of reasons. First, by being actively involved in the performance of a contract, a non-signatory may create an appearance that it is a veritable party to the contract containing the arbitration agreement; second, the conduct of the non-signatory may be in harmony with the conduct of the other members of the group, leading the other party to legitimately believe that the non-signatory was a veritable party to the contract; and third, the other party has legitimate reasons to rely on the appearance created by the non-signatory party so as to bind it to the arbitration agreement.