Learned senior counsel’s submission was that the impugned correctly inferred and found that the product, Nycil prickly G heat powder, on the plain terms of the statute, was a cosmetic, especially in view of the Explanation which particularly referred to whether the product “is medicated” or not, and irrespective of whether it is under a license issued under the Drugs Act. 221977 (2) SCR 790 H 232010 (9) SCR 692 HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 443 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] V A The Provisions: KGST Act 29. In terms of Section 5 (c) of the KGST Act, goods specified in the First Schedule, were subject to sale at first point. The revenue alleged that Nycil prickly heat powder, the article in question is subject to levy as B a cosmetic. Heinz, on the other hand, contended that it is a drug, or medication. 30. Entry 79 of the First schedule to the KGST Act reads as under: “Medicines and Drugs including allopathic, ayurvedic, C homeopathic, siddha and unani preparations and glucose IP.” 31. Entry 127 of the First Schedule to the KGST Act reads thus: “Shampoo, Talcum Powder including medicated talcum powder, Sandalwood Oil, Ramacham Oil, Cinnamon Oil, other perfurmeries and cosmetics not falling under any other entry D in this Schedule”. The Provisions: TNGST Act 32. In terms of Section 3 of the TNGST Act, every dealer [other than the dealer, casual trader or agent of a non- resident dealer E referred to in clause (ii)], whose total turnover for a year exceeds ` 3 lakhs is subjected to sales tax levy. 33. GSK, the assessee, contends that the product, Nycil prickly heat powder is a medication or drug, classifiable under Entry 20 of Part C, which reads as follows: F “Part C of the First Schedule. “Entry 20(A) (A) Medicines conforming to the following description: Any medicinal formulation or preparation ready for use G internally or externally for treatment or mitigation or prevention of diseases or diss in human being or animals (excluding products capable of being used as creams, hair oils, tooth pastes, tooth powders, cosmetics, toilet articles, soaps and shampoos), but including H 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (i) Allopathic medicine. (ii) Other medicines and drugs including ayurvedic, homeopathic, siddha and unani preparations. (iii) Medicinal mixtures or compounds, the components of which have not already suffered tax. B (iv) Surgical dressing which expression shall include adhesive plasters, adhesive plaster dressing, gypsona plaster of paris and bandages, velroc pop bandages, elastro crape bandages, gauze, wadding gauze, lint and cotton wool poultices and similar articles impregnated or coated with pharmaceutical C substances put up in forms or packing for surgical purposes which have been sterilized and conform to the accepted standards of the medical profession. (v) Pharmaceutical and surgical products of plastic and rubber including gloves, aprons and caps.” D Cosmetics fall in Entry 1 of Part F of First Schedule: “Part F 1 (i) Scents and perfumes in any forms excluding doop and agarbathis but including aragaja, javvadu and punugu.