(3) The Adjudicating Authority shall provide a copy of the passed under sub- section (1) along with the report of the resolution professional and the application referred to in section 94 or 95, as the case may be, to the creditors within seven days from the date of the said . (4) If the application referred to in section 94 or 95, as the case may be, is rejected by the Adjudicating Authority on the basis of report submitted by the resolution professional that the application was made with the intention to defraud his creditors or the resolution professional, the under sub-section (1) shall record that the creditor is entitled to fi le for a bankruptcy under Chapter IV.” 12 101. Moratorium.— (1) When the application is admitted under section 100, a moratorium shall commence in relation to all the debts and shall cease to have eff ect at the end of the period of one hundred and eighty days beginning with the date of admission of the application or on the date the Adjudicating Authority passes an on the repayment plan under section 114, whichever is earlier. (2) During the moratorium period— (a) any pending legal action or proceeding in respect of any debt shall be deemed to have been stayed; (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 582 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. provisions for a statutory moratorium with eff ect from the admission of an application under Section 100. 20. The moratorium remains in force for a period of 180 days or when an approving the repayment plan is passed, whichever is earlier. The eff ect of the statutory moratorium is that the any pending legal action in respect of the debt is stayed; no new action may be initiated by the creditors in respect of the debt; and the debtor shall not transfer or alienate his assets or legal rights or benefi cial interest therein. 21. The remaining provisions of Chapter III relate to the issuance of public notices and inviting claims from the creditors, registration of their claims, preparation of the list of creditors, a repayment plan, meetings of creditors, the rights of secured creditors, approval of the repayment plan by creditors and the of the adjudicating authority on the repayment plan. Consequential provisions have been made in the remaining provisions of Part III, inter alia, for the completion of the repayment plan (Section 117) and a discharge (Section 119). 22. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 239, the Central Government has notifi ed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy (Application to Adjudicating Authority for Insolvency Resolution Process for Personal Guarantors to Corporate Debtors) Rules 2019. The rules specify the form in which the applications have to be submitted under Sections 94 and 95. III. Submissions 23. Now, it is in this backdrop that it would become necessary to analyse the submissions made on behalf of the parties. A. Submissions on behalf of the Petitioners 24. Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior counsel has set forth the following propositions for determination by the Court: (b) the creditors shall not initiate any legal action or legal proceedings in respect of any debt; and (c) the debtor shall not transfer, alienate, encumber or dispose of any of his assets or his legal rights or benefi cial interest therein; (3) Where an admitting the application under section 96 has been made in relation to a fi rm, the moratorium under sub-section (1) shall operate against all the partners of the fi rm.