It was held that it was difficult to lay down any hard and fast rule of E universal application but in imposing such restrictions the State must adopt an objective standard amounting to a social control. In Ranjit P. Gohil (supra) the court in fact held that: “It is difficult to expect the Legislature carving out a classification which may be scientifically perfect or logically F complete or which may satisfy the expectations of all concerned, still the court would respect the classification dictated by the wisdom of Legislature and shall interfere only on being convinced that the classification would result in pronounced inequality or palpable arbitrariness on the touchstone of Article 14.” G 64. The decision reported in MRF Ltd., Kottayam (supra) was relied upon to say that withdrawal of exemptions or tax benefits cannot be resorted to. Facially, this court’s observations with respect to 32 2012 (6) SCR 661. H 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A withdrawal of tax exemption appear to be favourable to the respondents. Yet, what weighed with this court was that the power of withdrawal of exemption was not retrospective: “Thus while Sub-section (1) authorizes the grant of an exemption or reduction in rate with retrospective effect in B respect of any tax payable under the Act, Sub-section (3) does not provide for any cancellation or variation retrospectively.” In the circumstances, this decision has no application to the facts of this case, because the facility of AA without ‘pre import condition’ was introduced prospectively. C 65. The respondents had alleged discrimination on two counts: one, that for purposes of classification, all exporters who were granted AAs were to be treated alike; and two, that insisting on the ‘pre-import condition’ in respect to exemption from two levies only, while granting that benefit in respect of other AAs, was discriminatory. As far as the first aspect is concerned, the impugned , in this court’s opinion, D is on a misreading of the FTP. As noted earlier, paragraph 4.13 (i) itself empowered the DGFT to include articles, which are not specified in Appendix-4J. The existence of this discretion means that there is flexibility in regard to the nature of policies to be adopted, having regard to the state of export trade, and concessions to be extended in the trade and E tax regime. Thus, the indication of a few items by virtue of paragraph 4.13 (ii) per se never meant that other articles could not be subjected to ‘pre import conditions’. Clearly, therefore, all AA holders were never treated alike. On the second aspect, what hurt the respondents was not classification of AAs per se, but their differentiation in the newly introduced tax regimes, so far as two new levies are concerned. If F one keeps in mind that there cannot be a blanket right to claim exemption, and that such a relief is dependent on the assessment of the State and tax administrators, as well as the state of the economy and above all, the mechanism for its administration, clearly the argument of discriminatory treatment of the two levies on the one hand, and the other taxes on the G other, has to fail.