or A (iii) A person is, or has been, a person of ability and standing, having adequate knowledge or experience in dealing with the matters relating to electricity generation, transmission and distribution and regulation or economics, commerce, law or management. B 104. It can thus be seen that the CEA, CERC and learned APTEL are bodies consisting of experts in the field. CONSIDERATIONS 105. The issues with regard to SHR and GCV have been C considered by the CERC in its dated 15th November 2018 in the case of GMR Warora Energy Limited v. Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited & Anr8. It will be relevant to reproduce the relevant part of the CERC’s dated 15th November 2018, which reads thus: D “29. The submissions regarding SHR and GCV have been considered. The APTEL in its judgement dated 12.9.2014 in Appeal No. 288 of 2013 (M/s Wardha Power Company Limited V Reliance Infrastructure Limited & anr) has ruled that compensation under Change in Law cannot be correlated with the price of coal computed from the energy charge and the technical parameters E like the Heat Rate and gross GCV of coal given in the bid documents for establishing the coal requirement. The relevant observations of APTEL are extracted as under: “26. The price bid given by the Seller for fixed and variable charges both escalable and non-escalable is based on the F Appellant’s perception of risks and estimates of expenditure at the time of submitting the bid. The energy charge as quoted in the bid may not match with the actual energy charge corresponding to the actual landed price of fuel. The seller in its bid has also not quoted the price of coal. G Therefore, it is not correct to co-relate the compensation on account of Change in Law due to change in cess/excise duty on coal, to the coal price computed from the quoted energy charges in the Financial bid and the heat rate and 8 Petition No.88/MP/2018 H 134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Gross Calorific value of Coal given in the bidding documents by the bidder for the purpose of establishing the coal requirement. The coal price so calculated will not be equal to the actual price of coal and therefore, compensation for Change in Law computed on such price of coal will not restore the economic position of the Seller to the same level B as if such Change in Law has not occurred.” 30. In the light of the above observations, the technical parameters such as Heat Rate and GCV of coal as per the bidding document cannot be considered for deciding the coal requirement for the purpose of calculating the relief under Change in law. Therefore, C the submissions of the Respondent, MSEDCL to consider the bid parameters are not acceptable. The Respondent has also relied on MERC with regard to GCV. As regards SHR, it was also suggested by MERC that net SHR as submitted in the bid or SHR norms specified for new thermal stations as per MYT D Regulations, whichever is superior, shall be applicable.