[2023] 1 S.C.R. 961 961 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. A v. CONST SUNIL KUMAR (Civil Appeal No. 219 of 2023) JANUARY 19, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] B Service law – Dismissal from service – Allegation that respondent consumed liquor while on duty and threatened senior officers – CRPF dismissed the respondent from service – confirmed by the Appellate Authority – Single Judge of the High Court dismissed the writ petition filed by the respondent – However, the Division Bench of the High Court reinstated the respondent – It C held that dismissal was disproportionate as when the misconduct was committed the respondent was not on active duty – On appeal, held: The charges and misconduct proved against the respondent was of misbehaving with superior and giving threats of dire consequences to the superior, may be under the influence of intoxication – Misconduct was of very serious nature – Charges D and misconduct of indiscipline and insubordination proved – The penalty of dismissal is not disproportionate to the gravity of the wrong – Reasoning given by the Division Bench of the High Court cannot be accepted – Thus, the impugned and of the High Court dismissing the penalty and reinstating the respondent set aside. E Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD 1. At the outset, it is required to be noted that the disciplinary authority imposed the penalty of dismissal after holding the departmental enquiry and after following the due procedure as required under Rule 27 of the CRPF Rules, 1955 F and after having held the charges and misconduct proved. The charges and misconduct held to be proved against the respondent who was serving in CRPF – a disciplined force can be said to be a grave and serious misconduct. The charges and misconduct proved against the respondent is of misbehaving with superior and giving threats of dire consequences to the superior, may be G under the influence of intoxication. He also misbehaved and gave threats to the colleagues. The misconduct committed by the respondent is of insubordination also. The misconduct of misbehaving with the superior/senior officer and of insubordination can be said to be a very serious misconduct and cannot be tolerated in a disciplined force like CRPF and H therefore, as such the Division Bench of the High Court is not 961 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A justified in observing that on the proved charges and misconduct penalty of dismissal can be said to be disproportionate. [Para 6][966-G-H; 967-A-C] 2. While holding that the penalty of dismissal can be said to be disproportionate to the gravity of the wrong, what is weighed with the Division Bench of the High Court is that as the B respondent was found to be in a state of intoxication when not on duty and considering Section 10, he is deemed to have committed a less heinous offence. Whether a member of the force has committed a heinous offence or a less heinous offence as per Sections 9 and 10 of the CRPF Act, 1949 would have bearing on inflicting the punishment as provided under Sections 9 and 10 C but has no relevance on the disciplinary proceedings/ departmental enquiry for the act of indiscipline and/or insubordination.