(iv) It is submitted that for ascertaining the ‘quantity’, it was F also necessary for the bidder/generator to provide ‘supporting computation’ by declaring the SHR and GCV value applicable for the entire term of the PPA. (v) It is the contention on behalf of the DISCOMS that the bidder/generator, while submitting his/its bids, is required to G submit the bids by taking into consideration all factors, including risks regarding fluctuations, availability of fuel/ coal, etc. It is submitted that if there is any change with regard to the availability of fuel or the rate at which a bidder/ generator is required to procure the coal, then the bidder/ H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 99 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] generator has to suffer the consequences thereof as he/it A has submitted his/its bid with eyes open. (vi) The thrust of the argument of the DISCOMS is that in a competitive bid based PPA under Section 63 of the Electricity Act, the quoted tariff is sacrosanct and it is not open for the respondent/generator to seek higher tariff or B extra compensation under the PPA, except as per Article 13 of the PPA dealing with impact of Change in Law. It is submitted that the reliance placed by the learned APTEL on the of this Court in the Case of Energy Watchdog (supra) is totally misconceived. C (vii) It is, therefore, submitted that the relief for the impact of NCDP 2013 is admissible only to the extent of the changes brought about by the NCDP 2013 and not in excess thereof. It is submitted that the Change in Law made by the Central Government on 31st July 2013 was vis-à-vis the NCDP 2007 D which was in force as on the cut-off date provided in Article 13.1 of the PPA i.e. 7 days before the bid submission date. It is submitted that the very purpose of compensating the party affected by Change in Law is to restore, through monthly tariff payments, the affected party to the same economic position as if the Change in Law had not occurred. E (viii) It is submitted that as per para 2.2 of the NCDP 2007 read with para 5.2, CIL was entitled to meet the shortfall in the availability of domestic coal by importing coal. In such event, the Generators were required to pay the higher cost of imported coal to CIL. It is submitted that while submitting F the bids, the bidders/generators, therefore, had submitted their bids for supply of electricity to the DISCOMS knowing the position that they will not be compensated for higher cost of imported coal separately, over and above the quoted tariff /quoted energy charges, in the event of supply of G imported coal by CIL. (ix) It is contended that, if in the event the Generator could have procured the fuel/coal at a lesser price, then the benefit which would have occurred to him/it on account of such saving in procurement would have gone to him/it.