It is one thing to say that the court will have supervisory jurisdiction to ensure a fair investigation, as has been observed by a Bench of this Court in Sakiri Vasu v. State of U.P. [(2008) 2 SCC 409 : (2008) 1 SCC (Cri) 440] , correctness whereof is open D to question, but it is another thing to say that the investigating officer will have no jurisdiction whatsoever to make any further investigation without the express permission of the Magistrate.” 60. In Vinay Tyagi (supra), it was held that “further E investigation” in terms of Section 173(8) of the CrPC can be made in a situation where the investigating officer obtains further oral or documentary evidence after the final report has been filed before the Court. The report on such further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC can be termed as a supplementary report. F 61. In Vinay Tyagi (supra), it was held that: “40.2. A Magistrate has the power to direct “further investigation” after filing of a police report in terms of Section 173(6) of the Code. Xxx xxx xxx G 40.4. Neither the scheme of the Code nor any specific provision therein bars exercise of such jurisdiction by the Magistrate. The language of Section 173(2) cannot be construed so restrictively as to deprive the Magistrate of such powers particularly in face of the provisions of Section 156(3) H STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 163 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] and the language of Section 173(8) itself. In fact, such power A would have to be read into the language of Section 173(8). 40.5. The Code is a procedural document, thus, it must receive a construction which would advance the cause of justice and legislative object sought to be achieved. It does not stand to reason that the legislature provided power of further B investigation to the police even after filing a report, but intended to curtail the power of the court to the extent that even where the facts of the case and the ends of justice demand, the court can still not direct the investigating agency to conduct further investigation which it could do on its own. C 40.6. It has been a procedure of propriety that the police has to seek permission of the court to continue “further investigation” and file supplementary charge-sheet. …” 62. In Vinubhai (supra); a three-Judge Bench of this Court has endeavoured to lay at rest the controversy enveloping the evasive issue D of further investigation directed by the Magistrate. This Court, speaking through Justice R.F. Nariman, has laid down at Para 38 that: “ To say that a fair and just investigation would lead to the conclusion that the police retain the power, subject, of course, to the Magistrate’s nod under Section 173(8) to further E investigate an offence till charges are framed, but that the supervisory jurisdiction of the Magistrate suddenly ceases midway through the pre-trial proceedings, would amount to a travesty of justice, as certain cases may cry out for further investigation so that an innocent person is not wrongly arraigned as an accused or that a prima facie guilty person F is not so left out.