[2023] 4 S.C.R. 829 829 MAGHAVENDRA PRATAP SINGH @ PANKAJ SINGH A v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH (Criminal Appeal No. 915 of 2016) APRIL 24, 2023 B [B. R. GAVAI AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860: ss. 302 , 201, 120-B – Circumstantial Evidence – Criminal Conspiracy – Businessman-victim threatened for money and shot dead by two motorcyclists – Appellant and several C others chargesheeted – Trial court convicted and sentenced all the accused persons except one – However, the High Court acquitted all the accused except the appellant – On appeal, held: Prosecution case rests solely on circumstantial evidence, as none was found present at the scene of the incident – Neither of the independent witness supported the prosecution case – Veracity of the D Investigating Officer’s testimony does not inspire confidence on account of various lapses – Nothing on record suggests that the appellant had conspired to commit offence – Also all other accused were acquitted by the courts below and a single person cannot hatch a conspiracy – Thus, the High Court without appreciating the E testimonies of the witnesses in their true import and meaning, and without having any discussion concerning the complicity of the appellant, in a perfunctory manner held the prosecution to have established the case, which is entirely circumstantial in nature, against the appellant – High Court erred in holding that the evidence reveals that in all human probability the act must have been done F by the appellant – Principle of determining the guilt of the appellant in a case involving circumstantial evidence is not that of probability but certainty and that all the evidence present should conclusively point towards only a singular hypothesis, which is the guilt of the appellant – Thus, the of the High Court is set aside – Arms G Act, 1959 – s. 25(1)(1-b)(a) – Evidence Act, 1872 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1974 – Chapter XII. Penal Code, 1860:120-B – Charge of criminal conspiracy under – Basic requirement of – Held: For the charge of criminal conspiracy u/s. 120B, to be established, an agreement between the H 829 830 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A parties to do an unlawful act must exist – In case of lack of direct evidence, it is not safe to hold a person guilty u/s. 120B – To prove the offence of criminal conspiracy, it is imperative to show a meeting of the minds between the conspirators for the intended common object – On facts, appellant cannot be convicted of criminal conspiracy solely for having concealed the location of the B incriminating materials / articles and, in the absence of any evidence establishing meeting of the minds – Given that all the other co- accused have been acquitted by the courts below, meaning they were innocent of the crime, the fundamental requirement of a criminal conspiracy is not met. C Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 : Chapter XII – Duties and responsibilities of the Investigating Officer – Compliance of – Held: Investigating Officer is the person tasked with determining a direction, the pace, manner and method of the investigation – It is his statutory duty under the CrPC and is also a constitutional D obligation to ensure the maintenance of peace and the uphold of rule of law – On facts, Investigating Officer miserably failed to investigate as is expected and required of a police officer to investigate a crime of murder, especially when not even a single eyewitness exists, and the entire case rests entirely on circumstantial evidence – Investigating Officer did not meet the obligations he E was under – Numerous infirmities affected the conduct of the Investigation Officer calling into question, credibly, the investigation conducted by him or upon his directions.