If the CGP is held by a person it is suffi cient that the person consumes not less than 51% of the aggregate electricity generated in such plant. In case the plant is owned by a registered cooperative society then all the members together have to collectively consume 51% of the aggregate electricity generated. In case the CGP is owned by an association of persons the captive users together shall hold not less than 26% of the ownership of the plant in aggregate and shall consume not less than 51% of the electricity generated in proportion to their shares of the ownership of the plant within a variation not exceeding + 10%. A special purpose vehicle is a legal entity owning, operating and maintaining a generating station with no other business or activity to be engaged in by the legal entity. Now if three companies need 50 Supra note 5. 382 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. to set up the power plant primarily for their own use they can come together and form another legal entity which may itself be a company registered under the Companies Act. This company may set up a power plant. In that case the company formed by three diff erent companies would become a special purpose vehicle. If a company which is a special purpose vehicle is one person then all that is necessary is that this company should consume 51% of the generation. However, if it is treated as association of persons apart from a condition of consuming minimum 51% of its generation the three share holders will also have to consume 51% of the generation in proportion to their ownership in the power plant. It is contended on behalf of some of the appellants before us who are special purpose vehicles that they are not an association of persons and accordingly it is only necessary for them to consume 51% of their generation collectively without adhering to the Rule of proportionality of consumption to their share. This does not appear to us to be the correct view. Section 2(8) of the Act, as extracted above, says that a captive generating plant may be set up by any person and includes the power plant set up by any cooperative society or association of persons. Mr. M. G. Ramachandran contends that going by this defi nition if the special purpose vehicle is not an association of persons it cannot set up a captive generating plant because the defi nition does not mention any person other than a cooperative society and association of person. There is small fl aw in the argument of Mr. M. G. Ramachandran in as much as the defi nition of captive generating plant is inclusive. In other words, the captive generating plant may be set up by any person including a cooperative society or association of persons. In other words, the person to set up a generating plant may be somebody who does not fulfi ll the description of either a cooperative society or association of persons.