15.1 Clause (a) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 deals with insolvency resolution process costs and the liquidation costs which are to be paid in full. No grievance or issue can be raised in respect of the said clause. Clause (b) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 states that the F debts due in the form of workmen’s dues for a period of twenty four months preceding the liquidation commencement date and the debts owed to the secured creditor in the event such secured creditor has relinquished security in the manner set out in Section 52 of the Code shall rank equally between and amongst the workmen and the secured creditors. The Explanation to Section 53 of the Code states that ‘workmen’s dues’ G shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013. In other words, Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been incorporated and applies to the waterfall mechanism as prescribed in clause (b) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. What is significant here is that under clause (b) to sub- H 132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A section (1) to Section 53 of the Code, the workmen’s dues are for the period of twenty four months preceding the liquidation commencement date. The liquidation commencement date, as defined in terms of sub- section (17) to Section 5 of the Code, is much earlier in point of time and need not coincide with the date of winding up. This is in the interest of the workmen. Clause (i) of Explanationto Section 53 of the Codestates B that where the distribution of proceeds in respect of class of recipients that rank equally, each of the debts would be paid either in full or would be paid in equal proportion within the same class of recipients, if the proceeds are insufficient to meet the debts in full. Ex facie, the clause is very just and fair. It is to be noted that the wages and unpaid dues owed C to employees other than the workmen fall in clause (c), which is below clause (b) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. They are to be paid wages and unpaid dues only for a period of twelve months preceding the liquidation commencement date, and that too only if surplus funds are available after making payment in terms of clause (a) and (b) of sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. Clause (d) of sub-section (1) D to Section 53 of the Code relates to financial debts owed to unsecured creditors. The amounts due to the Central Government and the State Government, etc., and the debts owed to a secured creditor for any amount that remains unpaid following the enforcement of security interest, have been clubbed together in clause (e) of sub-section (1) to Section 53 E of the Code, and have to be ranked equally between and among both of them. The remaining debts and dues fall in clause (f) of sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code.