B 5. The complainants were not handed over possession of the second floor which they intended to purchase. As late as on 18th November, 2021, the complainants sought to put the investigative machinery in motion by lodging a complaint with the Station House Officer, Police Station Gulabi Bagh, Delhi. The said complaint was C registered as FIR No.322 of 2021 under sections 420/406/34 of the IPC. Therein, the appellant, the builder and a broker were shown as accused. 6. It is worthwhile to note from the FIR that despite there being an agreement to sell executed by and between the builder and the complainants, the complainants had made payment of Rs. 17,00,000/- D (Rupees seventeen lakh) by issuing cheques favouring the appellant allegedly on the instructions of the builder. 7. Since the complainants had effected payment of substantial amount of money to the appellant and the builder having failed to deliver possession of the second floor of the proposed building, the complainants E felt cheated and urged the police to investigate the crime committed inter alia by the appellant and the builder. 8. Apprehending arrest, the appellant moved the relevant criminal court [MACT-02 (CENTRAL)] seeking an under section 438 of the Cr. PC. Initially, on 30th November, 2011, the Presiding Officer granted F interim protection from arrest to the appellant, subject to his cooperating with the investigating agency, upon being informed by the investigating officer that no agreement was executed by and between the appellant and the complainants. However, for reasons assigned in the subsequent dated 18th January, 2022, the application was dismissed by the Presiding Officer and interim protection earlier granted to the appellant G was withdrawn. 9. In the background of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, the appellant approached the High Court seeking an under section 438 of the Cr. PC. Similar approach was made by the builder. The High Court by its common dated 24th November, 2022 granted bail to H RAMESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 1171 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] the appellant and the builder, subject to certain conditions. One of the A conditions imposed by the High Court for grant of bail reads as follows: “(e) as undertaken, the petitioners/builder Ashwani Kumar shall deposit a sum of Rs. 13,00,000/- (Rs. Thirteen lacs only) and the owner Ramesh Kumar shall deposit a sum of Rs. 22,00,000/- (Rs. Twenty-two lacs), with the learned Trial Court, in the form of B FDR in the name of the Court initially for a period of one year with an automatic renewal clause, within 4 weeks.” The undertaking referred to in the aforesaid extract is traceable to paragraph 6 of the impugned , reading as follows: C “6.0. In rebuttal, Ld. Counsel for the petitioners submitted that the petitioners are ready to join investigation and explain. Ld. Counsel also submitted that without prejudice to their respective rights and contentions, the builder undertakes to deposit a sum of Rs. 13 lacs within 8 weeks and owner Ramesh Kumar is ready to deposit a sum of Rs.