While the UPSC was awaiting further communication from the CBI in that behalf, the CBI resubmitted the closure report and the learned Metropolitan Magistrate accepted the final report submitted by the CBI and closed the file without any opportunity being provided to the UPSC to have its say. Upon receipt of communication of the of E the court accepting the closure report, the UPSC filed a petition before the learned Metropolitan Magistrate submitting that the complaint had not been properly investigated and that it had no notice about the acceptance of the final report. The Court rejected the petition of the UPSC observing that it had accepted the final report filed by the CBI on 16.03.1995, since the UPSC had not filed its objections to the acceptance F of the final report and as such, it could not complain. The Court also opined that since an accepting final report was a judicial and not an administrative , therefore, it had no power to review such an passed by it “rightly or wrongly” and that the UPSC could file a revision petition seeking appropriate s against the acceptance of G the final report from the revisional court. The revision petition filed by the UPSC was dismissed by the revisional court. In appeal before this Court, it was held thus: “13. The appellant brought the contents of communication dated 23.01.1995 to the notice of the learned Metropolitan H Magistrate through its Miscellaneous Petition No. 2040 of STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 169 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 1995 seeking ‘reinvestigation’ but the learned Magistrate, A rejected the petition vide dated 4.11.1995, observing that ‘rightly or wrongly that court had passed an and it had no power to review the earlier .’ Here, again the learned Magistrate fell into an error. He was not required to ‘review’ his . He could have ed ‘further B investigation’ into the case. It appears that the learned Metropolitan Magistrate overlooked the provisions of Section 173(8) which have been enacted to take care of such like situations also.” (Emphasis supplied) C 72. After referring to the provisions of Section 173(8) of the CrPC, the Court observed that the Magistrate could, thus, in exercise of the powers under Section 173(8) of the CrPC, direct the CBI to “further investigate” the case and collect further evidence keeping in view the objections raised by the UPSC to the investigation and the “new” report D to be submitted by the Investigating Officer would be governed by sub- sections (2) to (6) of Section 173 of the CrPC. The Court held that the learned Magistrate failed to exercise the jurisdiction vested in him by law and his dated 04.11.1995 cannot be sustained. 73. In the light of the aforesaid decision of the Supreme Court, it E appears that though the passed by the learned Magistrate accepting a final report under Section 173 is a judicial , there is no requirement for recalling, reviewing or quashing the said for carrying out further investigation under Section 173(8) of the CrPC.