He submitted that the High Court committed an error by relying upon the decision in the case of United Finance Corporation1. In the said case, a revision application against the rejecting the application for setting 1 (2017) 3 SCC 123 H 2 (1996) 5 SCC 48 BHASKER & ANR. v. AYODHYA JEWELLERS 967 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] aside the sale was filed before the High Court in which, further A proceedings were stayed. While computing the limitation, the period of stay was excluded and that is how this Court held that the application made in the said case was within limitation. 5. The submission of the learned counsel appearing for the respondent in support of the impugned is that the application made B by the respondent will be governed by residuary Article 137 of the Limitation Act, which provides for a period of limitation of three years. He would, therefore, submit that in any case, the decision of this Court in the case of United Finance Corporation1 has been rightly applied by the High Court. C OUR VIEW 6.We have carefully considered the submissions. It is necessary to reproduce Rules 92, 94 and 95 of XXI of CPC, which read thus: “92. Sale when to become absolute or be set aside.- D (1) Where no application is made under rule 89, rule 90 or rule 91, or where such application is made and disallowed, the Court shall make an confirming the sale, and thereupon the sale shall become absolute. E Provided that, where any property is sold in execution of decree pending the final disposal of any claim to, or any objection to the attachment of, such property, the Court shall not confirm such sale until the final disposal of such claim or objection. (2) Where such application is made and allowed, and where, in F the case of an application under rule 89, the deposit required by that rule is made within sixty days from the date of sale, or in cases where the amount deposited under rule 89 is found to be deficient owing to any clerical or arithmetical mistake on the part of the depositor and such deficiency has been made good within such time as may be fixed by the court, the Court shall make an G setting aside the sale: Provided that no shall be made unless notice of the application has been given to all persons affected thereby: Provided further that the deposit under this sub-rule may be made within sixty days in all such cases where the period of H 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A thirty days, within which the deposit had to be made, has not expired before the commencement of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Act, 2002. (3) No suit to set aside an made under this rule shall be brought by any person against whom such is made. B (4) Where a third party challenges the -debtor’s title by filing a suit against the auction-purchaser, the decree-holder and the -debtor shall be necessary parties to the suit.