In view of a parliamentarian occupying a coveted position of trust and confi dence, a more stringent standard is imperative to suspend the conviction. Even if AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1015 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] not subject to a heightened standard, the standard must not be lowered in cases where the requisites laid down by precedents are not followed, and under no circumstances should it be relaxed solely on account of the parliamentarian’s elevated status. While the standard for suspending a conviction is contingent upon the unique facts and circumstances of each case, it remains unequivocal that regardless of the individual seeking a stay of conviction, only under exceptional circumstances, as demonstrated before an “Appellate Court” wielding authority under section 389(1), Cr. PC, could a stay of conviction be granted but obviously based on reasons to be recorded by such court in its . 53. With these prefatory words, I move on to decide the question noted at the beginning of this . 54. Based on the submissions made by Dr. Singhvi, the impression sought to be given by the appellant is that his is an exceptional case and grant of relief, as claimed, is merited because (i) the and of the Trial Court recording conviction against him is latently and patently infi rm; (ii) Ghazipur constituency, represented by him in the Lok Sabha for the term 2019-2024, would go unrepresented during the rest of the term; (iii) he would lose his Constitutional right to contest the forthcoming elections scheduled in 2024; and (iv) fi nalising and completing the more than two dozen projects initiated by him under the MPLAD Scheme would be adversely aff ected, so much so that irreversible harm and injustice is inevitable. 55. It is no doubt true that if a of conviction is outrageously in defi ance of reason and logic and appears to be unsustainable without elaborate arguments being required to be advanced to satisfy the Court in that behalf, the same could aff ord a ground for suspending the execution of the conviction or, in a rare situation, even for staying the conviction. In the latter case too, however, the infi rmities in the of conviction per se would not be enough to justify a stay. The convict seeking stay is required not only to make a distinct prayer for stay but he is also obliged, in view of the long line of precedents, to plead irreversible consequences that could befall him if the stay were not granted. Such pleaded consequences would then have to be examined with a view to ascertain whether something very harmful or untoward or serious would happen, which is irreversible. At the same time, the court ought to be careful not to express a view which even 101 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. directly or indirectly has an eff ect on the decision-making process at the time the appeal is decided. However, the present is not such a case where at this stage it can be contended with the requisite degree of conviction that the and dated 29th April, 2023 of the Trial Court, in no case, would be sustained by the High Court; hence, it is prudent to stay away from examining whether the recording conviction suff ers from such infi rmities so as to warrant a stay of conviction.