Therefore, the court should issue suitable directions for his continued medical treatment, in an alternative manner, or suitably compensate him. It was highlighted that the response and indiff erence of the respondents has caused intense 27 [1998] 2 S.C.R. 428. 28 [2007] 6 S.C.R. 139. 29 (2007) 4 SCC 596. 30 [2004] SUPP. 5 S.C.R. 359. 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. mental agony to the appellant, which should be separately compensated. The amici also highlighted that the appellant’s eff ort to secure employment has turned to naught, because though he was almost selected for a post, the future employer, i.e., the Food Corporation of India (FCI), rejected his application, when it became aware that he was HIV positive. A response to the appellant’s RTI query, given by the FCI on 17.02.2018 in this context was placed on the record. V. Submissions on Behalf of Respondents 32. Learned counsel appearing for the Indian Army and IAF, Additional Solicitor General – Mr. Vikramjit Banerjee (hereafter “ASG”) submitted that the appellant failed to prove medical negligence attributable to the respondents and that no medical report submitted on record establishes negligence on their part. 33. It was submitted by the ASG that the appellant is not a ‘consumer’ in terms of Section 2(1)(d)31 of the CPA 1986, he was entitled to, and availed medical services from armed forces hospitals free of cost and the services provided by the armed forces hospital is not a service under the Section 2(1) (o)32 of the CPA 1986. Such services are provided without any consideration. 31 (d) “consumer” means any person who,-- (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose; or (ii) [hires or avails of] any services for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any benefi ciary of such services other than the person who [hires or avails of] the services for consideration paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the fi rst mentioned person [but does not include a person who avails of such services for any commercial purpose]; [Explanation.--For the purposes of this clause, “commercial purpose” does not include use by a person of goods bought and used by him and services availed by him exclusively for the purposes of earning his livelihood by means of self-employment.] 32 (o) “service” means service of any description which is made available to potential [users and includes, but not limited to, the provision of] facilities in connection with banking, fi nancing insurance, transport, processing, supply of electrical or other CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.)