The reasons for delay are set out hereinabove. The explanation which was given by the plaintiff, narrated hereinabove, can hardly be said to be a H sufficient explanation as to why the plaintiff did not pay the balance sale P. SHYAMALA v. GUNDLUR MASTHAN 43 [M. R. SHAH, J.] consideration as per the and decree or even did not make an A application within a reasonable time under Section 148 CPC and Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act seeking extension of time for making payment. If the plaintiff was ready with the money payable towards the balance sale consideration, he could have got the sale deed executed through power of attorney after effecting deposit/payment. In absence B of any sufficient explanation, such a huge delay of 853 days ought not to have been condoned by the trial Court. 6. It is observed and held by this Court in the case of V.S. Palanichamy Chettiar Firm (supra) that provisions to grant specific performance of an agreement are quite stringent. Equitable considerations C come into play. The Court has to see all the attendant circumstances including if the vendee has conducted himself in a reasonable manner under the contract of sale. It is further observed that therefore, the Court cannot as a matter of course, allow extension of time for making payment of balance amount of consideration in terms of a decree. It is further observed that in absence of any explanation whatsoever even by the D decree holders as to why they did not pay the balance amount of consideration as per the decree or did not make an application under section 28 of the Specific Relief Act seeking extension of time for making payment, equity demands that discretion be not exercised in favour of the decree holders and no extension of time be granted to them to comply E with the decree. 7. Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Kishor Ghanshyamsa Paralikar (D) through Lrs. (supra), relied upon on behalf of the respondent is concerned, it is required to be noted that in the said case before this Court, the total sale F consideration was Rs. 8,78,500/-. The vendee paid a sum of Rs. 7,31,000/ - immediately. He was required to pay the remaining amount of Rs. 1,47,500/- within a period of one month from the date of the compromise decree. There was a delay of five days only in paying the remaining amount of Rs. 1,47,500/-. Therefore, in exercise of powers under Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act, this Court allowed the extension of time in G favour of the decree holder to deposit the balance sale consideration. In the said decision, in paragraph 11, it is observed as under: “11.This section gives to the vendor or the lessor the right to rescission of the contract for the sale or lease of the immovable property in the same suit, when after a suit for specific performance H 44 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.