(2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (1), where a general election to reconstitute the Legislative Assembly of a Province has been ed before the commencement of this Constitution, the election may be completed after such commencement as if this Constitution had not come into operation, and the Assembly so reconstituted shall be deemed to be the Legislative Assembly of that Province for the purposes of that clause. (3) Any person holding offi ce immediately before the commencement of this Constitution as Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly or President or Deputy President of the Legislative Council of a Province shall on such commencement be the Speaker or Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly or the Chairman or Deputy Chairman of the Legislative Council, as the case may be, of the corresponding State specifi ed in Part A of the First Schedule while such Assembly or 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 291. Article 383 contained provisions for the Governors of the Provinces in terms of which persons who were functioning as Governors at the commencement of the Constitution in a corresponding Part A State would continue until a Governor was appointed230. 292. Article 384 contained provisions for the Council of Ministers and the continuance of those who were functioning at the adoption of the Constitution.231 Corresponding provisions for the continuance of provisional legislatures in Part B States, and the Council of Ministers in those States were made in Articles 385232 and 386233. Council functions under clause (1). Provided that where a general election has been ed for the reconstitution of the Legislative Assembly of a Province before the commencement of this Constitution and the fi rst meeting of the Assembly as so reconstituted is held after such commencement, the provisions of this clause shall not apply and the Assembly as reconstituted shall elect two members of the Assembly to be respectively the Speaker and Deputy Speaker thereof.” 230 Repealed Art. 383 read as : “383. Provision as to Governors of Provinces- Any person holding offi ce as Governor in any Province immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall on such commencement be the Governor of the corresponding State specifi ed in Part A of the First Schedule until a new Governor has been appointed in accordance with the provisions of Chapter II of Part VI and has entered upon his offi ce.” 231 Repealed Art.384 read as: “384. Council of Ministers of Governors. - Such persons as the Governor of a State may appoint in that behalf shall become members of the Council of Ministers of the Governor under this Constitution, and, until appointment are so made, all persons holding offi ce as Ministers for the corresponding Province immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall on such commencement become, and shall continue to hold offi ce as, members of the Council of Ministers of the Governor of the State under this Constitution.” 232 Repealed Art. 385 read as: “385. Provision as to provisional Legislatures in States in Part B of the First Schedule.