[Para 57, 59][1050-C-D] 1.3 This Court has already applied the relevant standard to F confirm the guilt of the petitioner in the appeal in a case which is based on circumstantial evidence and it will not be appropriate for this Court to once again venture into an assessment of the evidence in the review jurisdiction in view of its limited scope. [Para 60][1051-F-G] G 1.4 In the instant case, the of the trial court dealing with sentencing indicates that a meaningful, real and effective hearing was not afforded to the petitioner. The trial court did not conduct any separate hearing on sentencing and did not take into account any mitigating circumstances pertaining to the petitioner H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1019 POLICE before awarding the death penalty. The High Court took into A account the gruesome and merciless nature of the act. It reiterated the precedents stating that the death penalty is to be awarded only in the rarest of rare cases. However, it did not specifically look at any mitigating circumstances bearing on the petitioner. This Court examined the aggravating circumstances of the crime B in detail. The above sequence indicates that no mitigating circumstances of the petitioner were taken into account at any stage of the trial or the appellate process even though the petitioner was sentenced to capital punishment. [Para 70- 74][1056-B-C, F-G; 1057-A,D] C 1.5 In terms of the aggravating circumstances that were taken note of by this Court in appeal, the attention has been drawn to certain circumstance. It is noted that the sex of the child cannot be in itself considered as an aggravating circumstance by a constitutional court. The murder of a young child is unquestionably a grievous crime and the young age of such a D victim as well as the trauma that it causes for the entire family is in itself, undoubtedly, an aggravating circumstance. In such a circumstance, it does not and should not matter for a constitutional court whether the young child was a male child or a female child. The murder remains equally tragic. Courts should also not indulge E in furthering the notion that only a male child furthers family lineage or is able to assist the parents in old age. Such remarks involuntarily further patriarchal value judgements that courts should avoid regardless of the context. [Para 75][1057-E, H; 1058-A-C] F 1.6 No inquiry was conducted for enabling a consideration of the factors mentioned in case of the petitioner. Neither the trial court, nor the appellate courts have looked into any factors to conclusively state that the petitioner cannot be reformed or rehabilitated. The Courts have reiterated the gruesome nature of crime to award the death penalty. In appeal, this Court merely G noted that the counsel for the petitioner could not point towards mitigating circumstances and upheld the death penalty. The state must equally place all material and circumstances on the record bearing on the probability of reform. Many such materials and aspects are within the knowledge of the state which has had custody of the accused both before and after the conviction.