Arbitration law allows the parties to design arbitral procedures, which ensures effi ciency and expediency of the arbitration process. One of the reasons that business and commercial entities prefer arbitration is because it obviates cumbersome judicial processes, which can often prove expensive, complex, and interminable. Most legal jurisdictions have also recognized and adopted legal approaches that favor arbitration at both the domestic and international level. In the process, national courts have given eff ect to principles such as the separability presumption and jurisdictional competence of the arbitral tribunal. Modern arbitration law does not completely restrict the role of national courts in the arbitration process, but gives priority to the arbitral tribunal to decide on disputes and issues pertaining to arbitration agreements as well as the substantive rights of the parties. The Arbitration Act refl ects these aspects of modern arbitration law. It is the duty of this Court to interpret the Arbitration Act in a manner which gives life to the principles of modern arbitration in India. F*. The law on the arbitration agreement 88. An arbitration agreement is the foundation of arbitration as it records the consent of the parties to submit their disputes to arbitration.85 In Bihar State Mineral Development Corporation v. Encon Builders,86 this Court enlisted the essential elements of an arbitration agreement as follows: * Ed. Note: PART F 85 Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration (7th edn, Oxford University Press, 2023) 49 86 (2003) 7 SCC 418 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1137 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] a. There must be a present or future diff erence in connection with some contemplated aff air; b. There must be the intention of the parties to settle such disputes by a private tribunal; c. The parties must agree in writing to be bound by the decision of such tribunal; and d. The parties must be ad idem. 89. Section 2(b) of the Arbitration Act defines an “arbitration agreement” to mean an agreement referred to in Section 7. Section 7 defi nes an “arbitration agreement” to mean an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not. It provides that an arbitration agreement could be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement. Further, Section 7 mandates that an arbitration agreement shall be in writing. According to Section 7(4), an arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in: (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication including communication through electronic means which provide a record of the agreement; or (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence in which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other.