Under Clause 2, the Scheme came into operation on 1-8-1995 and was to remain in force for a period of five years up to 31-7-2000. Under Clause 3, to be eligible, a new tourism unit ought to be registered after 1-8- E 1995. Clause 4.7 dealt with effective steps which such unit was expected to undertake. Under Clause 5, after taking initial effective steps a tourism unit could apply to the Director of Tourism for registration. All projects had to conform to the specifications and requirements spelt out in Appendix B which F appendix dealt with various categories of tourism units and Item 22 thereof pertained to “Entertainment Complexes” including multi-cinema theatre complexes or multiplexes. Clause 7 categorised tourism units in four categories, namely, Prestigious Tourism Units, Large-scale Tourism Units, Small- scale Tourism Units and Tiny Tourism Units with minimum fixed G capital investment of Rs 10 crores, 90 lakhs, 10 lakhs and less than 10 lakhs, respectively. Clause 8 dealt with incentives and stated that a tax holiday of 5-10 years would be available in respect of exemptions from (i) sales tax (ii) turnover tax (iii) electricity duty (iv) luxury tax, and (v) entertainment tax, H THE STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. v. MULTIPLEX ASSN. OF 117 GUJARAT THROUGH ITS PRESIDENT [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] up to 100% of capital investment. In Clause 8.1 it was stated A that the quantum of incentives would not exceed 100% of eligible capital investment and it further stated the period of eligibility in respect of prestigious tourism units, large-scale tourism units, small-scale tourism units and tiny tourism units to be 10 years, 8 years, 6 years and 5 years, respectively. B Clause 9 dealt with composition of sanctioning authority whereunder State Level Committee was competent to issue eligibility certificate in respect of prestigious and large units while District Level Committee was to issue eligibility certificate for all small-scale and tiny tourism units. The procedure for registration of tourism units for incentives was C detailed in Clause 10.” 4. What is an issue in this case, is another part of the new Package Scheme i.e. proper manner of construing para 8 and 8.1 which, for the sake of convenience are produced below: “INCENTIVE D A tax holiday of 5-10 years will be available to new units and expansion of existing units ( as per condition set out earlier) in respect of the following taxes, and upto 100% of capital investment. The tax Holiday will be available to units conforming to the list in Appendix B and falling within the E eligible areas. List of taxes 1. Exemption from Sales Tax. 2. Exemption from Turnover tax. 3. Exemption from Electricity Duty. F 4. Exemption from Luxury Tax. 5. Exemption from Entertainment Tax. Exemption from sales tax is available with the following conditions: G (a) Exemption towards taxes on raw materials, processing materials, consumable stores, packing materials are not available. (b) Only those goods which are sold at the first stage of sale by eligible unit will attract sales tax exemption.