The civil appeal was dismissed by a three-Judge Bench of this Court and the memo was accordingly upheld. 34. In S.K. Jain (supra), the relevant arbitration clause reads as under: “25-A. (7) It is also a term of this contract agreement that where the party invoking arbitration is the contractor, no reference for arbitration shall be maintainable unless the contractor furnishes to the satisfaction of the Executive Engineer in charge of the work, a security deposit of a sum determined according to details given below and the sum so deposited shall, on the termination of the arbitration proceedings be adjusted against the costs, if any, awarded by the arbitrator against the claimant party and the balance remaining after such adjustment in the absence of any such costs being awarded, the whole of the sum will be refunded to him within one month from the date of the award— Amount of claim Rate of security deposit 1. For claims below Rs 10,000 2% of amount claimed 2. For claims of Rs 10,000 and 5% of amount claimed above and below Rs 1,00,000 and 3. For claims of Rs 1,00,000 and 7% of amount claimed” above (Emphasis supplied) LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 961 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 35. The relevant observations made by the Court in S.K. Jain (supra), more particularly, para 14 reads thus: “14. It has been submitted by learned counsel for the appellant that there should be a cap in the quantum payable in terms of sub-clause (7) of Clause 25-A. This plea is clearly without substance. It is to be noted that it is structured on the basis of the quantum involved. Higher the claim, the higher is the amount of fee chargeable. There is a logic in it. It is the balancing factor to prevent frivolous and infl ated claims. If the appellants’ plea is accepted that there should be a cap in the fi gure, a claimant who is making higher claim stands on a better pedestal than one who makes a claim of a lesser amount.” M UNICIPAL CORPN., JABALPUR AND OTHERS V. RAJESH CONSTRUCTION CO., (2007) 5 SCC 344 36. In the said case, the appellants had fl oated a notice inviting tender for construction of a road. Some portion of the work was awarded to the respondent therein by entering into a contract on the terms and conditions as contained in the tender. The tender contained various clauses; one amongst the same being clause 29 which pertained to arbitration in case any dispute arose between the parties and reads thus: “29. Except as otherwise provided in this contract all questions and disputes relating to the meaning of the specifi cations, drawing and instructions hereinbefore mentioned and as to thing (sic anything) whatsoever, in any way arising out or relating to the contract, designs, drawings, specifi cations, estimates concerning the works or the execution or failure to execute the same, whether arising during the progress of the work or after the completion or abandonment thereof shall be referred to the City Engineer in writing for his decision, within a period of 30 days of such occurrence.