At this F stage it is impossible for me to see or anticipate what attitude this House will take when the particular draft Instructions come before the House. If the House rejects the proposal of the Drafting Committee that there should be an Instrument of Instructions to the President which might include, among other things, a provision with regard to the making of appointments, this problem would G then be solved by that method. But, as I said, it is quite difficult for me to anticipate what may happen. Therefore in to meet the criticism of my honourable Friend Professor Saksena, supported by the criticism of my honourable Friend Pandit Kunzru, I am prepared to make certain amendments in amendment No. H 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 99. I am sorry I did not have time to circulate these amendments, but when I read them the House will know what I am proposing.” (Emphasis Supplied) 24. Thereafter, he proposed that an amendment which read as follows: B “The appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners shall, subject to the provisions of any law made in this behalf by Parliament, be made by the President.” (Emphasis Supplied) C 25. We notice that the amendment which was proposed by Professor Shibban Lal Saksena which we have noticed came to be negatived and the amendment which was proposed by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar was adopted. Thus, Article 289 as amended was added to the Constitution. It is this Article which appears in the Constitution as Article 324. D 26. At this stage, we may only notice the following comment, however, in the work by B Shiva Rao: - “By leaving a great deal of power in hands of the President, it gave room for the exercise of political influence by the Central E Government in the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the other Election Commissioners. His remedy was that Parliament should be authorized to make provision for these matters by law. K.M. Munshi, while supporting Ambedkar’s proposal suggested in to meet Kunzru’s criticism an amendment requiring that the appointment of the Chief Election F Commissioner and the other Election Commissioners would be subject to law made by Parliament; and that the power of the President to make rules regulating their conditions of service would likewise be subject to any law made by Parliament. With these modifications the article was adopted: at the revision stage it was G numbered as article 324.” 27. The Constituent Assembly of India can proximately be traced to the deliberations of the cabinet mission. The broad features were as follows. The members of the constituent assembly were to be elected not on the basis of adult suffrage. At the time, i.e., in 1946, India was still H under British rule. British India broadly consisted of the Governors ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 51 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] provinces and the Chief Commissioner’s provinces. There were also a A large number of princely states.