This legislative exercise, as argued by the petitioners, go contrary to Constitutional scheme. The authorities cited on this point are State of Tamil Nadu -vs- State of Kerala (supra), H Chief Secretary to the Government, Chennai, Tamil Nadu and THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 461 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] Others -vs- Animal Welfare Board and Another [(2017) 2 SCC A 144] and Rupa Ashok Hurra -vs- Ashok Hurra and Another [(2002) 4 SCC 388]. 19.In the case of A. Nagaraja (supra), the two Judge Bench, on the basis of affidavit of the Animal Welfare Board of India and MoEF&CC described the manner in which Jallikattu was being B performed. The preparation of the bulls for these sports entail, but not limited to, ear cutting/mutilation, twisting of tail, resulting in fracture and dislocation of tail bones. It was also stated that 95% of the bulls that were used in the process of participation in these sports were soiled with faeces from below the base of their tails and across the large part C of their hindquarters. Additionally, bovine species were forced to stand together in accumulated waste for hours. At one of the locations of the events, the Animal Welfare Board found that in the “collection area”, a bull died due to injuries caused as a result of head-on collision with a moving passenger bus. Injuries were caused to muscle bones, nerves and blood vessels also as the bulls were subjected to tail-biting, poking D them with sharp objects to excite them, use of irritants in the eyes and nose. Vadi vassal (the cattle bull entry place in Jallikattu) were narrow entry corridors which had cramping conditions and bulls were made to move sideways which is an unnatural movement for them. There was also lack of food and water at the respective locations and instances of E spectators beating, biting and agitating the bulls. Such abhorrent practises surfaced from investigation reports relied on by the petitioners. In paragraph 67 of A. Nagaraja (supra), as reported in the aforesaid journal, substantial emphasis has been laid on Article 48 of the Constitution of India read with Fundamental Duties enshrined in Article 51-A (g) and (h). On that basis, argument was advanced that sentient species should F be accorded the protective umbrella of Article 21 of the Constitution. We shall deal with that aspect later in this . In fact, argument in this line has been advanced on the basis that sentient animals have natural rights to live a life with dignity without any infliction of cruelty. The other line of submission on behalf of the petitioners is that the subject dealt G with by the three Amendment Acts does not relate to List III. On this count the authorities cited were State of Bihar and Others -vs- Indian Aluminium Companyand Others [(1997) 8 SCC 360], Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (supra), M. Karunanidhi -vs- Union of India and Another [(1979) 3 SCC 431] and K.T. Plantation Private Ltd. and Another -vs- State of Karnataka [(2011) 9 SCC 1].