It is not as if the respondent was taken by surprise. In such circumstances, this aspect of the matter should have been looked into by the High Court on the anvil of the principle of “test of prejudice”. i) Principle of “Test of Prejudice” in Service Jurisprudence 57. The “test of prejudice” is a well settled canon of law that may be applied where any procedural impropriety or violation of rule of audi alteram is alleged. This Court in State Bank of Patiala and Others v. S.K. Sharma reported in (1996) 3 SCC 364 held that the test is to ascertain whether the violation of such procedure or process resulted in a prejudice being caused or a loss of fair hearing. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “11. ... Does it mean that any and every violation of the regulations renders the enquiry and the punishment void or whether the principle underlying Section 99 CPC and Section 465 CrPC is applicable in the case of disciplinary proceedings as well. In our opinion, the test in such cases should be one of prejudice, as would be later explained in this . But this statement is subject to a rider. The regulations may contain certain substantive provisions, e.g., who is the competent authority to impose a particular punishment on a particular employee/ offi cer. Such provisions must be strictly complied with. But there may be any number of procedural provisions which stand on a diff erent footing. We must hasten to add that even among procedural provisions, there may be some provisions which are of a fundamental nature in the case of which the theory of substantial compliance may not be applicable. For example, take a case where a rule expressly provides that the delinquent offi cer/employee shall be given an opportunity to produce 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. evidence/material in support of his case after the close of evidence of the other side. If no such opportunity is given at all in spite of a request therefor, it will be diffi cult to say that the enquiry is not vitiated.But in respect of many procedural provisions, it would be possible to apply the theory of substantial compliance or the test of prejudice, as the case may be. The position can be stated in the following words: (1) Regulations which are of a substantive nature have to be complied with and in case of such provisions, the theory of substantial compliance would not be available. (2) Even among procedural provisions, there may be some provisions of a fundamental nature which have to be complied with and in whose case, the theory of substantial compliance may not be available. (3) In respect of procedural provisions other than of a fundamental nature, the theory of substantial compliance would be available. In such cases, complaint/objection on this score have to be judged on the touchstone of prejudice, as explained later in this . In other words, the test is: all things taken together whether the delinquent offi cer/employee had or did not have a fair hearing.