Therefore in that circumstance when there B was an assurance from a sovereign State to persons like that of the petitioner No.1 in view of the right provided through the notification issued under Section 7B(1) of Act, 1955 and all ‘things were done’ by such Overseas Citizens of India to take benefit of it and when it was the stage of maturing into the benefit of C competing for the seat, all ‘such things done’ should not have been undone and nullified with the issue of the impugned notification by superseding the earlier notifications so as to take away even the benefit that was held out to them. [Paras 50, 51][296-G-H; 297-A-F] D 1.7 On the face of it the impugned notification not saving such accrued rights would indicate non application of mind and arbitrariness in the action. Further in such circumstance when the stated object was to make available more seats for the Indian Citizens and it is demonstrated that seats have remained vacant, the object for which such notification was issued even without E saving the rights and excluding the petitioners and similarly placed OCI Cardholders with the other students is to be classified as one without nexus to the object. As taken note earlier during the course this , the right which was granted to the OCI cardholders in parity with the NRIs was to appear for the Pre- F Medical Entrance Test along with all other similar candidates i.e. the Indian citizens. In a situation where it has been demonstrated that the petitioner No.1 being born in the year 2003, has been residing in India since 2006 and has received her education in India, such student who has pursued her education by having the same ‘advantages’ and ‘disadvantages’ like that of G any other students who is a citizen of India, the participation in the Pre-Medical Entrance Test or such other Entrance Examination would be on an even keel and there is no greater advantage to the petitioner No.1 merely because she was born in California, USA. Therefore, the right which had been conferred H and existed had not affected Indian citizens so as to abruptly deny ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 249 ORS. all such rights. The right was only to compete. It could have been A regulated for the future, if it is the policy of the Sovereign State. No thought having gone into all these aspects is crystal clear from the manner in which it has been done. [Para 52][297-F-H; 298-A-C] 1.8 In the above circumstance, keeping in view, the object B with which the Act, 1955 was amended so as to provide the benefit to Overseas Citizen of India and in that context when rights were given to the OCI cardholders through the notifications issued from time to time, based on which the OCI cardholders had adopted to the same and had done things so as to position C themselves for the future, the right which had accrued in such process could not have been taken away in the present manner, which would act as a ‘retroactive’ notification.