Comparing that with the present article 289, there is undoubtedly, a radical change. This article proposes to centralize the election machinery in the hands of a single Commission to be assisted by regional Commissioners, not working under the provincial Government, but working under the superintendence E and control of the central Election Commission. As I said, this is undoubtedly a radical change. But, this change has become necessary because today we find that in some of the provinces of India, the population is a mixture…” (Emphasis supplied) F 19. Professor Shibban Lal Saksena gave notice of an amendment to the amendment to Article 289 which, inter alia, stated that after the word ‘appoint’ in clause (2), the words “subject to confirmation by two- third majority in a joint session of both the Houses of Parliament” be inserted. He also proposed that in clause (4), the words “Parliament G may by law determine” be substituted for the words “President may by rule determine”. There were certain other amendments proposed by Prof. Saksena. Prof. Saksena further went on to make the following statement: “..Of course it shall be completely independent of the provincial H Executives but if the President is to appoint this Commission, ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 45 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] naturally it means that the Prime Minister appoints this Commission. A He will appoint the other Election Commissioners on his recommendations. Now this does not ensure their independence…” Xxx xxx xxx B “So what I want is this that even the person who is appointed originally should be such that he should be enjoying the confidence of all parties—his appointment should be confirmed not only by majority but by two-thirds majority of both the Houses. If it is only a bare majority, then the party in power could vote confidence in him but when I want 2/3rd majority it means that the other parties C must also concur in the appointment so that in that real independence of the Commission may be guaranteed, in that everyone even in opposition may not have anything to say against the Commission, the appointments of the Commissioners and the Chief Election Commissioner must be by the President but the names proposed by him should be such as command the D confidence of two-thirds majority of both the Houses of Legislatures.” xxx xxx xxx “I want that in future, no Prime Minister may abuse this right, and for this I want to provide that there should be two-thirds E majority which should approve the nomination by the President. Of course there is danger where one party is in a huge majority. As I said just now it is quite possible that if our Prime Minister wants, he can have a man of his own party, but I am sure he will not do it. Still if he does appoint a party-man, and the appointment F comes up for confirmation in a joint session, even a small opposition or even a few independent members can down the Prime Minister before the bar of public opinion in the world.