Measures designed to achieve greater social justice, may call for lesser compensation and such a limitation by itself will not make legislation invalid or unconstitutional or confiscatory. In other words, the right to claim compensation or the obligation to pay, though not expressly G included in Article 300-A, it can be inferred in that article and it is for the State to justify its stand on justifiable grounds which may depend upon the legislative policy, object and purpose of the statute and host of other factors.” 144. We may also recapture paragraphs-191 and 192: H 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “191. The legislation providing for deprivation of property under Article 300-A must be “just, fair and reasonable” as understood in terms of Articles 14, 19(1)(g), 26(b), 301, etc. Thus in each case, courts will have to examine the scheme of the impugned Act, its object, purpose as also the question whether payment of nil compensation or nominal compensation would make the B impugned law unjust, unfair or unreasonable in terms of other provisions of the Constitution as indicated above.” “192. At this stage, we may clarify that there is a difference between “no” compensation and “nil” compensation. A law seeking to acquire private property for public purpose cannot say C that “no compensation shall be paid”. However, there could be a law awarding “nil” compensation in cases where the State undertakes to discharge the liabilities charged on the property under acquisition and onus is on the Government to establish validity of such law. In the latter case, the Court in exercise of judicial review D will test such a law keeping in mind the above parameters.” 145. A perusal of the paragraphs, which we have adverted to, would reveal that, while in paragraph-189, it is made to appear that no compensation or nil compensation or its illusiveness has to be justified on judicially justifiable standards, in paragraph-192, it is held that a law E providing for acquisition of private property for public purpose cannot say that no compensation could be paid. At this juncture, we consider it apposite to refer to paragraph-141: “141. Eminent domain is distinguishable alike from the police power, by which restriction are imposed on private property in the public interest e.g. in connection with health, sanitation, zoning regulation, F urban planning and so on from the power of taxation, by which the owner of private property is compelled to contribute a portion of it for the public purposes and from the war power, involving the destruction of private property in the course of military operations. The police power fetters rights of property while eminent domain G takes them away. Power of taxation does not necessarily involve a taking of specific property for public purposes, though analogous to eminent domain as regards the purposes to which the contribution of the taxpayer is to be applied. Further, there are several significant differences between regulatory exercises of the police powers and eminent domain of deprivation of property.