In CRZ-I, the norms were as follows: E “l. CRZ-1,- (i) no new construction shall be permitted in CRZ-1 except,- (a) projects relating to Department of Atomic Energy; (b) pipelines, conveying systems including transmission lines; F (c) facilities that are essential for activities permissible under CRZ-l; (d) installation of weather radar for monitoring of cyclones movement and prediction by Indian Meteorological Department; G (e) construction of trans harbour sea link and without affecting the tidal flow of water, between LTL and HTL. (f) development of green field airport already approved at only Navi Mumbai; H 268 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (ii) Areas between LTL and HTL which are not ecologically sensitive, necessary safety measures will be incorporated while permitting the following, namely:- (a) exploration and extraction of natural gas; (b) construction of dispensaries, schools, public rainshelter, B community toilets, bridges, roads, jetties, water supply, drainage, sewerage which are required fortraditional inhabitants living within the biosphere reserves after obtainingapproval from concerned CZMA. (c) necessary safety measure shall be incorporated while C permitting such developmental activities in the area falling in the hazard zone; (d) salt harvesting by solar evaporation of seawater; (e) desalination plants; D (f) storage of non-hazardous cargo such as edible oil, fertilizers and food grain withinnotified plants; (g) construction of trans harbour sea links, roads on stilts or pillars without affecting thetidal flow of water.” E 30. In CRZ-II, the norms were as follows: “II. CRZ-11,- (i) buildings shall be permitted only on the landward side of the existing road, or on thelandward side of existing authorized F structures; (ii) buildings permitted on the landward side of the existing and proposed roads or existing authorized structures shall be subject to the existing local town and country planning regulations including the ‘existing’ norms of Floor Space Index or Floor G Area Ratio: Provided that no permission for construction of buildings shall be given on landward sideof any new roads which are constructed on the seaward side of an existing road: H K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 269 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (iii) reconstruction of authorized building to be permitted subject A with the existing Floor Space Index or Floor Area Ratio Norms and without change in present use; (iv) facilities for receipt and storage of petroleum products and liquefied natural gas asspecified in Annexure-II appended to this notification and facilities for regasification of Liquefied B Natural Gas subject to the conditions as mentioned in sub- paragraph (ii) of paragraph 3; (v) desalination plants and associated facilities; (vi) storage of non-hazardous cargo, such as edible oil, fertilizers C and food grain innotified ports; (vii) facilities for generating power by non-conventional power sources and associated facilities;” 31. CRZ-III, comprised of area up to 200 meters from HTL on the landward side in the case of sea front inter alia. It is marked as the D NDZ [or No Development Zone}. It was,inter alia, provided that NDZ shall not apply “in such area falling within any notified port”.