TARUN KUMAR v. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR DIRECTORATE 825 OF ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), or any other provision of this Act, no police offi cer shall investigate into an off ence under this Act unless specifi cally authorised, by the Central Government by a general or special , and, subject to such conditions as may be prescribed. (2) The limitation on granting of bail specifi ed in sub-section (1) is in addition to the limitations under the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974) or any other law for the time being in force on granting of bail. Explanation. —For the removal of doubts, it is clarifi ed that the expression “Off ences to be cognizable and non-bailable” shall mean and shall be deemed to have always meant that all off ences under this Act shall be cognizable offences and non-bailable offences notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), and accordingly the offi cers authorised under this Act are empowered to arrest an accused without warrant, subject to the fulfi llment of conditions under section 19 and subject to the conditions enshrined under this section. 10. The constitutional validity of certain provisions of the PML Act and the procedure followed by the Enforcement Directorate while inquiring into/ investigating off ences under the said Act having been challenged before this Court in case of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Others vs. Union of India and Others5, a three Judge Bench had considered the said provisions of the Act in detail. After considering the submissions of the learned counsels for the parties with regard to the interpretation of Section 3 of the said Act, it was held therein as under: - “269. From the bare language of Section 3 of the 2002 Act, it is amply clear that the off ence of money-laundering is an independent off ence regarding the process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime which had been derived or obtained as a result of criminal activity relating to or in relation to a scheduled off ence. The process or activity can be in any form — be it one of concealment, possession, acquisition, 5 2022 SCC Online SC 929 826 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. use of proceeds of crime as much as projecting it as untainted property or claiming it to be so. Thus, involvement in any one of such process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime would constitute off ence of money-laundering. This off ence otherwise has nothing to do with the criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence — except the proceeds of crime derived or obtained as a result of that crime. 270. Needless to mention that such process or activity can be indulged in only after the property is derived or obtained as a result of criminal activity (a scheduled off ence). It would be an off ence of money- laundering to indulge in or to assist or being party to the process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime; and such process or activity in a given fact situation may be a continuing off ence, irrespective of the date and time of commission of the scheduled off ence.