A fight ensued in which, the first informant PW 1 Asgar Shaikh B was assaulted on his head by means of weapons like sickle and sword. This assault on the head of the first informant PW 1 is alleged to have been laid by the appellant No. 1 herein. The first informant suffered a bleeding injury on his head. Thereafter, a severe assault was laid on the deceased Abbas Baig by means of a sickle and sword. It is the case of the prosecution that the appellants herein had dangerous weapons in C their hands in the form of a sword and sickle. The deceased Abbas Baig suffered serious injuries on his body and ultimately succumbed to such injuries. 4. A first information report was lodged on 2.04.2002 by the PW 1 at around 2 a.m. i.e., just within three hours from the time of the D incident. The deceased Abbas Baig having suffered serious bleeding injuries was taken to the hospital in a rickshaw owned by the PW 3, namely, Nasir Khan. The deceased upon reaching the hospital was declared dead. 5. The FIR Exh. 8 lodged by the PW 1 viz. Asgar Shaikh reads E thus:- “I Ajgar Ibrahim Shaikh aged 22 years, Occupation Turner, residing at 54 BP/251 Lohia Nagar, slum area, Pune. I hereby lodge my complaint as under: I am residing at the aforementioned address with my mother, F father and sister. I have been working as a turner past three years in the workshop owned by Abdul Wahab Shaikh situated at Guruwar Peth, Pune in the name of New Quality Instruments. Yesterday, i.e., on 1.4.2001, I left my house at 9.00 AM for reporting at the workshop. I worked out at the G workshop for whole day and came back at 7.00 PM. I had my dinner at 11.15 PM in the night and thereafter went outside as I wanted to have paanmasala. When I reached somewhere near the shop by name Shri Sai Car Auto Consultant, I met my friend Abbas Baig (deceased) also a resident of H 860 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Lohianagar, slum area, Pune. I started cheating with my friend Abbas. At that point of time, Santosh Khalde and one another boy were passing through the place where, we were talking. My friend Abbas saw Santosh and told me that “Itni Raat Ko Maa Chudane Ke Liye Kaha Ja Raha Hai? Tumhara plan kya hai”. Santosh replied that he had no plan and was B proceeding to answer nature’s call. At around 11.45 PM, four persons, namely, Balu Khalde, Ramesh Mohite, Raju Mohite and Santosh Khalde assembled and started talking with us. At that time, Balu khale told him “Bajula Haat”. Abbas Baig told Balu Khalde that “Usse kya baat kar raha hai?” talk to C me. At that time, I told them “Kaiko Lafda Kar Rahe Ho?” Balu Khalde took out a weapon like Koita which he had hidden in his waist and hit me on my head.