MOHAMED IBRAHIM v. THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING 937 DIRECTOR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] entry level reservations in established controlled by the state or its agencies, and general provisions to enable physical access to institutions; it also mandates provisioning of existing institutions, to accommodate PWDs, in physical infrastructure, and at all points to enhance full participation and functioning of such individuals. Its provisions defi ning “disability” and persons with disabilities20, are fairly elaborate; interestingly these concepts are defi ned in an inclusive manner, lead to potentialities for their use. However, at the same time, the actual benefi ts in the form of affi rmative action are defi ned by a specifi c category of PWDs (orthopaedical, visual, hearing, mental, etc.) and tied to the context of “benchmark” disabilities21, which entitles those PWDs who qualify with a certain threshold of disability (40 per cent or more) to the affi rmative action and other similar benefi ts22. 20 Section 2 (s) defi nes as follows: ‘“person with disability” means a person with long term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairment which, in interaction with barriers, hinders his full and eff ective participation in society equally with others;’ 21 Which is defi ned by Section 2 (r): ““person with benchmark disability” means a person with not less than forty per cent. of a specifi ed disability where specifi ed disability has not been defi ned in measurable terms and includes a person with disability where specifi ed disability has been defi ned in measurable terms, as certifi ed by the certifying authority;” 22 Section 33 of the Act reads as follows: Identifi cation of posts for reservation- The appropriate Government shall— (i) identify posts in the establishments which can be held by respective category of persons with benchmark disabilities in respect of the vacancies reserved in accordance with the provisions of section 34; (ii) constitute an expert committee with representation of persons with benchmark disabilities for identifi cation of such posts; and (iii) undertake periodic review of the identifi ed posts at an interval not exceeding three years. 34. Reservation. — (1) Every appropriate Government shall appoint in every Government establishment, not less than four per cent. of the total number of vacancies in the cadre strength in each group of posts meant to be fi lled with persons with benchmark disabilities of which, one per cent. each shall be reserved for persons with benchmark disabilities under clauses (a), (b) and (c) and one per cent. for persons with benchmark disabilities under clauses (d) and (e), namely:— (a) blindness and low vision; (b) deaf and hard of hearing; (c) locomotor disability including cerebral palsy, leprosy cured, dwarfi sm, acid attack victims and muscular dystrophy; (d) autism, intellectual disability, specifi c learning disability and mental illness; 938 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. The nature of inclusion of specifi ed categories only to the exclusion of other categories of disabilities, on the one hand, and the eligibility of a threshold, in the opinion of this court, constitute barriers.