H 9 Topanmal Chhotamal v. Kundomal Gangaram, AIR 1960 SC 388. SANWARLAL AGRAWAL v. ASHOK KUMAR KOTHARI 507 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “It is a well-settled principle that a Court executing a decree A cannot go behind the decree: it must take the decree as it stands, for the decree is binding and conclusive between the parties to the suit”. Yet again, in Meenakshi Saxena (supra) it was reiterated that: B “The whole purpose of execution proceedings is to enforce the verdict of the court. Executing court while executing the decree is only concerned with the execution part of it but nothing else. The court has to take the in its face value. It is settled law that executing court cannot go beyond the decree. But the difficulty arises when there is ambiguity in C the decree with regard to the material aspects. Then it becomes the bounden duty of the court to interpret the decree in the process of giving a true effect to the decree. At that juncture the executing court has to be very cautious in supplementing its interpretation and conscious of the fact that it cannot draw D a new decree. The executing court shall strike a fine balance between the two while exercising this jurisdiction in the process of giving effect to the decree.” 16. As is commonly known, the stream cannot rise above its source. Both Courts have, by selectively perusing the emails, altered the terms E of the decree to include the loan amount into the agreement consideration. It is also imperative to note that such a reading was despite the clauses in the joint venture agreement entered into between the parties in 2017, which provided for a separate mechanism of settling all outstanding loans: “Clause 4: In case of a deadlock, there will be bidding between the groups for sale of shares to each other, and the group F offering higher valuation for shares (successful bidder/buyer) will retain the company, preferably by making onetime payment or as per terms agreed by both groups, but not exceeding 180 days from the date of bidding/agreement in any case. Clause 5: Whatever consideration and payment time line is G decided mutually between the groups for share transfer, will be adhered strictly by buyer for smooth exit of seller, payable directly to the seller account, and in case of any delay in payment, compounding interest @ 18% p.a. will be payable by buyer. There will be a lien of the seller group on their H 508 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A shares till payment is completed with interest, if any. The loans and advances of the seller will have to be repaid by the buyer separately within 15 days of bidding/agreement, failing which compounding interest @ 18% p.a. from date of bidding/ agreement both principle and interest being routed through company account. Upon completion of both payments, the B shares of seller group will be deemed to be transferred to buyer group, and seller cannot delay the transfer on any pretext.” (emphasis supplied) C 17.