Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015 – s.18 – Held: Juvenile Justice Board having found a child to be in conflict with law who may have committed a petty or serious offence and D where heinous offence is committed, the child should be below 16 years, can pass various s u/clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section (1) and also sub-section (2) – Whatever punishment is to be provided, the same cannot exceed a period of three years. Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection) Act, 2015 – s.9(3) – E Accused held to be a juvenile after conviction at the stage of appeal, status of the trial, conviction and sentence recorded – Held: A trial conducted and conviction recorded by the Sessions Court would not be held to be vitiated in law even though subsequently the person tried has been held to be a child – Intention of the legislature was to give benefit to a person who is declared to be a child on the date F of the offence only with respect to its sentence part – It is only the question of sentence for which the provisions of the 2015 Act would be attracted – Any sentence in excess of what is permissible under the 2015 Act will have to be accordingly amended as per the provisions of the 2015 Act – Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection G of Children) Act, 2000 – s.7A. Partly allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 During the inquiry before the Trial Court, the State did not take any objection whatsoever with regard to the documents filed on behalf of the appellant and the evidence led H KARAN @ FATIYA v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 589 on behalf of the appellant so much so that the State did not even A cross- examine the witnesses who were examined in the inquiry. Permitting the State to raise such an objection now once the conclusive finding has been recorded by the Trial Court after an elaborate inquiry would be unjust and not warranted. The State had full opportunity to raise such a plea before the Trial Court in B the inquiry and then it was for the Trial Court to take a call as to whether any ossification test was necessary or not. Ossification test will only give a broad assessment of the age. It cannot give an exact age. There is also an element of margin of plus or minus 1 to 2 years. Even if the said test is permitted, it will have no bearing on the assessment made by the Trial Court after the C inquiry. The first preference for determination of age is the birth certificate issued by the school or a matriculation certificate. Although it has been submitted that no birth certificate of the school was submitted, learned counsel for the appellant has pointed out from the documents attached to the report that in D addition to the mark sheets and the school leaving certificate, the birth certificate was also filed which is Annexure I-3 to the report.