Section 138 of the NI Act - Necessary Ingredients 25. Essentially, in all trials concerning dishonour of cheque, the courts are called upon to consider is whether the ingredients of the off ence enumerated in Section 138 of the Act have been met and if so, whether the accused was able to rebut the statutory presumption contemplated by Section 139 of the Act. 26. In Gimpex Private Limited vs. Manoj Goel7, this Court has unpacked the ingredients forming the basis of the off ence under Section 138 of the NI Act in the following structure: (1) The drawing of a cheque by person on do account maintained by him with the banker for the payment of any amount of money to another from that account; (i) The cheque being drawn for the discharge in whole or in part of any debt or other liability; (iii) Presentation of the cheque to the bank arranged to be paid from that account, (iv) The return of the cheque by the drawee bank as unpaid either because the amount of money standing to the credit of that account is insuffi cient to honour the cheque or that it exceeds the amount (v) A notice by the payee or the holder in due course making a demand for the payment of the amount to the drawer of the cheque within 30 days of the receipt of information from the bank in regard to the return of the cheque; and (vi) The drawer of the cheque failing to make payment of the amount of money to the payee or the holder in due course within 15 days of the receipt of the notice. 27. In K. Bhaskaran v. Sankaran Vaidhyan Balan8 this Court had summarised the constituent elements of the off ence in fairly similar terms by holding: 7 (2022) 11 SCC 705 8 (1999) 7 SCC 510 RAJESH JAIN v. AJAY SINGH 799 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] “14. The off ence Under Section 138 of the Act can be completed only with the concatenation of a number of acts. The following are the acts which are components of the said off ence: (1) drawing of the cheque, (2) presentation of the cheque to the bank, (3) returning the cheque unpaid by the drawee bank, (4) giving notice in writing to the drawer of the cheque demanding payment of the cheque amount, (3) failure of the drawer to make payment within 15 days of the receipt of the notice.” 28. The fi ve (5) acts as set out in K Bhaskaran’s case (supra) are, generally speaking, matters of record and would be available in the form of documentary evidence as early as, at the stage of fi ling the complaint and initiating prosecution. Apart from the above acts, it is also to be proved that cheque was issued in discharge of a debt or liability (Ingredient no. (ii) in Gimpex’s case). The burden of proving this fact, like the other facts, would have ordinarily fallen upon the complainant.