[..] This Court, time and again, has observed that any substantive law shall operate prospectively unless retrospective operation is clearly made out in the language of the statute. Only a procedural or declaratory law operates retrospectively E as there is no vested right in procedure. 40. In the absence of any express legislative intendment of the retrospective application of the Act, and by virtue of the fact that the Act creates a new liability of a high rate of interest against the buyer, the Act cannot be construed to have retrospective effect. Since the Act envisages that the supplier F has an accrued right to claim a higher rate of interest in terms of the Act, the same can only be said to accrue for sale agreements after the date of commencement of the Act i.e. 23- 9-1992 and not any time prior.” 65. In Commissioner of Income Tax v Vatika Township (P) G Ltd.34, this court observed, in this context, that: “31. Of the various rules guiding how a legislation has to be interpreted, one established rule is that unless a contrary 33 (2012) 6 S.C.R. 905 H 34 (2014) 12 S.C.R. 1037 GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 715 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] intention appears, a legislation is presumed not to be intended A to have a retrospective operation. The idea behind the rule is that a current law should govern current activities. Law passed today cannot apply to the events of the past. If we do something today, we do it keeping in view the law of today and in force and not tomorrow’s backward adjustment of it. Our belief in B the nature of the law is founded on the bedrock that every human being is entitled to arrange his affairs by relying on the existing law and should not find that his plans have been retrospectively upset. This principle of law is known as lex prospicit non respicit : law looks forward not backward. As was observed in Phillips v. Eyre [Phillips v. Eyre, (1870) LR C 6 QB 1], a retrospective legislation is contrary to the general principle that legislation by which the conduct of mankind is to be regulated when introduced for the first time to deal with future acts ought not to change the character of past transactions carried on upon the faith of the then existing law. D 32. The obvious basis of the principle against retrospectivity is the principle of “fairness”, which must be the basis of every legal rule as was observed in [L’Office Cherifien des Phosphates v. Yamashita-Shinnihon Steamship Co. Ltd., (1994) 1 All ER 20 (HL)] Thus, legislations which modified accrued E rights or which impose obligations or impose new duties or attach a new disability have to be treated as prospective unless the legislative intent is clearly to give the enactment a retrospective effect; unless the legislation is for purpose of supplying an obvious omission in a former legislation or to explain a former legislation.