It is in the absence of the first category of documents being not available that the birth certificate from the municipal corporation is to be considered. If under the first and second columns, documents are not available, then reference to medical E board and holding of an ossification test comes into play. In the present case, there being birth certificate from the school available and that too a government primary school, there is no reason to doubt its correctness and all the more when it has been duly proved in the inquiry before the Trial Court. Thus, the objections F raised by the learned counsel for the State are liable to be rejected. [Paras 11 and 12][596-H; 597-A-G] 1.2 Section 9 firstly gives a right to a person alleged to have committed an offence to claim that he is a child on the date of commission of offence and if such a claim is raised, the Court G concerned shall make an inquiry, take such evidence as may be necessary other than the affidavit to determine the age of such person. The proviso to sub-section (2) further makes it clear that such a claim can be raised before any Court and the same could be recognised at any stage even after the case has been H 590 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A finally decided. The claim so made would be determined in accordance with the provisions of the 2015 Act and the rules made thereunder even if such person has seized to be a child whether on or before the commencement of 2015 Act. The law provides full coverage to a person who is established to be a child on the date of the offence to avail the benefits admissible to B a child under the 2015 Act even if the case has been finally decided and also such person has attained majority. Further, sub-section (3) provides that if it is found in the inquiry that such person was a child on the date of commission of such offence then the Court is required to forward the child to the Juvenile Justice Board for C passing appropriate s and further if any sentence has been imposed by the Court, the same shall be deemed to have no effect. In view of the above statutory provisions and in view of the findings recorded, the appellant having been held to be a child on the date of commission of the offence, the sentence imposed has to be made ineffective. [Para 14][598-H; 599-A-D] D 1.3 On a perusal of the aforesaid Section 18 of the 2015 Act, it is to be noticed that the JJB having found a child to be in conflict with law who may have committed a petty or serious offence and where heinous offence is committed, the child should be below 16 years, can pass various s under clauses (a) to E (g) of sub-section (1) and also sub-section (2). However, the net result is that whatever punishment is to be provided, the same cannot exceed a period of three years and the JJB has to take full care of ensuring the best facilities that could be provided to the child for providing reformative services including education, F skill development, counselling and psychiatric support.