The principle of Mohinder Singh Gill’s case has no E application to the factual situation here.” 71. We have no qualms with the logic employed by this Court in Sachidananda Pandey (Supra). However, this citation may not be helpful to the appellants in the present instance. The extracted passage refers to “consultation with all interested persons” and the earlier part of F the give the complete details regarding how representations and objections had been sent with regard to the construction of a hotel in the area in question, especially in the context of its impact on the ecology and migratory birds. It was in this factual background, coupled with the fact that the deliberations had been going on for around 2 years, that the G Court was satisfied that relevant considerations had been appropriately accounted for. In our scenario, on the other hand, the deliberations by the Cabinet Committee which proceeded for around 7-8 months, do not indicate that Respondent No. 1 was ever heard or involved in the process. H 294 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 72. The importance of Principles of Natural Justice, among which we are concerned with audi alterem partem in this case, have been deliberated upon by this Court numerous times in the past. As far back as in Union of India v. P.K. Roy20 the Court held: “12…But the extent and application of the doctrine of natural B justice cannot be imprisoned within the strait-jacket of a rigid formula. The application of the doctrine depends upon the nature of the jurisdiction conferred on the administrative authority, upon the character of the rights of the persons affected, the scheme and policy of the statute and other relevant circumstances disclosed in the particular case…” C 73. Further, in A.K. Kraipak v. Union of India21 the nature of an administrative power and the obligations reposed upon the State to function in a just and fair manner was explained: “13. The dividing line between an administrative power and a quasi-judicial power is quite thin and is being gradually D obliterated. For determining whether a power is an administrative power or a quasi-judicial power one has to look to the nature of the power conferred, the person or persons on whom it is conferred, the framework of the law conferring that power, the consequences ensuing from the E exercise of that power and the manner in which that power is expected to be exercised. Under our Constitution the rule of law pervades over the entire field of administration. Every organ of the State under our Constitution is regulated and controlled by the rule of law. In a welfare State like ours it is inevitable that the jurisdiction of the administrative bodies is F increasing at a rapid rate. The concept of rule of law would lose its vitality if the instrumentalities of the State are not charged with the duty of discharging their functions in a fair and just manner. The requirement of acting judicially in essence is nothing but a requirement to act justly and fairly G and not arbitrarily or capriciously.