Ramesh Mohite caught hold of Abbas Baig and Balu Khalde stabbed him with a small bladed sword. We started shouting. One Firoz Babumian Shaikh residing in the neighbourhood came out of D his house and told Raju Mohite “What are you fighting about?” Santosh Khalde abused Firoz Babumian. When people started assembling at the place of the occurrence, all the four assailants ran away. Abbas Baig was seriously injured and he fell down. He had suffered injuries on his left paw, wrist, E right hand and right shoulder. He was bleeding profusely. I picked up Abbas in an injured condition and took him nearby chokadi. At that point of time, one Nasir a rickshaw driver known to us also living in the same slum came over there. I requested Nasir to keep a watch on Abbas Baig as he would reach and call the police. Accordingly, I alongwith Firoz F Shaikh went to Lohianagar Police Station and informed about the incidence to the police. The police arrived and immediately shifted Abbas Baig to the nearby Sassoon Hospital. However, Abbas Baig was declared dead by the doctor at the hospital.” 6. The inquest panchnama of the dead body of the deceased was G drawn at the hospital itself. As a part of the investigation, the scene of offence panchnama was drawn. The clothes of the deceased stained with blood were collected and sent to the forensic science laboratory for chemical analysis. All the four accused were arrested by the police. The clothes of all the accused were collected and sent to the FSL. The dead H body of the deceased was sent for post mortem. While the appellants BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 861 MAHARASHTRA [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] herein were in police custody, they are said to have made statements on A their own free will and volition that they would show the place where they had concealed the weapons of offence i.e. the sickle and the sword. Ultimately, the discovery panchnamas were drawn in presence of the panch witnesses. The statements of various other witnesses were recorded by the police. B 7. At the end of the investigation chargesheet was filed for the offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC, in the Court of the learned Magistrate. The learned Magistrate committed the case to the Court of Sessions as the offence was exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions. C 8. The Trial Court framed the following charge vide Exh.8. The translated version of the charges framed against the appellants are quoted below: “1. That you accused Nos. 1 to 4, on 01.04.2001, at about 11.45 P.M. or thereabout, at Plot No. 54/BP, Lohiyanagar, D Pune, in front of shop named as Shri Sai Car Auto Consultant, either individually or in furtherance of your common intention, did commit murder, by intentionally or knowingly causing the death of Abbas Sanaulla Beg, and thereby committed an offence punishable either under Section 302 of E the Indian Penal Code simpliciter or Section 302 read with 34 of the Indian Penal Code, and within my cognizance.