No man can be expected to predict a future violation of their rights and file a pre-emptive appeal.The Appellants, because of their signing of the agreement, have not forfeited their right to seek revised compensation, because ,the cause of action E accrued to them much after entering into the agreement. The issue no. 1 is answered accordingly in the negative and in favour of the Appellants. [Paras 27-30][448-D-H; 449-A-B,D] 2.1 Whether the classification made by and executive fiat between Pushtaini Landowners and Gair-pushtaini Landowners F for payment of compensation at different rates is liable to be struck down as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution? REASONABLE CLASSIFICATION TEST For any classification to survive the test of Article 14, the G classification must be based on intelligible differentia, and it must have a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved by the law. The object sought to be achieved must also be lawful, and if the object of the law itself is found to be discriminatory, then such discrimination must be struck down. [Para 33][451-C-D] H 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 2.2 While prima facie, the classification and the object sought to be achieved through the said classification seems reasonable, however, the devil lies in the details. The justification given by the GNOIDA Authority, and the Full-bench of the High Court assumes that only Pushtaini landowners permanently reside in the subject land or that the subject land is the primary source B of income only for Pushtaini landowners, and this assumption has been backed by no empirical data produced by the authority. While the classification made by Greater Noida has been based on the object of giving fair compensation, however, such a laudable object of the classification would stand breached by the effects of such a C classification, creating a dissonance between the object and its effect. Many Gair-pushtaini landholders, whose main area of residence or their main source of income is also the subject land, would be subject to great discrimination and injustice, if the same compensation that has been granted to the pushtaini landholders is not extended to them. [Paras 38, 39][455-F-H; 456-A-B] D 2.3 WEDNESBURY PRINCIPLE The classification made by GNOIDA does not find its footing in the Land Acquisition Act, or the UP-Land Acquisition Rules, and hence is contrary to law. The said classification also suffers E from not taking into account relevant considerations. The Authority, without taking into account any empirical data, or calculating any possibility of Gair-pushtaini landowners being rendered landless or without a primary source of income, made the impugned classification. These relevant factors, by not being taken into account, can and would cause great injustice to Gair- F pushtaini landowners. Further, GNOIDA, by arbitrarily classifying the landowners as Pushtaini and Gair-pushtaini on the basis of a cut-off date, have taken into account an irrelevant factor. The cut-off date by itself, without any context of the landowners on ground, is not indicative of who the most adversely affected G landowners are.