11. On behalf of the petitioner, it has been submitted by Mr Huzefa A Ahmadi, senior counsel that this Court ought to interfere with the of the High Court because: (i) The carrying out of a survey is contrary to the provisions of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991, the genesis of which has been explained in the of the Constitution Bench in M Siddiq (Dead) Through Legal Representatives vs Mahant Suresh Das and Others2 [Ram Janmabhumi Temple Case]; (ii) In the suit of 1991, pursuant to a similar plea, a survey by the ASI was ed which has been stayed by the High Court by an dated 9 September 2021; (iii) A similar issue pertaining to an for carbon dating of a structure which is claimed to be a ‘Shivaling’ by the plaintiff s 2 (2020) 1 SCC 1 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. and a ‘fountain’ by the defendants is pending in Committee of Management Anjuman Intezamia Masajid, Varanasi vs Rakhi Singh and Others3. In the course of the proceedings before this Court, the for survey was stayed, on the Solicitor General joining in the submission that the process of carbon dating may partake of an invasive nature; (iv) An of status quo in respect of the property was passed in the of this Court in Mohd Aslam Alias Bhure vs Union of India and Others4 because of a threat to the property; and (v) While an for conducting a scientifi c investigation or survey under XXVI Rule 9 may be passed at any stage, ordinarily a scientifi c survey ought not to be ed until the court is cognizant of the issues that would arise in the suit. 12. On the other hand, Ms Madhavi Divan, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the original plaintiff s in the suit submitted that: (i) An under XXVI is essentially for the benefi t of the court which requires such a survey to be conducted to assist it in deciding the substance of the controversy in a suit; (ii) The of the trial Judge ing a survey is neither adversarial nor prejudicial since it is not determinative of the substance of the rights of the parties; (iii) All parties would be entitled to fi le their objections to the report of the ASI and to seek cross-examination should the survey be intended to be let into substantive evidence; (iv) The issue in terms of the provisions of Section 4(1) of the Places of Worship (Special Provisions) Act 1991 is as regards the religious character of the place. The frame of the plaint would indicate that the contention of the plaintiff s is that both before and after 1947, the religious character of the place is indicative by acts of continuing worship; 3 SLP (C) No. 11351 of 2023 4 (1994) 2 SCC 48 COMMITTEE OF MANAGEMENT ANJUMAN INTEZAMIA MASAJID, 117 VARANASI v. RAKHI SINGH [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (v) The function of the ASI is to preserve and protect monuments of historical importance and hence there is no basis for any apprehension that damage would be caused to the structure; and (vi) The circumstances pertaining to the earlier suit of 1991 are distinct inasmuch as in that case the suit was on title in which an application under VII Rule 11 CPC was allowed by the Trial Judge.