Rather, such a plea would support the allegation of the department that the invoice price was not a normal price and coupled with the fact that the parties were relatives, had rendered the invoice price unacceptable for assessment in terms of Section 14(1) of the Customs Act read with Rule 2(2) of the Customs Valuation Rules. Since neither the transaction value of similar goods nor COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 183 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] contemporary prices etc. were available, resort to Rules 5, 6 and 7 for determining the assessable value of the goods was not possible. Therefore, Rule 8 of the Customs Valuation Rules was correctly applied. 6.5. Holding that the export declarations refl ected the true transaction value which was misdeclared by the importer to evade customs duty, the adjudicating authority vide the -in-original dated 17.06.2002 held that the proviso to Section 28(1) of the Customs Act was applicable. Consequently, M/s Ganpati Overseas was held liable to pay the diff erential customs duty of Rs. 1,16,09,181.00 alongwith interest forthwith. For misdeclaration and under valuation, the goods in question were held liable for confi scation under Sections 111(d) and 111(m) of the Customs Act. However, as the said goods were not available having been cleared no for confi scation was passed. Further, equivalent amount of diff erential customs duty was imposed on M/s Ganpati Overseas as a penalty under Section 114A of the Customs Act and in addition, penalty of rupees fi ve lakhs was imposed on Mr. Yashpal Sharma under Section 112(a) of the Customs Act. 7. Aggrieved by the aforesaid -in-original of the adjudicating authority, respondents preferred appeals before the CESTAT which were registered as Appeal Nos. C/1347 and 1374 of 2002. 7.1. CESTAT opined that export declarations fi led by the foreign supplier before the Hong Kong customs authority could not be relied upon for the purpose of enhancement of value. This was for more than one reason. Firstly, those declarations were unattested photocopies. Secondly, the supplier had fi led another set of declarations indicating the price as shown in the invoices of the imports. Thirdly, for fi ling incorrect declarations which had to be subsequently replaced by another set of declarations, the foreign supplier had paid penalty before the Hong Kong customs authority. Fourthly, no investigation was carried out by the customs authority with the Hong Kong customs authority revealing anything to the contrary. On that basis, CESTAT held that the price shown in the initial export declarations could not form the basis for enhancing the value of the goods. 7.2. CESTAT noted that nothing incriminating was recovered from the importers in the form of text messages etc. CESTAT also recorded that there was no evidence of contemporary imports which had higher value. 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. The foreign supplier had given explanation in respect of the price initially declared in the export declarations, which explanation was not discarded. 7.3. According to CESTAT, value in the export declaration may be relied upon for ascertainment of assessable value under the Customs Valuation Rules and not for determining the price at which the goods are ordinarily sold at the time and place of importation.