The High Court observed that the SSFC was not only convened but also presided over by the Commandant of the original petitioner which vitiated the proceedings of the SSFC. The High Court, however, also examined as to whether there was any worth-while evidence against the original petitioner. After considering the statement of the witnesses recorded while preparing the record of evidence, the High Court in paragraph 23 of its observed: “23. A close analysis of the evidence would highlight the following circumstances: (1) PW-1 noticed two camera fl ashes, whilst she was bathing, around 7-45 PM on 17th June, 2005, after she asked the petitioner to leave the premises. Despite her alert, no one was caught. PW-2 corroborated this. PW-3 who reached the spot, also could not see anyone. (2) The petitioner was asked to report back immediately; he did so. During the intervening period, he went to Const. Kunnu’s house, and borrowed boots. This was verifi ed from the latter’s wife and sister-in- 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. law (PW 9) the same day. PW-9 did not mention anything about any camera or the petitioner having asked her to hide it, when offi cials enquired from her. (3) No incriminating object or article including the camera was seized from the petitioner’s possession. It is unclear as to who owned the camera seized by the respondents. (4) The petitioner was placed under open arrest the next day. He – according to PW-7, PW-8 and another witness, confessed to having clicked with the camera and having hidden it with PW-9. The next day, PW-9 made another statement, leading to recovery of the camera. This internal contradiction between the version of PW-9 assumes importance because in her fi rst statement, she never said anything about the camera. Her deposition in the Record of Evidence proceeding was over a week later, i.e. 25.06.2005. (5) No written record of the confession said to have been made on 18th June, 2005 exists; (6) Most importantly, the camera reel (though recovered on 18th June, 2005) was never developed. It was the best evidence of the petitioner’s culpability.” 7. In addition to the above observations, the High Court found that while preparing the record of evidence, the last statement of the prosecution witnesses was recorded on 29.06.2005 and on the same day, without even giving twenty four hours’ time to the original petitioner to refl ect upon the evidence, as is the mandate of the proviso to sub rule (3) of Rule 49 of the BSF Rules, 1969, the statement of the original petitioner was recorded. 8. The High Court noticed that the minutes of the proceeding recording acceptance of guilt by the original petitioner before the SSFC was not signed by the original petitioner. 9. Taking all the aforesaid circumstances as well as the plea that no confession was made by the original petitioner into consideration, the High Court opined that there was no worthwhile evidence against the original petitioner as to weigh on him to admit his guilt.