[2023] 6 S.C.R. 469 469 CAPTAIN MANJIT SINGH VIRDI (RETD.) A v. HUSSAIN MOHAMMED SHATTAF & ORS. (Criminal Appeal No. 1399 of 2023) MAY 18, 2023 B [ABHAY S. OKA AND RAJESH BINDAL, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – Application for discharge – Victim’s body was found in a pool of blood in his bedroom – After investigation, charge-sheet was filed against respondent C nos.1 & 2 – Trial Court had not yet framed charges – Immediately after filing of charge-sheet, application for discharge was filed – The same was dismissed by the Trial Court – However, the High Court set aside the passed by the Trial Court and discharged respondent nos. 1 & 2 – On appeal, held: The settled proposition of law is that at the stage of hearing on charges entire evidence D produced by the prosecution is to be believed – In case no case is made out, then only an accused can be discharged – At the stage of charge, the Court has to satisfy that a prima facie case is made out against the accused persons – In the instant case, the High Court had not referred to the evidence collected by the investigating agency E produced along with charge-sheet in its entirety – Rather there is selective reference to the statements of some of the persons recorded during investigation – There was no reference to the psychological evaluation including psychological profiling, polygraph testing and brain electrical oscillations signature profiling (BEOS) tests of the accused and the other aides of respondent no.1 – Respondent nos. F 1 & 2 were discharged without application of mind – High Court had exercised the jurisdiction in a manner which is not vested in it to scuttle the trial of a heinous crime. Allowing the appeal, the Court G HELD: 1. The law on issue as to what is to be considered at the time of discharge of an accused is well settled. It is a case in which the Trial Court had not yet framed the charges. Immediately after filing of chargesheet, application for discharge was filed. The settled proposition of law is that at the stage of hearing on the charges entire evidence produced by the H 469 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A prosecution is to be believed. In case no offence is made out then only an accused can be discharged. Truthfulness, sufficiency and acceptability of the material produced can be done only at the stage of trial. At the stage of charge, the Court has to satisfy that a prima facie case is made out against the accused persons. Interference of the Court at that stage is required only if there is B strong reasons to hold that in case the trial is allowed to proceed, the same would amount to abuse of process of the Court. [Para 11][473-D-F] 2. The High Court vide impugned had summed up the entire evidence in two paras without even referring to the C Psychological Evaluation including Psychological Profiling, Polygraph Testing and Brain Electrical Oscillations Signature Profiling (BEOS) tests of the accused and the other aides of respondent no.1 and ed discharge of Respondent Nos.1 and 2.