598 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 3E PSO.CR.RT.S 598 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. PARASHOTAM DASS (Civil Appeal No. 447 of 2023) B MARCH 21, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, B. V. NAGARATHNA AND ABHAY S. OKA, JJ.] Constitution of India – Art. 226 – Service matters relating to members of three-armed forces – Whether the passed by the C Armed Forces Tribunal would be amenable to challenge in the writ jurisdiction under Art. 226 of the Constitution of India before any High Court – Held: The in Major General Shri Kant Sharma & Anr. case does not lay down the correct law and is in conflict with s of the Constitution Benches rendered prior and later D to it, including in L. Chandra Kumar case, S.N. Mukherjee case, and Rojer Mathew case making it abundantly clear that there is no per se restriction on the exercise of power under Art. 226 of the Constitution by the High Court – However, in respect of matters of self-discipline, the principles are already enunciated by the Supreme Court. E Constitution of India – Arts. 226 and 227 – Clarification under – It is clarified that the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is not inhibited, and superintendence and control under Article 227 of the Constitution are somewhat distinct from the powers of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution. F Disposing of the appeals and writ petition, the Court HELD:1. This Court is conscious of the importance of the role performed by the Armed Forces and the discipline level required by these services. Thus, often many jurisprudential G principles of other tribunals cannot be imported into the decisions of the Armed Forces Tribunal. The Armed Forces have their own rules and 16 procedures, and if there is proper exercise of jurisdiction in accordance with the norms of the Armed Forces, the High Court or this Court have been circumspect in interfering H 598 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. PARASHOTAM DASS 599 with the same, keeping in mind the significance of the role A performed by the Armed Force. [Para 24][611-H; 612-A-B] 2. While this Court agrees with the aforesaid principle, this Court is unable to appreciate the observations in the case of Major General Shri Kant Sharma & Anr., which sought to put an embargo on the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the B Constitution, diluting a very significant provision of the Constitution which also forms the part of basic structure. The principles of basic structure have withstood the test of time and are emphasized in many judicial pronouncements as an ultimate test. This is not something that can be doubted. That being the C position, the self-restraint of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is distinct from putting an embargo on the High Court in exercising this jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution while judicially reviewing a decision arising from an of the Tribunal. [Para 25][612-B-D] D 3.