The Bank CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 65 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] shall then return the original title deeds of the secured asset to the Petitioners, execute all such documents for cancellation of mortgage, and issue a ‘No Dues Certifi cate’ to the Petitioners. (d) Mr. Shinde, the learned Advocate appearing for the Respondent- Bank, has brought to our attention that out of the entire amount of Rs. 105.05 crores deposited by the Auction Purchaser, the Respondent- Bank has appropriated the sum of Rs. 63,50,45,000/- towards the loan amount of the Petitioners. We therefore direct that the Respondent-Bank shall reverse this entry and immediately keep the entire amount of Rs. 105.05 crores [deposited by the auction purchaser] in a No Lien interest bearing account. If the Petitioners pay the balance amount of Rs.104 crores to the Respondent Bank by 31st August 2023, then the Respondent-Bank shall refund the amount of Rs. 105.05 crores deposited by the Auction Purchaser together with accrued interest on or before 7th September 2023. (e) In the event the balance amount of Rs. 104 crores are not paid by the Petitioners to the Respondent-Bank on or before 31st August 2023, the Respondent Bank shall then be entitled to appropriate the money from the No Lien interest bearing account towards the dues payable by the Petitioners and the sale of the secured asset shall be confi rmed in favour of the Auction Purchaser and a sale certifi cate shall be issued in their favour. All formalities in relation to registration of that certifi cate shall also be done by the Respondent-Bank and the Auction Purchaser. (f) In light of this , Mr. Khandeparkar has stated that, nothing would survive in Securitization Application No. 46 of 2022 and/or the Interim Applications fi led therein and seeks leave to withdraw the same within a period of one week from today. The said statement is accepted as an undertaking given to the Court. It is needless to clarify that even if the Petitioners do not withdraw the Securitization Application, the same shall stand dismissed in light of this and the Petitioners will not be permitted to litigate any further with the Respondent Bank in relation to the secured asset. In other words, if the Petitioners default in making the balance payment of Rs.104 crores to the Respondent Bank by 31st August 2023, the Auction 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Purchaser shall get the secured asset free from litigation. As per the statement made by Mr. Khandeparkar, and which is accepted as an undertaking given to the Court, if the Petitioners default in making the balance payment of Rs.104 crores by 31st August 2023, physical, vacant, quiet, and peaceful possession of the secured asset shall be handed over to the Auction Purchaser on or before 5th September 2023.” 20. It appears that during the pendency of the present appeals, the borrowers transferred the balance amount of Rs. 104 crore on 26.08.2023 to the Bank in terms of the impugned passed by the High Court.