A specific defence has been taken by accused No.11 Naresh Kumar that when he was coming after consuming liquor, he was assaulted by Atmaram (PW-1). Thereafter, he went to the Police Station along with D accused No. 7 Charnu Jangde, accused No.12 Paltan Jangde, Ashwini and Vinod, whereafter he was referred for medical treatment. Looking at the injuries of accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar, it appears difficult that he could have taken part in the second part of the incident. The prosecution has suppressed the first report lodged by Atmaram (PW-1) as well as by accused No.11 Naresh Kumar. If Naresh Kumar was examined at 11.45 E PM, the police must have had some information about the incident at least by 11.00 PM. As such, there is a delay of at least four hours in lodging the FIR. 25. Believing the contents of the FIR that the incident has taken place at around 08.30 PM and that the injured persons had reached F Baloda Bazar at around 10-11 PM where they were informed that they could not be treated unless a report was lodged, a further delay of around four to five hours in lodging the FIR has not been explained. The distance between Baloda Bazar and Suhela Police Station is approximately 15 Kms. It has come on record that there is an all-weather road connecting G the two places. As such, at the most, it would take around 30-40 minutes to reach Suhela Police Station from Baloda Bazar. This delay of four hours in lodging the FIR is not at all explained. 26. We will first consider the issue with regard to non- explanation of injuries sustained by accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar. In the case of H NAND LAL AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 287 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Lakshmi Singh and Others v. State of Bihar1, which case also arose A out of a conviction under Section 302 read with Section 149 of the IPC, this Court had an occasion to consider the issue of non-explanation of injuries sustained by the accused. This Court, after referring to the earlier s on the issue, observed thus: “12. …….It seems to us that in a murder case, the non-explanation B of the injuries sustained by the accused at about the time of the occurrence or in the course of altercation is a very important circumstance from which the court can draw the following inferences: “(1) that the prosecution has suppressed the genesis and the C origin of the occurrence and has thus not presented the true version; (2) that the witnesses who have denied the presence of the injuries on the person of the accused are lying on a most material point and therefore their evidence is unreliable; D (3) that in case there is a defence version which explains the injuries on the person of the accused it is rendered probable so as to throw doubt on the prosecution case.” The omission on the part of the prosecution to explain the injuries on the person of the accused assumes much greater importance E where the evidence consists of interested or inimical witnesses or where the defence gives a version which competes in probability with that of the prosecution one.