Alternatively, he may withdraw the suit for bare injunction, with permission of the court to fi le a comprehensive suit for declaration and injunction. He may fi le the suit for declaration with consequential relief, even after the suit for injunction is dismissed, where the suit raised only the issue of possession and not any issue of title.” (Emphasis supplied) 55. In the instant case, the stand of defendant no.1 (i.e., the appellant herein) was categorical that the land in dispute had already been acquired. Therefore, in light of the provisions of Section 52(4) of the 1959 Act, a cloud existed over the title of the plaintiff . Further, during pendency of the suit, plaintiff admitted that possession was also taken. In these circumstances, in the light of the law laid down by this Court in Anathula Sudhakar (supra), without seeking a declaratory relief qua the validity of the acquisition notifi cation, mere suit for injunction, in my view, was not maintainable. 56. In addition to what has been discussed above, there are multiple decisions to the eff ect that the validity of an acquisition notifi cation, acquiring land under compulsory land acquisition laws for public purpose, cannot ordinarily be questioned in a Civil Court, though its validity may be questioned before a superior court by invoking its powers under the 572 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Constitution of India. In State of Bihar v. Dhirendra Kumar and others25, a notifi cation under Section 4(1) of the 1894 Act was published on 13.02.1957 acquiring the disputed land along with other lands for public purpose. The declaration under Section 6 was published on 27.03.1957 and possession of the land was taken on 22.03.1957. Several encroachments were made on that land. When steps were taken to have the encroachers evicted, a suit came to be instituted. In that suit, an application seeking temporary injunction under 39 Rule 1 of C.P.C. was fi led. The trial court found that there existed a triable issue and thereby granted injunction restraining the defendants from dispossessing the plaintiff till the disposal of the suit. Against the of the trial court, the matter went to the High Court. The High Court modifi ed the temporary injunction and directed status quo. Thereafter, the matter travelled to this Court. The question that arose for consideration by this Court was whether a civil suit would be maintainable and whether ad-interim injunction could be issued where proceedings under the 1894 Act were taken pursuant to a notice issued under Section 9 of the 1894 Act. Dealing with the said question, it was held: “3. … The provisions of the Act are designed to acquire the land by the State exercising the power of eminent domain to serve the public purpose. The state is enjoined to comply with statutory requirements contained in s.4 and s.6 of the Act by proper publication of notifi cation and declaration within limitation and procedural steps of publication in papers and the local publications envisaged under the Act as amended by Act 68 of 1984.