and other documents including character certifi cate, in original form and its self-attested photocopies in two numbers. Appellant Sweety Kumari has averred in the writ petition and the Special Leave Petition that her original character certifi cate was submitted in the State Bar Council and the same was not made available to her within the stipulated deadline despite her best attempts. On the other hand, appellant Vikramaditya Mishra has averred that the department of his Law College has sent the original character certifi cate to the Controller of Examination, BPSC by post which was dispatched on 25.11.2019 and delivered to BPSC on 27.11.2019. Despite, the same, their candidature was rejected for want of original copies of the character certifi cate. 17. In the case of Aarav Jain (supra), this Court has not accepted the plea taken by BPSC that production of original certifi cate was mandatory because the candidates possessed such certifi cates on the date of submission of the application form. This Court was of the opinion that once such a condition is not mandatory, then non-production of original copies at the time of interview would not be suffi cient to reject the candidature of a candidate who was placed in the merit. 18. The view taken by this Court is fortifi ed by the analogy drawn in the case of Charles K. Skaria and Others vs. Dr. C. Mathew and Others (1980) 2 SCC 752 whereby Justice Krishna Iyer speaking for the Court held that the factum of eligibility is diff erent from factum of proof thereof. This Court held that if a person possesses eligibility before the date of actual selection, he cannot be denied benefi t because its proof is produced later. 19. In the present case, the proof is available and true photocopies were on record. The appellants’ candidature could not have been rejected merely because the original was not produced before the Commission at the time of interview in particular when such requirement was not mandatory, in view of the manner in which the Rules are couched. 20. Now, coming to the case of appellant Aditi in SLP (Civil) No. 16749/2023, she has passed the fi nal examination but the certifi cate of law degree was not issued to her. The High Court in the impugned dated 19.04.2023 has relied upon the of Charles K. Skaria (supra) to support her contention and observed that when the candidate possesses the required essential qualifi cation on the date on which it was required, 564 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. then there cannot be any justifi cation in not accepting the late arrival of the certifi cate because of the pandemic. However, the High Court has declined to grant the relief on the pretext that she had applied under EWS category for which 23 posts were earmarked and those posts have already been fi lled up. The High Court also observed that though she has secured 501 marks which was 2 marks more than the cut off for the EWS category, but it was not known as to who may be the last successful candidate in the EWS category.