ETC. ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Undertakings, Statutory Bodies, Government Companies and Local A Authorities, within the purview of the Act ibid, will, having regard to the principles applicable to the State Government employees as enunciated in this Department Notification No. 97-Emp, dated 06-06-2005, read with Corrigendum No. 151-Emp, dated 08-09- 2005, Notification No. 133-Emp, dated 01-10-2007 and any other B /Notification to be issued subsequently by the Government in this regard, the financial position and the nature of activities of the respective organizations, formulate policies of their own in consultation with the respective administrative departments so as to follow the same in course of dealing with the prayers for appointment or financial assistance on compassionate ground, C received by them, from the dependents of the employees who die-in-harness or retire prematurely on being declared permanently incapacitated. 3. Before notifying the policy, the administrative Department shall obtain the concurrence of the Labour Department and the D Financial Department.” (emphasis by us) 16.1. A scheme for compassionate appointment was introduced by Circular Nos. 301-Emp. to 303-Emp. dated 21stAugust 2002. Circular E No. 301-Emp identifies the exempted categories for the purpose of the Act of 1999. Dependents of employees dying in harness is one of the categories so identified. Circular No. 302-Emp provides that 30% of the vacancies arising in a year under any appointing authority shall be reserved to be filled by persons belonging to the exempted categories. Circular No. 303-Emp prescribes a procedure for filling up of vacancies F reserved for the exempted categories, i.e., the procedure to be followed by the appointing authority on receipt of an application to be appointed on compassionate grounds. The said Circular provides that the administrative department shall, on finding a candidate eligible for compassionate appointment, either appoint him/her under the appointing G authority which forwarded the application, or, identify a suitable department where there is a vacancy to be filled by a person belonging to an exempted category. The Circular further provides that any Department which has vacancy in the Exempted Category of posts will provide employment to the wife/son/daughter/near relation of the employee who died in harness. H 644 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A The next notification is 97-Emp. dated 6thJune, 2005 which specifies the criteria for a person seeking an appointment on compassionate grounds in the ‘dependents of persons who died in harness’ category. Further, Circular No. 142-Emp. dated 1stNovember, 2007, seeks to answer the question, whether the provisions of 97-Emp. would be applicable to State Government employees only or it would apply to the employees attached B to other establishments as mentioned in the Act of 1999 as well. It answers the question in the negative so far as employees of other establishments are concerned. It further provides that local authorities may formulate their own policies having regard to the principles applicable to the State Government Employees to govern compassionate appointment. C 16.2. There is no controversy regarding the applicability of Circular No. 97-Emp. dated 6thJune, 2005 to employees of local authorities such as municipalities because Circular No.