To say it diff erently, it only bars the government from resuming the land after thirty years on the ground that the Subject Land was assigned under an incorrect law, but it nowhere resolves the legal regime under which the conditions applicable on the assignment are to be governed. He supported the reasoning assigned in the impugned of the Division Bench that the doctrine of res judicata or constructive res judicata does not bar the Second SCN and the consequent proceedings. Secondly, he argued that the assignment of Subject Land was still governed by the twin condition of non-alienability as well as the obligation of cultivation by the Assignees. 36. Mr. V. Giri, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Telangana, has wrapped the arguments by reiterating the stance taken by both Mr. Venugopal and Mr. Vaidyanathan. Before noting his submissions, it would be pertinent to note that Mr. Giri has taken a contrary stance in respect of Mr. Venugopal’s submission that only temporary occupancy right had been created in favour of the Assignees. Mr. Giri has fairly admitted that the pattas issued in 1961 were in furtherance of an assignment only. Thereafter, he has argued - Firstly that the Subject Land was governed by the G.O. dated 25.07.1958 as well as the GOM 1122, which barred alienation by the Assignees as noted above. He submitted that even otherwise, the assignment was in the nature of Special Laoni and was governed by the condition of bar on sale without Collector’s permission as well as cultivation of the land. Both these conditions were incorporated in the Temporary Pattas issued under Form 9(G), which also reproduced Rule 19 as applicable to Special Laoni. He submitted that even though the applicable law changed, 630 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the format under which assignments were granted to landless individuals remained the same, i.e. Form 9(G). In other words, he argued that though the Temporary Pattas granted in the present case to the Assignees erroneously mentioned that the form was issued under Laoni Rules of 1950, the pattas were in fact, governed by the revised legal regime. Secondly, he urged that the prohibition on alienability as introduced by the 1977 Act was retroactive in eff ect, and the same has been upheld in a full bench decision of the High Court in Dharma Reddy v Sub-Collector, Bodhan12. Finally, building on the arguments of Mr. Venugopal in respect of the involvement of the alleged land mafi a, he referred to a Memorandum of Understanding entered into between some of the Appellants and a private real estate company for the sale of the Subject Land and also informed that a First Investigation Report has also been fi led on this behalf by the revenue authorities against the accused which include some of the Appellants. 37. During rebuttals, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned senior counsel on behalf of the Appellants reiterated the arguments made in respect of Section 58-A of the 1317 Fasli Act.