(4) If the applicant does not in fact ask for a direction B or if,though the applicant does ask for a direction, the Court does not in fact give anydirection, but in fact the Court does issue notice, the Court shall be taken to haveapproved the deposit of cash or the security offered as the case may be. (5) If filedwithin the 30 days and accepted by the Court C expressly or impliedly by the issue ofnotice the application is a good application, though it will be open to the decree- holderto challenge the nature land sufficiency of the security and to the Court under 9,Rule 9 to make such further conditions as it thinks fit. In the course of the argument ithas been suggested that difficulty might arise if the Court D delayed in giving itsdirection, or approving expressly or impliedly the security already tendered, so longthat the period of limitation had expired before the applicant had fair opportunity ofcomplying with the direction. It is not a case which we have now to consider, but in asuitable case it E would bet open to the Court itself to consider and exercise its inherentpowers reserved to it by Section 151, Civil P.C.” (Emphasis supplied) Chief Justice Suleman concurred with the other Judges that the Revision must be dismissed and he, inter alia, held as follows: F “46. No doubt the language of the proviso-is very unhappy and there is some apparentinconsistency between the expression “ at the time of presenting his application “ andthe expression “ as the Court may direct. “ If we take the two expressions literally, thetwo things cannot happen exactly G simultaneously. But the direction of the Court may beobtained before the application is presented or just after presenting the application. 47. It is quite clear to me that an application cannot be presented after the prescribedperiod, nor can cash or H security be deposited after the expiry of that period. The ARTI DIXIT & ANR v. SUSHIL KUMAR MISHRA & ORS 747 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Courtis not given any discretion at all to extend the time. If A the security deposited within thetime is discovered afterwards to be defective or unsatisfactory in any way, the Court hasno power to direct a fresh security to be substituted for it after the expiry of the period. 52. Of course, the question whether the security is sufficient B and satisfactory need notbe finally determined during the period of 30 days. Indeed, the plaintiff decree-holdermay come in afterwards and challenge its sufficiency. The mere fact that it is foundafterwards that the security was sufficient, would not make the deposit of the securitywithin C the time in any way defective.” BHAGWANDAS (SUPRA) 17. As far as the of this Court in Bhagwandas (supra) is concerned, the relevant facts were as follows: A suit was decreed ex-parte on 06.08.1977. The appellant D moved an Application on the said day within the meaning of the proviso to Section 17 of the Act to permit him to furnish such security for the performance of the decree in lieu of cash due under the decree.