40. This legitimate expectation, created by the appropriate and C competent authority, was broken when a subsequent amendment was brought in, wherein the words “blending of tea” was removed from the definition of “manufacture”. Such an amendment, by removing the said words, snatched away the legitimate expectation of a specific outcome, and ousted the appellants from claiming the tax holiday, to which they were promised by the original amendment. As can be seen, a reasonable D legitimate expectation was created by the competent authority, which lured the appellants to act in a certain manner. Such a legitimate expectation was then snatched away, leaving the appellants without remedy, and in losses. 41. To justify such a shift in policy, and snatch away the legitimate E expectation created in favour of the appellants, the public authority must demonstrate the reasons for such a shift, and while giving its justifications, must take into consideration the rights of the affected persons, and why the snatching away of such rights is essential for the state to advance public interest. F 42. In the present case at hand, while perusing through the subsequent amendment, it can be clearly seen that no such appropriate justification has been provided by the government. No appropriate reason for the enactment of the amendment, nor the considerations of the affected party have been discussed. In my opinion, a mere claim of change of policy is not sufficient to discharge the burden of proof vested G in the government. The government must precisely show what the change of policy is, and why such a change of law is in furtherance of public policy, and the public good. 43. In light of the factual matrix herein and the abovementioned discussions, it can be clearly seen that a legitimate expectation was H 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A created by the public authority, and such an expectation, accrued in the favour of the appellants herein, was rescinded by the said authority without any demonstration of public interest. No appropriate explanation has been provided as to why a shift was made in Law, and why such a shift, in spite of the loss which would occur to the appellants and similarly situated persons, was necessary to advance public interest. In such a B circumstance, the legitimate expectation created in the minds of the appellants, must be protected, and the benefits given originally must be made applicable to the appellants herein for the period promised by the respondent authority. CONCLUSION C 44. The doctrine of legitimate expectation, as has been mentioned above, is a facet of Article 14, and is essential to maintain the rule of law. Such a doctrine, which ensures predictability in the application of law, in its very essence, fights against the corrosion of the rule of law, and prevents arbitrary state action. D 45. For a democratic state to function on the principles of equality and justice, the state must be ruled, not by its ruler, but by the law.