The witness statements do not refer to any terrorist act alleged to have been committed by the appellants. The copies of the letters in which the appellants or any one of C them have been referred, record only third-party response or reaction of the appellants’ activities contained in communications among different individuals. These have not been recovered from the appellants. Hence, these communications or content thereof have weak probative value or quality. That being the position, D neither the provisions of Section 18 nor 18B can be invoked against the appellants, prima facie, at this stage. The association of the appellants with the activities of the designated terrorist organisation is sought to be established through third party communications. Moreover, actual involvement of the appellants in any terrorist act has not surfaced from any of these E communications. Nor there is any credible case of conspiracy to commit offences enumerated under chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act. Mere participation in seminars by itself cannot constitute an offence under the bail-restricting Sections of the 1967 Act, with which they have been charged. [Para 29][905-F- F H; 906-A-B] 1.4 So far as application of Section 20 of the 1967 Act is concerned, the Bombay High Court in the case of Dr. Anand Teltumbde construed the said provision. This has not been interfered with and this Court also affirm this interpretation G given to Section 20 of the 1967 Act for testing as to who would be a member of terrorist gang or terrorist organisation. Moreover, no material has been demonstrated by the NIA that the appellants are members of the terrorist organisation. AF’s involvement with IAPL as a frontal organisation of the Communist Party of India (Maoist) is sought to be established, and that has been referred H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 873 to in the chargesheet as well. But the link between IAPL and the A CPI (Maoist) has not been clearly demonstrated through any material. Reference to AF and VG as members of the CPI (Maoist) appears from the statement of protected witness, but that link is made in relation to events between the years 2002-2007, before the organisation was included in the First Schedule to the 1967 B Act. No evidence of continued membership after the party was classified as a terrorist organisation has been brought to this Court’s notice. Nor is there any reliable evidence to link IAPL with CPI (Maoist) as its frontal organisation. Prima facie this Court does not think that Section 20 can be made applicable against the appellants at this stage of the proceeding, on the basis of C available materials. [Paras 30 and 31][906-C, F-H; 907-A-B] Dr. Anand Teltumbde v. National Investigation Agency and Another 2022 SCC OnLine Bom 5174 – approved. 1.5 “Terrorist act” as defined under Section 2(k) of the D 1967 Act carries the meaning assigned to it in Section 15. This Section also stipulates that the expressions “terrorism” and “terrorist” shall be construed accordingly.