The court is not to be a sanctioning authority. 39.6. Ordinarily, question of sanction should be dealt with at the stage of taking cognizance, but if the cognizance is taken H AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 683 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. erroneously and the same comes to the notice of court at a later A stage, finding to that effect is permissible and such a plea can be taken first time before the appellate court. It may arise at inception itself. There is no requirement that the accused must wait till charges are framed. 39.7. Question of sanction can be raised at the time of framing of B charge and it can be decided prima facie on the basis of accusation. It is open to decide it afresh in light of evidence adduced after conclusion of trial or at other appropriate stage. 39.8. Question of sanction may arise at any stage of proceedings. On a police or judicial inquiry or in course of evidence during trial. C Whether sanction is necessary or not may have to be determined from stage to stage and material brought on record depending upon facts of each case. Question of sanction can be considered at any stage of the proceedings. Necessity for sanction may reveal itself in the course of the progress of the case and it would be D open to the accused to place material during the course of trial for showing what his duty was. The accused has the right to lead evidence in support of his case on merits. 39.9. In some cases it may not be possible to decide the question effectively and finally without giving opportunity to the defence to E adduce evidence. Question of good faith or bad faith may be decided on conclusion of trial. (16) Smt. Aparajita, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-CBI though finding herself in an unenviable position for the reason that her client CBI has, after investigation found nothing against the appellant, she stated that she would have to redeem the F position, in the interest of justice. She canvassed for the position that the contention of the appellant that there was no sanction would not advance his case. She would submit that the trial Court, the High Court in appeal and what is more, this Court have found against the licensing authorities which includes the appellant. She took us through the of this G Court reported in Sushil Ansalv. State through CBI 2014(6) SCC 173. They read as follows: “134. That apart, a seating plan, which was in breach of the statutory provisions and compromised the safety requirements prescribed under the DCR, 1953, could hardly support a belief in H 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A good faith that exhibition of films with such a plan was legally justified. That is so especially when the repeal of the Notification dated 30-9-1976 by which Uphaar was permitted 100 more seats was followed by a demand for removal of the additional seats.