In other words, the question before the Court pertained to the legislative F competence of the states to make reservation for in-service doctors in the State quota in post graduate degree/diploma medical courses. The primary contention of the Petitioners therein was that while co-ordination and determination of standards in G institutions for higher education falls within the exclusive domain of the Union, under Entry 66 of List I, medical education is a subject in the Concurrent list, i.e., under Entry 25 of List III. That though Entry 25 of List III is subject to Entry 66 of List I, the State is not denuded of its power to legislate on the manner and method of making admissions H 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to post-graduate medical courses. The case of the Petitioners therein was that the competence of the State Government to make reservation for post-graduate seats in medical colleges, in favour of in-service candidates, is traceable to Entry 25 of List III, videModern Dental College. That since there was no plenary law by the Centre B to provide for any reservation for in-service candidates, it would be competent for the State Governments to provide for a reservation for in-service candidates. That in the absence of a Central law governing the field, it would be open to the State Government to enact a legal instrument C to provide reservation for in-service candidates. This Court deliberated on the scope and ambit of Entry 66 of List I, and also on the question as to whether, in view of the said Entry, the State Legislature is denuded of its power to legislate on the manner and method of admissions D into post-graduate medical courses. Referring to the dictum of this Court in Modern Dental College wherein it was held that Entry 66 of List I is specific and limited in scope, this Court observed that the said Entry pertains specifically and exclusively to the prescription of standards for higher education and research institutions and the scope of such E Entry would not extend to matters such as conduct of examination, prescribing course fee or admission of students. It was therefore declared that in exercise of powers under Entry 66 of List I, the Union cannot provide for anything with respect to reservation/ percentage of reservation and/ F or mode of admission within the State quota, which powers are conferred upon the States under Entry 25 of List III. Further, referring to the provisions of the IMC Act, 1956 and more particularly, Section 33 thereof, which provides for the power of the Council to make regulations, this Court G held that the said provision does not confer any authority or power to frame regulations with respect to reservation in medical courses. Therefore, in the absence of a Central Law governing the field, it would be open to the State Government to make provision for reservation by legislating on the strength of Entry 25 of List III. This Court, therefore, H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS.