Therefore, insofar as the entitlement of an employee to gratuity is concerned, it is apparent that in cases where gratuity of an employee is not regulated under the provisions of the Gratuity Act, the legislature having vested superiority to the provisions of the Gratuity Act over all other provisions/enactments (including any instrument or contract having the force of law), the provisions of the Gratuity Act cannot be ignored. The term “instrument” and the phrase “instrument or contract having the force of law” shall most defi nitely be deemed to include the 1995 Regulations, which regulate the payment of gratuity to the appellant.” 19. In view of the above, it is apparent that the provisions of the Gratuity Act have superiority over all other provisions of Regulations. 20. The Bank harmonizing the provisions of Regulation 46 of 1979 Regulations and the Gratuity Act issued Circular No. 1563 on 16.01.1997 JYOTIRMAY RAY V. THE FIELD GENERAL MANAGER, 209 PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] through its personnel division. Therein harmonizing the Regulations with the provisions of the Gratuity Act and in clauses 8 and 14 of the Circular, the instances as to when gratuity could be forfeited, have been specifi ed. Those clauses are relevant and have been reproduced as under: “8. FORFEITURE OF GRATUITY UNDER ACT The gratuity payable under the payment of gratuity act, is liable to full or partial forfeiture under diff erent circumstances. Section 4(1) of payment of gratuity act deals to payment of gratuity whereas section 4(6) of the act deals with forfeiture of gratuity. Section 4(1) reads as under: Gratuity shall be payable to an employee on the termination of his employment after he has rendered continuous service for not less than fi ve Years, a. On his superannuation, or b. On his retirement or resignation, or c. On his death or disablement due to accident or disease. Provided that the completion of continuous service of fi ve years shall not be necessary where the termination of the employment of any employee is due to death or disablement. Section 4(6) provides as under: “Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1) a. The gratuity of an employee, whose services have been terminated for any act, wilful omission or negligence causing any damage or loss to, or destruction of, property belonging to the employee, shall be forfeited to the extent of the damage or loss so caused: b. The gratuity payable to an employee may be wholly or partially forfeited. I) If the services of such employee have been terminated for his riotous or disly conduct or any other act of violence on his part, or 210 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. II) If the services of such employee have been terminated for any act which constitutes an off ence involving moral turpitude, provided that such off ence is committed by him in the course of his employment. 14. PAYMENT UNDER OFFICERS SERVICE REGULATIONS Rules relating to payment of gratuity of offi cers staff have been laid down under Regulation 46 of PNB Offi cers Service Regulations, 1979 which is as under:- (I) Every offi cer shall be eligible for gratuity on: (a) Retirement, (b) death (c) disablement rendering him unfi t for further service as certifi ed by a medical offi cer approved by the bank, or (d) resignation after completing ten years of continuous service or termination of service in any other way except by way of punishment after completion of 10 years of service.