[2023] 14 S.C.R. 719 : 2023 INSC 849 CASE DETAILS R. RAGHAVENDRAN v. C. RAJA JOHN & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 2552/2022) SEPTEMBER 13, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL AND SUDHANSHU DHULIA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the observations made by NCLAT in the impugned , in the context of the of the Tribunal in Saravana Global Holdings Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Bafna Pharmaceuticals Ltd. & Ors., that if the Corporate Debtor is an MSME it is not necessary for the Promoters to compete with other Resolution Applicants to regain the control of the Corporate Debtor, can be sustained or not in the conspectus of the observations in the Bafna’s case, the appeal where against was dismissed by the Supreme Court. Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 – Corporate debtor, an MSME – Impugned in view of the observations made in Bafna’s case observed that if a corporate debtor is an MSME it is not necessary for promoters to compete with other resolution applicants to retain control of the corporate debtor – Legality: Held: In the factual scenario of Bafna’s case, the observations that in “exceptional circumstances” if a corporate debtor is an MSME it is not necessary for promoters to compete with other resolution applicants to retain control of the corporate debtor, were made in the context of (a) before the constitution of CoCs or (b) in terms of s.12A of the Code on the basis of an off er given by the promoter in such a case – In the impugned , there is no discussion on the special circumstances other than the reference to in Bafna’s case – It is predicated on a broad reasoning as if ipso facto there is no need to call other proposals if corporate debtor is an MSME – This is not the correct position of law – Further, all that was done by this 719 720 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Court in Saravana Global Holdings Ltd. & Anr. Vs. Bafna Pharmaceuticals Ltd. & Ors. was to simply uphold the of the Tribunal by observing that no case for interference is made out, nothing more and nothing less – In the present case, the appellant-Resolution Professional cannot be faulted for calling for other proposals in which the proposal given by respondent No.1- Promoter of the MSME was also to be examined, put them to voting before the CoCs and declare the results – To that extent, the impugned is set aside – Contempt proceedings or any other proceedings emanating from the premise of the observations in paragraph Nos. 32 and 34 in the impugned set aside – Further, on request, a one time window given to the respondent No.1 on account of the fact that he has submitted an OTS (One Time Settlement) proposal to the fi nancial creditors and are hopeful of the acceptance of the same – Beyond the window of two months, if the OTS is not accepted, the appellant will be free to declare the results of the e-voting qua all the proposals.