1. The amended clauses read as under: - “Clause- 11: LICENSOR will allow LICENSEE to make necessary modification/ addition/ changes in the machinery, building or any other fixed assets for smooth operation of the plant. Minor D expenses to the extent of Rs.25000/- (Rupees Twenty Five Thousand only) may be debited to P&L Account and the expenses in excess of specified amount will be capitalized and may be funded by both the parties in the following ratio. i) Licensor : 43% E ii) Licensee : 57% Such expenses to be decided mutually and duly minuted. Depreciation on these additions to the fixed assets shall be calculated at the rates specified in the Companies Act as per Straight Line Method. Upon determination of the license period F the LICENSOR would be under obligation to buy these assets at the Written Down Value. b) Clause No.15 : The LICENSOR will be entitled to a Bonus, in addition to license fee payable under Clause-8, in consideration of the use of its manufacturing facilities, license, brand goodwill etc. G as worked out below. i) The Bonus payable by LICENSEE to LICENSOR under this Clause would be 43% of the profit. The Bonus so payable shall be reduced by the amount of License fee payable as per Clause- 8 of the Agreement. However, in the event of loss, the LICENSOR H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 111 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] shall be liable to reimburse 43% of the total loss to LICENSEE on A a quarter-to-quarter basis. ii) Computation of the Profit & Loss and its distribution shall be provisionally based on the annual audited accounts. iii) Profit/Losses for this purpose means profits/losses earned, after B deducting interest on working capital and depreciation on the assets added by the LICENSEE but before changing the license fee specified in Clause No. 8. The profit/loss shall be worked out on the basis of accepted accounting principles.” 3.4. Thereafter, on 06.07.2006, a tripartite agreement was executed C by and amongst the appellant, respondent No. 1 and respondent No. 2 (Bank of Baroda3) upon sanctioning of a loan to the tune of Rs. 500 lakh to respondent No. 1. The appellant agreed to create first charge on fixed assets, which was to be released only with the consent of respondent No. 1. However, it was also stipulated that if payment of corporate loan was made directly by the appellant to the bank, the first charge could be D released without the consent of respondent No. 1. The relevant clauses of the tripartite agreement dated 06.07.2006 could be usefully reproduced as follows: - “WHEREAS Bank of Baroda has sanctioned Corporate loan of Rs.500 lacs to M/s. A Infrastructure Limited on the terms & E conditions stipulated in the sanction letter and to secure this above loan in addition to other conditions and corporate guarantee also provided by M/s. Gujarat Composite Limited. Further M/s. Gujarat Composite Limited has agreed to create first charge on the fixed assets as stipulated in the sanctioned F letter in favour of Bank of Baroda.