[2023] 5 S.C.R. 165 165 SHILPA SAILESH A v. VARUN SREENIVASAN (Transfer Petition (Civil) No. 1118 of 2014) MAY 01, 2023 B [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, SANJIV KHANNA, ABHAY S. OKA, VIKRAM NATH AND J.K. MAHESHWARI, JJ.] Constitution of India – Art. 142 – Scope and ambit of – Held: The power u/Art. 142(1) is undefined and uncatalogued, so as to C ensure elasticity to mould relief to suit a given situation – The Supreme Court can depart from the procedure as well as the substantive laws, as long as the decision is exercised based on considerations of fundamental general and specific public policy – While deciding whether to exercise discretion, the Court must consider the substantive provisions as enacted and not ignore the same, albeit D the Court acts as a problem solver by balancing out equities between the conflicting claims – This power is to be exercised in a ‘cause or matter’. Constitution of India – Art. 142 – Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 – s.13-B – Grant of a decree of divorce by mutual consent – Whether E Supreme Court while hearing a transfer petition, or in any other proceedings, can exercise power u/Art.142(1) to grant a decree of divorce by mutual consent dispensing with the period and the procedure prescribed u/s.13-B of the Act of 1956 and also quash and dispose of other/connected proceedings and in which cases F and under what circumstances should Supreme Court exercise jurisdiction u/Art. 142 – Held: In view of settlement between the parties, the Supreme Court has the discretion to dissolve the marriage by passing a decree of divorce by mutual consent, without being bound by the procedural requirement to move the second motion – This power should be exercised with care and caution, keeping in G mind the factors stated in Amardeep Singh case and Amit Kumar case – This Court can also, in exercise of power u/Art. 142(1) can also quash and set aside other proceedings and s, including criminal proceedings. H 165 166 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Constitution of India – Art. 142 – Grant of divorce in case of irretrievable breakdown of marriage – Whether Supreme Court can grant divorce in exercise of power under Article 142(1), when there is complete and irretrievable breakdown of marriage in spite of the other spouses opposing the prayer – Held: The Court in exercise of power under Art.142(1), has the discretion to dissolve the marriage B on the ground of its irretrievable breakdown – The Court’s discretionary power is to be exercised to do ‘complete justice’ to the parties – The Court should be fully convinced and satisfied that the marriage is totally unworkable, emotionally dead and beyond salvation and, therefore, dissolution of marriage is the right solution C and the only way forward – The Supreme Court, as a court of equity, is required to also balance the circumstances and the background in which the party opposing the dissolution is placed. Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 – Irretrievable breakdown of marriage – Determination of – Held: That the marriage has D irretrievably broken down is to be factually determined and firmly established – For this, several factors are to be considered such as the period of time the parties had cohabited after marriage; when the parties had last cohabited; the nature of allegations made by the parties against each other and their family members; the s passed in the legal proceedings from time to time, cumulative impact E on the personal relationship; whether, and how many attempts were made to settle the disputes by intervention of the court or through mediation, and when the last attempt was made, etc.