There is no evidence that it was under lock and key of Santosh or that its access was controlled and no one other than Santosh could have had access to the apartment. Thus, possibility of some third person entering the apartment and committing murder is not ruled out. D b) Mere presence of a dead body in an apartment is not enough to convict a tenant or owner of that apartment for murder, particularly when there is no admissible evidence to prove that around the plausible time of murder the accused was present there, or was last seen with the deceased, and had motive to finish off the deceased; E c) From the testimony of PW4 it is proved that the deceased was alone in that apartment between noon and 1.00 p.m. on 11.09.2000 and, at that time, Santosh was not present there.The body of the deceased was found in the morning of 12.09.2000.There is no evidence that in between noon F of 11.09.2000 and discovery of the dead body next day morning, the appellant Santosh or co-accused Neeraj entered that apartment or were seen in the vicinity; d) The prosecution led no evidence to prove any motive for the crime which, in a case based on circumstantial evidence, G provides an important link to the chain of circumstances; e) At the time of lifting the dead body from that apartment, number of articles present there including whisky bottle and plates etc. were lifted. Many of those articles could have carried fingerprints. Yet no evidence was brought on record to rule out presence of any other person than the accused H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 771 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] or to confirm the presence of fingerprints of any of the two A accused on those articles; f) The circumstance that the accused remained at large till 23.09.2000 by itself is not a conduct reflective of a guilty mind, particularly, when there existed no evidence to show physical presence of the appellant Santosh in that apartment, B or in the vicinity, on 11.09.2000 or any time thereafter, till recovery of the dead body on 12.09.2000. Otherwise also, the incriminating circumstance in respect of abscondence, if any, has not been put to any of the two accused while recording their statement under Section 313 of the Code. C Conclusion: 86. In light of the discussion above, we have no hesitation in holding that the prosecution has failed to prove a chain of incriminating circumstances as to conclusively point out that in all human probability it was the two accused or any one of them, and no one else, who had committed the murder. In such circumstances, even if Santosh failed to D explain as to how the dead body of the deceased was found in his apartment, an inference of his guilt cannot be drawn. In a nutshell, it is a case where the prosecution failed to elevate its case from the realm of “may be true” to the plane of “must be true” as is indispensably required for conviction on a criminal charge.