Note: The pagination as per the original . STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 781 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 1. Distinction between adjournment and prorogation ..18 2. Exclusive domain of the Speaker to regulate the procedure of the House .................................................23 IV. Conclusion ............................................................................26 1. The jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution has been invoked by the State of Punjab. The Government of Punjab is aggrieved on the ground that the Governor did not (i) assent to four Bills which were passed by the Vidhan Sabha nor have they been returned; and (ii) furnish a recommendation for the introduction of certain Money Bills in the Vidhan Sabha. I. Factual background 2. On 22 February 2023, the Council of Ministers of the Government of Punjab forwarded a recommendation to the Governor of Punjab seeking the summoning of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha for its Budget Session commencing on 3 March 2023. The Governor’s refusal to do so, on the ground that he was seeking legal advice, led to the institution of a petition before this Court on 25 February 2023. On 28 February 2023, this Court delivered its in the State of Punjab v. Principal Secretary to the Governor of Punjab1. This Court observed that: “There was no occasion to seek legal advice on whether or not the Budget Session of the Legislative Assembly should be convened. The Governor was plainly bound by the advice tendered to him by the Council of Ministers.” 3. While concluding its , this Court had the following observations on the broader aspects of mature political governance in a democracy: “Political diff erences in a democratic polity have to be worked upon and sorted out with a sense of sobriety and maturity. The dialogue between constitutional functionaries cannot degenerate into a race 1 Writ Petition (Civil) No 302 of 2023 782 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. to the bottom. Unless these principles were to be borne in mind, the realization of constitutional values may be placed in jeopardy. Such a situation emerged before this Court, leading to the institution of a petition under Article 32 of the Constitution for a direction to the Governor to summon the Legislative Assembly. It is inconceivable that the Budget Session of the Legislative Assembly would not be convened. We can only hope that mature constitutional statesmanship will ensure that such instances do not occur in the future as much as we reiterate our expectation that constitutional functionaries must be cognizant of the public trust in the offi ces which they occupy. The public trust which is entrusted to them is intended to sub-serve the cause of our citizens and to ensure that the aff airs of the nation are conducted with a sense of equanimity so as to accomplish the objects of the Preamble to the Constitution.” 4. Following the decision of this Court, the Sixteenth Punjab Vidhan Sabha was summoned on 3 March 2023. The Speaker adjourned the session sine die on 22 March 2023.