3. In that light, the proposal for untimely release from prison can be rejected.” 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Taking note of the reports before it at the time, the Remission Board concluded as follows: Remission Board meeting dated Remission Board meeting dated 20.04.2023 19.05.2021 “Favourable report by Probation Taking note of the adverse reports by the Offi cer/ Superintendent of Police, but Police Superintendent, Presiding Judge, and adverse report by Presiding Judge” conclusion of the Screening Committee/ Inspector General regarding clause (iv)(b) – “3. After due consideration, the proposal for premature release from prison is rejected.” 15. The record clearly indicates that the reason for rejection of the petitioner’s application, is the adverse report submitted by the presiding judge in the fi rst round, which was perfunctorily relied upon and reiterated in the report submitted by the then presiding judge in the second round as well. Both the reports submitted by the presiding judges (at the relevant time), demonstrate a casual opinion, based solely on the judicial record which presumably consisted of the fi nding of guilt, by the trial court and High Court. This off ers only a dated insight on the petitioner, one that has limited opportunity to consider the progress the convict has made in the course of serving his sentence. Yet, the Remission Board has privileged the presiding judge’s opinion over the other authorities – like the Probation Offi cer, and Jail authorities, who are in a far better position to comment on his post-conviction reformation – off ering a cautionary tale. 16. In this court’s considered view, overemphasis on the presiding judge’s opinion and complete disregard of comments of other authorities, while arriving at its conclusion, would render the appropriate government’s decision on a remission application, unsustainable. The discretion that the executive is empowered with in executing a sentence, would be denuded of its content, if the presiding judge’s view– which is formed in all likelihood, largely (if not solely) on the basis of the judicial record– is mechanically followed by the concerned authority. Such an approach has the potential to strikes at the heart, and subvert the concept of remission – as a reward and incentive encouraging actions and behaviour geared towards reformation – in a modern legal system. RAJO @ RAJWA @ RAJENDRA MANDAL v. THE STATE 501 OF BIHAR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 17. All this is not to say that the presiding judge’s view is only one of the factors that has no real weight; but instead that if the presiding judge’s report is only refl ective of the facts and circumstances that led to the conclusion of the convict’s guilt, and is merely a reiteration of those circumstances available to the judge at the time of sentencing (some 14 or more years earlier, as the case may be), then the appropriate government should attach weight to this fi nding, accordingly. Such a report, cannot be relied on as carrying predominance, if it focusses on the crime, with little or no attention to the criminal.