That thereafter, respondent No. 8 as F such moved the quashing petition before the High Court for quashing the entire criminal proceedings including the chargesheet/supplementary chargesheet. The High Court dismissed the quashing petition. Therefore, the accused must have taken all the defences which might have been available to him while considering quashing petition including the ground G on which now further investigation/reinvestigation is ed by another agency, namely, CBCID. It is required to be noted that thereafter, respondent No. 8 approached this Court and the Special Leave Petition came to be dismissed by this Court and the interim protection in favour of respondent No. 8 came to be vacated. That thereafter, non-bailable H 652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A warrant was issued against respondent No. 8 and only thereafter, mother of respondent No. 8 – accused moved an application before the Secretary (Home) for further investigation and he transferred the investigation to CBCID, inter-alia, on the ground that the so-called eye witnesses of the murder were not the eye witnesses. The request of the mother of accused has been accepted by the Secretary (Home) and the B investigation was transferred to another agency, namely, CBCID despite the fact that after the first chargesheet, the investigation was handed over to the District Crime Branch to further investigate the case and they filed the supplementary chargesheet in which respondent Nos. 8 and 11 were even chargesheeted. Therefore, as such it is not a case of C further investigation, but is a case of reinvestigation by another agency. The passed by the Secretary (Home) transferring the investigation/ ing further investigation by another agency and that too, on the basis of the application/complaint submitted by mother of the accused is un-known to law. D 7.1 There cannot be any dispute that even after the chargesheet is filed, it is the right of the investigating officer to further investigate in respect of offence even after a report under sub-section (2) of Section 173 of Cr.PC forwarded to a Magistrate and as observed and held by this Court the prior approval of the Magistrate is not required. However, as per the settled position of law, so far as the reinvestigation is concerned, E the prior permission/approval of the Magistrate is required. In the present case, the Secretary (Home) has passed an for further investigation by CBCID and thereafter, the CBCID has sent the intimation to the learned Magistrate. No prior approval/permission as observed by the High Court has been accorded by the learned Magistrate. The High F Court in the impugned and has observed that the further investigation is ed with the concurrence of the Magistrate, which is factually incorrect. What is on record is only an intimation to the learned Magistrate which in any case cannot be said to be concurrence of the learned Magistrate. G 7.2 In any case, as it is a case of reinvestigation, the same is not permissible and that too by another agency without the prior permission of the learned Magistrate even while exercising the powers under Section 173(8) of the Cr.PC.