A passing observation URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 553 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] was also made that plaintiff ’s intention appeared to be to enjoy the land and later stake a claim over it. The trial court thus concluded that plaintiff did not approach the Court with clean hands. Consequently, the suit was decreed only to the extent of that 1 bigha of the disputed land regarding which, the appellant had given up its claim. Appeal Before the First Appellate Court 10. Aggrieved by dismissal of the suit in part, the plaintiff preferred an appeal14. No appeal was preferred by the Trust. Consequently, the decree of the trial court to the extent of 1 bigha of the disputed land became fi nal as against the Trust. 11. Before the fi rst appellate court, on behalf of the plaintiff , it was argued that acquisition proceedings of the land had commenced in the year 1972 whereas the two sale-deeds in favour of the plaintiff were registered in the year 1970. The sale-deeds were in the knowledge of the offi cers of the State as conversion of 1 bigha land to non-agricultural land was sought, and the Collector had issued NOC in favour of the plaintiff . Therefore, even if plaintiff ’s name was not recorded as Khatedar, it could be presumed that the State and its offi cers were aware about ownership rights of the plaintiff and other co-purchasers (i.e., defendant nos.2 to 4). Yet, no notice of the proposed acquisition was given to the plaintiff . Hence, the acquisition is void. It was also argued that the plaintiff and defendant nos.2 to 4 have been in continuous possession, which was disturbed during pendency of the suit on 10.06.1998. First Appellate Court Findings 12. The fi rst appellate court in paragraph 14 of its noted the admitted case of the parties that the land was purchased by the plaintiff vide sale-deeds dated 02.03.1970 and 16.03.1970 whereas notifi cation, commencing proceedings for acquisition, was issued on 09.06.1972. Yet, the plaintiff was not served notice of proposed acquisition. In paragraph 18 of the , the fi rst appellate court observed that admittedly prior to the acquisition, NOC was issued to the plaintiff for conversion of agricultural land to non-agricultural land, therefore it is to be assumed 14 Appeal Decree No.30 of 2004 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. that the State was aware of the ownership right of the plaintiff . Yet, notice of acquisition was not served on the plaintiff . In these circumstances, non-mutation of plaintiff ’s name in the revenue records would not defeat plaintiff ’s claim that acquisition notifi cation was bad for non-service of notice on him. With these observations, and fi nding upon that possession of the land was taken on 10.6.1998, the fi rst appellate court decreed plaintiff ’s suit in its entirety. Second Appeal Before the High Court 13. Aggrieved by decision of the fi rst appellate court, the appellant preferred second appeal before the High Court contending, inter alia, (a) mere suit for injunction is not maintainable unless a relief for declaration of title is sought; (b) the civil court has no jurisdiction to decide the suit when the land in dispute is subject matter of acquisition and, under Section 52 of the 1959 Act, on publication of the notifi cation in the gazette, the land stood vested in the State free from all encumbrances; and (c) the plaintiff had failed to implead the State as a defendant even though it was a necessary party.