of the legislature, and against the provisions of the Constitution”. The Governor stated: “As the Budget Session stood concluded, any such extended session is bound to be illegal, and any business conducted during such sessions is likely to be unlawful, and ab-initio void. Inspite of these communications, disregarding the possibility of taking an unconstitutional step, it appears that a decision has been taken to call the session. For these reasons I withhold my approval to the above mentioned Bills.” 8. Notably, the Governor did not ‘declare’ in any public notifi cation that he is withholding his assent to the Bills. The Governor advised the Chief Minister to call for a fresh Monsoon/Winter Session and to forward an agenda setting out the specifi c business to be conducted so as to enable him to grant permission for the summoning of the House to transact the business. 9. Aggrieved by the inaction of the Governor, the State of Punjab invoked the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution. The State of Punjab seeks: (a) A declaration that the Sessions held on 19 June 2023, 20 June 2023 and 20 October 2023 of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha are legal and that the business transacted by the House is valid; and (b) A mandamus to the eff ect that the seven Bills which have been kept pending by the Governor including the three Money Bills be processed in accordance with law. 10. This Court entertained the Petition on 6 November 2023. During the course of the hearing, the Court has been apprised of the fact that after the institution of the Petition, the Governor has recommended that two out of the three Money Bills, namely, the Punjab Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Bill 2023; and the Indian Stamp (Punjab Amendment) Bill 2023, may be introduced before the Vidhan Sabha. II. Submissions 11. During the course of the hearing, we have heard submissions on behalf of the petitioners by Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior counsel STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 785 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] who appeared with Mr Gurminder Singh, Advocate General for the State of Punjab. Mr. Satya Pal Jain, senior counsel appeared on behalf of the Principal Secretary to the Governor. 12. The principal submissions which have been urged on behalf of the petitioners are that: (a) Though the Budget Session of the Legislative Assembly was summoned on 3 March 2023, it was adjourned sine die on 22 March 2023 by the Speaker without prorogation; (b) The adjournment of the House sine die could not have been treated by the Governor as a prorogation of the House; (c) The Speaker was acting within the exercise of constitutional jurisdiction, as evinced by the provisions of the Rules of Procedure governing the Vidhan Sabha, in reconvening the sitting of the Assembly on 19 and 20 June 2023 under the second proviso to Rule 16; (d) Regulating the rules of procedure and the conduct of business in the House lies within the sole discretion of the Speaker; (e) The Governor as a symbolic head of State did not act within the scope of his constitutional powers in coming to the conclusion that reconvening of the session of the Vidhan Sabha in June 2023 was unconstitutional, thereby rendering the legislative business which was transacted on 20 June 2023 void; and (f) The consequence of the decision of the Speaker is to virtually nullify the legislations which have been passed by an overwhelming majority of the Members of the Legislative Assembly.