In the said case, this Court reduced the compensation on D account of delay in handing over possession from 7% p.a. as awarded by the National Commission to 6% p.a. in light of the decision in Wing Commander Arifur Rahman Khan (supra). 14.4. In the case of Ireo Grace Realtech (supra), another 3- Judge Bench of this Court dealt with different categories of cases, some E relating to delay in offering possession and some relating to such allottees who had been offered alternative units. This Court found such other allottees who had not been offered possession of the units allotted to them to be entitled to refund of the amount deposited by them but their claim for award of compound interest was declined for having no nexus with the commercial realities of the prevailing market. The consideration F of this Court in relation to such class of allottees with the relevant observations could be usefully reproduced as under: “47. Insofar as the allottees in Chart B are concerned, they have paid part consideration, in most cases up to the 4th instalment till 2017, when they found that there was no progress being made in G respect of the Towers in which the apartments had been allotted to them. It is an admitted position that occupation certificate for Towers A1, A2, A3, B7, C9 and C11, in which the allotments have been made for this category has not been issued by the Municipal Corporation. The apartments have not been ready for allotment H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1129 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] even as on 30-6-2020, as per the date fixed before RERA A Authority. 48. The allottees submitted that they were facing great hardship since they had obtained loans from banks for purchasing these apartments, and were paying high rates of interest. In 2017, when they realised that there was no construction activity in progress, B they were constrained to file consumer complaints before the National Commission, and then discontinued payment of further instalments. 49. The developer made an alternate offer of allotment of apartments in Phase 1 of the project. The allottees are however C not bound to accept the same because of the inordinate delay in completing the construction of the Towers where units were allotted to them. The occupation certificate is not available even as on date, which clearly amounts to deficiency of service. The allottees cannot be made to wait indefinitely for possession of the D apartments allotted to them, nor can they be bound to take the apartments in Phase 1 of the project. The allottees have submitted that they have taken loans, and are paying high rates of interest to the tune of 7.9%, etc. to the banks. Consequently, we hold that the allottees in Chart B are entitled to refund of the entire amount deposited by them. E 50. Insofar as award of compensation by payment of interest is concerned, Clause 13.4 of the apartment buyer’s Agreement provides that the developer shall be liable to pay the allottee compensation calculated @ Rs 7.5 per square foot of the super area for every month of delay, after the end of the grace period.