It is submitted that as explained by the Kerala High Court in the aforesaid decision, the provision relating to block assessment under Chapter XIV-B are self-contained note, providing for variation of H 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the manner in which the liability for payment of tax is determined and covering a situation where undisclosed income relatable to the block period had not suffered tax only due to non-disclosure coming to light in course of certain search proceedings etc. 7.5 It is submitted that the scheme of block assessment introduced B under Chapter XIV-B has been explained and considered by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Vatika Township Private Limited (supra). It is submitted that as observed by this Court, Chapter XIV-B of the Act deals with block assessment which lays down a special procedure for search cases. It is submitted that as observed, the main reason for adding this provision in the Act was to curb tax evasion and C expedite as well as simplify the assessment in such searched cases. It is submitted that even as observed and held by this Court in the aforesaid decision Chapter XIV-B is a complete code in itself providing for self- contained machinery for assessment of undisclosed income for the block period of ten years or six years as the case may be. D 7.6 It is submitted that the levy of interest under Section 158BFA(1) is linked to the period of filing of return and that period alone is to be taken into consideration particularly as the levy of interest being only for delayed period of filing return. It is submitted that delay of interest is not linked to delay in payment of taxes but due to delay in filing the return. E 7.7 Insofar as the submission on behalf of the assessee that in absence of any notice under Section 158BC to the “other person” prior to the amendment in Section 158BD vide Finance Act, 2002 and thereby entire block assessment would be rendered non-est and the submission on behalf of the assessee that the amendment vide Finance Act, 2002 in Section 158BD adding the words “under Section 158BC” would become F otiose it is vehemently submitted that the said contentions are without any merit. Relying upon Notes of Clauses appended to Clause 64 of the Finance Bill, 2002, whereby said words “under Section 158BC” was inserted it is submitted that the words “under Section 158BC” in Section 158BD has been inserted so as to clarify that Assessing Officer shall G proceed against such “other person” under Section 158BC. It is further submitted that Chapter XIV-B prescribes a special procedure for computation of income for the block period in search and seizure cases. Section 158BD indicates the procedure that was required to be followed by Assessing Officer when any person other than a person with respect to whom search was made. It is submitted that even bereft of clarificatory H K.L. SWAMY v. THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX & 703 ANR.