Coming to the writ petition filed by A.K. Biswas and others, the High Court C found that the employees were similarly placed and that they were entitled to the same benefits as given to the other employees. However, the High Court found that some of the employees had already compromised the matter with the Management and that therefore the relief should be confined only to those employees who had not compromised. D Accordingly, the High Court allowed the writ petition filed by A.K. Biswas and others, granting relief only to those employees who had not compromised the matter with the management. (xv) It is against the said common passed by the High E Court on 28.6.2018 that the Corporation has come up with the above appeals. 5. From the narration of facts provided above, it will be clear that the only question which falls for our consideration is: as to whether persons employed as Supervisors are entitled or not, to Double Over Time F Allowance in terms of Section 59(1) of the 1948 Act? 6. For coming to the conclusion that the employees are entitled to Double Over Time Allowance, the Tribunal started with two presumptions, namely (i) that the India Security Press, Currency Note Press and India Government Mint would fall within the definition of the expression G “factory” as defined in Section 2(m) of the 1948 Act; and (ii) that the employees would fall within the definition of the expression “worker” as defined in Section 2(l) of the 1948 Act. As a sequitur, the Tribunal held that these Supervisors, will, in the normal course, be entitled to extra wages for overtime in terms of Section 59(1) of the 1948 Act. H 7. But it was argued on behalf of the Union of India that under SECURITY PRINTING AND MINTING CORPORATION OF 255 INDIA LTD. v. VIJAY D. KASBE [V. RAMSUBRAMANIAN, J.] Section 64(1) of the 1948 Act, the State Government was entitled to A make Rules exempting the application of the provisions of Chapter VI of the Act to certain categories of workers. In exercise of the power conferred by Section 64(1), the State of Maharashtra had issued a set of Rules known as Maharashtra Factories Rules, 19633, Rule 100 of which exempted Supervisors from the application of the provisions of Chapter B VI, provided they were not required to perform manual labour or clerical work as a regular part of their duties. In the light of such a stand taken by the Union of India, the Tribunal, in the batch of applications decided on 9.6.2010, framed the following question as arising for consideration:- “Whether in the facts and in the circumstances of the cases the C applicants in these OAs are entitled to double OTA under Section 59(1) of the Factories Act, even after considering the provisions of Section 64(1) of the Factories Act, 1948 read with the provisions of Rule 100 of Maharashtra Factories Rule, 1963?” 8. After framing the issue as aforesaid, the Tribunal recorded a D finding that the applicants before the Tribunal were doing clerical work as a part of their regular duties and that therefore they were excluded from the application of Rule 100 of the 1963 Rules, in view of the proviso contained therein.