]: Where a power is given to do a certain thing in a certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not at all and other methods of performance are necessarily forbidden – What ought to have been done through a Parliamentary enactment or plenary legislation, could not have been carried out by simply issuing a notification under sub- section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 13 by the Central Government – The said provision does not apply to A cases where the proposal for demonetisation originates from the Central Government and the same is not envisaged under the Act – Hence, issuance a notification to give effect to the Central Government’s proposal for demonetisation, was clearly based on an incorrect understanding of sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act B – The Central Government did not follow the procedure contemplated under law to give effect to its proposal for demonetisation – This is not a matter of form but one of substance as in law, the powers of the Central Board of the RBI and the Central Government are totally distinct in the matter of demonetisation of bank notes. C Administrative Law – Exercise of discretion, when invalid – Held [per B.V. Nagarathna, J. ]: When an authority exercises the discretion vested in it by law at the behest of another authority in a specific matter, this would in law amount to non-exercise of its discretionary power by the authority itself, and consequently, such action or decision is invalid. D Answering the referred questions, the Court HELD: PER B.R. GAVAI, J. (FOR HIMSELFAND FOR S. ABDUL NAZEER, A.S. BOPANNA, AND V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, E JJ.) (MAJORITY ): 1. The power available to the Central Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act cannot be restricted to mean that it can be exercised only for ‘one’ or ‘some’ series of bank notes and not for ‘all’ series of bank notes. The power can F be exercised for all series of bank notes. Merely because on two earlier occasions, the demonetization exercise was by plenary legislation, it cannot be held that such a power would not be available to the Central Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act. [Para 304 (i)][143-G-H; 144-G] G 2. Sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act does not provide for excessive delegation inasmuch as there is an inbuilt safeguard that such a power has to be exercised on the recommendation of the Central Board. As such, sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act is not liable to be struck down on the said ground. [Para 304 (ii)][144-B-C] H 14 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 3. The impugned Notification dated 8th November 2016 does not suffer from any flaws in the decision-making process. [Para 304 (iii)][144-C] 4. The impugned Notification dated 8th November 2016 satisfies the test of proportionality and, as such, cannot be struck B down on the said ground.