10. Samodhi Yadav (PW-9), uncle of the deceased, residing in village Maran, only states that Ram Brijesh Yadav (co-villager) informed him that his daughter-in-law (the deceased) had eloped with someone C residing in village i.e. Maran. Since he doubted such statement, he went to village Janho, the place of the matrimonial house of the deceased and was informed that since previous evening, none had seen the deceased. The body of the deceased was found only on the date of recovery from the well of the village. He expressed his doubt, “…that accused had D killed his wife and had thereafter thrown her into the well”. This being the only statement that he made against the accused. But what is his source of such information, he does not disclose. In any event such a deposition is only in the nature of hearsay and no more, which is also uncorroborated. However, significantly, he admits that the accused had already reported the matter to the Police and that no case of ill-treatment E of the deceased was ever registered against the appellant. 11. Perusal of the testimony given by Nandish Yadav (PW-10), son of the maternal brother of PW-2, in our considered view, is also of no consequence in advancing or establishing the case of the prosecution. He only states that, “we suspected” the role of the accused “for he used F to beat her often”. Elaborating further, he states that such fact was disclosed to him by the villagers. We find that this statement, apart from being in the nature of hearsay, is vague and unspecific with regard to time, place and manner of alleged cruelty. It is on such counts that he suspected the accused to have murdered the deceased. Significantly, in G the cross-examination part of his testimony, we notice all these facts to have been deposed for the first time in the Court and as we have noticed in the testimony of PW-9 that no complaint of ill- treatment was ever reported to anyone. Hence, therefore, the case of the prosecution stands unproven. H GUNA MAHTO v. STATE OF JHARKHAND 787 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 12. The Trial Court in its , while convicting the accused, A heavily relied upon the statement of PW-9 and the purported statement of the Investigating Officer which is termed as UD Exhibit marked as Exhibit 3/1. The relevant findings in the is extracted as under : “The deceased’s death as the post mortem report discloses was not due to drowning. From the evidence of P.W.9 and I.O. it B appears that while the deceased was found missing then on the next day the villagers tried to search her dead body in the said well by means of Jhagar but it was not found and on the next day the dead body was found in the same well. So, these facts indicate that the deceased did not commit suicide rather she was murdered C and her dead body was thrown in the well and the fardbeyan of the accused regarding the death of the deceased is due to suicide does not appear to be probable.” 13.