deciding to allot the fl ats in Tower D, E & F as per the procedure prescribed vide Circular No. 162 dated 23.10.2015. 19. Aggrieved by this of SRA, the appellants fi led another Writ Petition (L) No. 8391 of 2020 before the Bombay High Court with a prayer to set aside the dated 26.10.2020. The main ground taken by the appellant was that SRA had to conduct allotment as per the terms of the MoU dated 23.06.2009 by giving preferential allotment to the members of the appellant society in Towers D, E and F. The Bombay High Court dismissed the Writ Petition on 22.10.2021 which is the impugned in this Civil Appeal. 20. The case of the appellant before the High Court was that once the Developer and the appellant society had come to a settlement in terms of the MOU dated 23.06.2009 allotment of fl ats in towers D, E and F ought to have been made accordingly, with allotments of these fl ats only to the members of appellant society. The appellant, however, failed to show any provision of law on which this claim was based, particularly when it was a minority society, which is not even recognised under the law presently applicable, and was not a part of the SRA scheme. As we have already referred to the relevant provision of the concerned Regulation where at least 70% of the settlement dwellers should be on board. The members of the present appellant society are admittedly much less than 70%. The claim of the appellant was based entirely on the terms of consent arrived between the Developer and them, which has no basis in law. This is what the Bombay High Court observed: 11. It clearly appears that the claim of the petitioner is on the sole basis of the consent terms which were executed between the said parties in the civil suit fi led by the developer. As noted above, the suit between these parties was a matter strictly between such private parties which would be completely outside the scheme of any slum redevelopment being undertaken and as approved under the rules by the SRA. It clearly appears that for such reason, the SRA was not made a party to the said civil suit. It also cannot be conceived that a developer enters into some private arrangement with a parallel society that too which is of minority of slum dwellers, can have no bearing on the execution of a slum scheme under the rules and regulations of the SRA. Such arrangement can never be made binding on the SRA and/or can never restrain the SRA from implementing its rules, regulations and circulars 738 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. which are bind on any developer and/or a slum society undertaking the SRA scheme. 12. Any private arrangement between the petitioner, a society not of the majority slum dwellers, and the developer in a civil suit, if is recognized, it would certainly bring about a complete chaos and uncertainty in regard to the SRA granting permissions to a particular slum society and the developer appointed by it, as per the rules, to undertake the SRA scheme.