Thus, as it is proved that the suicide letter was recovered D from a pocket of the trouser which the deceased was wearing at the time of his death, and there is recovery of knife/dagger at the instance of Neeraj, which, according to the doctor, could have caused injuries as were found on the body of the deceased, it stood proved beyond reasonable doubt that Neeraj had actively participated in the crime E rendering himself liable to be convicted and sentenced under section 302 IPC with the aid of section 34 IPC. With regard to relevancy of the opinion of the doctor in respect of use of the weapon recovered in causing injuries found on the body of the deceased, decision of this Court in Malti Sahu v. Rahul& Another4 was cited. 19. Per contra, the learned counsel representing Neeraj submitted F that the alleged recovery of knife/dagger is false and is liable to be discarded for the following reasons:- firstly, disclosure statement being the basis of recovery is not substantiated as, according to police witnesses, both the accused made identical disclosures and whose disclosure was made first, is not clear from the evidence; secondly, first attempt to G recover failed; thirdly, PritpalSingh (PW13), the alleged public witness of recovery, turned out to be a Special Police Officer; fourthly, PW13 stated that his signature on the memorandum was obtained at the police 3 AIR 1961 SC 1808 4 (2022) 10 SCC 226 H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 739 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] post; fifthly, the knife carried no blood and, therefore, could not be A connected with the crime; sixthly, the autopsy report disclosed injuries of different dimensions suggesting use of multiple sharp-edged weapons; and, seventhly, the doctor who opined that recovered knife could have caused such injuries is not a scientific expert, specified in section 293 of the Code, therefore, in absence of production of that doctor as a witness, B not much importance is to be attached to that report. 20. With regard to recovery of trousers, it was submitted that the said recovery is not at the instance of Neeraj therefore it has no evidentiary value qua him. And the statement of co-accused Santosh @ Bhure that one of the two trousers was of Neeraj is not admissible in evidence. C Other than that, there is no evidence to prove that one of the two trousers, or shirt, was of Neeraj. 21. In respect of authorship of the suicide letter, it was submitted that, firstly, the FSL report is not admissible in evidence as rightly found by the High Court; and, secondly, there is no admissible evidence to prove that the writing in the suicide letter was of Neeraj. Besides that, a D report of the expert is just an opinion and on its own it cannot form basis of a conclusion, particularly, when there is no internalor external evidence to support writing of the suicide letter. 22. It was also urged that no evidence was led to establish any connection between Neeraj and the deceased or the co-accused Santosh E @ Bhure.