In the statement of the appellant – Wazir Khan recorded under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C., he stated that on the date of the incident, his wife was killed by the robbers. In his further statement, he also stated that while the robbers killed his wife, he too suff ered injuries at the hands of the robbers. 5. The trial court upon appreciation of the oral as well as the documentary evidence came to conclusion that the prosecution had failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and accordingly acquitted the appellant – Wazir Khan of all the charges. 6. The respondent – State, being aggrieved and dissatisfi ed by the and of acquittal passed by the trial court, went in appeal before the High Court. The High Court found the and of the trial court to be perverse, and accordingly reversed the acquittal and held the appellant – Wazir Khan guilty of the off ence of murder of his wife. 7. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant – Wazir Khan is here before this Court by way of present appeals. 8. Dr. Rajesh Pandey, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant, vehemently submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in disturbing a well reasoned of acquittal passed by the trial court. He submitted that the High Court would be justifi ed in reversing the acquittal only upon satisfaction that the trial court’s is perverse or based on no evidence. He would also submit that the entire case hinges on circumstantial evidence. He submitted that there are no incriminating circumstances emerging on the record of this case, so as to connect the appellant with the crime. He would submit that just because the deceased happened to be the wife of the appellant and the incident occurred in his house, by itself, is not suffi cient to hold the appellant guilty of the off ence of murder. 9. He submitted that none of the prosecution witnesses who have been examined could be termed as reliable witnesses. 10. He also submitted that the weapon of off ence, clothes etc., though collected during the course of investigation yet were not sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) for chemical analysis. He pointed out that there is no serological test report on record. WAZIR KHAN v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 43 11. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant prays that there being merit in the present appeals and same may be allowed and the appellant – Wazir Khan may be acquitted of all the charges. 12. On the other-hand, Mr. Abhishek Atery, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – State vehemently opposed the present appeals and submitted that there is no error, not to speak of any error of law said to have been committed by the High Court in reversing the and of acquittal passed by the trial court. He would submit that the accused has not disputed his presence in the house at the time of the incident.