held to be a capital asset, which could be converted into stock- in-trade. 4. Commissioner of Receipt of the Capital receipt That the surplus Income Tax, U.P. assessee on sale loom-hours were vs Maheshwari of loom-hours. disposed of by the Devi Jute Mills assessee and no Ltd., (1965) 57 ITR interest remained 36 (SC). therein with the assessee. It was not a case of exploitation of the loom hours by permitting an additional user, while retaining ownership. Therefore, receipt by sale of loom hours must be regarded as a capital receipt. 5. R . B . S e t h Prospecting Capital That 1/20th of the M o o l c h a n d licence fee and expenditure licence fee could not Suganchand vs. tender money be claimed as revenue Commissioner of for mica mining expenditure on a Income Tax, Delhi, rights for a period yearly basis. That the (1973) 3 SCC 257. of twenty years. lease in question was for a long period; the amount paid was for acquiring a right of enduring nature to extract and remove the Mica and bring it to the surface. 436 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 6. CIT, Bombay vs. 75% profit C a p i t a l That what was Jalan Trading Co., share, paid as expenditure conveyed was the (1985) 4 SCC 59. consideration right to carry on the under a deed of whole business and assignment, for what was agreed to be the right to carry paid was a profi t share on business. of 75% every year, as consideration to acquire this right. The fact that the payments were made annually would have no bearing on the nature of the transaction. 7. Commissioner L u m p - s u m C a p i t a l That the payment of Income Tax consideration paid expenditure was for sterilisation vs. Bombay by the assessee of the profi t-making Burmah Trading for surrender of apparatus, i.e., the Corporation, export rights in a capital asset. The (1986) 161 ITR forest lease, where payment was not 386 (SC). the assessee had only with a view the right to extract to earn profit in a and cut timber new form, but was and remove them made to structure on payment of the assessee’s profi t- royalty. making apparatus and aff ected the conduct of business. 8. Aditya Minerals Advance rent for C a p i t a l That the rent paid by Pvt. Ltd. vs. fi fteen years to be expenditure the assessee was in Commissioner paid, calculated the nature of a deposit of Income Tax, at the rate of Rs. and was adjustable (1999) 239 ITR 35/- per month, against the rent of 817. for lease of land each month. Since for excavation the rent for the entire of minerals period of lease was and subsidiary paid in advance, the purposes. expenditure would be capital expenditure. Reliance was placed on Pingle Industries Ltd. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 437 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]