A is decreed, if the vendor or the lessor fails to pay the purchase money within the period fixed. This section seeks to provide complete relief to both the parties in terms of a decree of specific performance in the said suit without having resort to a separate proceeding. Therefore, a suit for specific performance does not come to an end on the passing of a decree and the court which B has passed the decree for specific performance retains control over the decree even after the decree has been passed. Section 28 not only permits the -debtors to seek rescission of the contract but also permits extension of time by the court to pay the amount. The power under this section is discretionary and the C court has to pass an as the justice of the case may require. It is also settled that time for payment of sale consideration may be extended even in a consent decree. This Court in Smt. Periyakkal and ors. Vs. Smt. Dakshyani1, speaking through Chinnappa Reddy, J. observed that even in a compromise decree, the court may enlarge the time in to prevent manifest injustice, D and to give relief to the aggrieved party against a forfeiture clause. The Court observed the following: “4.................................The parties, however, entered into a compromise and invited the court to make an in terms of the compromise, which the court did. The time for deposit E stipulated by the parties became the time allowed by the court and this gave the court the jurisdiction to extend time in appropriate cases. Of course, time would not be extended ordinarily, nor for the mere asking. It would be granted in rare cases to prevent manifest injustice. True the court would not F rewrite a contract between the parties but the court would relieve against a forfeiture clause; And, where the contract of the parties has merged in the of the court, the court’s freedom to act to further the ends of justice would surely not stand curtailed.” G Therefore, as observed by this Court, the power under Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act is discretionary and the Court has to pass an as the justice may require. 8. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decision to the facts of the case on hand and considering Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act, we are of the opinion that the trial Court erred in exercising H P. SHYAMALA v. GUNDLUR MASTHAN 45 [M. R. SHAH, J.] the discretion in favour of the plaintiff and erred in extending the time in A favour of the plaintiff to deposit the balance sale consideration of Rs. 15,00,000/- by condoning the huge delay of 853 days, which as observed hereinabove has not been explained sufficiently at all. As observed hereinabove, after the plaintiff was directed to deposit the balance sale consideration of Rs. 15,00,000/- within a period of two B weeks from the date of ex-parte and decree dated 12.10.2013, which the plaintiff failed to deposit/pay, even no application for extension of time under Section 148 CPC and Section 28 of the Specific Relief Act was made thereafter within a reasonable time and was made after a period of 853 days.