H 568 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 12. While perusing through the documents on record, it has come to our notice that the said Dharmesh Doshi, on the basis of whom the condition of bank guarantee was imposed, has now been discharged of the alleged offences by the Trial Court. It is also important to note that the said Dharmesh Doshi , who has been discharged of the alleged crime, was never an employee/share holder/director or a key managerial person B in the appellant company. 13. Since the said Dharmesh Doshi was in no way connected to the appellant company herein, the trial faced by him, was in his individual capacity, and not vicariously on behalf of the appellant company. C 14. In such a circumstance, wherein the appellant company and the accused Dharmesh Doshi are two separate entities, and the appellant company is in no way connected to the concerned Investigation, the operation of the freeze against the appellant company, is not legally tenable. 15. Further, It must also be noted that the appellant company herein, D till date, has not been named in the FIR or the chargesheet in which the abovementioned Dharmesh Doshi is an accused. It must also be noted that Mr. Shailesh Madiyal, learned counsel appearing for the respondent CBI, on the basis of Instructions, made a statement before us in open Court stating that no criminal proceedings whatsoever are pending against E the appellant company pertaining to the dispute at hand. 16. In such a circumstance, even if we were to assume that the accused Dharmesh Doshi’s discharge is subsequently reversed, and he is convicted, such a conviction would still have no bearing on the properties of the appellant company herein, since the appellant company is not F alleged to be a part of the crime. 17. Since the appellant company is not connected to the alleged crime, and has not found mention in the FIR or the chargesheet, the freeze against the appellant company’s properties is redundant qua the investigation, since the appellant company itself is not necessary G for the conclusion of the investigation. 18. It has also come to our notice that the operation of the freeze has been active for a period of 17 years and has caused huge losses to the appellant company. The purpose of the freeze , and the bank guarantee in extension of the freeze , can only be in H M/S. JERMYN CAPITAL LLC DUBAI v. CENTRAL BUREAU 569 OF INVESTIGATION & ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] operation to aid in the investigation against the alleged crime. Since the A investigation against the appellant company, as has been discussed above, is redundant, hence, the freeze of the appellant company’s assets and the bank guarantee imposed in furtherance of the freeze also becomes redundant. 19. In the light of above mentioned facts and discussions, the B condition imposed upon the appellant to furnish a bank guarantee by the Courts below, is not liable to be sustained and is therefore set aside.