…. The Tribunal rightly points out that in interpreting statutes like the Excise Act the primary object of which is to raise revenue and for which purpose various products are differently classified, F resort should not be had to the scientific and technical meaning of the terms and expressions used but to their popular meaning, that is to say the meaning attached to them by those using the product. It is for this reason that the Tribunal came to the conclusion that scientific and technical meanings would not advance the case of G the appellants if the same runs counter to how the product is understood in popular parlance. That is why the Tribunal observed in para 86 of the as under: 12 ‘DML’, for short. H 324 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A “So certificates and affidavits given by the Vaidyas do not advance the case of Shri Baidyanath Ayurved Bhawan Limited in the absence of any evidence on record to show and prove that the common man who uses this Dant Manjan daily to clean his teeth considers this Dant Manjan as a medicine and not a toilet requisite.” B It is this line of reasoning with which we are in agreement. The Tribunal rejected the claim of the appellant holding that ordinarily a medicine is prescribed by a medical practitioner and it is used for a limited time and not every day unless it is so prescribed to deal with a specific disease like diabetes. We are, therefore, of C the opinion that the Tribunal applied the correct principles in concluding that the product in question was not a medicinal preparation (‘Ayurvedic’) and, therefore, the appellant was not entitled to the benefit of the exemption notification. Having heard the learned counsel at length and having perused the line of D reasoning adopted by the Tribunal with which we are in general agreement, we see no reason to interfere with the conclusion reached by the Tribunal and, therefore, we dismiss these appeals, but make no as to costs.” 14.2. The aforesaid case related to the Rules framed under the E Act of 1944 and the Notification issued thereunder. During the pendency of appeal before this Court, the Act of 1985 was enacted which replaced the Schedule to the Act of 1944; and Chapter 30 of the Act of 1985 dealt with pharmaceutical products. With reference to the new enactment and its amendments in the year 1996-1997, the assessee approached the Board with a plea that now, there was specific definition of Ayurvedic F medicines and hence, its product DML should be classified on the basis of that definition. This led to the Board sending communication to the Commissioner of Central Excise, Nagpur concerning the classification of DML. These propositions led to different decisions where the assessee contended that the product DML was a medicament under Chapter Sub- G Heading 3003.31 of the Act of 1985 whereas, stand of the Department had been that the said product was a cosmetic/toiletry preparation/tooth powder classifiable under Chapter Heading 3306.