22. Jonas Woodhead i. P a y m e n t T h e Under the agreement and Sons. made towards consolidated with the foreign India Ltd. vs. accessing the payments company, what was Commissioner know-how made were set up by the assessee of Income Tax, and technical apportioned was a new business (1997) 224 ITR information and 25% and the foreign 342 (SC). regarding the thereof was company had not only setting up of a held to be in furnished information plant; the nature and technical know- of capital how but had also ii. Payment in expenditure rendered valuable the form of while 75%, services in the setting royalty for the payable on up of the factory services to be se r v i c es , itself. That even rendered to was held to after expiry of the the assessee be revenue agreement there was by the foreign expenditure. no embargo on the fi rm. assessee to continue to manufacture the product. 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 23. Commissioner Expenditure R e v e n u e Th at the asset of Income Tax incurred by expenditure created, though of vs. Madras Auto the assessee on an enduring nature, Services Pvt. Ltd., demolishing an did not belong to the (1998) 233 ITR existing building assessee. 468 (SC). and constructing a new building, during the subsistence of a 39 year lease, whereafter, the assessee continued to be a lessee in the building which belonged to the lessor. 24. Honda Siel Cars Lump-sum fee Revenue Th at the payment India Ltd. vs. payable by the expenditure was made by the Commissioner assessee to M/s assessee, not to of Income Tax, Honda Motors set up the plant to Ghaziabad, (2017) Company Ltd., manufacture Honda 8 SCC 170. Japan in fi ve cars but so as to continuous obtain the licence instalments aft er to manufacture commencement Honda cars in India, of commercial which were its stock production of in trade. Th at the Honda cars by agreement was the assessee, framed in a manner under a licensing as to give licence and technical for a limited period, a s s i s t a n c e having no enduring a g r e e m e n t nature. between the parties. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 445 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Details of certain decisions of various High Courts, which have also been considered are presented in the table hereinbelow: S l . Cause Title and Transaction in Classifi cation of Reasons for No. Citation Question the Transaction classifi cation: in question by the High Court: 1. Mohan Meakin Annual payment C a p i t a l Th at but for the Brewer ies made to the State expenditure licence so obtained, Ltd. vs. towards licence the assessee could Commissioner fee for working/ not have established of Income operating of a the distillery. Tax, (1997) distillery. 220 ITR 878. (High Court of Himachal P r a d e s h , Shimla) 2.