Under these Sections the High Court must not only see whether the passed by the Sessions Court is correct but it is under an obligation to examine the entire evidence for itself, apart from and independently of the Sessions Court’s appraisal and assessment of that evidence. From the long line of decisions which have taken this view it would be enough to refer to the decisions in Jumman v. State of Punjab, AIR 1957 SC 469; Rama Shankar Singh @ Ram Shankar Roy v. State of West Bengal, AIR 1962 SC 1239; and Bhupendra Singh v. State of Punjab, AIR 1968 SC 1438. FACTS OF THE CASE 3. The facts of the case as recorded by the High Court in its impugned are stated hereinbelow:- “3. Short fact of the case is that on 01.06.2015 at about 12:45 PM, fardbeyan of Kiran Devi (P.W.2) wife of Arvind Sah and mother of the victim was recorded by Sub-Inspector of Police-cum-S.H.O. Smt. Rita Kumari of Sabour Police Station. The fardbeyan was recorded in the house of Nawal Kishore Ojha @ Fuchan Pandey. Nawal Kishore Ojha @ Fuchan Pandey is the own brother of the appellant and in the said house, there were two rooms and one room, from where dead body was recovered, was in possession of the appellant. In the fardbeyan, the informant/P.W.2 stated that on preceding date i.e. 31.05.2015, she was in the house of her late sister Shakila Devi in the village Jamunia Parbatta. On the same date at about 12:00 MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1013 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] noon, her elder daughter namely Priya Kumari (P.W.3) telephonically informed her that her younger sister (victim) was missing. Thereafter, she immediately moved for Sabour. After arrival in her house in village Sabour, her elder daughter Priya informed her that the victim had gone to watch television in the house of Munna Pandey (appellant). When she did not return till 11:00 AM, only thereafter, she (Priya) informed the informant. While the informant went to the house of Munna Pandey (appellant) in search of her daughter, she found that the house of Munna Pandey (appellant) was locked. Thereafter, with some villagers, the informant vigorously searched her daughter, but she (victim) could not be traced. When Munna Pandey (appellant) was asked to open the lock, he told that key was not with him. Thereafter, she telephoned Fuchan Pandey (brother of appellant Munna Pandey), who at the relevant time was staying in his in-laws’ house. On 01-06-2015, Nawal Kishore Ojha @ Fuchan Pandey at about 12:00 noon came to his house and opened the lock of his room. In the said room, Pritam Tiwary son of Dilip Tiwary, resident of village Shobhapur, P.S. Rajmahal, District – Sahebganj had concealed himself. The lock of the room was opened from the outside. When lock of the room of Munna Pandey (appellant) was opened, dead body of the daughter of the informant was found beneath the bed. The informant claimed that Pritam Tiwary and Munna Pandey (appellant) both after committing rape with her 11 years old daughter by way of throttling had killed her and the dead body was concealed in his room.