However, if the very same surplus fund is not applied for the common purpose of the club or towards the benefi t of the members of the club directly but is invested with a third party who has the right to utilize the said funds,subject to payment of interest on it and repayment of the principal when desired by the club,then,in such an event, the club loses its control over the said funds. Further,the interest generated on the fi xed deposits or investment made is a commercial activity, thereby permitting the bank to utilize the fi xed deposit amount for its banking business and derive profi ts from the said banking business by way of lending the amount for a higher rate of interest while paying alower rate of interest on the fi xed deposit made by the club. Thus, identicality between 1030 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the contributors to the common fund and the participators in it which is a sine qua non for the application of the principle of mutuality would get ruptured. When surplus funds of a club are invested as fi xed deposits in a bank and the bank has a right to utilize the said fi xed deposit amounts for its banking business subject to repayment of the principal along with interest, then, the identity is lost. 36. Conversely, when the facilities of the club are off ered to members as well as to non-members for a price, there is a vital distinction between the transactions, i.e., between the club and its members vis-a-vis club and non-members. When the facilities of a club are extended to the members of the club who contribute towards the income generated by the club, there is an identity between the contributors and the recipients and, therefore, the principle of mutuality would apply. However, if the same facilities of the club are off ered to non-members or to the public for the purpose of earning an additional income, then, it is in the nature of a commercial transaction and thus becomes a profi table venture. In such a case, the principle of mutuality would not apply. 37. In for the triple test to apply to the diff erent and varied transactions of the clubs,it is necessary to lift the veil and discern the nature of each transaction: whether there is third party intervention which is the reason for earning the income; or it is an income generated between the members and the club, as such,i.e., only between the members of the club. When the transactions of the club are viewed in the aforesaid prism then, in each of the transactions whether the principle of mutuality would apply, has to be discerned. 38. The attractive argument advanced by Sri Datar and Sri Andhyarjuna regarding the utilisation of the interest income towards the benefi t of the members of the club is repelled by a fundamental principle of income tax. The said principle is propounded by the House of Lords in Mersey Docks vs. Lucas, 8 App.