1.0 Facts G 2. In September 2014, the Department of AYUSH, Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India launched NAM,inter alia, to promote the AYUSH medical system and provide cost-effective 1"IMPCL” 2"NAM” H *Ed. Note: Pagination is as per the original . 480 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A AYUSH Services. Paragraph 3(ii) of the Operational Guidelines of NAM provides that 75 percent of the admissible assistance will be provided as grant-in-aid by the Central Government while the remaining 25 percent must be met by the States, except in the North-Eastern States where the assistance by the Centre and the States shall be in the ratio of 90:10. B 3. Paragraph 4(vi) provides guidelines for the procurement of Ayurvedic medicines. Paragraph 4(vi)(b) states that ‘atleast’ 50 percent of the grant-in-aid must be used for procuring medicines from IMPCL or Public Sector Undertakings3, pharmacies under State Governments and co-operatives. Paragraph 4(vi) of the Operational Guidelinesis extracted below: C “(vi) (a) Essential drugs and medicines required for implementation of the Mission will have to be procured from Essential Drugs List (EDL) for Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy published by Department of AYUSH, Government of India. (b) At least 50% of the Grant-in-aid provided should be used for D procuring medicines from M/s Indian Medicine Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited (a Central Public Sector Undertaking) or from Public Sector undertaking, pharmacies under State Governments and Co-operatives manufacturing units and having Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) compliance, keeping in view the need for ensuring quality of AYUSH drugs and medicines. E (c ) The remaining Grant-in-aid provided under the Mission for purchase of medicines may be use for procuring medicines as per Essential Drugs List (EDL) of Ayurveda, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy published by Department of AYUSH, Government of India, from other Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP) F compliant units having valid manufacturing licenses. (d) Essential non drug items like dressing items for first aid etc. may be provided out of the amount sanctioned for medicine/ essential drugs under different components required for achieving the desired objectives subject to a ceiling of five percent of the G total amount sanctioned for the purpose.” 4. The Uttar Pradesh State AYUSH Society has been purchasing Ayurvedic medicines from a single vendor, namely IMPCL who is the appellant. The purchase was given to IMPCL on a nomination H 3"PSU” M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 481 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] basis without conducting a tendering process. The first respondent is a A registered co-operative society under the Kerala Co-operative Societies Act 1969. On 2 March 1985, the first respondent was granted a licence to manufacture Ayurvedic and Unani drugs for sale under the provisions of the Drugs and Cosmetics Rules 1945. On 31 August 2016, the first respondent was also certified as a Good Manufacturing Practice4 unit. B 5. On 30 October 2017, the first respondent made a representation to the Principal Secretary to either place direct purchase s for the supply of Ayurvedic medicines to it according to the existing government policy or to initiate a tender process for the purchase.