Service of a copy of the appeal and application for bail on the Public Prosecutor by the appellant will not satisfy the requirement of the first proviso to Section 389(1) CrPC. The C appellate court may even without hearing the Public Prosecutor, decline to grant bail. However, in case the appellate court is inclined to consider the release of the convict on bail, the Public Prosecutor shall be granted an opportunity to show cause in writing as to why the appellant be not D released on bail. Such a stringent provision is introduced only to ensure that the court is apprised of all the relevant factors so that the court may consider whether it is an appropriate case for release having regard to the manner in which the crime is committed, gravity of the offence, age, criminal antecedents of the convict, impact on public confidence in E the justice-delivery system, etc. …..” 30. In Kishori Lal v. Rupa and Others, reported in(2004)7 SCC 638, this Court has indicated the factors that require to be considered by the courts while granting benefit under Section 389 of the CrPC in cases involving serious offences like murder etc. Thus, it is useful to refer to F the observations made therein, which are as follows: “4. Section 389 of the Code deals with suspension of execution of sentence pending the appeal and release of the appellant on bail. There is a distinction between bail and suspension of sentence. One of the essential ingredients of G Section 389 is the requirement for the appellate court to record reasons in writing for ing suspension of execution of the sentence or appealed against. If he is in confinement, the said court can direct that he be released on bail or on his own bond. The requirement of recording reasons in writing H 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A clearly indicates that there has to be careful consideration of the relevant aspects and the directing suspension of sentence and grant of bail should not be passed as a matter of routine. 5. The appellate court is duty-bound to objectively assess the B matter and to record reasons for the conclusion that the case warrants suspension of execution of sentence and grant of bail. In the instant case, the only factor which seems to have weighed with the High Court for directing suspension of sentence and grant of bail is the absence of allegation of misuse of liberty during the earlier period when the accused- C respondents were on bail. 6. The mere fact that during the trial, they were granted bail and there was no allegation of misuse of liberty, is really not of much significance. The effect of bail granted during trial loses significance when on completion of trial, the accused D persons have been found guilty. The mere fact that during the period when the accused persons were on bail during trial there was no misuse of liberties, does not per se warrant suspension of execution of sentence and grant of bail.