Learned counsel contends that, having done so, there was no plausible reason to discriminate the case of the appellant when it came to the grant of relief regarding continuity of service on the ground that this Court had not made any specifi c regarding continuity of service. 23. Learned counsel contends that the grant of age bar relaxation can only be understood as a grant of additional relief and this cannot be read to mean that there was denial of the relief of continuity of service, if the appellants’ were found entitled for absorption which they ultimately were found be entitled to. 24. Mr. Nachiketa Joshi, learned counsel for the Union of India, vehemently opposed the above submissions. Learned counsel, defending the s of the courts below would submit that the claim for absorption as Assistant Teacher was totally unjustifi ed. According to the learned counsel, the appellant was appointed in 1989 only as a substitute primary teacher in the pay-scale of the primary teacher and hence merely on the basis of the claim that some stop-gap classes XI and XII were taken, no plea for absorption as Assistant Teacher could be justifi ed/made. He defended the of absorption dated 02.01.1998 and also contended that the authorities were justifi ed in passing the of 28.12.1998 denying continuity of service for the period before 02.01.1998, since there was a clear distinction between the of this Court in the case of Smt. Jayasree Deb Roy (Dutta) and others in the case of the appellant. 25. Drawing attention to the s of this Court in the case of Smt. Jayashree Deb Roy (Dutta) vs. Union of India and Ors. (C.A. No. 9424 of 1995) arising out of O.A. No. 149(G) of 1989, learned counsel contends that in the case of Smt. Jayasree Deb Roy (Dutta) (supra), there was a specifi c fi nding that the appellants in that case were entitled to continuity of service 264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. in accordance with para 5.1 of the Master Circular dated 29.01.1991 in the event the Screening Committee found them fi t for absorption. 26. Contrasting this with the of this Court in the appellant’s case, learned counsel would contend that no such direction for granting continuity of service in the event of absorption was given in the appellant’s case. 27. Learned counsel would contend that even factually the case of the appellant was diff erent from the case of Smt. Jayasree Deb Roy (Dutta) inasmuch as Smt. Jayasree Deb Roy (Dutta) was in service on the date of absorption, while the appellant was not. This submission is seriously disputed by Ms. Uttara Babbar. Nothing much however turns on this last submission of the counsel for the respondents. Reasons and Conclusion: 28. We have considered the rival contentions and perused the records. Claim for absorption as Assistant Teacher – Higher Secondary Section: 29. We are of the view that the appellant’s claim for absorption as Assistant Teacher in the Higher Secondary Section in the pay-scale of Rs.5500-9000 is not tenable.