E 33. Section 38 of the 1967 Act carries the heading or title “offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation”. As we have already observed, a terrorist act would have to be construed having regard to the meaning assigned to it in Section 15 thereof. We have given our interpretation to this provision earlier. “terrorist organisation” F [as employed in Section 2(m)], in our opinion is not a mere nomenclature and this expression would mean an organisation that carries on or indulges in terrorist acts, as defined in said Section 15. The term terrorism, in view of the provisions of Section 2(k) of the said Act, ought to be interpreted in tandem with what is meant by ‘terrorist Act’ in Section 15 G thereof. 34.In this context, to bring the appellants within the fold of Section 38 of the 1967 Act, the prosecution ought to have prima facie establish their association with intention to further the said organisation’s terrorist activities. It is only when such intention to further the terrorist activities H 908 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A is established prima facie, appellants could be brought within the fold of the offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation. To bring within the scope of Section 38 of the 1967 Act, it would not be sufficient to demonstrate that one is an associate or someone who professes to be associated with a terrorist organisation. But there must be intention to further the activities of such organisation on the part of the person B implicated under such provision. But the same line of reasoning in respect of membership of a terrorist organisation under Section 20, ought to apply in respect of an alleged offender implicated in Section 38 of the 1967 Act. There must be evidence of there being intention to be involved in a terrorist act. So far as the appellants are concerned, at this stage C there is no such evidence before us on which we can rely. 35. In three decisions of this Court, Hitendra Vishnu Thakur and Others -vs- State of Maharashtra and Others [(1994) 4 SCC 602], NiranjanSingh Karam Singh Punjabi, Advocate -vs- Jitendra Bhimraj Bijjaya and Others [(1990) 4 SCC 76] and Usmanbhai D Dawoodbhai Memon and Others -vs- State of Gujarat [(1988) 2 SCC 271], the manner in which stringent provisions of a statute ought to be interpreted has been laid down. In all the three authorities, observation of this Court has been that the Court ought to carefully examine every case, before making an assessment if the Act would apply or not. When the statutes have stringent provisions the duty of the Court would be E more onerous. Graver the offence, greater should be the care taken to see that the offence would fall within the four corners of the Act. Though these s were delivered while testing similar rigorous provisions under the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987, the same principle would apply in respect of the 1967 Act as well.