Adjudication is determinative of the past and the present while E legislation is indicative of the future. The object of the rule, the reach of its application, the rights and obligations arising out of it, its intended effect on past, present and future events, its form, the manner of its promulgation are some factors which may help in drawing the line between legislative and non-legislative acts.” 37. Paton in his work on Jurisprudence says this about the law. F “Law may shortly be described in terms of a legal tacitly or formally accepted by a community. It consists of the body of rules which are seen to operate as binding rules in that community, backed by some mechanism accepted by the community by means of which sufficient compliance with the rules may be secured to G enable the system or set of rules to continue to be seen as binding in nature. A mature system of law normally sets up that type of legal known as the State, but we cannot say a priori that without the State no law can exist.” 38. In the DCR the preamble recites that Section 9 (c) of the Act H prescribes that the Authority is to carry out a survey of the Chennai ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1063 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Metropolitan Area and prepare a Master Plan referred to in Section 17. A It is further stated that having carried out necessary surveys and studies, the Master Plan prepared in 1975 stood approved by government on 04.12.1976. The DCR inter alia provides as follows: No development as defined in the Act is permissible without written permission. It provides for the manner of obtaining permission. B Rule 3 proclaimed that no development shall be in contravention of the DCR. Site approval is made mandatory. The land use classification was put into place. The DCR divided land use in terms of 9 separate zones which included primary residential zone, mixed residential zone, institutional use zone, open space and C recreational use zone etc. There were detailed restrictions put in place qua the zones in regard to what activities were permitted as also what were prohibited. Part III commencing with Rule 17 was captured under the Caption ‘General Provisions’. It is under this chapter that Rule 19 made its appearance. Rule 19 dealt with Layout and sub division. It inter alia provided for passage, streets D and roads and cul-de-sacs and it is thereunder that in respect of reservation of land for communal and recreational purpose in a layout or sub division that the DCR contemplated inter alia the impugned provisions. Rule 20 provided for parking. Rule 21 dealt with architectural control. Rule 22 provided for preservation of E buildings of historical or architectural interest. Rule 23 dealt with tree preservation. Rule 24 dealt with advertisement control. Rule 25 provided for Airport zone and Microwave Zone. In fact, Rule 26 may be noticed at this stage in full.