It would be fathomable, and within the PART G 30 realm of reasonable possibility during a pandemic, if the factories producing medical equipment such as life-saving drugs, personal protective equipment or sanitisers, would be exempted by way of Section 65(2), while G justly compensating the workers for supplying their valuable labour in a time of urgent need. However, a blanket notification of exemption to all factories, irrespective of the manufactured product, while denying overtime to the workers, is indicative of the intention to capitalize on the pandemic to H RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 465 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] force an already worndown class of society, into the chains A of servitude.” 52. We have already in the discussion for the reasonable classification test held that the interfering law, i.e. the impugned notification that creates the classification, does not have a rational nexus to the B object sought to be achieved, and thus, violates the first two prongs of the proportionality test. 53. We then come to the third and fourth prong of the proportionality test, i.e whether the classification created by the Authority was a necessity to achieve the state aim of compensating those landowners C that are either direct residents of the land or the land exists as their primary source of income and whether such measure was proportional to the object sought to be achieved. For this, it is pertinent to refer to Section 23 of the Act, which provides for matters to be taken into account while determining the compensation. The said Section reads as under : - D “23. Matters to be considered in determining compensation. - (1) In determining the amount of compensation to be awarded for land acquired under this Act, the Court shall take into consideration E first, the market value of the land at the date of the publication of the [notification under section 4, sub-section (1)]; secondly, the damage sustained by the person interested, by reason of the taking of any standing crops trees which may F be on the land at the time of the Collector’s taking possession thereof; thirdly, the damage (if any) sustained by the person interested, at the time of the Collector’s taking possession of the land, by reason of serving such land from his other land; G fourthly, the damage (if any) sustained by the person interested, at the time of the Collector’s taking possession of the land, by reason of the acquisition injuriously affecting his other property, movable or immovable, in any other manner, or his earnings; H 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A fifthly, in consequence of the acquisition of the land by the Collector, the person interested is compelled to change his residence or place of business, the reasonable expenses (if any) incidental to such change, and sixthly, the damage (if any) bona fide resulting from diminution B of the profits of the land between the time of the publication of the declaration under section 6 and the time of the Collector’s taking possession of the land.” 54.