11. The submission of the respondent is that in view of Section 40 of the said Act, provisions of the Limitation Act apply to proceedings in appeal and, thus, the respondent is entitled to take recourse to the said provisions. 12. On the other hand, the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant is that the said provision is the general provision, but where a lesser DEBASISH PAUL & ANR. v. AMAL BORAL 517 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] period is provided for any purpose, then that period cannot be expanded by taking recourse to the general provision under the Limitation Act, 1963. 13. It is the say of the appellant that the matter is fully covered by a Two-Judges Bench of this Court in Bijay Kumar Singh v. Amit Kumar Chamariya1, opining that the provisions of Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 will not apply in such an instance. The Court observed as under: “21.…. The deposit of rent along with an application for determination of dispute is a precondition to avoid eviction on the ground of non- payment of arrears of rent. In view thereof, tenant will not be able to take recourse to Section 5 of the Limitation Act as it is not an application alone which is required to be fi led by the tenant but the tenant has to deposit admitted arrears of rent as well.” 14. On the other hand, it is the submission of the learned counsel for the respondent that the aforesaid is contrary to the view of a Three- Judges’ Bench in Nasiruddin and Ors v. Sita Ram Agarwal2. It is, however, conceded that the said has been referred to by Two- Judges Bench in Bijay Kumar Singh case3. 15. It is relevant to note that the case of Bijay Kumar Singh,4 in turn, referred to the observations made in Nasiruddin case5 in the following terms: “37. …It is well settled that the real intention of the legislation must be gathered from the language used. It may be true that use of the expression “shall or may” is not decisive for arriving at a fi nding as to whether the statute is directory or mandatory. But the intention of the legislature must be found out from the scheme of the Act. It is also equally well settled that when negative words are used the courts will presume that the intention of the legislature was that the provisions are mandatory in character. 38. …if an act is required to be performed by a private person within a specifi ed time, the same would ordinarily be mandatory but 1 (2019) 10 SCC 660 2 (2003) 2 SCC 577 3 (supra) 4 (supra) 5 (supra) 518 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. when a public functionary is required to perform a public function within a time-frame, the same will be held to be directory unless the consequences therefor are specifi ed.” 16. We have no doubt over the proposition that though generally the Limitation Act is applicable to the provisions of the said Act in view of Section 40 of the said Act, if there is a lesser time period specifi ed as limitation in the said Act, then the provisions of the Limitation Act cannot be used to expand the same.