F During cross examination by the defence, he stated that he had not seen the incident and he had also informed the police that he had not seen the incident. (vii) PW-7 – Babloo G He stated that, — on 31.10.2001, he met Chhotu at the gate of cinema hall; Chhotu asked him to get food for him from his residence; at that time, no one was present with Chhotu. PW-7 stated that he came to the residence of Chhotu, took food and brought it in three boxes but when H 12 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A he reached there with the food, he saw no one, therefore, he kept the food there. Next day morning, he came to know that Chhotu has been killed. At this stage, the prosecution declared him hostile and sought permission for his cross examination. B During cross examination by the prosecution, PW-7 admitted his signature on paper No.3/15 which was marked Ex. Ka-6. He also admitted that he gave a statement to the sub-inspector but denied that he saw Chhotu in the company of Shabbir and Ravi Bangali on 31.10.2001. C During cross examination at the instance of defence, PW-7 stated that he used to sell chana (gram) at the cinema hall; the cinema hall had toilets and no money is charged for use of those toilets. He also stated that during the course of investigation of this case, the police had beaten him and had detained him in the police lock-up for three days. D (viii) PW-8 – Dr. Anil Chandra K Sah (Autopsy surgeon) He proved the autopsy report and stated that death of the deceased was due to shock and haemorrhage as a result of ante mortem gunshot. E (ix) PW-9 – Sub-Inspector Nanhe Lal (Investigating Officer of the cases under the Arms Act) He proved the inquest report (Ex. Ka-7A) and autopsy related papers (Ex.K-8 to K-10). He also proved various stages of investigation of case crime No.756/01, under F section 25 of Arms Act, and case crime No.757/01, under section 4/25 of Arms Act, as also submission of charge sheet and obtaining of sanction for prosecution under the provisions of the Arms Act. During cross examination, PW-9 stated that on G 06.12.2001 he prepared site plan of the place from where the accused were arrested and weapon was recovered. He sought to explain the delay in preparation of the site plan by stating that he was busy with other matters. (x) PW-10 – SI Pramod Kumar Shah (Investigating Officer of H the murder case) RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 13 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] He proved — registration of the FIR; visiting the spot A with PW-9; inspection of the spot; preparation of site plan (Ex.Ka-15); lifting of: blood stained soil/plain soil, vide seizure memo Ex. Ka-4, and one empty 12 bore cartridge from the spot, vide seizure memo Ex.Ka-5 of which PW-1 is one of the witnesses; conducting inquest; recording statement of B — complainant Man Singh (PW-1), Babloo (PW-7) and Mahender Khurana (PW-5); preparation of custody memo of the tiffin; recording statement of — Smt.