They sought reservation in Government jobs and educational institutions.During thisagitation, the members of Jat F community vandalized and committed acts of arson which allegedly caused huge irreparable damage to the petitioners by setting their houses, godowns and their every belonging on fire. (3) An allegation is made against an advocate who is alleged to be very influential and who had remained President of the Bar. It G is alleged that because of this connivance, 2-3 material witnesses have been forced to turn hostile as well as material documentary evidence has not been placed on record. (4) It is their further case that an application was filed under Section 319 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 to summon the H advocate and his son but their application was not countersigned by SUNIL SAINI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. 1107 the Public Prosecutor. The petitioners, therefore, knocked at the door A of this Court by filing this petition to get their case transferred to another state so that interest of justice is sub-served. (5) Counter Affidavit as well as an application to file additional documents have been filed by respondent Nos. 2 & 3. In the application for additional documents, it is sought to be established B that, in fact, the first petitioner before this Court was examined as PW-2 and he has deposed in his deposition that he could not identify who the accused are. PW-15 purported to identify one of the accused. At the instance of PW-15, an application was filed under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. to summon certain persons (advocate in question), C which has been rejected. (6) Learned counsel for the petitioners, in fact, would submit that the rejecting the application under Section 319 has been upheld by the High Court. The learned counsel for the petitioners would point out that it is a gross case where there is a complete D break down of the law and resulting in gross damage having been caused. It is also pointed out that two persons lost their lives. (7) It is their case that there is no chance for the petitioners getting justice in the Courts in the State of Haryana, having regard to the pervasive influence of the community in question. What is more, E even the prosecuting team is not acting in a fair and fearless manner. (8) As of today, it is brought to our notice that 42 witnesses have been examined. Learned counsel for the petitioners would point out that at this stage, atleast this Court may consider directing that an independent and upright Special Prosecutor be appointed so that the needful is done and there is no sabotage of the proceedings. He F would submit that a case may exist for recalling witnesses who have already been examined. (9) Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the first respondent- State, on the other hand, would point out that the Public Prosecutor has been appointed on 13.05.2022. He is the person who has been a G Public Prosecutor since 29.03.2003 and conducted nearly 500 cases under Section 302 IPC, two cases arising out of the agitation and also two other cases of honour killings.