F 2. The payment to Persons contemplated in this Resolution Plan shall be the Corporate Debtors and Resolution Applicant’s full and final performance and satisfaction of all its obligations to such Persons and all Claims (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any unverified portion of their Claims) of such Persons against the Corporate Debtor shall stand G irrevocably and unconditionally settled and extinguished in perpetuity on the Effective Date and with effect from the Appointed Date. 3. …Accordingly, the Resolution Applicant and the Corporate Debtor shall have no responsibility or liability in respect of H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1039 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] any claims against the Corporate Debtor attributable to the A period prior to the Effective Date other than any payments to be made under this Resolution Plan and all claims along with any related legal proceedings, including criminal proceedings and other penal proceedings, shall stand irrevocably and unconditionally abated, settled and extinguished in perpetuity. B Xxx xxx xxx 6. On the Effective Date and with effect from the Appointed Date, all the outstanding negotiable instruments issued by Director/promoter or Corporate Debtor or by any Person on behalf of the Corporate Debtor for any dues of Corporate C Debtor including demand promissory notes, post-dated cheques and letters of credit, shall stand terminated and the Corporate Debtor’s liability under such instruments shall stand extinguished.” (Emphasis supplied) D 64. I have referred to Section 31 of the IBC and Ebix Singapore (supra) to explain that the resolution plan is binding on the creditors who have not consented to it. This is a very important factor, which indicates that the complainant under Section 138 NI Act is bound by the approved resolution plan, even though he may not have consented to it (if he is E part of the CoC) or likes it. If he is not a part of the CoC, then also it is binding on him. 65. Section 30(2)(e) of the IBC requires the resolution professional to approve the resolution plan, only if the same does not violate any of the provisions of the law for the time being in F force. Thus, the clauses of the resolution plan cannot control the Enactment/Rules in force. It is the resolution plan which has to comply with the laws in force. In the case on hand, any clause giving any effect to the corporate debtor under Section 138 NI Act proceedings, cannot be used to protect the signatories/directors under Section 138/141 NI G Act. 66. Section 61(3)(i) of the IBC provides for an appeal against an approving a resolution plan if it contravenes any provision of law. “61. Appeals and Appellate Authority.— xxx xxx xxx H 1040 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (3) An appeal against an approving a resolution plan under Section 31 may be filed on the following grounds, namely: (i) the approved resolution plan is in contravention of the provisions of any law for the time being in force;….” B 67.