Allowing the appeal, the Court D HELD: 1. The guiding principles for deciding an application under 7 Rule 11(d) of the CPC can be summarized as follows:- (i) To reject a plaint on the ground that the suit is barred by any law, only the averments in the plaint will have to be referred to; (ii) The defence made by the defendant in the suit must not E be considered while deciding the merits of the application; (iii) To determine whether a suit is barred by res judicata, it is necessary that (i) the ‘previous suit’ is decided, (ii) the issues in the subsequent suit were directly and substantially in issue in the former suit; (iii) the former suit was between the same parties or parties through whom they claim, litigating under the same F title; and (iv) that these issues were adjudicated and finally decided by a court competent to try the subsequent suit; and (iv) Since an adjudication of the plea of res judicata requires consideration of the pleadings, issues and decision in the ‘previous suit’, such a plea will be beyond the scope of 7 Rule 11 (d), where only G the statements in the plaint will have to be perused. [Para 33][653- F-H; 654-A-B] 2. The general principle of res judicata under Section 11 of the CPC contain rules of conclusiveness of , but for res judicata to apply, the matter directly and substantially in issue in the subsequent suit must be the same matter which was directly H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 637 and substantially in issue in the former suit. Further, the suit A should have been decided on merits and the decision should have attained finality. Where the former suit is dismissed by the trial court for want of jurisdiction, or for default of the plaintiff’s appearance, or on the ground of non-joinder or mis-joinder of parties or multifariousness, or on the ground that the suit was B badly framed, or on the ground of a technical mistake, or for failure on the part of the plaintiff to produce probate or letter of administration or succession certificate when the same is required by law to entitle the plaintiff to a decree, or for failure to furnish security for costs, or on the ground of improper valuation, or for failure to pay additional court fee on a plaint which was C undervalued, or for want of cause of action, or on the ground that it is premature and the dismissal is confirmed in appeal (if any), the decision, not being on the merits, would not be res judicata in a subsequent suit. [Para 34][654-C-E] 3. In the case on hand, after the first eviction petition was D instituted, the defendants therein filed their written statement denying the relationship of landlord and tenant. After the written statement came on record, no further evidence was led by the plaintiffs. All that was on record was in the form of pleadings in the plaint.