5. Any other duties assigned 5. Any other duties assigned by DG. by the Frontier I’sG UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 531 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 6. Secretarial and logistical 6. The secretarial and logis- assistance to the Central tical assistance to FTR Complaint Committee Committees would be pro- will be provided by Pers vided by Frontier I’sG from Branch of Directorate its local resources. Fron- General. Central Com- tier IG shall ensure that plaint Committee shall all complaints are properly route its reports through disposed of to their logical IG (Pers) who would end. He would exercise all keep ADG and DG, SSB powers of the head of the apprised and ensure department in this respect proper action. under his jurisdiction un- less a particular matter falls within the jurisdiction of the Central Committee or it would otherwise be appropriate for the Central Committee to take up the matter or it requires further action at the level of IG (Pers/FHQ)/DG, SSB. 10. COMPLAINT MECHANISM This procedure / mechanism has been devised in pursuance of Hon’ble Supreme Court Judgement dated 26.04.2004 in the matter of Medha Kotwal Lele & Ors Versus UOI & Ors. WP (Crl) No. 173-177- 1999 and Govt. of India, Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances & Pensions, DOP&T Notifi cation dated 01.07.2004 signed by Smt. Pratibha Mohan, Director from fi le No.11012/5/2001/Estt. (A), para 6 (Complaint Mechanism) is as under:- i) Any person aggrieved shall prefer a complaint before the Complaints Committee at the earliest point of time. ii) The Complaint shall contain all the material and details concerning the alleged sexual harassment including the names of the contravener and the complaint shall be addressed to the Complaints Committee. 532 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. iii) If the Complainant feels that she cannot disclose her identity for any particular reason, the complainant shall address the complaint to the Frontier IG/IG (Pers, FHQ) and handover the same in person or in a sealed cover. Upon receipt of such complaint, Frontier IG/IG (Pers, FHQ) shall retain the original complaint with himself and send to the Complaints Committee, a gist of the complaint containing all material and relevant details other than the name of the complainant and other details, which might disclose the identity of the Complainant. iv) As soon as an enquiry into any complaint of women regarding sexual harassment is entrusted to the Complaints Committee, the Chairperson shall open a daily sheet to proceed with the case as envisaged in Rule 14 of CCS (CCA) Rules 1965 and maintain the same during the course of entire enquiry. v) The entries in the daily sheet are to be signed by the Chairperson of Complaints Committee, alleged Offi cer / offi cial and witnesses as the case may be. vi) In the preliminary hearing the Chairperson should serve gist of complaint to the alleged offi cer/ offi cial (in the form of articles of charge) and he should formally be asked whether he pleads guilty or not based on the complaint.