Therefore, they would be denied the benefit of the amendments to Section 30(2) of the Code made vide Act No. 26 of 2019, or for that matter Act No. 26 of 2018. Consequently, a very odd and a peculiar situation is created where a secured creditor is denied the benefit of the secured interest H 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A i.e., the right to exercise the sale of the secured interest, yet not be treated as either a financial creditor or an operational creditor. In terms of Section 52 of the Code, a secured creditor in liquidation proceedings has the right to relinquish its security interest to the liquidation estate and receive proceeds from the sale of assets by the liquidator in the manner specified under B Section 53 of the Code. The second option given to the secured creditor is to realise the security interest in the manner specified in said Section. Rule 21 A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 2016 deals with the presumption of security interest. If the secured creditor C relinquishes the security interest, it is then entitled to priority in payment under clause (b) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. The debts owed to the secured creditor in such event, rank pari passu with the workmen’s dues for the period 24 months preceding the liquidation commencement date. As per Section 52(9) of the Code, where the proceeds on realisation of secured D assets are not adequate to repay the debts due to the secured creditors who have exercised the option to realise the security interest, the unpaid dues of such secured creditors are to be paid by the liquidator in terms of clause (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 53 of the Code. [Para 8.5][828-A-E] E 1.9 The answer to the situation wherein the appellant no.1, a secured creditor, is being denied the rights under Section 52 as well as Section 53 of the Code in respect of the pledged shares, whereas, the intent of the amended Section 30(2) read with Section 31 of the Code is too contrary, as it recognises and protects the F interests of other creditors who are outside the purview of the CoC, is two-fold. First is to treat the secured creditor as a financial creditor of the Corporate Debtor to the extent of the estimated value of the pledged share on the date of commencement of the CIRP. This would make it a member of the CoC and give it voting rights, equivalent to the estimated value of the pledged shares. G However, this may require re-consideration of the dictum and ratio of Anuj Jain’s case and Phoenix ARC’s case, which would entail reference to a larger bench. In the context of the instant case, the said solution may not be viable as the resolution plan has already been approved by the CoC without appellant no. 1 H M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD v. MR. DINKAR 811 VENKATASUBRAMANIAN being a member of the CoC.