However, the Party initiating the arbitration claim shall have to deposit 7% of the arbitration claim in the shape of Fixed Deposit Receipt as security deposit. (b) On submission of claims the Arbitrator shall be appointed as per the following procedure: I) For claim amount upto 10.00 Crores, the case shall be referred to Sole Arbitrator to be appointed by the Principal Secretary/Secretary (Irrigation), GoU,…” (Emphasis supplied) LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 951 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 8. In the wake of various disputes that arose between the parties, the petitioner herein issued a notice of arbitration dated 06.05.2022, calling upon the respondent to appoint an arbitrator in terms of the arbitration clause contained in the GCC referred to above. The relevant part of the arbitration notice reads thus: “26. The Respondent’s failure to pay the Claimant’s outstanding dues, therefore, entitles the Claimant to invoke the arbitration clause contained in 53 and 55 of the GCC for settlement of the Claimant’s claims of a total of INR 1,04,32.664.86/- (Indian Rupees One Crore Four Lacs Thirty-two Thousand Six Hundred and Sixty-Four and Eighth-Six Paise only), i.e. INR 32,91,020/- (Indian Rupees Thirty Two Lakh Ninety One Thousand and Twenty only) towards Invoice dated 27 July 2020 and INR. 71,41,644.86/- (Indian Rupees Seventy-One Lacs Forty-One Thousand Six Hundred and Forty- Four and Eighty Six Paise only) for fi nancial loss suff ered by the Claimant on account of abandonment of the Contract by the Respondent. This Notice is without prejudice to the Claimant’s rights to correct/amend/update/add any other additional fi gure/facts that may come to its notice in support of its claim, which rights are expressly reserved. 27. Since the Claimant’s claim is for an amount less than INR 10 Crores, under Clause 55(b)(I) of the GCC, a sole arbitrator is to be appointed by the Principal Secretary/ Secretary (Irrigation), Government of Uttarakhand. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Claimant submits that in light of recent amendments to the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 and settled prevalent law laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Perkins Eastman Architects DPC and Another v. HSCC (India) Limited [(2020) 20 SCC 760], the unilateral right of appointment given to the Respondent under the Contract, is not enforceable as on date. Therefore, the Claimant will propose the name of an arbitrator in this Notice, for consideration and appointment by the Respondent. The Claimant proposes the appointment of Mr. S.K. Sarvaria, District & Sessions Judge (Retired), Mobile No. 9910384642, as the Sole Arbitrator for the claims raised by the Claimant. The Respondent is requested to intimate its confi rmation for the aforementioned nominee or provide an alternative name for appointment of the Ld. Sole Arbitrator, who shall be appointed only by mutual consent after the Claimant’s written approval. 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 28. The Respondent is requested to intimate its approval to the nominee proposed by the Claimant, within 15 (fi fteen) days of the receipt of this Notice, failing which the Claimant will exercise all rights under applicable law for the commencement of arbitration proceedings.” 9.