Paragraph 2 of CO 272 applies the entire Constitution of India (as amended from time to time) to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. While paragraph 2 does not specify any exceptions, it sets out a modifi cation. It adds clause (4) to Article 367. Article 367, without the modifi cation specifi ed by CO 272, reads as follows: “367. Interpretation.—(1) Unless the context otherwise requires, the General Clauses Act, 1897, shall, subject to any adaptations and modifi cations that may be made therein under Article 372, apply for the interpretation of this Constitution as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of the Legislature of the Dominion of India. (2) Any reference in this Constitution to Acts or laws of, or made by, Parliament, or to Acts or laws of, or made by, the Legislature of a State, shall be construed as including a reference to an Ordinance made by the President or, to an Ordinance made by a Governor, as the case may be. (3) For the purposes of this Constitution “foreign State” means any State other than India: 220 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Provided that, subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the President may by declare any State not to be a foreign State for such purposes as may be specifi ed in the .” 369. CO 272 applies the entire Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir with a ‘modifi cation’ to Article 367 by way of sub-clause (d) of the newly inserted clause (4). In terms of this modifi cation, the term “Constituent Assembly of the State referred to in clause (2)” in the proviso to Article 370(3) shall be read as “Legislative Assembly of the State.” In terms of this modifi cation, the proviso to Article 370(3) would read as follows: “Provided that the recommendation of the Legislative Assembly of the State shall be necessary before the President issues such a notifi cation.” 370. The petitioners have challenged paragraph 2 of CO 272 on the ground that a Constitutional issued in exercise of the power under Article 370(1)(d) cannot amend Article 370 itself. III. The substance or eff ect of a provision is more important than its form 371. Other similar provisions of the Constitution and the interpretation accorded to them by this Court are instructive in the exercise of assessing whether the procedure followed in this case is valid. Article 368 of the Constitution provides for the procedure by which the Constitution may be amended. Clause (2) of Article 368 is extracted below: “Power of Parliament to amend the Constitution and procedure therefor.— … (2) An amendment of this Constitution may be initiated only by the introduction of a Bill for the purpose in either House of Parliament, and when the Bill is passed in each House by a majority of the total membership of that House and by a majority of not less than two- thirds of the members of that House present and voting, it shall be presented to the President who shall give his assent to the Bill and thereupon] the Constitution shall stand amended in accordance with the terms of the Bill: IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 221 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Provided that if such amendment seeks to make any change in— (a) Article 54, Article 55, Article 73, 566[Article 162, Article 241 or Article 279-A, or (b) Chapter IV of Part V, Chapter V of Part VI, or Chapter I of Part XI, or (c) any of the Lists in the Seventh Schedule, or (d) the representation of States in Parliament, or (e) the provisions of this article, the amendment shall also require to be ratifi ed by the Legislature of not less than one-half of the States by resolutions to that eff ect passed by those Legislatures before the Bill making provision for such amendment is presented to the President for assent.