To test the quality of such a witness, the status of the witness would be immaterial and what would be relevant is the truthfulness of the statement made by such a witness. What would be more relevant would be the consistency of the statement right from the starting point till the end, namely, at the time when the witness makes the initial statement and ultimately before the court. It should be natural and consistent with the case of the prosecution qua the accused. There should not be any prevarication in the version of such a witness. The witness should be in a position to withstand the cross-examination of any length and howsoever strenuous it may be and under no circumstance should give room for any doubt as to the factum of the occurrence, the persons involved, as well as the sequence of it. Such a version should have co-relation with each and 35 (2012) 8 SCC 21 [2 Judge Bench] 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. every one of other supporting material such as the recoveries made, the weapons used, the manner of off ence committed, the scientifi c evidence and the expert opinion. The said version should consistently match with the version of every other witness. It can even be stated that it should be akin to the test applied in the case of circumstantial evidence where there should not be any missing link in the chain of circumstances to hold the accused guilty of the off ence alleged against him. Only if the version of such a witness qualifi es the above test as well as all other such similar tests to be applied, can it be held that such a witness can be called as a “sterling witness” whose version can be accepted by the court without any corroboration and based on which the guilty can be punished. To be more precise, the version of the said witness on the core spectrum of the crime should remain intact while all other attendant materials, namely, oral, documentary and material objects should match the said version in material particulars in to enable the court trying the off ence to rely on the core version to sieve the other supporting materials for holding the off ender guilty of the charge alleged.” (emphasis supplied) This was quoted with profi t by this Court in Ganesan v State36. Recently, this principle was further reiterated in Naresh @ Nehru v State of Haryana37. 23. As the above discussion would show vis-à-vis the delineation on the qualities of a sterling witness, none of the witnesses of the prosecution would qualify per this standard. Numerous contradictions and inconsistencies have borne from record, rendering such witnesses to be unreliable and undependable so as to place reliance on the same to hold the accused persons guilty of having committed an off ence. 24. On circumstantial evidence, the trial court has examined the testimonies of PWs 1-5, 10, 13 and 15. We have, above, discussed PWs 1, 2, 3, and 4 along with 15.