Withdrawal of any customary concession of privilege; 5. Illegality or otherwise of a strike or lock-out; and 6. All matters other than those specifi ed in the Third Schedule. THE THIRD SCHEDULE MATTERS WITHIN THE JURISDICTION OF INDUSTRIAL TRIBUNALS 1. Wages, including the period and mode of payment; 2. Compensatory and other allowances; 3. Hours of work and rest intervals; 4. Leave with wages and holidays; 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 5. Bonus, profi t sharing, provident fund and gratuity; 6. Shift working otherwise than in accordance with standing s; 7. Classifi cation by grades; 8. Rules of discipline; 9. Rationalisation; 10. Retrenchment of workmen and closure of establishment; and Any other matter that may be prescribed.” 9. A perusal of the aforesaid Schedules shows that the matters, enumerated in the Second Schedule, are falling in the jurisdiction of the Labour Court. Whereas the matters, as mentioned in the Third Schedule, are within the jurisdiction of the Industrial Tribunal with the only exception that for dispute provided in the Third Schedule; if not more than 100 workmen are aff ected, reference is to be made to the Labour Court. 10. In the case in hand, reference of the following disputes was made by the Labour Commissioner, Indore to the Labour Court, Dewas vide dated 07.08.2002: “1. Whether it is justifi ed to grant wage increase to the workmen working in the Company? If so, what should be the plan for the same? 2. Whether according to the ability, seniority and experience, grading has to be made and whether it would be justifi ed to decide a policy for wage fi xation according to these grades? If so, what should be the structure of such policy? 3. Whether it is justifi ed to give Dearness Allowance to the workmen? If so, what should be the quantum of the same? 4. Whether it is justifi ed to increase the House Rent Allowance, Conveyance Allowance and Washing Allowance of the workmen of the Company? If so, what should be the plan for the same? 5. Whether it is justifi ed to department-wise classify the number of permanent workmen? If so, what should be the plan for the same? HIND FILTERS LTD. & ANR. v. HIND FILTER EMPLOYEES’ 433 UNION & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 6. Whether it is justifi ed to provide Education Allowance, Canteen Allowance, and Night Allowance? If so, what should be the plan for the same? 7. Whether it is justifi ed to restart Attendance Allowance to the workmen of the Company as was given to them earlier, to increase rate of the same and to compensate them for the discontinued period? If so, what should be the plan for the same? 8. As provided earlier, whether it is justifi ed to allow earned leaves to a workman even if he has worked for less than 240 days in a year? 9. Whether in past, the weekly off was not adjusted in allowing the earned leaves? What should be the justifi cation of restarting the same arrangement?