Fidelity to judicial approach entails that the court or authority should not act in an arbitrary, capricious or whimsical manner. The court or authority should act in a bona fi de manner and deal with the subject in a fair, reasonable and objective manner. Decision should not be actuated by extraneous considerations. Secondly, the principles of natural justice should be followed. This would include the requirement that the arbitral tribunal must apply its mind to the attending facts and circumstances while taking the view one way or the other. Non- application of mind is a defect that is fatal to any adjudication. Application of mind is best done by recording reasons in support of the decision. As noticed above, Section 31(3)(a) of the A&C35 states that the arbitral award shall state the reasons on which it is based, unless the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given. Sub-clauses (i) and (iii) to Section 34(2) also refer to diff erent facets of natural justice. In a given case sub-clause to Section 34(2) and sub-clause (ii) to clause (b) to Section 34(2) may equally apply. Lastly, is the need to ensure that the decision is not perverse 34 (2014) 9 SCC 263, (for short, Western Geco) 35 Supra footnote 5. 474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. or irrational that no reasonable person would have arrived at the same or be sustained in a court of law. Perversity or irrationality of a decision is tested on the touchstone of Wednesbury principle of reasonableness36. At the same time, it was cautioned that this Court was not attempting an exhaustive enumeration of what would constitute ‘fundamental policy of Indian law’, as a straightjacket defi nition is not possible. If on facts proved before them, the arbitrators fail to draw an inference which ought to have been drawn or if they have drawn an inference which on the face of it, is untenable resulting in injustice, the adjudication made by an arbitral tribunal that enjoys considerable latitude and play at the joints in making awards, may be challenged and set aside. 42. The decision of this Court in Associate Builders elaborately examined the question of public policy in the context of Section 34 of the A&C Act, specifi cally under the head ‘fundamental policy of Indian law’. It was fi rstly held that the principle of judicial approach demands a decision to be fair, reasonable and objective. On the obverse side, anything arbitrary and whimsical would not satisfy the said requirement. 43. Referring to the third principle in Western Geco, it was explained that the decision would be irrational and perverse if (a) it is based on no evidence; (b) if the arbitral tribunal takes into account something irrelevant to the decision which it arrives at; or (c) ignores vital evidence in arriving at its decision. The standards prescribed in Excise and Taxation Offi cer- cum-Assessing Authority v. Gopi Nath & Sons37 and Kuldeep Singh v. Commissioner of Police38 should be applied and relied upon, as good working tests of perversity.