In support of this contention, the learned senior counsel relies upon the decision of this Court in Management of the Northern Railway Co- H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1079 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] operative Credit Society Ltd., Jodhpur vs. Industrial Tribunal, A Rajasthan, Jaipur28. 85. In response to the above submissions, it was argued by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General: (i) that the offence of money-laundering is treated by the global community as an offence of international implication, affecting the B economies of Nations; (ii) that the law could be traced to Palermo and Vienna Conventions; (iii) that the Conventions led to the establishment of Financial Action Task Force29; (iv) that for a long time after the above Conventions and the C formation of FATF, India was found to be lacking in curbing money- laundering and hence certain recommendations were made for the Mutual Evaluation of Anti-Money Laundering and Combating the Financing of Terrorism; (v) that the recommendations made by them were carried into D effect by making suitable amendments to the Act; (vi) that the historical perspective of the Act and the amendments thereto are discussed in detail in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary; (vii) that almost all provisions of the PMLA were challenged in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and every ground of attack to each of the E provisions is dealt with in extenso by the Three Member Bench; (viii) that there cannot be repeated attempts to have several bites at the cherry; (ix) that by doubting the correctness of the decision of a larger Bench, a cloud of uncertainty cannot be created on the application of a F law; (x) that the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary is a binding precedent and the doctrine of stare decisis should be given meaning and value; (xi) that the English precedents on the doctrine of stare decisis, G such as those in Street Tramways vs. London County Council30 and Redcliffe vs. Ribble Motor Services31,have been followed by our Courts; 28 (1967) 2 SCR 476 29 For short, “FATF” 30 (1898) AC 375 (378) 31 (1939) AC 215 (245) H 1080 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (xii) that as laid down by this Court in Sakshi vs. Union of India32, the doctrine of stare decisis gives certainty to law and guides people to mould their affairs in the future; (xiii) that as held by this Court in Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community vs. State of Maharashtra33, a Bench of lesser coram B cannot express disagreement with or question the correctness of the view taken by a Bench of larger coram; (xiv) that as opined by Chief Justice John Roberts of the Supreme Court of the United States, ‘it is a jolt to the legal system when you overrule a precedent’; C (xv) that the ratio laid down by a larger Bench should not become suspect merely because another view is possible; (xvi) that in any case, Vijay Madanlal Choudhary has taken note of different views of several High Courts including the High Courts of Bombay, Delhi, Jharkhand and Punjab and Haryana, etc.