They include Section 61(b). He would submit that even the guidelines issued under Section 63 have their echo in Section 61 and, therefore, it cannot be said that Section 61 and 63 are strange bedfellows. E (39) He would, however, contend that in no circumstances can the power under regulation 92 of 1999 regulations apply when parties have after competitive bidding and approval of the tariff under Section 63 become bound by a long term contract under the PPA. In a case where there is a determination of tariff within the meaning of Section F 62, on the other hand, Regulations of 1999 may apply. He would further point out that the power under regulation 92 which provides for reviewing of tariff and which has been understood as power of revision of tariff as a whole must be subject to the rider that the revision of tariff can be done only strictly in accordance with the tariff regulations brought in the year 2001 and as subsequently, amended from time to time. In fact, he G would draw our attention to the Regulations of 2014 which expressly excludes tariff determination done under Section 63 of the Act from the ambit of the said regulation. In this regard, Shri Sajjan Povayya, learned senior counsel, on the other hand, drew our attention to the of this Court Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited v. Tarini Infrastructure H 40 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Limited and Others (2016) 8 SCC 743 2022 SCC Online SC 1615 2023 SCC Online SC 233. He would on the strength of these s point out that there is regulatory power available even in a case covered by Section 63 of the Act. ANALYSIS B (40) We, in these cases, are concerned only with two issues. As we have noticed, the first respondent filed a petition before the Commission invoking its power inter alia under Section 79(b). The matter relates expressly to the construction period. It is at this point apposite to notice the relevant provisions under the PPA. C (41) Article 13 deals with change in law. Article 13.1.1. defines what a change in law is. It reads as follows: “ARTICLE 13: CHANGE IN LAW 13.1 Definitions D In this Article 13, the following terms shall have the following meanings: 13.1.1 “Change in Law” means the occurrence of any of the following events after the date, which is seven(7) days prior to the Bid Deadline: E (i) the enactment, bringing into effect, adoption, promulgation, amendment, modification or repeal, of any Law or (ii) a change in the interpretation of any Law by a Competent Court of Law, tribunal or Indian Governmental Instrumentality provided such Court of Law, tribunal or Indian Governmental Instrumentality is F final authority under law of such interpretation or (iii) change in any consents, approvals or licenses available or obtained for the Project, otherwise than for default of the Seller, which results in any change in any cost of or revenue from the business of selling electricity by the Seller to the Procurers under the terms of this Agreement, or (iv) any change in the (a) Declared Price of Land G for the Project or (b) the cost of implementation of the resettlement and rehabilitation package of the land for the Project mentioned in RFP or (c) the cost of implementing Environmental Management Plan for the Power Station mentioned in the RFP or (d) the cost of implementing compensatory afforestation for the Coal Mine, H indicated under the RFP and the PPA; but shall not include (i) any HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 41 LTD. & ORS.