P/13) as under: - “Cause of death could be decided after Chemical examination of Viscera preserved.” 3. After the receipt of the report of Chemical examiner (Ex. P/14), the FIR was registered on 03.11.2004. (Ex. P/11) 4. During the course of trial, the prosecution had examined nineteen witnesses and led the documentary evidence. The Appellant-accused who was examined under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. denied the allegations levelled against him and pleaded innocence. He also examined DW-1 Pardesi Ram Gond, who had deposed that from 19.07.2003 to 23.07.2003 appellant was there in his house at Raipur. The Trial Court after appreciating the evidence on record, convicted and sentenced the appellant as stated hereinabove, which has been confi rmed by the High Court. 5. The learned Counsel for the Appellant placing heavy reliance on the decision of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda vs. State of Maharashtra1 submitted that in case of the alleged death due to poisoning, the prosecution was required to prove that there was clear motive of the accused to administer the poison to the deceased; that the accused had the poison in his possession and that he had the opportunity to administer the poison to the deceased. 1 (1984) 4 SCC 116 HARIPRASAD @ KISHAN SAHU v. STATE OF 219 CHHATTISGARH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] However, in the instant case none of these circumstances were proved by the prosecution. He further submitted that there was gross delay of one year occurred in fi ling the FIR, in as much as the alleged incident had taken place on 22.07.2003, however the FIR was lodged after more than one year i.e. on 03.11.2004. The so-called dying declarations of the deceased before the family members were not believable. The most important incriminating evidence i.e. FSL report (Ex. P/14) was not brought to the notice of the appellant when he was examined under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. According to him the entire story put forth by the prosecution was not only highly improbable but was not proved beyond reasonable doubt. 6. However, the learned Counsel for the Respondent State vehemently submitted that both the courts below having recorded the fi ndings of conviction against the appellant for the off ence under Section 302 and imposed the sentence of life imprisonment accordingly, this Court in exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution should not interfere with the same. He further submitted the delay caused in obtaining the report of chemical analyzer had delayed the lodging of the FIR, which explanation has been accepted by the Trial Court as well as by the High Court, and hence the same should not be held to be fatal to the case of prosecution, more particularly when all the witnesses had duly supported the case of prosecution. 7. Having regard to the submissions made by the learned counsel for the parties and having thoroughly gone through the oral as well as documentary evidence on record, in our opinion three broad questions arise for determination before this Court: (i) Whether the delay of about more than one year occurred in registering the FIR could be said to be fatal to the case of prosecution?