A plain reading of the letter would not indicate that the author of the said letter intended to reveal any details about the product that is being manufactured. However, the assessee cannot feign ignorance as to the necessity of furnishing such relevant details necessary for determination of payment of duty. The assessee having been in this industry for a long period was well aware of this statutory requirement. Upon a deeper examination of the said letter, the suppression becomes more apparent, namely the non- mentioning of change of the name and classifi cation of the goods which they were currently manufacturing and which they ought to have disclosed. It would be apposite to note the of this court in Continental Foundation Jt. Venture v. Commissioner of Central Excise (2007) 10 SCC 337 that suppression means failure to disclose full information with intent to evade payment of duty. It has been further held: “12. The expression “suppression” has been used in the proviso to Section 11A of the Act accompanied by very strong words as ‘fraud’ or “collusion” and, therefore, has to be construed strictly. Mere omission to give correct information is not suppression of facts unless it was deliberate to stop the payment of duty. Suppression means failure to disclose full information with the intent to evade payment of duty. 600 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. When the facts are known to both the parties, omission by one party to do what he might have done would not render it suppression. When the revenue invokes the extended period of limitation under Section 11A the burden is cast upon it to prove suppression of fact. An incorrect statement cannot be equated with a wilful misstatement. The latter implies making of an incorrect statement with the knowledge that the statement was not correct. 14. As far as fraud and collusion are concerned, it is evident that the intent to evade duty is built into these very words. So far as misstatement or suppression of facts are concerned, they are clearly qualifi ed by the word ‘wilful’, preceding the words “ misstatement or suppression of facts” which means with intent to evade duty. The next set of words ‘contravention of any of the provisions of this Act or Rules’ are again qualifi ed by the immediately following words ‘with intent to evade payment of duty.’ Therefore, there cannot be suppression or misstatement of fact, which is not wilful and yet constitute a permissible ground for the purpose of the proviso to Section 11A. Misstatement of fact must be wilful.” It is this hiding of the fact and not specifying the details in their letter that led to the issuance of the show cause notice and invocation of Section 11A and Section 11 AC of the CE Act, by the Department. It cannot be ignored that till fi ling of the letter dated 30.03.2006, the assessee itself was classifying the product as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ falling under CET SH 2403 9930 and being a large-scale manufacturer and paying large sums of amount as duty, to contend that it was unaware of the diff erence between these two products, or to contend that it had classifi ed the product as ‘zarda/ jarda scented tobacco’ by ignorance, is not a plausible justifi cation on part of the assessee.