(emphasis supplied) G 48. Classification ofa borrower’s account as fraud has the effect of preventing the borrower from accessing institutional finance for the 34 (1989) 1 SCC 229 35 (2014) 9 SCC 105 H 512 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A purpose of business. It also entails significant civil consequences as it jeopardizes the future of the business of the borrower. Therefore, the principles of natural justice necessitate giving an opportunity of a hearing before debarring the borrower from accessing institutional finance under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds. The action of classifying an account as fraud not only affects the business and goodwill of the B borrower, but also the right to reputation. 49. In State of Maharashtra v. Public Concern for Governance Trust36, a two-judge bench of this Court held that a decision taken by any authority affecting the right to reputation of an individual has civil consequences. Therefore, in such situations the principles of natural C justice would come into play. The Court held that any or decision of the authority adversely affecting the personal reputation of an individual must be taken after following the principles of natural justice: “41. It is thus amply clear that one is entitled to have and preserve one’s reputation and one also has a right to protect it. In case any D authority in discharge of its duties fastened upon it under the law, travels into the realm of personal reputation adversely affecting him, it must provide a chance to him to have his say in the matter. In such circumstances, right of an individual to have the safeguard of the principles of natural justice before being adversely E commented upon is statutorily recognised and violation of the same will have to bear the scrutiny of judicial review.” 50. The RBI and lender banks have relied on Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd v. Reserve Bank of India37, Joseph Kuruvilla Vellukunnel v. Reserve Bank of India38, and Internet and Mobile Association of India v. Reserve Bank of F India39 to submit that the Master Directions on Frauds are akin to a statutory regulation and a decision on economic policy, which must be accorded a level of deference. 51. The competence of the RBI to issue the Master Directions on Frauds is not a bone of contention in these appeals. The RBI, in its G estimation, has the power to determine and frame economic measures 36 (2007) 3 SCC 587 37 (1992) 2 SCC 343 38 AIR 1962 SC 1371 H 39 (2020) 10 SCC 274 STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 513 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] in the public interest to ensure the proper management of banking A companies. The point however is that the implementation of a decision to secure the health of banking companies must comport with the due process of law. The civil consequences which follow upon a classification of a borrower’s account as fraud are serious and prejudicial to the interests of a borrower.