37. While concluding, Mr. Jethmalani contended that there was no material to justify registration of the FIR and that there being no ‘legitimate prosecution’, the same has rightly been quashed and set aside B by the impugned ; hence, the appeals are liable to be dismissed. 38. The High Court did not in the impugned assign mala fide as a ground for quashing the FIR. In course of hearing before us, Mr. Jethmalani attempted to build up a case of mala fide by referring to how the incumbent Chief Minister perceived AS to be a ‘super CM’ and C also that AS has become the victim of political vendetta, being caught in the crossfire between the incumbent Chief Minister and the former Chief Minister. Reference was made to clause (7) of paragraph 102 of the decision in Bhajan Lal (supra), where it was held that a first information report could be quashed by the high courts “where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and/or where the D proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge”. 39. In his rejoinder, Mr. Hegde canvassed that there are no pleadings to this effect in the writ petition filed before the High Court E and, therefore, a new case ought not to be allowed to be set up de hors the pleadings. The immediate reaction of Mr. Jethmalani was that the writ petitions are replete with allegations of mala fide, which form the plinth for registration of the FIR as well as the departmental inquiry against YS. F 40. Before reserving , we had permitted Mr. Jethmalani to file short written notes of arguments within a week together with a few other relevant documents which he intended to file though not part of the pleadings before the High Court or this Court. 41. The written notes together with documents annexed thereto G marked as annexures R/1A to R/1K have been considered. 42. In Part 1 of the written notes, reference has been made to Circular No. 29/2020 of the Central Bureau of Investigation (hereafter ‘CBI’, for short) providing the methodology for registering first information reports in cases of disproportionate assets and for conducting H investigation. The contention advanced is that the FIR, in the present THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 149 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] case, does not conform to the guidelines laid down by the CBI in Circular A No. 29/2020 (hereafter ‘CBI Circular’, for short). Part II centers around the contention that the FIR contains several statements styled as facts, which were false to the knowledge of the ACB/EOW of the State. The third and final part is dedicated to “fabrications and manipulations” in the FIR which were the result of political vendetta against AS, who was B the Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister in the previous regime. 43. We ought to place on record that little over a week of reserving , on 20th January, 2023 to be precise, Mr. Vikas Singh, learned senior counsel mentioned the criminal appeals and prayed for recall of the reserving on the ground that an application for C directions was in the process of being filed by AS and YS and that the same ought to be considered before the on these appeals is pronounced.