This is on the basis that the first G sale was effected in the year 1960 and the second sale was effected in the year 1974. The Act came into force with effect from 1.1.1996. It is further found that the period began to run from the dates of the two sale deeds as the sales were void. The further finding is that Article 96 of the Limitation Act, 1963 did not apply to the first sale of the year 1960. The said sale was effected at a time when Qasim the eldest brother was the H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 959 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Mutawalli. The sale was effected by a person who in other words was A not the Mutawalli. Therefore, Article 96 did not apply. As far as the second sale is concerned, it was effected by Qasim Ali Khan on 26.09.1974 purporting to convey his one-third right to his nephew who is the first respondent in the other appeal. The further reasoning of the High Court is that the second sale deed was executed by the Mutawalli. B The court thereafter demarcated the field covered by Articles 65 and 96. The court then also took into consideration Section 27 of the Limitation Act, 1963. The Court found the proper interpretation was that Article 96 was to be confined to suits to recover possession where the right to recover possession had already not been lost under Section 27 of the Limitation Act, 1963. Article 96, in other words, it was found, applied to C voidable transfers. On the said basis, finding that the second sale represented a case of void transfer, it was found that Article 96 did not assist the appellant. It was also found that there is no obstacle in a beneficiary of a Wakf perfecting title by adverse possession. Such an obstacle, undoubtedly, existed in the case of a Mutawalli, a trustee or a D co-owner. A beneficiary was none of the above. Thus, proceeding on the basis that the first respondent in both the appeals were beneficiaries of the Wakf and as the sales under which they claimed were found to be void, the period of limitation contemplated under Article 65 of the Limitation Act began to run from the date of the sale. This meant that when the Act was born on 01.01.1996, the title stood vested with the E first respondent by adverse possession. It is further found that Section 107 of the Act under which the Limitation Act was not applicable to the Act could not rescue the case of the appellant. 17. It is apposite that we advert to the relevant provisions of the Limitation Act. Section 27 of the Limitation Act provides that at the F determination of the period limited to any person for instituting a suit for possession of any property, ‘his right’ to such property would stand extinguished. Article 65 of the Limitation Act, 1963 reads as follows: G H 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.