These PPAs were entered into in pursuance of the competitive bidding processes conducted by the appellant-MSEDCL under Section 63 of the Electricity Act, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as “the Electricity Act”) F read with the Standard Bidding Guidelines issued by the Ministry of Power (“MoP” for short). 5. Article 10 of the 1200 MW PPA dated 31st March 2010 entered into between the appellant-MSEDCL and respondent No.1-APML deals with “Change in Law”. G 6. Article 10.1.2 defines the term “Change in Law”. 7. Article 10.2 deals with the application and principles for computing the impact of Change in Law. Article 10.2.1 provides that while determining the consequence of a Change in Law under Article 10, due regard has to be given to the principle, that to compensate the H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 91 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Party affected by such Change in Law is to restore through monthly A Tariff Payment, to the extent contemplated in Article 10, the affected Party to the same economic position as if such Change in Law has not occurred. 8. Article 10.3 deals with “Relief for Change in Law”. Article 10.3.1 provides relief for Change in Law during the Construction Period, B whereas Article 10.3.2 provides for compensation to be paid on account of Change in Law during Operating Period. For claiming relief on account of a Change in Law, the Party is required to approach the Appropriate Commission along with documentary proof of such increase/decrease in the cost of the Power Station or revenue/expense for establishing the impact of such Change in Law. Article 10.3.4 provides finality to the C decision of the Appropriate Commission with regard to compensation determined under Articles 10.3.1 and 10.3.2. 9. On 18th October 2007, the Government of India, through the Ministry of Coal (“MoC” for short), issued the New Coal Distributional Policy, 2007 (hereinafter referred to as “the NCDP, 2007”). As per the D NCDP 2007, 100% of the quantity as per the normative requirement of the consumers was to be considered for the supply of coal, through Fuel Supply Agreement (“FSA” for short) by Coal India Limited (“CIL” for short) at fixed prices to be declared/notified by CIL. The NCDP, 2007 also provided that to meet the domestic requirement of coal, CIL may E have to import coal as may be required from time to time, if feasible. CIL was to adjust its overall price accordingly. It further provided that it was the responsibility of CIL/Coal Companies to meet the full requirement of coal under FSAs even by resorting to imports, if necessary. 10. It is not in dispute that in accordance with the NCDP, 2007, F APML had applied for coal linkage to MoC. It is also not in dispute that Western Coal Limited (“WCL” for short) and South Eastern Coal Limited (“SECL” for short) issued two Letters of Assurance (LoAs) in favour of APML and assured supply of coal. 11. Undisputedly, FSA was executed between APML and WCL G for domestic coal linkage.