In view of the above, the judgement rendered by both the Courts below was set aside and the plaintiff ’s suit for specifi c performance dismissed. 12. It has been urged before us, amongst other grounds, that the judgement of the High Court is contrary to the law settled by various 6 (2019) 9 SCC 381 Two Judge Bench SURESH LATARUJI RAMTEKE v. SAU. SUMANBAI 495 PANDURANG PETKAR [SANJAY KAROL J.] s of this court as the substantial questions were framed on the second date of hearing thereby contravening the provisions of Section 100 CPC; the High Court ought not to ordinarily reverse fi ndings of fact, more so concurrent, returned by the trial court until and unless fi ndings returned are perverse, which clearly was not the case; on the aspect of readiness and willingness, reliance was placed on Sukhbir Singh v. Brij Pal Singh7 to submit that compliance with those two factors of specifi c relief does not entail the carrying of hard cash and instead it is the presence of the fi nancial capacity to do so. A cheque for ₹ 3,90,000/-8 has been placed on record which was for the meeting which was slated to take place in the offi ce of the Sub-Registrar but in fact it was the Respondents who did not attend; The High Court erred severely in overturning the fi ndings of fact, particularly in the absence of the record of the trial court. OPINION OF THE COURT 13. The jurisprudence on Section 100, CPC is rich and varied. Time and again this Court in numerous s has laid down, distilled and further clarifi ed the requirements that must necessarily be met in for a Second Appeal as laid down therein, to be maintainable, and thereafter be adjudicated upon. Considering the fact that numerous cases are fi led before this Court which hinge on the application of this provision, we fi nd it necessary to reiterate the principles. 13.1 The requirement, most fundamental under this section is the presence and framing of a “substantial question of law”. In other words, the existence of such a question is sine qua non for exercise of this jurisdiction.9 13.2 The jurisdiction under this section has been described by this Court in Gurdev Kaur v. Kaki10 (Two-Judge Bench) stating that post 1976 amendment, the scope of Section 100 CPC stands drastically curtailed and narrowed down to be restrictive in nature. The High 7 (1997) 2 SCC 200 Two Judge Bench 8 Exhibit 73, as recorded by the Trial Court in issue No.3 of its . 9 Panchugopal Barua v. Umesh Chandra Goswami and Ors. (1997) 4 SCC 713 Two Judge Bench 10 (2007) 1 SCC 546 Two Judge Bench 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Court’s jurisdiction of interfering under Section 100 CPC is only in a case where substantial questions of law are involved, also clearly formulated/set out in the memorandum of appeal. It has been observed that: “At the time of admission of the second appeal, it is the bounden duty and obligation of the High Court to formulate substantial questions of law and then only the High Court is permitted to proceed with the case to decide those questions of law.