The terminating his services makes no imputation whatsoever against him and in the circumstances it cannot be said that the termination of his service is visited with any evil consequences as explained in Parshotam Lal Dhingra case. We are therefore of opinion that on the facts of this case Article 311(2) has no application and the appellant was not entitled to the protection of that Article before his services were terminated under Rule 5, for the termination of service here does not amount to infl iction of the penalty of dismissal or removal.” 42. In S. Govinda Menon v. Union of India 1967 AIR SC 1274= 1967 SCR (2) 566 this Court while dealing with the suspension of appellant under Rule 7 of the All-India Services (Discipline & Appeal) Rules, 1955 made the following observations: “14. …Rule 5(2) prescribes that the grounds on which it is proposed to take action shall be reduced to the form of a defi nite charge or charges. Under Rule 5(3) a member of the Service is required to submit a written statement of his defence to the charge or charges. The framing of the charge under Rule 5(2) is necessary to enable the member of Service to meet the case against him. The language of Rule 7(1) is however diff erent and that rule provides that the Government may place a member of the Service under suspension “having regard to the nature of the charge/charges and the circumstances in any case” if the Government is satisfi ed that it is necessary to place him under suspension. In view of the diff erence of language in Rule 5(2) and Rule 7 we are of the opinion that the word “charges” in Rule 7(1) should be given a wider meaning as denoting the accusations or imputations against the member of the Service.” 43. The Allahabad High Court in the case of Shahroj Anwar Khan v. State of U.P., 2007 SCC OnLine All 389 while dealing with the question whether Rule 17(1)(a) of the Uttar Pradesh Police Offi cers of Subordinate Ranks (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 1991 prohibits passing of a 106 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. suspension during the pendency of preliminary enquiry considered the meaning of the term contemplation as follows: “16. …The term ‘contemplation’ is quite a wide term. Webster Comprehensive Dictionary, amongst other defi nes ‘contemplation’ as a deliberation on something to be done. The Oxford Dictionary gives four diff erent shades of meaning of the verb ‘to contemplate’. They are as follows: —(1) to survey with the eyes, or in mind, (2) to regard an event as possible, (3) to intend, to have as one's purpose, and (4) to meditate. When a disciplinary authority contemplates holding of an inquiry, it may take variety of steps, which may include collecting material for fi nding out the nature and details of the allegations. For that purpose, a preliminary inquiry can certainly be held, but as the rule stands, can it be read to mean that an offi cer cannot be suspended before a preliminary inquiry.