However, he has not given any details with regard to the same. 11. Shri Grover further submitted that there is improvement in the evidence of Sudhir (PW-11) with regard to the cause of his presence at the place of incident. In his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., Sudhir (PW-11) did not give any reason for his presence at the place of incident. It was for the fi rst time in court that he deposed about being in the locality in search of labourers to work in his fi eld. He submitted that there are serious lapses in the prosecution case inasmuch as though Sudhir (PW-11) is alleged to have accompanied Lokendra (PW-1) to Police Station Babri to register the Tehrir, he did not permit Sudhir (PW-11) to go inside the police station while registering the Tehrir. He submitted that such a conduct is not consistent with human nature. The learned Senior counsel therefore submitted that Sudhir (PW-11) would fall in the category of a chance witness and the testimony of such a witness cannot be relied upon without there being corroboration from any independent testimony. The learned Senior Counsel relies on the s of this Court in the cases of Acharaparambath Pradeepan and Another v. State of Kerala3 and Harjinder Singh alias Bhola v. State of Punjab4. 12. Shri Grover further submitted that there are material contradictions regarding the place where deceased Masooq Ali was shot. According to Lokendra (PW-1) and Harpal Singh (PW-10), Masooq Ali was shot and killed in front of his own house. However, this version is not supported by the testimony of Irshad Khan (PW-7). 13. Shri Grover submitted that all the aforesaid witnesses are related to the deceased and they or their relatives held posts in the village panchayat. He submitted that Lokendra (PW-1) is the brother of deceased Satendra, son of injured Jai Singh (PW-8) and cousin of deceased Ram Kishan. Sudhir 3 (2006) 13 SCC 643 4 (2004) 11 SCC 253 782 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (PW-11) is an immediate cousin of Ram Kishan and related to Lokendra (PW-1). Irshad Khan (PW-7) is the father of deceased Rizwan and Rihan. It is submitted that these witnesses also supported Vimla Devi, the then sarpanch and Ram Kishan’s mother. Lokendra (PW-1) and Sudhir (PW-11) are related witnesses of deceased Ram Kishan and Satendra. It is submitted that all these witnesses have falsely implicated appellant Madan so as to ensure the conviction of appellant Madan and his family members. 14. Shri Grover submitted that the injured eye witnesses Sukhpal Singh (PW-2), Mumtaz Khan (PW-5) and Jai Singh (PW-8) have not supported the prosecution story alleging the involvement of the present accused. It is submitted that though Mumtaz Khan (PW-5) has stated in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. that the appellant Madan along with other accused was involved in the shooting, in his examination- in-chief, he has stated that when he came out on hearing the sound of fi ring, he saw 3-4 persons who had covered their faces with masks and these persons were involved in shooting.