The principal effect of this amendment, in so far as that is relevant in this appeal, was to snap the link which, according to C this Court, existed between clauses (1) and (2) — that was achieved by enacting clause (2-A); greater clarity was secured by enacting in clause (2) that property shall be compulsorily acquired only for a public purpose; and by authority of law which provides for compensation, and either fixes the amount of D compensation or specifies the principles on which, and the manner in which, compensation is to be determined and given; and that the law for acquisition or requisition shall not be called in question in any court on the ground that the compensation provided thereby is not adequate. By the amendment made in Article 31-A certain classes of statutes were placed with retrospective effect outside E the purview of attack before the Courts on the ground of infringement of the fundamental rights under Articles 14, 19 and 31, and by the addition of certain Acts in the Ninth Schedule a challenge to those Acts that they infringed any fundamental rights in Part III could not be entertained. But the amendments made in F Article 31 were not given any retrospective operation. The result was that in cases where acquisition was made pursuant to the statutes enacted before April 27, 1955, the law declared in Mrs Bela Banerjee case and Subodh Gopal Base case continued to apply.” 98. The in Shantilal Mangaldas (supra) has been G approved of and followed in the case by a Constitution Bench in Prakash Amichand Shah v. State of Gujarat and others52. 99. The Court repelled the argument that the decision in Shantilal Mangaldas (supra) was overruled by the in His Holiness H 52 (1986) 1 SCC 581 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1113 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru v. State of Kerala and A another53. 100. This Court also made the following observations, which incidentally are relied upon by the respondents to contend that the developer of property would be entitled to benefits when there is planned development: B “16. The re-arrangement of titles in the various plots and reservation of lands for public purposes require financial adjustments to be made. The owner who is deprived of his land has to be compensated, and the owner who obtains a re-constituted plot in surroundings which are conducive to better sanitary living C conditions has to contribute towards the expenses of the scheme. This is because on the making of a Town Planning Scheme the value of the plot rises and a part of the benefit which arises out of a unearned rise in prices is directed to be contributed towards financing of the scheme which enables the residents in that area to more amenities, better facilities and healthier living conditions. D …” 101. This Court in Babulal Badriprasad Varma v. Surat Municipal Corporation and others54, while dealing with the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, 1976, inter alia, held: “33.