The registered owner under the MV Act may be liable in case of accidents/traffic challans, etc. But this, in no way, dilutes the right of the appellants – assessees in respect of the title of the property, that is, the vehicle. Any transfer or sale made by the hirer or any violation of the hire-purchase F agreement can lead to civil as well as criminal consequences. Given the dictum and ratio in Sahara India Savings and Investment Corporation Limited and State Bank of Patiala Through General Manager, the view taken by the High Court of Delhi in M/s G.E. Capital Transportation, as followed by the High Court of Delhi in G Commissioner of Interest Tax v. M/S G.E. Capital Transportation is correct and the view taken by the High Court of Kerala in the impugned is not in consonance with the above decisions of this court. [Para 14][329-C-H] H 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 2. In Circular No. 760 dated 13th January 1998, the CBDT observed that they considered the issue and were advised that in case of transactions which are, in substance, in the nature of hire-purchase, the receipts of hire charges would not be in the nature of interest. In transactions which are, in substance, in the nature of financing transactions, the hire charges should be B treated as interest, subject to interest tax. To determine the distinction between the two transactions, the assessing officers were required to consider the issue on merits taking, inter alia, into account – (i) the terms of the agreement; (ii) the nature of the arrangement between the supplier of the asset, the hire- C purchase company and the end user of the asset; and (iii) the intention of the parties which manifests itself in the fixation of the initial payment, the method of determination of hire-purchase price etc. However, when the hire-purchase company pays the price or a substantial part thereof on behalf of such hirer who is the real purchaser but does not pay the full price, then such D agreement is in the nature of a security for re-payment of the loan and is essentially a loan transaction. [Para 16][331-F-H; 332-A-B] 3.1. The in Sundaram Finance Limited relates to the true nature of hire in hire-purchase agreements as in the E context of the sales tax enactment. In the present case, however, one is dealing with and interpreting Section 2(7) of the Act, which has been interpreted in two decisions, that is, in the case of Sahara India Savings and Investment Corporation Limited and State Bank of Patiala Through General Manager, which have given a very F limited and restricted meaning to Section 2(7) of the Act as interest directly arising “on” loans and advances, and not any other interest, be it interest earned on investment or interest payable on delayed payment of the discounted bill of exchange. [Para 17][332-B-E] G 3.2. Taxation depends upon the language of the charging section and what is brought to tax within the four corners of the charging section.