The term also refers to a person who holds a thing in trust for another (beneficiary). The fiduciary is expected to act in confidence and for the benefit and advantage of the beneficiary, and use good faith and fairness in dealing with the beneficiary or D the things belonging to the beneficiary. If the beneficiary has entrusted anything to the fiduciary, to hold the thing in trust or to execute certain acts in regard to or with reference to the entrusted thing, the fiduciary has to act in confidence and is expected not to disclose the thing or information to any third party. E 40. There are also certain relationships where both the parties have to act in a fiduciary capacity treating the other as the beneficiary. Examples of these are: a partner vis-à-vis another partner and an employer vis-à-vis employee. An employee who comes into possession of business or trade secrets or confidential information relating to the employer in the course of his F employment, is expected to act as a fiduciary and cannot disclose it to others. Similarly, if on the request of the employer or official superior or the head of a department, an employee furnishes his personal details and information, to be retained in confidence, the employer, the official superior or departmental head is expected G to hold such personal information in confidence as a fiduciary, to be made use of or disclosed only if the employee’s conduct or acts are found to be prejudicial to the employer.” 66. A fiduciary can, therefore, be taken to be a person who becomes charged with the duty to protect the interest of another. Fiduciary H relationship is founded upon the reposing of confidence by one in another. SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 989 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] The beneficiary of a waqf is endowed with rights in terms of the waqf A deed. We are unable to cull out any duty, as such, to protect the interest of another. No doubt, it could be said that as the property in a waqf, vests in the Almighty, there must be a concern and, undoubtedly, a moral duty to act in a manner that the object of the wakf is fostered. But a beneficiary is not like a Trustee, who assumes possession in his character B as a Trustee, coming under the restraint of discarding his character as Trustee and donning the robes of an encroacher or a person asserting hostile title. Section 14 of the Indian Trusts Act, reads as follows: “14. Trustee not set up title adverse to beneficiary-The trustee must not for himself or another set up or aid any title to the trust C property adverse to the interest of the beneficiary.” 67. It is not, as if, the beneficiary was in possession of the property in any capacity prior to the sale. 68. In fact, in this case, we may notice that in the second sale, the former Mutawalli, viz., Qasim Ali Khan, entered into the sale deed on D the strength of a compromise and the of the Deputy Director, Consolidation, under which, he purported to act as one possessed of one-third right in his own right.