These civil liberties, which manifest themselves in the form of fundamental C rights, are what allow the people of this country to effectively negotiate with the state and maintain the parity in power in the social contract between the people and the state. If this Court refuses to exercise its jurisdiction on technicalities in cases of violations of fundamental rights, it will lead to a ripple effect that will result in a dysfunctional social contract, wherein the people of this country would become subject to an D arbitrary and unfettered tyranny of the state. 12.Article 32 of the Constitution of India provides remedies for enforcement of rights conferred by this Part. The said Article reads as under:- “32. Remedies for enforcement of rights conferred by this E Part-(1) The right to move the Supreme Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of the rights conferred by this Part is guaranteed. (2) The Supreme Court shall have power to issue directions or s or writs, including writs in the nature of habeas F corpus, mandamus, prohibition, quo warranto and certiorari, whichever may be appropriate, for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by this Part. (3) Without prejudice to the powers conferred on the Supreme Court by clauses (1) and (2), Parliament may by law empower G any other court to exercise within the local limits of its jurisdiction all or any of the powers exercisable by the Supreme Court under clause (2). (4) The right guaranteed by this article shall not be suspended except as otherwise provided for by this Constitution.” H RITU CHHABARIA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 833 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] Article 32 falls within Part III of the Constitution which deals A with fundamental rights and thus the right to invoke Article 32 is a fundamental right in itself, that exists to protect and safeguard the other fundamental rights guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution. We may usefully refer to the following observations of a Constitution Bench of this Court made in the case of K.S. Puttaswamy & Anr. vs. Union Of B India & Ors.3 :- “A constitutional democracy can survive when citizens have an undiluted assurance that the Rule of Law will protect their rights and liberties against any invasion by the State and that judicial remedies would be available to ask searching C questions and expect answers when a citizen has been deprived of these, most precious rights.” 13.Further, another Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of K.K Kochunni, Moopil Nayar vs. State of Madras & Ors.4 as early as 1959, has observed that the Court must exercise its jurisdiction in D matters where there is an abuse of fundamental rights. The relevant paragraphs of the said are being extracted hereunder: “Further, even if the existence of other adequate legal remedy may be taken into consideration by the High Court in deciding whether It should issue any of the prerogative writs on an E application under Article 226 of the Constitution, as to which we say nothing now - this Court cannot, on a similarground, decline to entertain a petition under Article 32, for the right to move this Court by appropriate proceedings for the enforcement of the rights conferred by Part I of the Constitution is itself a guaranteed right.