It is also to be noted that a preliminary inquiry and the full-fl edged departmental inquiry are not to be confused with each other as observed in the case of Amalendu Ghosh (supra). 29. In view of what is stated above, it is clear that the phrase ‘when an inquiry is contemplated’ will have to be read as meaning that an inquiry is under consideration or is thought of or is proposed. It cannot mean that a decision to hold an inquiry is arrived at. After that decision is arrived at, undoubtedly, a full-fl edged departmental inquiry follows. Therefore, the phrase ‘an inquiry is contemplated’ will cover an earlier stage. It will certainly cover a stage when even a preliminary inquiry is under consideration. A preliminary inquiry cannot be excluded from the term ‘inquiry’ as covered under this clause. That would place a fetter on the powers of the administration. As noted earlier, the authority may be confronted with various situations and they ought to have the freedom to deal with those situations. It will be for them to decide what steps they ought to take. The authorities may, undoubtedly, initiate a preliminary inquiry, or may even be required to resort to suspension while initiating a preliminary investigation. It cannot be said that the authorities will hold the preliminary investigation or inquiry for quite some time, allow the offi cer.” 44. In Rajendra Shenkar Nigam v. State of U.P., 1973 SCC OnLine All 381 the Allahabad High Court while dealing with the suspension STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS v. DINESH SINGH 1069 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] of the respondent for allegation of corruption observed the meaning of contemplation as follows: 14. The material and relevant expression in Rule 49-A is an inquiry is contemplated or is proceeding. The term “contemplated” is not a term of art. It has been used in its plain ordinary meaning. The Shorter Oxford Dictionary, Volume I at page 380 defi nes the word ‘contemplated’ to man “to have in view, to expect, to take into account as a contingency”. It indicates a stage where an inquiry into the conduct of a government servant is imminently expected with a view to impose some punishment upon him. On receipt of complaints against the conduct of a government servant the competent authority sets in motion an informal inquiry to certify the correctness of the allegations or to collect material with a view to hold a disciplinary inquiry so that if the alleged misconduct is established suitable punishment be awarded. The inquiry which will result in imposition of punishment can be said to be expected or contemplated. When the Government sets in motion its machinery for investigating the alleged complaints so that it may hold a formal inquiry more properly the formal inquiry is clearly contemplated, and the power to suspend comes into play. In S.C. Kharbdanda v. State of U.P. , a Division Bench observed:— “The mere fact that a preliminary enquiry has been admittedly instituted is proof positive of the fact that the departmental enquiry is contemplated.