Similar range of activities must INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.689 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] be conducted for the nodal offi cers appointed and LCs constituted by each district offi cer. Operationalizing the Act for the unorganized sector 14. This Act is a pioneering legislation with a ‘horizontal’ mechanism and rights framework. A look at some of the defi nitions - ‘employee’19, ‘employer’20, and ‘workplace’21 drives this point home and demonstrates the scope of its horizontal application. Further, the inclusion of defi nitions of ‘domestic worker’, and ‘unorganized sector’ in Section 2, which though not expressly referred to in the substantive content of the Act, is telling: “(e) “domestic worker” means a woman who is employed to do the household work in any household for remuneration whether in cash or kind, either directly or through any agency on a temporary, permanent, part time or full time basis, but does not include any member of the family of the employer;” “(p) “unorganised sector” in relation to a workplace means an enterprise owned by individuals or self-employed workers and engaged in the production or sale of goods or providing service of any kind whatsoever, and where the enterprise employs workers, the number of such workers is less than ten.” The inclusion of these defi nitions, has greatly expanded the scope of this Act’s application. An aggrieved domestic worker, thus, can take action against a person residing in the house they work at, using the LC framework; see Section 2(o) which defi nes ‘workplace’ and includes under sub-clause (vi) “a dwelling place or house”: “(o) “workplace” includes— (i) any department, organisation, undertaking, establishment, enterprise, institution, offi ce, branch or unit which is established, owned, controlled or wholly or substantially financed by funds provided directly or indirectly by the appropriate Government or the 19 Section 2(f), extracted above in fn 4. 20 Section 2(g) extracted above in fn 5. 21 Section 2(o) of the Act. 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. local authority or a Government company or a corporation or a co- operative society; (ii) any private sector organisation or a private venture, undertaking, enterprise, institution, establishment, society, trust, non-governmental organisation, unit or service provider carrying on commercial, professional, vocational, educational, entertainmental, industrial, health services or fi nancial activities including production, supply, sale, distribution or service; (iii) hospitals or nursing homes; (iv) any sports institute, stadium, sports complex or competition or games venue, whether residential or not used for training, sports or other activities relating thereto; (v) any place visited by the employee arising out of or during the course of employment including transportation by the employer for undertaking such journey; (vi) a dwelling place or a house” 15. Consider next, the composition and role of the LC – which is the foundational body in the district, especially so for the unorganized sector. This committee is headed by a nominated chairperson who is an eminent woman in the fi eld of social work and committed to the cause of women; one member is nominated from the women working in a block/taluka/tehsil (rural) or ward/municipality (urban); two more, of which at least one has to be a woman to be nominated amongst NGOs or associations committed to cause of women or a person familiar with the issues relating to sexual harassment.