In the absence of provisions for exclusion of such period in respect of an application under Section 9, IBC, despite the combined reading of Section 238A, IBC and the provisions under the Limitation Act what is legally available to such a party is to assign the same as a sufficient cause for condoning the delay under Section 5 of the Limitation Act. In such E eventuality, in accordance with the factual position obtained in any particular case viz., the period of delay and the period covered by suspension of right under Section 22 (1), SICA etc., the question of condonation of delay has to be considered lest it will result in injustice as the party was statutorily prevented from initiating action against the F industrial company concerned. The first question formulated hereinbefore is accordingly answered. 26. In the case on hand, indubitably, the question whether the delay occurred in the matter of filing of application under Section 9, IBC is condonable or not, was not considered. A bare perusal of the impugned G would reveal that after taking into account the date of default and the date of filing of the application under Section 9, IBC the NCLAT held it as time barred. When once it is so found we would have remanded the matter for consideration of the question of limitation afresh, but for the fact that the application under Section 9, IBC was dismissed assigning reason of existence of ‘pre-existing dispute’ as well. H SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 211 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 27. The appellant and the respondent have cited various decisions A in support of their rival contentions on the sustainability or otherwise of the dismissal of the stated application on the ground of existence of ‘pre-existing dispute(s)’ between the parties. Nonetheless, we are of the considered view that in that regard, only the decisions to be referred infra, require consideration. Paradoxically, both sides relied on the decision B of this Court in Macquarie Bank Limited v. Shilpi Cable Technologies Limited6. 28. Macquarie Bank Limited’s case (supra) is relied on by the appellant to drive home the point that production of the certificate/ statement from the financial institution maintaining the accounts of the C operational creditor concerned, under Section 9 (3)(c), IBC, is not a condition precedent to trigger CIRP and hence, its insistence will be violative of the law laid down thereunder. In Macquarie Bank Limited (supra), in paragraph 16, this Court held: - “16. When we come to clause (c) of Section 9(3), it is equally clear that a copy of the certificate from the financial institution D maintaining accounts of the operational creditor confirming that there is no payment of an unpaid operational debt by the corporate debtor is certainly not a condition precedent to triggering the insolvency process under the Code. The expression “confirming” makes it clear that this is only a piece E of evidence, albeit a very important piece of evidence, which only “confirms” that there is no payment of an unpaid operational debt.