D 24. Law is well settled that if in any statutory rule or statutory notification two expressions are used - one in general words and the other in special terms - under the rules of interpretation, it has to be understood that the special terms were not meant to be included in the general expression; alternatively, it can be said that where a statute contains both a general provision as well as a specific provision, the E latter must prevail. 25. What emerges from the above discussion is that Taxation Entry No.61 is relatable to ‘starch’ of any kind whereas Exemption Entry No.8 relates to products of ‘millet’. 26. Looking at the specific (Taxation Entry No.61) in F contradistinction with the general (Exemption Entry No.8), there can be no manner of doubt that maize starch would be covered by the taxation entry and not by the exemption entry. 27. The contention advanced on behalf of the appellant that clarification provided by the Commissioner could not have been made G applicable with retrospective effect is, in our considered opinion, without substance. The clarification vide Circular dated 8th October, 1998 was issued in exercise of power conferred by the statute (i.e., Section 28-A of the Act). Whenever a clarification pursuant to an application made by a registered dealer as to the applicable rate of tax is issued under sub- H 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A section (1), or the Commissioner on his own clarifies any point concerning the rate of tax under the Act, or the procedure relating to assessment and collection of tax as provided for under the Act is issued under sub- section (2), the object is to make the rate of tax explicit what is otherwise implicit. The contention as raised, if accepted, would defeat the object of issuing the clarification unless it were construed to have retrospective B effect. What the clarification provided by the Commissioner does is to clear the meaning of the two entries which was already implicit but had given rise to a confusion. A clarification of this nature, therefore, is bound to be retrospective. 28. Also, having regard to the nature of clarification issued, we C hold that Circular dated 8th October, 1998 does not run counter to the provisions of the Act. 29. We have considered the decisions cited by Mr. Mani in Lakshmi Starch Limited (supra) and TVL. Indras Agencies (P) Limited (supra). For the reasons that we have assigned above, we hold D that the said decisions do not aid the petitioner. CONCLUSIONS 30. The impugned is upheld albeit for reasons not assigned by the High Court. Finding no merit in the appeals, we dismiss the same. Parties shall, however, bear their own costs. E Ankit Gyan Appeals dismissed. (Assisted by : Mahendra Yadav, LCRA) F G H