According to the prosecution case, accused nos. 3, 5 and 7 (acquitted) exhorted the other accused to chop Uma Prasad into pieces. Accused nos. 7, 9 and 11 (acquitted) pointed their guns at PW-1 Naval Kishore and PW-2 Manua and told them not to interfere. The act of assaulting and killing Uma Prasad was allegedly done by accused no.1 and accused no.14. 4. Another allegation against the appellant is that as per suggestion of acquitted accused no.6, he, along with accused no.1, dragged the body of deceased Uma Prasad and threw the same into a well. 5. Further allegation of the prosecution is that after committing the murder of Uma Prasad, all the accused went towards the bus stand with the intention of killing Vinod Kumar Khare and Munau Khare. It is alleged that after about 15 minutes, the sound of two gun fi res was heard, and it is alleged that Vinod Kumar Khare and Munau Khare were killed. As far as the allegation of killing these two persons is concerned, the Trial Court acquitted all the accused, and that part of the of the Trial Court has become fi nal. 6. A joint appeal was preferred by accused no.1, the present appellant- accused no.2 and accused no.16. Separate appeals were preferred by the other accused. While partly allowing the appeals, by the impugned , the High Court acquitted accused nos. 9,11 and 12. The High Court partly allowed the appeal of the present appellant and accused nos. 1,14 and 16 by substituting their conviction under Section 302 read with Sections 148 and/or 149 of IPC with Section 302 read with Section 34 of IPC. The appellant’s conviction for the off ence punishable under Section 201 of IPC was maintained. 7. We may note here that Special Leave Petition (criminal) no. 876 of 2012 fi led by accused no.1 was dismissed as the said accused did not fi le proof of surrender. The application for restoration of the Special CHANDRA PRATAP SINGH v. STATE OF M.P. 765 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Leave Petition was also dismissed. It appears that accused nos.14 and 16 did not prefer any appeal to this Court. They may have undergone the entire sentence. SUBMISSIONS 8. The fi rst submission of the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant is that the appellant was not represented by his advocate when the appeal was called out for hearing before the High Court. In the cause title of the impugned , the absence of the appellant’s advocate has been mentioned. Moreover, the does not refer to any submission made on behalf of any accused. He would, therefore, submit that the High Court has committed a gross illegality by proceeding with the hearing of the appeal in the absence of his advocate. 9. He submitted that in view of the decision of this Court in the case of Mala Singh v. State of Haryana1, the appellant could not have been convicted with the aid of Section 34 of IPC as there was no evidence of common intention, which was necessary for attracting Section 34 of IPC.