(3) The rule empowers the Authority to maintain the OSR area themselves or through others without permitting ownersto themselves to do so. The respondents have no right to B possess and manage the same. Therefore, the impugned rule authorising the second respondent to maintain and manage the OSR area is unconstitutional. (4) The DCR not having been placed before the legislative assembly, it has no force of law. C (5) The impugned rule without any guideline enables exercise of arbitrary power. (6) There is no power with first respondent State to usurp the lands free of cost, and that too selectively, under the guise of regulating the development of the area. D The prayer is to declare Rule 19 (b) of the DCR relating to group development in so far as it mandates the transfer of 10% area of the layout of any developmental plan having area 10,000 sq. meter or more reserved as open space for communal and recreational purposes to the second respondent or the local body designated by it, free of cost through E a registered deed and empowering the second respondent or any authority other than the association of resident owners to maintain the said OSR area of the respective layout, and the gift deed executed and registered as Document No.262 dated 18.02.94 in the office of the 4th respondent pursuant to the impugned rule are unconstitutional and null and void and F consequently direct the 3rd respondent to enter in their records the members of the petitioner Association as Owners of the said OSR area and pass such further or other s as this Hon’ble Court may deem fit and proper in the circumstances of the case and thus render justice. 31. Before we deal with the issue we must bear in mind as to G what is law. Article 13 of the Constitution reads as follows: - “Article 13. Laws inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights. — (1) All laws in force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution, in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this Part, H shall, to the extent of such inconsistency, be void. 1058 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (2) The State shall not make any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by this Part and any law made in contravention of this clause shall, to the extent of the contravention, be void. (3) In this article, unless the context otherwise requires, — (a) “law” includes any Ordinance, , bye-law, rule, regulation, B notification, custom or usage having in the territory of India the force of law; (b) “laws in force” includes laws passed or made by a Legislature or other competent authority in the territory of India before the commencement of this Constitution and not previously repealed, C notwithstanding that any such law or any part thereof may not be then in operation either at all or in particular areas. [(4) Nothing in this article shall apply to any amendment of this Constitution made under article 368.