In addition to the three grounds introduced in Renusagar Power Co. Limited v. General Electric Co32, as noticed above, an additional ground of ‘patent illegality’ was introduced Saw Pipes Limited, for exercise of the court’s jurisdiction in setting aside an arbitral award. This Court, in McDermott International Inc, held that patent illegality, must be such which goes to the root of the matter. The public policy violation should be so unfair and unreasonable as to shock the conscience of the court. Arbitrator where s/ he acts contrary to or beyond the express law of contract or grants relief, such awards fall within the purview of Section 34 of the A&C Act. Further, what would constitute public policy is a matter dependent upon the nature of transaction and the statute. Pleadings of the party and material brought before the court would be relevant to enable the court to judge what is in public good or public interest, or what would otherwise be injurious to public good and interest at a relevant point. So, this must be distinguished from public policy of a particular government. 40. A similar view was expressed in Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. v. Dewan Chand Ram Saran33 with the clarifi cation that where a term of the contract is capable of two interpretations and the view taken by the arbitrator is a plausible one, it cannot be said that the arbitrator travelled outside the jurisdiction or the view taken the arbitrator is against the terms of the contract. The court cannot interfere with the award and substitute its 27 (2006) 4 SCC 445. 28 (2006) 11 SCC 245. 29 (2008) 13 SCC 80. 30 (2011) 5 SCC 758. 31 (2012) 1 SCC 718. 32 1994 Supp (1) SCC 644. 33 (2012) 5 SCC 306. BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 473 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] view with the award and interpretation accepted by the arbitrator, the reason being the court does not sit in appeal over the fi ndings and decision of the arbitrator, while deciding an application under Section 34 of the A&C Act. The arbitrator is legitimately entitled to take a view after considering the material before him/her and interpret the agreement. The should be accepted as fi nal and binding. 41. Subsequently, in ONGC Ltd. v. Western Geco International Ltd.,34 a three Judge Bench of this Court observed that the Court, in Saw Pipes Ltd., did not examine what would constitute ‘fundamental policy of Indian law’. The expression ‘fundamental policy of Indian law’ in the opinion of this Court includes all fundamental principles providing as basis for administration of justice and enforcement of law in this country. There were three distinct and fundamental juristic principles which form a part and parcel of ‘fundamental policy of Indian law’. The fi rst and the foremost principle is that in every determination by a court or an authority that aff ects rights of a citizen or leads to civil consequences, the court or authority must adopt a judicial approach.