v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 503 [M. R. SHAH, J.] press the issue/question on the liability to pay the tax at the rate of 12% A was wrongly given. It is to be noted that the respondent – dealer was represented through a very senior advocate before the High Court. Therefore, it cannot be said that the concession was wrongly given. While referring the submissions made by the learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the respondent – assessee – dealer, the High B Court has recorded as under: - “4. Learned Senior Counsel Mr. S N Shel at, appearing with Mr.H A Dave, learned Advocate for the appellant has fairly conceded that looking to the fact that the respondent has passed the assessment on the basis of material available with it, they C were required to pay the tax on the basis of 12% and that has been paid by the appellant since the opinion of the expert was turned out.” It is not true that the learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the respondent – assessee – dealer, was considering the decision of D the in the case of Brooke Bond India Limited(supra). It was a conscious decision taken not to press into service the issue No. 1 and 2, that is with respect to the liability to pay the tax at the rate of 12%. Therefore, the decision relied upon by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent – assessee on the concession given by the learned Senior Advocate, appearing on behalf of the respondent – E assessee before the High Court, would not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. 6.15 In so far as the reliance placed by the learned counsel on behalf of the respondent – dealer on the decision of this Court in the case of Hindustan Steel Ltd.(supra) is concerned, at the outset, it is F required to be noted that the learned Tribunal specifically found that there was nothing on record to prove that there was in fact a bonafide belief of the respondent herein, that itwould be required to pay tax at 2% only.As observed hereinabove and on plain reading of Section 45 and Section 47 of the Act, 1969 and as observed hereinabove, on the eventualities occurring under sub-section (5) of Section 45, there shall G be levied penalty mentioned in sub-section (6) of Section 45 and the liability to pay the interest is incurred as mentioned in Section 47(4A). The impugned and passed by the High Court on the grounds that the amount of tax has already been paid by the assessee – dealer; that the assessee – dealer was under the bonafide belief that it H 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A was liable to pay the tax at the rate of 2%, is unsustainable. None of the aforesaid grounds would justify deletion of the penalty and interest leviable/ payable under Section 45(6) and Section 47(4A) of the Act, 1969.