The Tribunal refers to F several other s and judgements for coming to the conclusion that subsidies, incentives and duty drawbacks received by an assessee from the Central Government or the State Government cannot be regarded as part of the consideration flowing from the buyer to the seller. 17. After referring to the detailed observations and finding of the G CESTAT, in IFGL’s case, particularly those in para 9 and 10 thereof, the Ld. Counsel for the assessee submitted that, though the above view of the Tribunal was reversed by this Court on 9.8.2005 while deciding Civil Appeal No.4472 of 2001, it cannot be denied that during the period from 28.7.2000 (the date when the Tribunal decided the IGL’s case) till 9.8.2005 H 1296 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (when the Supreme Court reversed it) the view taken by the Tribunal in IFGL’s case held the field and thus provided the basis for the assesse to believe that its method and approach of determining the assessable value was in accordance with law. The Ld. Counsel further pointed out that there was otherwise no justification for alleging suppression of facts in the present case as the assessee had submitted to the Revenue authorities B copies of their pricing policy from time to time. Our attention was invited to para 2 of the Show Cause Notice dated 28.9.2005 wherein this fact has been recorded in the notice. 18. The Ld. Counsel for the revenue on the other hand submitted that the Tribunal had failed to apply its mind to the allegations and specific C finding of the adjudicating authority. It was submitted that the adjudicating authority had specifically found that the subject transactions where additional discounts had been offered to certain customers who had agreed to transfer to the assessee duty benefits flowing from advance licence held by them were wrongly clubbed with domestic clearances D with a view to mislead range officer tasked with the responsibility of checking the transactions. The Ld. Counsel for the Revenue accordingly submitted that the assesse was guilty of suppressing material facts from the Revenue authorities and that the Range officer had thus been misled into believing that the duty had been correctly paid. The Ld. Counsel also invited our attention to the fact that during the relevant period the E assessee was working under self-assessment procedure were the onus to correctly assess duty vested upon the assesse. The Ld. Counsel for the Revenue also submitted that the finding of the CESTAT about bonafide belief based on the CESTAT’s decision on the IGL’s case was also unsustainable in view of the specific findings of the adjudicating authority F of suppression of material facts by clubbing of the clearances with domestic clearances which mislead the range officer tasked with the responsibility of checking all transactions. 19. Per contra the Ld. Counsel for the assesse submitted that the arguments made on behalf of the Revenue traverse beyond the grounds G taken in the appeal and also the allegations in the show cause notice.