or distinctions. If the advertisement itself did not provide for any diff erentiation or diff erent treatment then at the time of evaluation no new criteria could be laid down. The eff ect is evident from the marks sheet of petitioner, Nutan Kumari. She got 83.6% marks in D.P.Ed and in three years Graduation course she had got 48.8%. Thus, totally she was given 32 marks being 20 plus 12 respectively out of 40 marks. Ravi Shankar Kumar, had 80% either in B.P.E. or B.P.Ed. he was given 40 marks out of 40. There are various instances, as noted earlier, to show the arbitrary results of this arbitrary criteria, which criteria, NUTAN KUMARI v. B.R.A. BIHAR UNIVERSITY 715 as noted above, was decided at the time of interview. When all applications had been scrutinized the assertion that these criterion were evolved to promote certain candidates cannot, thus, be said to be unfounded. Again, when we come to marks of higher qualifi cations and experience, no one has disclosed as to what was the criteria of awarding marks under this head. Again, it is left to the whims of the selection committee which cannot be countenanced. Again, we come to the case of marks for interview, the things are worst. The same set of fi ve people on the same day interviewed all the fi ve petitioners four times. for the same job and in each interview the marks drastically varied. These are subjective evaluation based on subjective satisfaction it is these marks which have made substantial diff erence, as noted above, the margin being very small. Apart from this, to this Court it appears that subjective marks cannot be, in the nature of appointment, as high as 30%. These two things coupled together make the process quite arbitrary and discriminatory. Thus, the process as a whole as adopted cannot be said to be valid in law. The process must thus be struck down and is struck down. Consequently, it is held that the selection was bad.” [Emphasis added] 13. As can be seen from the above, the learned Single Judge took pains to scrutinize the entire process adopted by the Selection Committee and returned a fi nding that the same was arbitrary, irrational and liable to be set aside. We are in concurrence with the said fi ndings returned by the learned Single Judge. 14. Keeping in mind the challenge laid by the appellant herein to the selection process what emerges from the observations made by the learned Single Judge is as follows:- (i) That the Selection Committee proceeded to fi x the criteria for assigning marks to the candidates on the date of conducting the interviews. The said criteria was neither revealed in the advertisement, nor disclosed to the candidates prior to or even at the time of conducting the interviews. 716 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (ii) That though the advertisement only laid down the eligibility criteria by virtue of the qualifi cations prescribed for inviting applications from applicants, the Selection Committee on its own fi xed a total of 100 marks and assigned diff erent marks for diff erent academic qualifi cations, i.e., 10 marks for matriculation, 10 marks for intermediate and 40 marks for graduation.