Though the language used in section 33 could admit of a little bit of F confusion, the crucial words there are “shall appoint in every establishment”. Paraphrased, it implies that while the appropriate Government is making appointment in every establishment, it ought to reserve a minimum of 3 (three) per cent vacancies for persons or class of persons with disability, of which 1 (one) per cent each shall be reserved G for those persons with disabilities of the nature mentioned in the clauses therein, i.e., (i) blindness or low vision, (ii) hearing impairment, and (iii) locomotor disability or cerebral palsy, and that appointments shall be made on the posts identified for each such disability as in the said clauses. The proviso which permits exemption is not relevant in the present case; hence, its effect is not considered. It is, therefore, the statutory duty H RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 793 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] enjoined by section 33 that there must be appointment of persons with A disabilities in every establishment which ought not to be less than 3 (three) per cent but a minimum of 1 (one) percent of vacancies, available on identified posts for each disability, has to be reserved. The confusion, to our mind, might have stemmed from the narrow interpretation of the word “appoint”, without realizing that “promotion” is also included within B “appointment”. The term “appointment” is quite broad and includes appointment by ‘direct recruitment’ as well as appointment by way of ‘promotion’. Prior to Rajiv Kumar Gupta (supra), there was no authoritative pronouncement on the aspect of reservation in promotion. The interpretation of section 33 of the PwD Act, 1995 made by Rajiv Kumar Gupta (supra) finds its resonance in Siddaraju (supra). C 17. We have noticed that the PwD Act, 2016 expressly makes available benefits of reservation to promotional posts for persons with disabilities in that the first proviso to section 34 ordains that reservation in promotion shall be in accordance with such instructions as are issued by the appropriate Government from time to time. Law within the meaning D of Article 141 of the Constitution of India having been declared by Siddaraju (supra) and the GoI having implemented the of this Court dated 28th September, 2021 noted above and issued OM dated 17th May, 2022, the same constitutes “instructions” as contemplated by the first proviso to section 34 of the PwD Act, 2016. Such instructions E contemplate reservation in promotion to posts in Group – ‘A’ in the lowest grade. 18.When the provisions of the PwD Act, 1995 and the PwD Act, 2016 in relation to reservation in promotion for persons with disabilities are contrasted, it is clear as crystal that what was implicit in the former F has been made explicit by the latter. 19.This is the broad overview of the position of law, as it stands today, in regard to reservation in promotion for persons with disabilities. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE RBI: 20.Appearing in support of the appeal presented by the RBI, Mr. G Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel, contended that the High Court erred in making the directions it did.