A short background to the incorporation of Section 149 in CPC would explain this aspect. 1Section 4.- Fees on documents filed, etc., in High Courts in their Extraordinary Jurisdiction.—No document of any of the kinds specified in the First or Second Schedule to this Act annexed, as chargeable with fees, shall be filed, exhibited or recorded in, or shall be received or furnished by, any of the said High Courts F in any case coming before such Court in the exercise of its extraordinary original civil jurisdiction; or in the exercise of its extraordinary original criminal jurisdiction; In their appellate jurisdiction.—or in the exercise of its jurisdiction as regards appeals from the 1[s (other than s passed in the exercise of the ordinary original civil jurisdiction of the Court) or one] or more Judges of the said Court, or of a Division Court;—or in the exercise of its jurisdiction as regards appeals from the 2[s (other than s G passed in the exercise of the ordinary original civil jurisdiction of the Court) or one] or more Judges of the said Court, or of a Division Court;” or in the exercise of its jurisdiction as regards appeals from the Courts subject to its superintendence; as Courts of reference and revision.—or in the exercise of its jurisdiction as a Court of reference or revision; unless in respect of such document there be paid a fee of an amount not less than that indicated by either H of the said Schedules as the proper fee for such document. AJAY DABRA v. PYARE RAM & ORS. 455 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 6. The provision as given under Section 4 of the Court Fees Act A was felt to be extremely rigorous at times and for this reason in the old Code of Civil Procedure i.e. of 1882, an amendment was inserted in the year 1892 which was Section 522-A which reads as under:- “If a memorandum of appeal or application for a review of has been presented within the proper period of limitation, B but is written upon paper insufficiently stamped, and the insufficiency of the stamp was caused by a mistake on the part of the appellant or applicant as to the amount of the requisite stamps, the memorandum of appeal or application shall have the same effect, and be as valid as if it had been properly stamped: C Provided that such appeal or application shall be rejected unless the appellant or applicant supplies the requisite stamp within a reasonable time after the discovery of the mistake to be fixed by the court.” 7. The above provision was later enacted, albeit in a differently D worded form in the Code of Civil Procedure of 1908, which is present Section 149. In Mannan Lal v. Mst. Chhotaka Bibi & Ors.2 this Court while dealing with Section 149 of CPC and Section 4 of the Court Fees Act, referred to the history of amendment, as we have stated above, and had this to say in its para 12 and 13 of the :- E “12.