11(6) for the appointment of arbitrator should not test the validity or reasonableness of the conditions stipulated in the arbitration clause on the touchstone or anvil of Article 14 of the Constitution – It would be too much to say that it is only the writ court in a petition u/Art. 226 that can consider whether a particular condition in the arbitration clause is arbitrary – Concept of “party autonomy” cannot be stretched to an extent where it violates the fundamental rights under the Constitution – For an arbitration clause to be legally binding it has to be in consonance with the “operation of law” which includes the Grundnorm-the Constitution – There can be no consent against the law and there can be no waiver of fundamental rights. [Para 70, 71, 84, 85] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s. 11(6) – Appointment of an arbitrator – Arbitration Clause of the Contract empowering the Principal Secretary/Secretary (Irrigation) to appoint an arbitrator of his choice, if covered by the decision of this Court in Perkins Eastman’s case: Held: If circumstances exist giving rise to justifi able doubts as to the independence and impartiality of the person nominated or if other LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 945 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. circumstances warrant appointment of an independent arbitrator by ignoring the procedure prescribed, the Chief Justice or his designate may, for reasons to be recorded ignore the designated arbitrator and appoint someone else – On facts, the condition contained in Clause 55 of the GCC as regardst he stipulation empowering the Principal Secretary (Irrigation) Government of Uttarakhand to appoint a sole arbitrator is ignored and proceed to appoint an independent arbitrator. [Para 87, 102] s. 12(5) – Neutrality of Arbitrators: Held: Term “neutrality” used is relatable to impartiality and independence of the arbitrators,w ithout any bias towards any of the parties – Sub-section (5) of s. 12 lays down that notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, any person whose relationship with the parties or counsel or the subject-matter of the dispute falls under any of the categories specifi ed in the Seventh Schedule, he shall be ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator – In sucha n eventuality, when the arbitration clause fi nds foul with the amended provisions, the appointment of an arbitrator would be beyond pale of the arbitration agreement, empowering the court to appoint such arbitrator(s) as may be permissible – That would be the eff ect of the non obstantec lause contained in s. 12(5) and the other party cannot insisto n appointment of the arbitrator in terms of the arbitration agreement. [Para 90, 91] Jurisprudence – Kelson’s Pure Theory of Law on the basic norm – Application of “Grundnorm” in India: Held: In the context of the Arbitration Agreement, the layers of the Grundnorm as per Kelsen’s theory would be in the following hierarchy-Constitution of India; Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 & any other Central/State Law; and Arbitration Agreement entered into by the parties in light of s. 7 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Thus, the Arbitration Agreement has to comply with the requirements of the following and cannot fall foul of s. 7 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act; any other provisions of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1 996 & Central/State Law; and the Constitution of India – Arbit ration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Constitution of India .