I told them that my father is a labourer, and he cannot arrange Rs. 1 lakh. On account of this, my mother-in-law and husband have been beating me. They did not provide me food for several weeks. I remained hungry & thirsty and the women of village somehow provided me food by hiding themselves from these people. My mother-in-law even forbade me from giving milk to my 9-month-old son and forced me to bring fi rewood from jungle. Even after that, food was not provided to me. I have been staying at my matrimonial home throughout. You invited us several times for various functions and ceremonies but they neither allowed me to go nor they went themselves. They say that if you wish 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. to go then bring Rs. One lakh otherwise you will not be allowed to return here. They say that your parents and family members should not come here, if they do then it would not be good for me. My father, I do not have any support, I am surviving here at mercy of God. I have been staying here hungry & thirsty. On account of the beatings being given by them, I have not been keeping good health. Till date I have concealed all these facts. My father if you can arrange Rs. One lakh then my life can be saved, otherwise I do not know as to what will happen with me, any untoward incident may happen with me. Please do not tell anyone about this letter otherwise they will eliminate me. Yours daughter Village Mangolpuri” 32. The second letter, Exh. Ka-2 reads thus: “Respected mother and father, accept Pranam from your daughter Sudha with folded hands. Love to Krishna, Manoj, Mukesh from their sister. I am well here and pray before Almighty for your well-being. I need my previous letter which I had written to you. I am not asking for the letter under pressure from anyone. I am happy at my home. I heard that uncle Anil is coming here and so I request you to send that letter through him. My father, if you wish to see me happy then please send the letter through Anil uncle. I have to stay here only. I am not asking for it under pressure from anyone, I want that letter. If you do not send that letter through Anil uncle then treat that your daughter is no more. I am very well here. Don’t think more, just send the letter only, I will wait for the same. Your son-in-law has been behaving properly with me. If he behaves with me properly, then everything is alright and you should not be concerned. You just send the letter through uncle, as I need that letter and there is no benefi t in keeping that letter with you. I am alright here; you should feel happy about it. Sonu is fi ne. Your daughter Sudha.” PRINCIPLES OF LAW GOVERNING THE APPLICABILITY OF SECTION 106 OF THE EVIDENCE ACT 33.