Ltd. and Courtesan Consulting Private Limited, respectively, in the bank account of YS and such financial transactions C involving huge amounts prima facie appeared to be conspicuous requiring minute scrutiny. These, along with some other disclosures relating to involvement of AS as promoter of a ‘memorial foundation’ and YS as partner of a firm, reveals the following contents: “***As per the information regarding properties exceeding income, D received in the inquiry, commission of a cognizable offence appears prima facie. Keeping it in view, investigation is required so that information may be obtained regarding movable and immovable properties in addition to the aforesaid properties. There is possibility that information regarding not only shares, vehicles and jewelry but also regarding Benami properties in the name of relatives, E may be obtained. The income received lawfully by non-applicant Aman Singh and Yasmin Singh during their tenure as public servant, from year 2014 to December, 2018, was found to be Rs. 3,33,71,290, in comparison to which, it was found that immensely disproportionate expenses have been made by non-applicant Aman F Singh during the said period in his name and in the name of his wife and dependent members, which was prima facie found to be an offence under Sections 13(1)B, 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 as amended by Amendment Act, 2018 and Section 120(B) of the Indian Penal Code.” G 56. It is true that the FIR could have been drafted better. Since a first information report is the starting point for a long drawn investigative process and such an investigation could be scuttled by an accused taking advantage of inept drafting of such report, this is an area where all the more care and dexterity is called for to prevent many a thing. However, nothing significant turns on the inept drafting of the FIR in this case H THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 157 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] since it does make out a case of cognizable offence having been committed A by AS and YS. Indeed, if at all there are miscalculations arising out of arithmetical errors or misdescription of properties not belonging to AS and YS, they were/are free to point it out while joining the investigation. It is also open to them to point out to the investigating officer that there has been absolutely no suppression or non-disclosure of properties/assets B and also that no activity amounting to ‘criminal misconduct’ had been committed by them. However, they chose to challenge the FIR on the specious ground that the same did not disclose a cognizable offence. 57. Based on our reading of the FIR, we are unable to appreciate the reasons resting whereon the same has been quashed by the High C Court. The High Court was of the opinion that (i) the FIR clearly demonstrates that the same “is based on probabilities with regard to disproportionate income”, (ii) the FIR “is silent with regard to the quantum of disproportionate income, which is the paramount factors for involving any person in implicating any person for commission of offence under Section 13(1)(b), 13(2) of the Act, 1988”, (iii) these D “basic ingredients are not reflected from the bare perusal of the FIR”, (iv) the “FIR nowhere discloses commission of any offence with definite facts and figures” and (v) “offence under Section 13(1)(b), 13(2) of the Act, 1988 is not made out”.