C We have the benefit of hearing Mr. Yatharth Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent no.2-complaint on caveat. We are of the view that this aspect must be gone into if the court is to take a view which is at variance with the view taken in D the of Jogendra Yadav and Ors. (supra). Issue notice. The petitioners may serve dasti also to the standing counsel for the State of Uttar Pradesh. E List the matter in the second week of July 2023.” On a reading of the same, it is evident that this Court was inclined to issue notice to the respondent(s) having regard to the submission made by Shri S. Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel in the context of the of this Court in the case of Jogendra Yadav and Ors. vs. State F of Bihar and Anr., reported in (2015) 9 SCC 244 (‘Jogendra Yadav’). 9. Shri S. Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel, at the outset submitted that paragraph 9 of Jogendra Yadav has categorically recorded that when an accused is summoned in exercise of the power under Section 319 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (‘Cr.P.C’ for short), G such an accused has to be heard before being added as an accused to face trial; that such an accused has a further right of hearing if he challenges the summoning before the High Court and further before this court. In light of the observations of this Court in Jogendra Yadav, the right of an accused, who is summoned to be heard before being added asan accused has been recognised by this Court; that in the instant H 1202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A case because there was no such hearing that was provided to the appellants, who were added as accused, in light of the aforesaid , the impugned may be set aside and the matter may be remanded to the Sessions Court for giving an opportunity to the appellants of being heard before being added as accused. B 10. In this context, learned senior counsel drew our attention to another of this Court in the case of Ram Janam Yadav &Ors. V/ s. State of U.P. & Anr. in SLP (Crl.) No.3199/2021(‘Ram Janam Yadav’), wherein this Court had directed that an Amicus Curiae be appointed to consider the question which emanated from the in Jogendra Yadav and to refer the matter to a larger Bench, to decide: (1) as to, C whether, an accused, who is impleaded under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C., is entitled to file an application for discharge and (2) whether, a person before being impleaded as an accused is entitled to prior hearing or not. Of course, it was also pointed out that ultimately the said matter was not referred to answer the said questions as this Court found that in the said D case the accused had, in fact, been given an opportunity of hearing and, therefore, held that the issues raised would be purely academic in nature.