We also do bear in mind that in paragraph-8 (I) (i) (b), construction of pipelines, inter alia,was permitted. It is thereafter that in paragraph-8 (II), under CRZ-II, Clause VI contemplated permitting of storage of non-hazardous cargo, such as edible oil, fertilizers and food F grain ‘in’ notified ports. We may broaden our inquiry into the relevant contents of CRZ-III. CRZ-III of the 2011 Notification was divided into area ‘A’, which,inter alia, dealt with areas up to 200 meters from HTL on the landward side in the case of sea front. The said Clause proclaimed further that the said area would be a No Development Zone (NDZ). We G notice that in CRZ-III the NDZ was not to be applicable in ‘such areas’ within any port limits.Thus, the expression ‘within’ made its appearance in relation to notified port limits again. In the permitted activities in the NDZ under area ‘A’,viz., up to 200 meters as aforesaid, we find Clause (e), which permitted facilities for receipt and storage of petroleum products and liquified petroleum gas as specifiedin Annexure-II. Area B of CRZ- H K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 275 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] III is described as the area comprised from 200 meters to 500 meters. A Since the CRZ itself would terminate upon the 500 meters distance being obtained, this constituted, in other words, the residuary area, of CRZ- III. Under the same we notice that again facilities for receipt and storage of petroleum products and liquified natural gas as specified in Annexure- II was permitted. We may bear in mind that the very same activity had B also been contemplated in area A of CRZ-III, viz., the area comprised to 200 meters of the high tide line of the landward area in the case of the sea front, inter alia. Interestingly, when it comes to storage of non- hazardous cargo, such as edible oils fertilizers and food grain ‘in’ the notified ports, it was permitted activity in area ‘B’ of CRZ-III under Clause 4 thereof, that is, an area located between 200 metres to 500 C metres.It must be noticed that CRZ-III had been classified inparagraph- 7 essentially as relatively undisturbed area, which did not belong to either CRZ-I or II, which included the coastal zone in rural areas, both developed and undeveloped and also areas within municipal limits or in other legally designated urban areas, which were not substantially built up. We have D already noticed the classification of CRZ-II earlier, as areas which had been developed up to or close to the shore line. Can it then be said that storage of non-hazardous cargo, such as edible oil, fertilizers food grain, permittedin the notified ports in CRZ-III, Area ‘B’, be also permitted in CRZ-III Area ‘A’? Going by the contents of CRZ-III under activities which were permitted in the NDZ, we are unable to find any clause E which permitted such storage of non-hazardous cargo including edible oil,inter alia.Therefore, in the NDZ area falling under area ‘A’ of CRZ- III, it may have been impermissible.