[Para 41, 42] Companies Act, 1956 – s. 109A – Eff ect of term ‘vest’ in s. 109A and Byelaw 9.11.1 under the Depositories Act, 1996: Held: s. 109A of the 1956 Act (pari materia to s. 72 of the Companies Act, 2013) provides for vesting of shares/debentures of a share/debenture holder unto his nominee ‘in the event of his death’ – Byelaw 9.11.1 under the Depositories Act, 1996 provides for ‘vesting’ of the securities unto the nominee on the death of the benefi cial owner – Use of the word ‘vest’ does not by itself, confer ownership of the shares/securities to the nominee – Vesting of the shares/securities in the nominee under the Companies Act, 1956 and the Depositories Act, 1996 is only for a limited purpose-to enable the Company to deal with the securities thereof, in the immediate aftermath of the shareholder’s death and to avoid uncertainty as to the holder of the SHAKTI YEZDANI & ANR. v. JAYANAND JAYANT 697 SALGAONKAR & ORS. securities, which could hamper the smooth functioning of the aff airs of the company. [Para 34, 35] Companies Act, 1956 – s. 109A – Non-obstante clause – Eff ect of: Held: Non-obstante clause in s. 109A should be interpreted keeping in mind the scheme of the Act and the intent of introduction of nomination facility u/ss. 109A and 109B wherein emphasis was laid on building investor confi dence and bringing the company law in tune with policies of liberalisation and deregulation – Use of the non-obstante clause serves a singular purpose of allowing the company to vest the shares upon the nominee to the exclusion of any other person, for the purpose of discharge of its liability against diverse claims by the legal heirs of the deceased shareholder – This arrangement is until the legal heirs have settled the aff airs of the testator and are ready to register the transmission of shares, by due process of succession law – As per Bye-law 9.11.7 of the Depositories Act, 1996, the non-obstante clause confers overriding eff ect to the nomination over any other disposition/nomination ‘for the purposes of dealing with the securities lying to the credit of deceased nominating person(s) in any manner’ – Purpose of invoking such non-obstante clause is delineated and limited to the extent of enabling the depository to deal with the securities, in the immediate aftermath of the securities holder’s death – Thus, non- obstante clause in both s. 109A(3) of the 1956 Act and Bye-law 9.11.7 of the Depositories Act, 1996 cannot be held to exclude the legal heirs from their rightful claim over the securities, against the nominee – Interpretation of statutes. [Paras 37, 38] Interpretation of statutes – Rules of interpretation – Words and phrases – Interpretation of: Held: General words and phrases used in a statute, regardless of their wide ambit, must be interpreted taking into account the objects of the statute – Clauses and sections within a statute are not to be read in isolation, but their textual interpretation is determined by the scheme of the entire statute – Non-obstante clause is to be considered on the basis of the context within which it is used.