A Provided that the application maybe received after the pe- riod of thirty days aforesaid, if the applicant satisfies the Revenue Divisional Officer that he had sufficient cause for not making the application within that period. (4) On receipt of an application under sub-section (3), the B Revenue Divisional Officer shall, after giving a reasonable oppor- tunity to the landlord and the cultivating tenant, if any, in posses- sion of the land, to make their representations, hold a summary inquiry into the matter and pass an either allowing the appli- cation, or dismissing it the Revenue Divisional Officer may im- pose such conditions as he may consider just and equitable includ- C ing in regard to- (i) the payment by the applicant of any arrear of rent already due from him to the landlord, but not exceeding in amount one year’s rent, and D (ii) the reimbursement by the applicant of the landlord or the other cultivating tenant in respect of the expenses incurred or the labour done by him during the period when the applicant was not in possession, on any crop which has not been har- vested, if an agreement is not reached between the parties as E regards is not reached between the parties as regards the rates and manner of such reimbursement. Explanation. - In lieu of imposing any condition relating to reimbursement as provided in clause (ii), the Revenue Divisional Officer may, in his discretion, postpone the restoration of the ap- F plicant to possession of the land, until any crop which is being grown thereon at the lime when the is passed, has been harvested. (5) Any cultivating tenant who after the commencement of this Act has been evicted except under the provisions of sub-sec- G tion (4) of section 3 shall be entitled to apply to the Revenue Divi- sional Officer within two months from the dale of such eviction or within two months from the date of coming into force of the Tamil Nadu Cultivating Tenants Protection ( Amendment) Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act XIV of 1956) for the restoration to him of the possession of the lands from which he was evicted and to hold H K. CHINNAMMAL (DEAD) THR. LRS. v. L. R. EKNATH 845 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] them with all the rights and subject to all the liabilities of a cultivat- A ing tenant. The provisions of sub-section (4) shall, so far as may be, apply to such an application. Explanation I. - In relation to the Shencottah taluk of the Tirunelveli district, the expressions ‘1st December, 1953’ and ‘1953-54 or 1954-55 wherever they occur in this section shall be B construed respectively as referring to ‘1st March, 1958’ and ‘1957- 58 or 1958-59’. Explanation II. - Nothing in sub-sections (1), (2) and (3) shall apply to the added territories. C Explanation III. - Nothing in sub-section (1), (2) and (3) shall apply to the Kanyakumari District.” 23. The contention of the learned counsel for the appellants that Sections 3 & 4 of the Act would come to their rescue is, in our view, erroneous, for the reason that as per Section 3 of the Act, late payment D of the rent as per the direction of the Revenue Court is clearly a valid ground for effecting eviction.