LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] limit that the Directors can decide to issue further shares, unless A they are precluded from doing even that by the regulations of the company. It is said that Section 105-C becomes applicable after the company in a general meeting has decided upon altering its memorandum by increasing its share capital by issuing new shares. If the company at a general meeting has decided upon the increase B of its share capital by the issue of new shares, then it is wholly inappropriate to talk of the Directors deciding to increase capital, because the increase has already been decided upon by the company itself. Further, after the company has at a general meeting decided to increase its share capital by the issue of new shares, the increased capital becomes its authorised capital and C then if the Directors under Section 105-C decide to increase the capital by the issue of further shares, then this decision is nothing more than a decision to raise capital within the newly authorised limit. Finally, if Section 105-C were to be held applicable to the case of an increase of capital above the authorised limit then such D construction will lead to anomalous results so far as the companies which have adopted Table A, for the section is not consonant with Regulation 42 of Table A which, as will be shown hereafter, applies to increase of capital beyond the authorised limit. If the legislature intended that Section 105-C should apply to all companies in the matter of increase of capital above the authorised limit, then the E simplest thing would have been to make Regulation 42 a compulsory Regulation, instead of introducing a section which in its terms differs from Regulation 42 and which therefore makes the position of companies which have adopted Table A anomalous. It appears to me, therefore, for reasons stated above, that Section 105-C F becomes applicable only when the Directors decide to increase capital within the authorised limit by the issue of further shares. In this view of the matter that section is clearly applicable to the facts of this case.” (Emphasis supplied) G 63. Section 81 of the Companies Act, 1956 provided for further issue of capital. Section 81(1) read as follows: “81. Further issue of capital. H 278 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (1)Where at any time after the expiry of two years from the formation of a company or at any time after the expiry of one year from the allotment of shares in that company made for the first time after its formation, whichever is earlier, it is proposed to increase the subscribed capital of the company by allotment of further shares, then, B (a) suchfurther] shares shall be offered to the persons who, at the date of the offer, are holders of the equity shares of the company, in proportion, as nearly as circumstances admit, to the capital paid up on those shares at that date; C (b) the offer aforesaid shall be made by notice specifying the number of shares offered and limiting a time not being less than fifteen days from the date of the offer within which the offer, if not accepted, will be deemed to have been declined; (c) unless the articles of the company otherwise provide, the offer aforesaid shall be deemed to include a right exercis- able by the person D concerned to renounce the shares offered to him or any of them in favour of any other person; and the notice referred to in clause (b) shall contain a statement of this right; (d) after the expiry of the time specified in the notice aforesaid, E or on receipt of earlier intimation from the person to whom such notice is given that he declines to accept the shares offered, the Board of directors may dispose of them in such manner as they think most beneficial to the company.