D Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD:1. The service elements have found a statutory recognition as part of Rule 2A of the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 w.e.f. 01.06.2007 which has been referred. The applicability of Rule 2A has been dealt with and considered E by this Court in extenso in the case of Larsen and Toubro. Therefore, as per the law laid down by this Court in the case of ‘works contract service’ an assessee is liable to pay the service tax on the service element/value of the service rendered and the sales tax/tax on the element of goods transferred pursuant to the contract. [Para 8.4][1000-B-C] F 2. It is the case on behalf of the respondent – assessee that as in Rule 2A and even in the Composition Scheme the word used are subject to the provisions of Section 67 the assessee had an option to pay the service tax on the entire contract value i.e. on gross amount charged by the service provider and that G Rule 2A is not compulsory and the Composition Scheme is optional. However, the aforesaid has no substance. If the submission on behalf of the assessee is accepted in that case Rule 2A and the Composition Scheme shall become otiose. [Para 8.8][1001-E] H CC AND CE AND ST, NOIDA v. M/S INTERARCH BUILDING 979 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. 3. With respect to the ‘works contract service’ and/or the A Composition Works Contract the valuation has to be made as per Rule 2A of the Valuation Rules, 2006. Even as per the Composition Scheme vide Notification 32/2007 dated 22.04.2007 an assessee has an option to discharge the service tax liability on the works contract service provided or to be provided, instead B of paying service tax at the rate specified in Section 66 of the Act by paying equivalent to 2% of the gross amount charged for the works contract. It is to be noted that Rule 3(1) provides notwithstanding anything contained in Section 67 of the Act and Rule 2A of the Service (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006. Therefore, as per the Scheme of the Act the determination of C value of service portion in the execution of the works contract is to be made as per Rule 2A, however with an option to the assessee to avail the benefit of Composition Scheme. Therefore, either the assessee has to go for Composition Scheme or go for Determination of Value as per Rule 2A and the assessee has to D pay service tax on the service element and can claim CENVAT Credit on the said amount only. [Para 8.9][1001-F-H; 1002-A] 4. In view of the above the impugned and passed by the CESTAT taking the contrary view is unsustainable by which it is held that the assessee is entitled to take the total E contract value which includes both goods and services and remit service tax on the entire value as ‘works contract’ and the assessee is also entitled to avail the CENVAT Credit on the same.