After observing as above, in paragraph No.12, it was observed: “12. That is not to say that the High Court is obliged to exercise its jurisdiction when a case is decided by a subordinate Court and the conditions in clauses (a), (b), or (c) are satisfi ed. Exercise of the jurisdiction is discretionary : the High Court is not bound to interfere merely because the conditions are satisfi ed. The interlocutory character of the , the existence of another remedy to an aggrieved party by way of an appeal, from the ultimate or decree in the proceeding or by a suit, and the general equities of the case being served by the made are all matters to be taken into account in considering whether the High Court, even in cases where the conditions which attract the jurisdiction exist, should exercise its jurisdiction.” (Emphasis supplied) 21. The law laid down in Major S.S. Khanna (supra) by a three-Judge Bench of this Court still holds the fi eld. Thus, it is settled that the expression “case” used in Section 115 of the CPC is of wide amplitude. It includes civil proceedings other than suits, and is not restricted to the entirety of the proceeding in a civil court. In that sense, rejection of a review application would also be a case which has been decided and, therefore, it could be canvassed that as no appeal lies against such an , the same is amenable to the revisional jurisdiction under Section 115 of the CPC. However, at the same time, it cannot be overlooked that exercise of revisional powers cannot be claimed as of right. It is a discretionary power. The revisional Court is not bound to interfere merely because any of the three conditions, as laid down in Section 115 of the CPC for exercise of such power, is satisfi ed. Rather, the Court, exercising revisional powers, must bear in mind, inter alia, whether it would be appropriate to exercise such power considering the interlocutory character of the , the existence of another remedy to an aggrieved party by way of an appeal, from the ultimate or decree in the proceeding, or by a suit, and the general equities of the case. 22. In Major S.S. Khanna (supra) the impugned before the revisional court was an by which the trial court while deciding a preliminary issue held the suit as not maintainable though, the suit itself was not decided. Therefore, there was no appealable decree in existence at the time when the revisional jurisdiction was invoked. Whereas, in the case at 710 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. hand there was already an appealable decree in existence when the revisional powers were invoked. In fact, the review application sought review of an appealable decree and not just a mere that might have been passed by the court in the course of a suit. The revision was fi led against rejection of that review application. At that stage, when the review application was rejected, the aggrieved party had a right to question the decree of the trial court in an appeal.