A (iv) While satisfying itself of the national security claim, the Courts must give due weightage to the assessment and the conclusion of the State. The Courts cannot disagree on the broad actions that invoke national security concerns - that is, a question of principle such as whether preparation of terrorist activities by a citizen in a foreign country amounts B a threat of national security. However, the courts must review the assessment of the State to the extent of determining whether it has proved through cogent material that the actions of the aggrieved person fall within the principles established above. C 75. The contention of the respondent that the of this Court in Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services (supra) held that the principles of natural justice shall be excluded when concerns of national security are involved is erroneous. The principle that was expounded in that case was that the principles of natural justice may be excluded D when on the facts of the case, national security concerns outweigh the duty of fairness. Thus, national security is one of the few grounds on which the right to a reasonable procedural guarantee may be restricted. The mere involvement of issues concerning national security would not preclude the state’s duty to act fairly. If the State discards its duty to act fairly, then it must be justified before the court on the facts of the case. E Firstly, the State must satisfy the Court that national security concerns are involved. Secondly, the State must satisfy the court that an abrogation of the principle(s) of natural justice is justified. These two standards that have emerged from the jurisprudence abroad resemble the proportionality standard. The first test resembles the legitimate aim prong, and the second F test of justification resembles the necessity and the balancing prongs. G.2 Application of the proportionality standard 76. Having held that the concerns of national security do not permit an absolute abrogation of the principles of natural justice, we are now required to assess if the restriction on procedural guarantees is reasonable G on an application of the proportionality standard. The proportionality standard as laid down by this Court in Modern Dental (supra) is as follows: (i) The measure restricting a right must have a legitimate goal (legitimate goal stage). H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 657 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (ii) The measure must be a suitable means for furthering this A goal (suitability or rational connection stage). (iii) The measure must be least restrictive and equally effective (necessity stage). (iv) The measure must not have a disproportionate impact on B the right holder (balancing stage). G. 2 (a) Legitimate Goal Stage 77. This prong requires an analysis of the legitimacy of the aim that restricts rights. The aim must be of sufficient importance to override fundamental rights. At this stage, the State is required to discharge the C burden of proving that the action is in furtherance of an aim that is legitimate. The State is also required to discharge the additional burden of proving that the action is indeed in furtherance of the legitimate aim that is contended to be served.