Whether the acquisition proceedings has vitiated the entire land in its entirety liable to be quashed, if acquisition proceedings. the petitioners have made out a iii) Apart from public interest the case, by exercising judicial review petitioners have also pleaded for power by this Court? And the small land owners of the C marginalised section who have no 15. What relief petitioners are entitled? access to this Court to fight litigation. iv) Therefore, the acquisition proceedings in its entirety is liable to be quashed, as per the judgement of the Supreme Court in HMT House Building D Cooperative Society Vs. Syed Khader & Ors., AIR 1995 SC 2244. 8. We have heard the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. 8.1 We have also gone through in detail and considered the E impugned and passed by the High Court quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings. 8.2 Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the appellants that the High Court has seriously erred in quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings as only few landowners submitted the F objections under Section 5A of the Act, 1894 and that the High Court has materially erred in entertaining and allowing the Public Interest Litigation petitions is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that in the present case, the State Government has in utter disregard to the relevant provisions of the Act, 1894 and the Rules, 1963 had acquired G a huge tract of land to the extent of approximately 7000 acres of agricultural lands belonging to the various landowners, namely, 6000 families and thus involving displacement of approximately 30,000 people. It is required to be noted that the lands in question acquired for the beneficiary foundation / company / trust was acquired for the proposed university in a prime location just adjacent to the Wildlife Sanctuary and H 1004 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A from the lands in question acquired, two small rivers belonging to the State / acquired by the State are passing. The manner in which the State Government has dealt with and acquired the agricultural lands belonging to 6000 families and as it in fact favoured the private limited company, which was subsequently alleged to have been converted to a public company and that too without holding any proper inquiry to the need B etc., we are of the opinion that the High Court has rightly entertained the writ petitions including the Public Interest Litigation petitions and merely because some persons did not file the objections under Section 5A and/ or accepted a meagre compensation and/or even accepted the compensation cannot be a ground to set aside the acquisition proceedings, C which as such rightly observed by the High Court, is vitiated by not following the statutory provisions under the Act, 1894 as well as the Rules, 1963. It is required to be noted that as such the entire initiation of land acquisition proceedings and even right from selection of the land was by the company – beneficiary company and not by the State Government.