Pharmacy on the other hand is the preparation and dispensing of drugs. It defines a pharmacist to mean a person who is qualified by G examination and registered and authorized to dispense medicines or to keep open a shop for the sale and dispensing of medicines. 15.2. What emerges on a consideration of the said definitions is as under: H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 761 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] i) The science of pharmacology and the practice of pharmacy A are both concerned with a study of chemical substances and how they affect the functioning of the body. ii) In a nutshell, the main difference between pharmacology and pharmacy is that pharmacology is the science of developing and understanding the effects of drugs and other B substances, while pharmacy is the science and practice of collecting, preparing, standardizing, and distributing drugs to patients after a medical professional s a prescription for a drug. iii) Despite their differences, pharmacology and pharmacy have C some similarities. Both fields are concerned with the use of drugs in healthcare, and both require an understanding of drug action, dosage, and potential side effects. Pharmacology and Pharmacy are both important fields in healthcare, but they differ in their focus and level of D advancement. Pharmacology is generally considered more advanced than pharmacy because it involves more complex research into the mechanisms of drug action and the development of new drugs. 15.3. We therefore, cannot hold that a doctor by profession with a E Post Graduate degree (MD) and Ph.D. in Pharmacology was in any way underqualified or unsuitable for her role on the Selection Board. In fact, we think that a pharmacologist is more appropriate to interview the candidates for the post of drug inspector. Further, it is to be noted that Rule 9 A provides that the Chairman may if he feels necessary appoint a specialist in the discipline in which appointment is to be made, as a F member of the selection board. Similarly Rule 9 (iii) provides that the Chairman may, if he feels necessary associate with the Selection Committee expert/specialist in the discipline in which recruitment is to be made. The use of the word ‘may’ would indicate that the Chairman of the Board has discretion in this regard and there is no mandatory G requirement to appoint on the selection panel a person having a qualification in pharmacy. To this extent, we affirm the findings of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court. We do not find any substance in the arguments of learned counsel for the respondent/writ petitioners in this regard. H 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 16. This Court has upheld the legitimacy of conducting interviews as a part of a selection process, even where marks earmarked for the same has been found to be prima-facie excessive, vide Minor A. Peeriakaruppan etc. vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (1971) 1 SCC 38; Miss Nishi Maghu vs. State of J & K, (1980) 4 SCC 95.