In the case of Dr. Anand Teltumbde -vs- National Investigation Agency and Another [2022 SCC OnLine Bom 5174] allegations were similar in nature against the petitioner therein. He was charged with all the Sections of the 1967 Act as has been done in the H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 903 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] cases of AF and VG except Section 40. The Bombay High Court by a A delivered on 18th November 2022 had enlarged him on bail. The NIA’s petition for special leave to appeal [SLP(Crl) No. 11345/ 2022] against that was dismissed by a Coordinate Bench of this Court on 25th November 2022. 24.As it would be evident from the analysis of the evidence cited B by the NIA, the acts allegedly committed by the appellants can be categorised under three heads. The first is their association with a terrorist organisation which the prosecution claims from the letters and witness statements, particulars of which we have given above. But what we must be conscious of, while dealing with prima facie worth of these C statements and documents is that none of them had been seized or recovered from the appellants but these recoveries are alleged to have been made from the co-accused. The second head of alleged offensive acts of the appellants is keeping literatures propagating violence and promoting overthrowing of a democratically elected government through armed struggle. But again, it is not the NIA’s case that either of the two D appellants is the author of the materials found from their residences, as alleged. None of these literatures has been specifically proscribed so as to constitute an offence, just by keeping them. Thirdly, so far as AF is concerned, some materials point to handling of finances. But such finances, as per the materials through which the dealings are sought to E be established, show that the transaction was mainly for the purpose of litigation on behalf of, it appears to us, detained party persons. The formation of or association with a legal front of the banned terrorist organisation has also been attributed to AF, in addition. The High Court while analysing each of these documents individually did not opine that there were reasonable grounds for believing that the accusations against F such persons were not prima facie true. Those offences which come within Chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act, charged against the appellants, are Sections 16, 17, 18, 18B, 20, 38, 39 and 40. We have summarised the nature of allegations reflected in the chargesheet as also the affidavit of the NIA. Now we shall have to ascertain if on the G basis of these materials, the prosecution has made out reasonable grounds to persuade the Court to be satisfied that the accusations against the appellants are prima facie true. There is charge under Section 13 of the 1967 Act and certain offences under the 1860 Code against the appellants also. But we shall first deal with the appellants’ case in relation to charges made against them under the aforesaid provisions.