In Nabam Rebia (supra), the INC formed the government in Arunachal Pradesh under the leadership of Mr. Nabam Tuki. Mr. Nabam Rebia was elected as the Speaker of the Arunachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly. In October 2015, a section of the MLAs of the INC formed G a separate group and opposed the leadership of the Chief Minister. Twenty MLAs of the INC along with two independent MLAs wrote to the Governor claiming that the Chief Minister has lost the trust and confidence of the House. Later, certain MLAs from the opposition parties issued a notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker of the Assembly under Article 179(c) of the Constitution. Thereafter, H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 901 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] the Chief Whip of the Congress Legislature Party filed disqualification A petitions under Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule against fourteen MLAs of the INC for breaching party directions. The Speaker then issued notices in the disqualification petitions to the MLAs. 50. On 9 December 2015, the Governor issued an advancing the session of the Assembly originally scheduled to be held on 14 January B 2016 to 16 December 2015. On the same day, the Governor also issued a message under Article 175(2). In the message, he fixed the resolution for the removal of the Speaker as the first item on the agenda of the House and tasked the Deputy Speaker with conducting the proceedings of the House. The Governor also directed that the Presiding Officer C shall not alter the party composition in the House till the session was prorogued. On 17 December 2015, the Government headed by the Chief Minister Mr. Nabam Tuki was declared to have lost the confidence of the House. 51. It was in this context that Nabam Rebia (supra) came to be D decided. A Constitution Bench of this Court in that case (speaking through the majority opinion authored by Khehar, J. and the concurring opinion by Misra, J., as the learned Chief Justices then were) inter alia ruled that it was impermissible for a Speaker to adjudicate upon disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule after a notice of intention to move a resolution for their removal from the office of the Speaker was issued. E 52. Khehar, J. grounded his opinion on constitutional and moral reasoning. The learned Judge observed that when the position of the Speaker is under challenge, it would “seem” just and proper for the Speaker to establish their right to continue before adjudicating on the disqualification petition(s) pending before them: F “189. When the position of a Speaker is under challenge, through a notice of resolution for his removal, it would “seem” just and appropriate, that the Speaker first demonstrates his right to continue as such, by winning support of the majority in the State Legislature. The action of the Speaker in continuing, with one or more G disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule, whilst a notice of resolution for his own removal, from the Office of the Speaker is pending, would “appear” to be unfair.