Article 141 of the Constitution of India mandates that our s are followed in letter and spirit. The date of coming into force of the IB Code does not and cannot form a trigger point of limitation for applications filed under the Code. D Equally, since “applications” are petitions which are filed under the Code, it is Article 137 of the Limitation Act which will apply to such applications.” 23.The above-mentioned positions settled with respect to Section 7, IBC will proprio vigore apply to Section 9, IBC. In short, as relates E an application under Section 9, IBC the date of coming into force of IBC, viz, 01.12.2016 would not form the trigger point of limitation and the period of limitation for an application for initiating of CIRP under Section 9, IBC would be three years from the date when the right to apply accrues as provided by Article 137 of the Limitation Act and further F that the right to apply under the IBC would accrue on the date when default occurs and it is extendable only by application of Section 5 of the Limitation Act. In view of the nature of the provision under SICA and the nature of the s issuable by the BIFR and the positions qua an application for initiation of CIRP under Section 9 of IBC, referred above, we think it absolutely unnecessary to delve into the question of applicability G or otherwise of Section 14 of the Limitation Act in regard to proceedings under Section 9, IBC as the same provides only for exclusion of time of proceedings bona fide in Court without jurisdiction. 24. When the limitation period for initiating CIRP under Section 9, IBC is to be reckoned from the date of default, as opposed to the date of H 210 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A commencement of IBC and the period prescribed therefor, is three years as provided by Section 137 of the Limitation Act, 1963 and the same would commence from the date of default and is extendable only by application of Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 it is incumbent on the Adjudicating Authority to consider the claim for condonation of the delay when once the proceeding concerned is found filed beyond the period of B limitation. 25. As relates Section 5 of the Limitation Act showing ‘sufficient cause’ is the only criterion for condoning delay. ‘Sufficient Cause’ is the cause for which a party could not be blamed. We have already taken note of the legal bar for initiation of proceedings against an industrial C company by virtue of Section 22 (1), SICA and obviously, when a party was thus legally disabled from resorting to legal proceeding for recovering the outstanding dues without the permission of BIFR and even on application permission therefor was not given the period of suspension of legal proceedings is excludable in computing the period of limitation D for the enforcement of such right in terms of Section 22(5), SICA.