He drew our attention to Section 5 of the Act interdicting judicial intervention. He pointed out Section 8 of the Act, which, after the amendment in the year 2015, permits disallowing of making a reference to arbitration, only if the Court found prima facie that no valid Arbitration Agreement C existed. Section 8, he pointed out, did refer to ‘validity’. He took us through the decision in SMS Tea Estates (supra), in the context of the law laid down in SBP (supra), by the Constitution Bench, the Report of the Law Commission of India and emphasised the need for minimal interference and to give full meaning to Section 11(6A), by ensuring D minimal interference. He drew our attention to the discussion by the high-level Committee, which preceded the amendment in Section 11. He commended for the Court’s acceptance, the view taken by this Court in Duro Felguera14, wherein, Justice Kurian Joseph, speaking for the Court inter alia, held in the post Section 11(6A) scenario, as follows: E “59. The scope of the power under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act was considerably wide in view of the decisions in SBP and Co. [SBP and Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd., (2005) 8 SCC 618] and Boghara Polyfab [National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab (P) Ltd., (2009) 1 SCC 267 : (2009) 1 SCC (Civ) 117] . This position continued till the amendment brought about in 2015. F After the amendment, all that the courts need to see is whether an arbitration agreement exists—nothing more, nothing less. The legislative policy and purpose is essentially to minimise the Court’s intervention at the stage of appointing the arbitrator and this intention as incorporated in Section 11(6-A) ought to be respected.” G 16. The learned Amicus would point out that non-stamping did not render the agreement null and void. In law and in point of fact, an unstamped instrument bears life. He would point out that Duro Felguera (supra) was approved by a Bench of three learned Judges in Mayavati H 14 (2017) 9 SCC 729 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 313 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Trading (supra). He would attack the finding in Garware (supra) that A an unstamped instrument was void as being incorrect. He would submit that what is required in law, after the insertion of sub-Section (6A) is clear as daylight. The existence of an Arbitration Agreement, is all that should detain the Judge in an application under Section 11. No doubt, he would point out that there may be cases where the actual situation, which B occasioned the in Vidya Drolia (supra), may exist. This means that since Section 5 of the Act makes certain disputes non-arbitrable, it may detain a Judge, who is approached under Section 11, to dissuade him from making a reference. There may arise occasions, which may leave the Judge with little choice but to decline the reference. An instance may be an agreement demonstrated to be made by a minor or a person C of unsound mind.