B (ix) The ITAT’s conclusion that the interest under Sections 234 A and 234 B of the Act could not be charged since a specific notice in that behalf was not issued by the AO is unsustainable in law and is overruled.” Concluding as above, the High Court has accordingly answered C the questions framed in favour of the Revenue and against the assessees. The impugned common and passed by the High Court is the subject matter of present appeals. Submissions: D 3. Shri Arvind P Datar and Shri G. Umapathy, learned senior counsel have appeared on behalf of the respective assessee companies and Shri N. Venkataraman, learned Additional Solicitor General of India has appeared on behalf of the Revenue. 3.1 Shri Arvind P Datar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf E of the assessee companies has submitted that the issue involved in the present appeals is, as to whether the provisions of Income Tax Act, 1961 shall be applicable to the assessee companies which are registered under the Sikkim Companies Act and amenable to Sikkim Tax Manual, 1948 in respect of three Assessment Years, i.e., 1987-88, 1988-89 and 1989-90 when Income Tax Act, 1961 was not extended to the State of Sikkim. It F is submitted that the further issue is, whether jurisdiction on the authorities in Delhi can be conferred solely based on the alleged effective place of control and management of the assessee companies for the purpose of applicability of Income Tax Act, 1961. 3.2 Challenging the impugned and passed by the G High Court, Shri Arvind P Datar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee companies has vehemently submittedthat the impugned is based on an erroneous assumption that the effective control of the companies vested with one Mr. Rattan Gupta, a resident of Delhi, who was rendering accounting and auditing services. H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 465 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3.3 It is submitted that the impugned has erroneously A allowed the Department to levy interest on the assessee companies without framing the issue as a specific question of law as mandated by Section 260A of the Act. 3.4 In support of his submission that the Income Tax Act, 1961 shall not be applicable for the period during the relevant assessment years, B it is vehemently submitted by Shri Datar, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee companies that the Income Tax Act, 1961 came to be extended to the State of Sikkim only on and after 1st April, 1990. That therefore, the AO exceeded his jurisdiction. 3.5 It is contended that the assessee companies having been C assessed to tax under the Sikkim Manual, 1948 and having paid and discharged income tax under the said law cannot be subjected to tax once over again by applying the “head and brain” rule in the absence of an express provision under the Income Tax Act, 1961, more so in view of the well settled law that “a taxing statute should not be interpreted in D such a manner that its effect will be to cast a burden twice over for the payment of tax on the taxpayers unless the language of the statute is so compelling that the Court has no alternative than to accept it.” That in a case of reasonable doubt, the construction most beneficial to the taxpayer is to be adopted.