85. Notably, Rule 3(2) ensures that even in the exceptional situations of removal of submersible pumps and reconstructions of the manhole, the sewage must be totally emptied. An exhaustive list of protective gear under Rule 4 and of cleaning devices in Rule 5 indicate the extent of mechanization required for hazardous cleaning. The further safeguards under Rule 6, 7 and 8 make it clear that a person must not enter the sewer or septic tank except under exceptional situations. 86. The clear purpose and intent of the 2013 Act and Rules is to ensure the mechanization of sewer and septic tank cleaning. In other words, the 2013 Act and Rules intends that no person should have to come in direct contact with human excreta and that protective gear and cleaning devices must be provided to ensure this. The protective gear and cleaning devices required to be prescribed under the Rules would also be required to be in furtherance with this purpose. That is to say, the prescribing authority must keep in mind that the protective gear and cleaning devices given to a hazardous cleaner ensure that he does not come into contact with human excreta. 87. The data submitted by the Union in its affi davits reveals a signifi cant lack of mechanization to clean sewer lines or septic tanks. A few examples which had been raised by the Amicus Curiae pertain to Chittoor, Ongole, Mangalagiri-Tadeppalli in Andhra Pradesh, Kollam in Kerala, Gangtok in Sikkim, Nagercoil in Tamil Nadu all having no machines at all, and the entirety of the cleaning is being undertaken by hazardous cleaners. As held above, such a situation is against the statutory as well as constitutional mandate. Cleaning devices as well as protective gear must be provided to ensure that manual cleaning of sewers and septic tanks is not done. 112 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. STATUS OF HAZARDOUS CLEANING UNDER ARTICLE 23 88. Article 23 of the Constitution prohibits forced labour and makes it an off ence punishable in accordance with law. The expression ‘other forms of forced labour’ in Article 23 strike at all forms of labour which off end human dignity. This would include not just remuneration but would also include all labour where the absolute minimum standards of safe employment are not met. 89. At the cost of repetition, given the importance of, it would not be out of place to mention that the meaning of forced labour was discussed by this Court in People’s Union for Democratic Rights (supra) where this Court had expanded the scope of the words and included within its sweep situations where basic dignity is violated by not adhering to the minimum wage standards. The court held that employment where minimum wage is not paid is a violation of Article 23 and an instance of forced labour. 90. Drawing from the above principles, it can be held that where minimum protective gear and cleaning devices are not provided to hazardous workers, the employment of hazardous workers amounts to forced labour and is thus prohibited under the Constitution.