151. Lord Kerr in his opinion pointed out two additional problems F with the argument of the State. He noted that the proposition that placing all evidence before the Judge is preferable to withholding potentially pivotal evidence from the proceedings is misleading. Lord Kerr observed that it cannot be assumed that the adjudicator would reach a fair result since the judge sees all the evidence because to be truly valuable, the evidence must be capable of withstanding challenge. The relevant G observations are extracted below: “93. The appellants’ second argument proceeds on the premise that placing before a judge all relevant material is, in every instance, preferable to having to withhold potentially pivotal evidence. This proposition is deceptively attractive - for what, the appellants imply, H 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A could be fairer than an independent arbiter having access to all the evidence germane to the dispute between the parties? The central fallacy of the argument, however, lies in the unspoken assumption that, because the judge sees everything, he is bound to be in a better position to reach a fair result. That assumption is misplaced. To be truly valuable, evidence must be capable B of withstanding challenge. I go further. Evidence which has been insulated from challenge may positively mislead. It is precisely because of this that the right to know the case that one’s opponent makes and to have the opportunity to challenge it occupies such a central place in the concept of C a fair trial. However astute and assiduous the judge, the proposed procedure hands over to one party considerable control over the production of relevant material and the manner in which it is to be presented. The peril that such a procedure presents to the fair trial of contentious litigation is both obvious and undeniable.” D (emphasis supplied) 152. Lord Kerr further observed that the State faces a healthy dilemma with public interest immunity claims since it will want to produce as much material as it can to defend its claim and would not resort to E public interest immunity claims comfortably because if their claim is allowed, then the material will be removed from the proceedings itself. The learned Judge observed that it would be tempting for the State to seek a closed material procedure claiming that all the documents when disclosed would injure national security. 153. Lord Mance (with whom Lord Hale agreed) and Lord Clarke F held that the court has the power to a closed material procedure in certain circumstances after the public interest immunity claim is decided. However, they disagreed on what those certain circumstances would be. In Lord Mance’s view, after the public interest immunity claim is allowed, the court may a closed material procedure if the material G is in the defendant’s possession and the claimant consents for such a procedure to avoid their claim from being struck out. In Lord Clarke’s view, after the public interest immunity process has been completed, the parties should consider their respective positions and make representations to the judge who may a closed material procedure depending on the facts of the case.