Rs.2,93,61,324/-. HIND OFFSHORE PVT. LTD. v. IFFCO – TOKIO GENERAL 965 INSURANCE CO. LTD. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] 8. The gist of contentions raised by Sri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel for the appellant is as follows: (a) It is submitted on behalf of the appellants that though ABS was empowered to reconsider, withhold, suspend or cancel the Class of any vessel or any part of the machinery for non-compliance of the Rules, at no point of time did the ABS alter the Class Certifi cate accorded to the Vessel or impose any conditions thereon. There was no withdrawal, suspension or cancellation of the Class by ABS and in the absence thereof, the same cannot and could not be presumed to have been automatic. (b) It is further submitted on behalf of the appellant that the Class Certifi cate issued by the ABS was after a rigorous physical inspection of the vessel and its machinery that was conducted by ABS on 14.10.2006. (c) It was further submitted that there was no breach of class warranty insofar as there were neither any recommendations, requirements or restrictions imposed by ABS relating to unseaworthiness to be complied with by the appellant as per clause 1.2 of class warranty nor was there any obligation on the appellant regarding reporting to ABS of accident and defects in the vessel as per clause 1.5 of class warranty, as the same was applicable prospectively i.e. to accident and defects in the vessel after issuance of the Class Certifi cate and not during the term of the earlier Class Certifi cate or Policy. The appellant's vessel was classed with ABS and the existing class was maintained as per clause 1.1 of the class warranty. The appellant complied with all statutory requirements relating to the seaworthiness of the vessel as per clause 1.4 of class warranty and provided clarifi cation by ABS that the vessel's Class has been maintained as per clause 4 of the class warranty. (d) It was also submitted that the factum of the meeting between the surveyors and the ABS on 22.12.2006 was only hearsay and there was no evidence which was led regarding to the purported meeting. The surveyor purportedly approached the Classifi cation Society directly, without seeking authorisation of the Appellant as required under clause 3 of class warranty. This assumes 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. signifi cance in view of the comments of this Court on the tailor- made report of this very Surveyor in the case of The New India Assurance Ltd vs. M/s. Protection Manufacturers Pvt. Ltd., (2010) 7 SCC 386. 9. The gist of the contentions put forth by Sri Devdatt Kamath, learned senior counsel for the respondent is as follows: (a) The main contention of the sole respondent is that appellant’s vessel was without Class Certifi cation on the date of the incident, being invalid and the respondent was under no contractual and/or legal obligation to reimburse the appellant. As per Section 2 of the Rules of the ABS Classifi cation Society, any damage to the Hull or Machinery of the vessel has to be necessarily reported to the Classifi cation Society of the vessel and repairs conducted thereto have to be as per the recommendations and under supervision of the Classifi cation Society.