As reported, the High Courts are calling for the answer scripts/sheets for satisfying whether there is a need for re-evaluation or not and thereafter C s/directs re-evaluation, which is wholly impermissible. Such a practice of calling for answer scripts/answer sheets and thereafter to re-evaluation and that too in absence of any specific provision in the relevant rules for re-evaluation and that too while exercising powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India is disapproved.” D 13. It is hardly a matter of doubt that the Statute governing the examination in question does not provide for re-evaluation and scrutiny of the answer sheets. Moreover, the award of marks in the descriptive type answers essentially remains a matter of subjective assessment and the Court would not be entering into that arena of assessment, which E remains reserved for the examiner/evaluator. Therefore, in the ordinary circumstances, with reference to the enunciations aforesaid, the process as adopted by the High Court could not have been given our imprimatur. However, on the peculiar facts and in the exceptional circumstances of the present case, we are refraining from interfering in the substantive F part of the relief granted to the writ petitioner, particularly for the reasons that a direct prohibition in the Statute in question has not been shown; the original examiner seems to have totally omitted to award the marks in relation to answer Nos. 2, 5(a) and 5(b); the process of evaluation by other examiners has been adopted and taken forward by the High Court by providing for awarding of average of the marks of the three examiners; G and any interference at this length of time might entail serious adverse consequences to the writ petitioner. However, we need to make it clear in no uncertain terms that non-interference in the present case is not to be construed as any endorsement by this Court to the process adopted by the High Court. H 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 14. Moving on to the other relevant aspects of the matter emanating from the observations and directions in the impugned, we are clearly of the view that even if we do not disturb the relief of award of modified marks as granted to the writ petitioner, the other observations and directions in the impugned dated 21.05.2019 cannot be approved. B 15. Having gone through the impugned dated 21.05.2019, we are constrained to observe that major part of the observations occurring in paragraphs 17 to 28 thereof had been rather unnecessary. At any rate, in the adjudicatory process dealing with a prayer for issuance of a writ of mandamus with reference to the grievance of the writ petitioner and the facts emerging on record, the observations as to the C status of teachers in the society and other co-related observations were, in our view, not even required. Be that as it may, even if we assume that the High Court was impelled to make such observations for its anguish in view of the infirmities referable to the original examiner, imposition of costs in the sum of Rs.