For when he is exhibited, whether voluntarily or by , and even if the goes too far, the evidence, if material, is competent”. 6. In the same strain are to be found comments in Wigmore on Evidence, Volume VIII (3rd Edition), Section 2263 at page 363. The emphasis is upon the testimonial status of the accused and not upon any compulsion which might be a step in obtaining the fi nal evidence against the man. Dealing with, this topic, Wigmore observed: “Such, fi nally, is the practical requirement that follows from the necessity of recognizing other unquestioned methods of procuring evidence: for if the privilege extended beyond these limits, and protected an accused otherwise than in his strictly testimonial status, — if, in other words, it created inviolability not only for his physical control of his own vocal utterances, but also for his physical control in whatever form exercised then it would be possible for a guilty person to shut himself up in his house, with all the tools and indicia of his crime, and defy the authority of the law to employ in evidence anything that might be obtained by forcibly overthrowing his possession and compelling the surrender of the evidential articles, a clear “reductio ad absurdum”.” 7. The foregoing principles were embodied in the judgement of the Supreme Court in M.P. Sharma v. Satish Chandra, AIR 1954 SC 300, and the statement of the law set out earlier in this furnishes, to my mind, the real test for determining whether any particular accused is compelled to be a witness against himself. As I have pointed out, the identifi cation of an accused at a test identifi cation parade by someone is not the accused’s own act. His mere attendance or the exhibition of his body cannot be regarded as furnishing any positive volitional evidentiary act. That being the position, the impugned cannot be regarded as violative of Article 20(3) of the Constitution.” [Emphasis supplied] 908 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 28. Bhattacharya, J. by his separate but concurring observed thus:- “10. InM.P. Sharma v. Satish Chandra, AIR 1954 SC 300, it is pointed out that the guarantee under Article 20(3) of the Constitution is available to the person against whom a fi rst information report has been recorded. As was observed in Collector of Customs v. Calcutta Motor and Cycle Co., AIR 1958 Cal 682, no formal complaint is necessary and even if a person has been named as one who committed an off ence, particularly by offi cers who are competent to launch a prosecution against him, he has been accused of an off ence within the meaning of Article 20(3) and he can claim protection under that provision of law and, therefore, the extortion of any evidentiary material even at the stage of investigation, as in the present case, which may aid in the making out of a case against him may be within the meaning of condemnation of the Article. After the decision of the Supreme Court in Sharma’s case, referred to above, it cannot be said that the guarantee in Article 20(3) is confi ned to the oral evidence of the accused.