19.2. With reference to the show-cause notice dated 26.11.2019 E and the reply dated 30.11.2019, it has been argued that the dated 13.02.2020 was passed after extending full opportunity of hearing to the appellant and when the said was challenged in the High Court in Writ Petition No. 7579 of 2020 and the High Court directed the respondents to pass a fresh after affording opportunity of hearing F to the appellant, the authority concerned passed detailed speaking dated 30.07.2020 after giving full opportunity of hearing to the appellant and after duly considering the financial loss suffered by the respondents due to non-supply of transformers. 19.3. It has been argued that the writ petition was duly defended with reference to Clause 14 of purchase and the High Court has G rightly rejected the principal contention of the appellant even while giving a partial relief of making the of debarment effective from 13.02.2020. Thus, according to the learned counsel, no case for interference is made out. The decisions of this Court in the case of Raghunath Thakur v. State of Bihar and Ors. : (1989) 1 SCC 229;M/ H 466 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A s Erusian Equipment and Chemicals Ltd. v. State of West Bengal and Anr. : (1975) 1 SCC 70;and an dated 13.12.2019 passed in Civil Appeal No. 9417 of 2019- M/s Daffodills Pharmaceuticals Ltd. and Anr. v. State of U.P. and Anr.have been relied upon. 20. Having given thoughtful consideration to the rival submissions B and having examined the record, we are clearly of the view that the impugned as passed by the High Court in practically denying the principal relief claimed by the appellant cannot be approved and the writ petition filed by the appellant deserves to be allowed to the extent of annulling the effect of debarment and quashing the imposition of penalty. C 21. As regards the principles of law applicable to the case, we need not elaborate on various decisions cited at the Bar. Suffice it would be to take note of the decision in UMC Technologies Private Limited (supra) wherein, the substance of the other relevant decisions has also been duly noticed by this Court while explaining the principles governing such actions of debarment/blacklisting. Therein, this Court, inter alia, D underscored the requirement of specific show-cause notice and referred to the settled principles in the following terms: - “13. At the outset, it must be noted that it is the first principle of civilised jurisprudence that a person against whom any action is sought to be taken or whose right or interests are being affected E should be given a reasonable opportunity to defend himself. The basic principle of natural justice is that before adjudication starts, the authority concerned should give to the affected party a notice of the case against him so that he can defend himself. Such notice should be adequate and the grounds necessitating action and the penalty/action proposed should be mentioned specifically and F unambiguously. An travelling beyond the bounds of notice is impermissible and without jurisdiction to that extent.