It is submitted that in no circumstances, lien on a post held substantively can be terminated even D with his/her consent, if the result will be to leave him/her without a lien upon a permanent post. It is submitted that in the present case, the respondent being a permanent Government servant and having a lien in the post of Scientist-G in DRDO, cannot avail of qualifying service for pensionary benefits as Scientist-H (on probation) under CCS (Pension) E Rules, 1972, as she was on temporary service while on probation against the post of Scientist – H in NTRO. 3.6 It is further submitted that as per Rule 13 of the CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972, subject to provision of these Rules, qualifying service of a Government Servant shall commence from the date he/she takes charge F of the post to which he/she is first appointed either substantively or in an officiating or temporary capacity……provided that officiating or temporary service is followed without interruption by substantive appointment in the same or another services or post. 3.7 It is submitted that therefore, the High Court has materially erred in directing that the respondent is entitled to all consequential benefits G including the benefit of past service that she had rendered in DRDO for computing her terminal benefits and to treat her discharge as discharge simpliciter from the service with NTRO. 4. Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned senior counsel while opposing the present appeal has vehemently submitted that in the facts H 376 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A and circumstances of the case, no error has been committed by the High Court in directing to treat the communication dated 12.02.2019 as discharge simpliciter and thereafter to consider and/or grant terminal benefits as Scientist ‘H’ from NTRO while considering her past service rendered in DRDO. 4.1 It is vehemently submitted by Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, B learned senior counsel that vide communication dated 12.02.2019, the NTRO abruptly repatriated the respondent to DRDO as Scientist-G. It is submitted that when the respondent was appointed as direct recruit as Scientist -H with the NTRO and was on probation for a period of 2 years, thereafter, she could not have been repatriated to DRDO and C that too on a lower post, i.e., Scientist-G. 4.2 It is submitted that after 12.02.2019, right from very beginning the respondent insisted for appointment/posting even with DRDO as Scientist – H, which will be evident from various communications. It is submitted that when the respondent was repatriated to a lower post D namely Scientist-G at CAIR, DRDO and when no decision was taken to appoint her on the post of Scientist-H at CAIR, DRDO, the respondent proceeded on three months’ leave. It is submitted that thereafter all throughout she continued to be on leave and never worked as Scientist – G in CAIR, DRDO. 4.3 It is submitted that even giving the bio-data to DRDO for E promotion/ appointment to the post of Scientist – H shall not come in the way of the respondent as in fact she was compelled to submit her bio data.