In other words, law sets out principles and rules which apply to all of those who would be C within its purview otherwise. A law is not to be viewed as particularised decisions of the executive. Law is generally to have operation in the future. This court speaking through O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. held in Union of India and Another v. Cynamide India Limited and Another.28: “5. The second observation we wish to make is, legislative action, D plenary or subordinate, is not subject to rules of natural justice. In the case of Parliamentary legislation, the proposition is self-evident. In the case of subordinate legislation, it may happen that Parliament may itself provide for a notice and for a hearing — there are several instances of the legislature requiring the subordinate legislating authority to give public notice and a public hearing before E say, for example, levying a municipal rate — in which case the substantial non-observance of the statutorily prescribed mode of observing natural justice may have the effect of invalidating the subordinate legislation…”. “7. The third observation we wish to make is, price fixation is F more in the nature of a legislative activity than any other. It is true that, with the proliferation of delegated legislation, there is a tendency for the line between legislation and administration to vanish into an illusion. Administrative, quasi-judicial decisions tend to merge in legislative activity and, conversely, legislative activity tends to fade into and present an appearance of an administrative G or quasi-judicial activity. Any attempt to draw a distinct line between legislative and administrative functions, it has been said, is “difficult in theory and impossible in practice”. Though difficult, it is necessary that the line must sometimes be drawn as different 28(1987) 2 SCC 720 H 1062 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A legal rights and consequences may ensue. The distinction between the two has usually been expressed as “one between the general and the particular”. “A legislative act is the creation and promulgation of a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases; an administrative act is the making and issue of a specific direction or the application of a general rule to a B particular case in accordance with the requirements of policy”. “Legislation is the process of formulating a general rule of conduct without reference to particular cases and usually operating in future; administration is the process of performing particular acts, of issuing particular s or of making decisions which apply C general rules to particular cases.” It has also been said: “Rule- making is normally directed toward the formulation of requirements having a general application to all members of a broadly identifiable class” while, “an adjudication, on the other hand, applies to specific individuals or situations”. But, this is only a broad distinction, not necessarily always true. Administration and administrative D adjudication may also be of general application and there may be legislation of particular application only. That is not ruled out. Again, adjudication determines past and present facts and declares rights and liabilities while legislation indicates the future course of action.