We observe that the authority having the competence to issue a notifi cation completed its job by re- defi ning “governmental authority” and now it is a task entrusted to the courts to interpret the law. It is, at this juncture, important to notice the law laid down by this Court, speaking through Hon’ble O. Chinnappa Reddy, J. in Girdhari Lal & Sons v. Balbir Nath Mathur18. The position of law was affi rmed in the following terms: “6. Where diff erent interpretations are likely to be put on words and a question arises what an individual meant when he used certain words, he may be asked to explain himself and he may do so and say that he meant one thing and not the other. But if it is the legislature that has expressed itself by making the laws and diffi culties arise in interpreting what the legislature has said, a legislature cannot be asked to sit to resolve those diffi culties. The legislatures, unlike individuals, 18 (1986) 2 SCC 237 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. cannot come forward to explain themselves as often as diffi culties of interpretation arise. So the task of interpreting the laws by fi nding out what the legislature meant is allotted to the courts. Of course, where words are clear and unambiguous no question of construction may arise. Such words ordinarily speak for themselves. Since the words must have spoken as clearly to legislators as to judges, it may be safely presumed that the legislature intended what the words plainly say. This is the real basis of the so-called golden rule of construction that where the words of statutes are plain and unambiguous eff ect must be given to them. A court should give eff ect to plain words, not because there is any charm or magic in the plainness of such words but because plain words may be expected to convey plainly the intention of the legislature to others as well as judges.” 32. Keeping the above-said ratio in mind, an interpretation of the relevant provision resulting in the expanded scope of its operation cannot in itself be suffi cient to attribute ambiguity to the provision. 33. To make a statute workable by employing interpretative tools and to venture into a kind of judicial legislation are two diff erent things. Merely because the statute does not yield intended or desired results, that cannot be reason for us to overstep and cross the Lakshman Rekha by employing tools of interpretation to interpret a provision keeping in mind its outcome. Interpretative tools should be employed to make a statute workable and not to reach to a particular outcome. CONCLUSION 34. For the reasons aforesaid, we fi nd no merit in these appeals. The impugned s and s are upheld and the appeals are dismissed, without any for costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals dismissed. Nidhi Jain