He did not initially surrender after being charge-sheeted or participate in the investigation even after arrest warrant being issued by the trial court. 23. The fact that accused Deepak is the son of sitting MLA would disclose the domineering infl uence he would wield not only in delaying the proceedings but also in pressurizing the witnesses to either resile from their statement given during the course of investigation or pose threat to them from deposing against accused on their failure to act according to his dictates or induce them to testify as per his dictates or to help the defence of the accused. 24. The prosecutrix has made allegations against the concerned accused-respondents and it becomes amply clear from the plain reading 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of the complaint as well as the testimony of the prosecutrix that accused persons had indeed participated in the gang rape. She also states that she was threatened that if she were to inform any family member of the alleged rape incident, they would make the video of rape to go viral. During the course of investigation of the FIR registered for gang rape, it was found that entries maintained at Hotel Samleti Palace, relevant to the date of incident was specifi cally missing; the CCTV cameras at the Hotel though found, the CCTV footage of the date of incident was not available; Vivek had called the prosecutrix several times and had exchanged number of messages; Vivek and Netram were in regular touch on phone and after the incident, accused Deepak was dropped from the charge-sheet only on the ground that call details of his mobile provided to the investigating authorities did not disclose about his presence at the scene of the incident on that particular date and as such the charge-sheet was fi led only against Vivek and Netram. The prosecutrix had also named Deepak having participated in the incident of gang rape in her statement recorded under Section 161 and 164 of the Cr.P.C. and had also named him in the FIR. It is only on the strength of the application fi led by complaint under Section 190-193 of Cr.P.C., the trial court took cognizance against Deepak for the off ences punishable under Section 376D and section 5 of POCSO Act and said has reached fi nality, as already noticed hereinabove. 25. The complainant’s grievance, through-out has been that Deepak had been threatening the prosecutrix and other witnesses and that there is every possibility of threat to their life in the event they depose to the truth, and such apprehension is justifi able, especially because accused is in a domineering position. The complainant underlines the infl uence and possibility of the clout being wielded on the witnesses which cannot be discounted. The fact that even after recording of the deposition of the prosecutrix other prosecution witnesses have not come forward to tender evidence though more than nine dates of hearing has passed, would lend credence to the apprehension of the complainant.