vi. Learned trial judges of District and Taluka Courts shall as far as possible maintain the diary for ensuring that only such number of cases as can be handled on any given day for trial and complete the recording of evidence so as to avoid overcrowding of the cases and as a sequence of it would result in adjournment being sought and thereby preventing any inconvenience being caused to the stakeholders. vii. The counsels representing the parties may be enlightened of the provisions of XI and XII so as to narrow down the scope of dispute and it would be also the onerous responsibility of the Bar Associations and Bar Councils to have periodical refresher courses and preferably by virtual mode. viii. The trial courts shall scrupulously, meticulously and without fail comply with the provisions of Rule 1 of XVII and once the trial has commenced it shall be proceeded from day to day as contemplated under the proviso to Rule (2). ix. The courts shall give meaningful eff ect to the provisions for payment of cost for ensuring that no adjournment is sought for procrastination of the litigation and the opposite party is suitably compensated in the event of such adjournment is being granted. YASHPAL JAIN v. SUSHILA DEVI & OTHERS 983 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] x. At conclusion of trial the oral arguments shall be heard immediately and continuously and be pronounced within the period stipulated under XX of CPC. xi. The statistics relating to the cases pending in each court beyond 5 years shall be forwarded by every presiding offi cer to the Principal District Judge once in a month who (Principal District Judge/District Judge) shall collate the same and forward it to the review committee constituted by the respective High Courts for enabling it to take further steps. xii. The Committee so constituted by the Hon’ble Chief Justice of the respective States shall meet at least once in two months and direct such corrective measures to be taken by concerned court as deemed fi t and shall also monitor the old cases (preferably which are pending for more than 05 years) constantly. It is also made clear that further directions for implementation of the above directions would be issued from time to time, if necessary, and as may be directed by this Court. 3. The Secretary General is directed to circulate the copy of this to the Registrar General of all the High Courts for being placed before the respective Chief Justices for a consideration and suitable steps being taken as opined herein above. 4. We make no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed with directions. Divya Pandey