Delhi Municipal Council Act, 1957 contains various provisions dealing with prevention of fire etc. Further fire services is a municipal function falling within the domain of municipalities, B which has been recognised in the Constitution of India. Article 243(W) of the Constitution deals with functions of the municipalities in relation to matters listed in the 12th Schedule. Entry 7 of the 12th Schedule provides for “Fire Services” as one of the functions of the municipalities. The nature of the enactment and the provisions clearly indicate that Delhi Fire Services Act C falls under Entry 5 of List II and not under Entry 41 of List II.” 148. Article 243W of the Constitution read with Entry 7 of the Twelfth Schedule provides that the legislature of a state may, by law, endow on the municipalities responsibilities with respect to ‘fire services’. Under Entry 5 of List II, an appropriate legislature may enact a law D related to ‘local government, that is to say, the constitution and powers of municipal corporations, improvement trusts, districts boards, mining settlement authorities and other local authorities for the purpose of local self-government or village administration’. 149. The test to determine whether a legislation creates a service E under Entry 41 or not has been laid down by this Court. In the Constitution Bench in State of Gujarat v. Raman Law Keshav Lal,48 while holding that Panchayat Service contemplated under Section 203(1) of the Gujarat Panchayats Act 1961 was a State civil service, it was held that the administration of a service under a State broadly involves F the following functions: (i) the organisation of the Civil Service and the determination of the remuneration, conditions of service, expenses and allowances of persons serving in it; (ii) the manner of admitting persons to the civil service; (iii) exercise of disciplinary control over members of the service and power to transfer, suspend, remove or dismiss them in public interest as and when occasion to do so arises. This Court noted: G “21. […] In the instant case, we feel that there is no compelling reason to hold that the Panchayat Service is not a Civil Service under the State. It is seen that further recruitment of candidates 48 (1980) 4 SCC 653 H 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to the Panchayat Service has to be made by the Gujarat Panchayat Service Selection Board constituted by the State Government. Entry 41 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution, as mentioned earlier, also refers to State Public Services suggesting that there can be more than one State Public Service under the State…... We have indeed a B number of such services under a State e.g. police service, educational service, revenue service etc. State Public Services may be constituted or established either by a law made by the State legislature or by rules made under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution or even by an executive C made by the State Government in exercise of its powers under Article 162 of the Constitution.