We may notice that the High Court, in the impugned , while dealing with the plea under clauses in question has, inter alia, held as follows: “The contract terms and conditions require submission of the final bill within three months of physical completion of the works to the C satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge. There is no dispute that the final bill was presented within the time prescribed. Clauses 65 and 65A, though set a boundary on the Contractor to submit its bill, but does not speak of the time within which the final bill is to be discharged by the employer. Admittedly, when the dispute was D referred to Arbitration, the Contractor made further claims before the arbitrator which were adjudicated in arbitral proceedings after hearing the employer and the claims were by and allowed. If the final bill was presented on 13.02.2002, and payment of the same was made belatedly on 25.11.2003 to the pecuniary disadvantage of the Contractor, then it would appear not the lie in the mouth of E the Engineer-in-Charge/employer to invoke an exclusionary clause as is found embedded in Clause 65-A. If such a clause were to operate, then it would even take away the Arbitrator’s discretion and jurisdiction to award interest pendente lite and future interest etc. which the law permits and such a claim would also constitute F a valid claim which can be awarded. In any case, such a clause I am inclined to think would be opposed to public policy and operate unfairly, and should be understood in the light of what the Supreme Court enunciated in Central Inland Water Transport Corporation & Anr. vs. Brojo Nath Ganguly & A1R1986 SC 1571, thus expanding the sphere of the law of contracts and subjecting it to G the test of reasonableness or fairness of a clause in a contract where there is inequality of bargaining power.” 24. It is thereafter that the High Court has referred to the of this Court in Central Inland Water Transport Corporation & Anr. v. Brojo Nath Ganguly AIR 1986 SC 1571 as noticed by us. H 826 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 25. It is no doubt true that the salutary principle which has been enunciated by this Court in Central Inland Water Transport Corporation4 being in accord with constitutional principles must receive due consideration. However, it cannot be torn out of context. More importantly, as we have already noticed when a contractor seeks to wriggle out of a final bill or a ‘no claims due certificate’ which he has B submitted, as in a civil Court so before the Arbitrator, he must establish a case that a final bill or a certificate of no further claims was the result of any of the vitiating factors under the law. Sans such finding, the final bill would stand. If the final bill cannot be overridden by any factors known to law then the clauses relied upon by the appellants in this case C would operate.