Chandrachud, J. ), discussed the line of cases of this Court on the duty to disclose investigative material. The Court analyzed the ratio in Natwar Singh v Director of Enforcement3, Krishna Chandra Tandon v Union of India4, Khudiram Das v State of West Bengal5, Union of India v B Mohd. Ramzan Khan6, Managing Director, ECIL, Hyderabad v B. Karunaka7, State Bank of Patiala v SK Sharma8, State of Uttar Pradesh v Ramesh Chandra Mangalik9, Kothari Filaments v Commr. Of Customs10, and noted that: “39. The following principles emerge from the above discussion: C (i) A quasi-judicial authority has a duty to disclose the material that has been relied upon at the stage of adjudication; and (ii) An ipse dixit of the authority that it has not relied on certain material would not exempt it of its liability to disclose such D material if it is relevant to and has a nexus to the action that is taken by the authority. In all reasonable probability, such material would have influenced the decision reached by the authority. Thus, the actual test is whether the material that is E required to be disclosed is relevant for purpose of adjudication. If it is, then the principles of natural justice require its due disclosure.” (emphasis supplied) F In the present case, it is undisputed that the Committee’s Report submitted to the Regional Joint Director (Sugar) contained findings with 2 (2022) 8 SCC 162 3 (2010) 13 SCC 255 4 AIR 1974 SC 1589 G 5 (1975) 2 SCC 81 6 (1991) 1 SCC 588 7 (1993) 4 SCC 727 8 (1996) 3 SCC 364 9 (2002) 3 SCC 443 10 (2009) 2 SCC 192 H DEEPAK ANANDA PATIL v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 725 & ORS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] regard to the eligibility of individual members. It was both relied upon A and relevant for the purpose of adjudication. It is also undisputed that the Report was not supplied to the individual members or to the cooperative society. 19. On the issue of the impact of such non-disclosure, in T. Takano, summarizing the ratio of the Constitution Bench in B. Karunakar11, we B noted that: “A Constitution Bench of this Court in Karunakar (supra) held that the non-disclosure of the relevant information is not in itself sufficient to warrant the setting aside of the of punishment. It was held that in to set aside the of C punishment, the aggrieved person must be able prove that prejudice has been caused to him due to non-disclosure. To prove prejudice, he must prove that had the material been disclosed to him the outcome or the punishment would have been different. The test for the extent of disclosure and D the corresponding remedy for non-disclosure is dependent on the objective that the disclosure seeks to achieve. Therefore, the impact of non-disclosure on the reliability of the verdict must also be determined vis-à-vis, the overall fairness of the proceeding. While determining the reliability of the verdict and punishment, the court must also look into the possible uses of the undisclosed information E for purposes ancillary to the outcome, but that which might have impacted the verdict.” The Committee’s Report dealing directly with the findings on the eligibility of the individuals would have been relevant for any of the individuals to dispute the factual aspects on the basis of which their F eligibility was called into question.