[2023] 15 S.C.R. 746 : 2023 INSC 974 CASE DETAILS M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF COMMERCIAL TAX UP (Civil Appeal No (S). 5822-5823 of 2023) NOVEMBER 06, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: (a) Whether the assessee is entitled to claim full amount of tax paid towards the purchase of raw Rice Bran as ITC on the basis of the provisions of s.13(1)(a) r/w. S. No. 2(ii) of the Table appended thereto and s.13(3)(b) r/w. Explanation (iii) of s.13 of the UP VAT Act? ; (b) Whether the scope of the word “goods” as defi ned u/s. 2(m) of the UP VAT Act as outlined in s.13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act should be limited to only “taxable goods”? ; (c) Whether the decision of the Supreme Court in the case of M.K. Agro Tech has any application to the case on hand? Uttar Pradesh Value Added Tax Act, 2008 – On the basis of the statutory provisions of s.13(1)(a) read with S.No. 2(ii) of the Table appended thereto and s.13(3)(b) read with Explanation (iii) to s.13 of the UP VAT Act, the assessee claimed full amount of tax paid as ITC – The High Court relying on the decision of this Court in the case of State of Karnataka v. M.K. Agro Tech Private Limited, took the view that a dealer has no vested right to seek the benefi t of ITC as the same is just a concession by virtue of the provisions of the Act – The High Court held that the provisions of s.13(1)(a) read with S. No. 2(ii) of the Table appended thereto and s.13(3)(b) r/w. Explanation (iii) of the UP VAT Act are not applicable as asserted by the assesee and the case of the assessee stood covered by s.13(1)(f) of the UP VAT Act – Propriety: Held: A bare perusal of the scheme u/s. 13 of the UP VAT Act [and specifi cally u/s. 13(1)(a)] makes it abundantly clear that in cases where the 746 M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 747 COMMERCIAL TAX UP purchased goods (in the present case Rice Bran) are used in the manufacture of taxable goods (in the present case RBO and physically refi ned RBO) except the non-VAT goods, and where such manufactured goods are sold within the State or in the course of inter-state trade and commerce, the registered dealers (like the assessee herein) are entitled to claim input tax credit of the full amount – The charging section of the UP VAT Act, therefore, entitles the assessee to claim full amount of tax paid on the purchases as ITC – Furthermore, s.13(3)(b) of the UP VAT Act, introduces the concept of proportionality in the scheme of the enactment and by means of a deeming fi ction provides that where during the manufacture of VAT goods, exempt and non-VAT goods (except as by-product or waste product) are produced, the amount of ITC credit may be claimed and may be allowed in proportion to the extent they are used or consumed in manufacture of taxable goods other than the non-VAT goods and exempt goods – Explanation (iii) to Section 13, forbids the Assessing Authority as well as the assessee from raising any dispute in regard to the allowability of the ITC in cases where exempted goods are being produced as a by-product or waste product during the process of manufacture – The High Court committed an error in passing the impugned relying on the decision rendered in M.K.