D (v) At this stage, it is required to be noted that even thereafter, the respondent requested NTRO to reinstate her and to treat her application dated 19.03.2019, as three months’ notice for VRS. Therefore, her request for reinstatement in NTRO itself would suggest that the respondent – original E writ petitioner was relieved from NTRO as then and then only would the question of reinstatement arise. (vi) That thereafter, the respondent- original writ petitioner insisted for appointment/ posting as Scientist – H. Her case for promotion to the post of Scientist – H came to be F considered by the Recruitment Assessment Centre. She submitted the application to the Director, Recruitment Assessment Centre for promotion to the post of Scientist – H. She sent her bio-data. She reported for the performance assessment at Hyderabad. Thereafter, she was found “not G fit” for the promotion to the post of Scientist – H in DRDO. In the bio-data, she specifically stated that she is working as Scientist – G. The case set up on behalf of the respondent that she was compelled to submit the bio-data and/or compelled to appear for assessment of appraisal for promotion to the post of Scientist – H, cannot be accepted. H NATIONAL TECHNICAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION v. 381 DIPTI DEODHARE [M. R. SHAH, J.] No such grievance was made at the time when she appeared A for interview for promotion to the post of Scientist – H in DRDO. She applied for the leave/earned leave from 13.02.2019 to 28.06.2019 as Scientist – G and even thereafter, she applied for forty days leave extension. 6.2 Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances, it can be B seen that on and from 13.02.2019, the respondent can be said to be the employee of DRDO and in any case, she cannot be said to have been continued in NTRO and/or on and from 13.02.2019, she cannot be treated to be an employee of the NTRO. In that view of the matter, the High Court has committed a very serious error in issuing the directions as C above, more particularly, of treating the communication dated 12.02.2019, as an of discharge simpliciter. The High Court has also committed a very serious error in ing that under the dated 12.02.2019, the services of the original writ petitioner – respondent herein shall stand discharged and she shall be entitled to all consequential benefits including the benefit of the past services that she had rendered in DRDO for D computing her terminal benefits. We fail to appreciate under which provision, has the High Court issued such a direction that she shall be entitled to all consequential benefits including the benefit of past services that she had rendered in DRDO for computing her terminal benefits directed to be paid by NTRO. The directions issued by the High Court E are self-contradictory. 6.3 Even otherwise, the High Court has committed a serious error in observing that the original writ petitioner – respondent herein would be entitled to all such benefits as are permissible to her on the premise that she held the post of Scientist – H and the last pay drawn in that post F would be the criteria for settling all her benefits.