Hence, it is the duty of every genuine advocate of the country to ensure that they cooperate with the Bar Council of India which is seeking to ensure that the E certificates of practice are duly verified, together with the underlying educational degree certificates. Unless this exercise is carried out periodically, there is a danger that the administration of justice would be under a serious cloud. [Para 10][509-G-H; 510-A-B] 3. The intent of the letter dated 1 November 2022 was not F to direct the cessation of the process of verification, but only to ensure that the process of verification was not carried out merely on the basis of the certificates of practice issued by the State Bar Council without verifying the genuineness and validity of degree certificates. [Para 12][510-E] G 4. Having regard to the larger dimensions of this matter and the direct impact which the enrollment of fake degree holders and other persons who are not found to be in possession of the qualifications required for entry into the Bar have on the administration of justice, this Court accedes to the suggestion of H AJAY SHANKAR SRIVASTAVA v. BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA & 507 ANR. the Bar Council of India that a High Powered Committee should A be constituted by this Court to monitor the process of verification. In view of this Court, such a High Powered Committee should be chaired by a former Judge of this Court and its members should consist of: (i) two Judges of the High Court; (ii) two senior advocates; and (iii) three members of the Bar Council of India. B The above suggestion has been accepted by the Bar Council of India. [Para 13][510-F-H] CIVIL ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (Civil) No. 82 of 2023. Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India C Anand Nandan, Amit Pawan, Dhruv Shankar Misra, Mohd Faiz, Zubair, Aakarsh, Ms. Shubhangi, Akshat Srivastava, Advs. for the Petitioner. Manan Kumar Mishra, Apurba Kumar Sharma, Sr. Advs., Ms. Radhika Gautam, Ms. Anjul Divedi, Advs. for the Respondents. D The of the Court was delivered by DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. The petitioner, who is a practising advocate, has invoked the jurisdiction of this Court to seek two distinct reliefs. The first of them is E for challenging an office dated 1 November 2022 of the Bar Council of India to all the State Bar Councils, the purport of which (according to the petitioner) was to interdict the process of verification of advocates who are enrolled with the State Bar Councils for scrutinizing the genuineness of their degrees and enrollments. The second issue deals F with the method of co-opting members of the State Bar Councils to fill up casual vacancies. 2. We have heard Mr Anand Nandan, counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner and Mr Manan Kumar Mishra, senior counsel, appearing on behalf of the Bar Council of India with Mr Apurba Kumar Sharma. G 3. In 2015, the Bar Council of India notified the Bar Council of India Certificate and Place of Practice (Verification) Rules 20151.