Rule 3 provides as follows: “3. Computation of time period—Where a period is prescribed by the Act and these rules or under any other law or is fixed by the Appellate Tribunal for doing any act, in computing the time, the day from which the said period is to be reckoned shall be D excluded, and if the last day expires on a day when the office of the Appellate Tribunal is closed, that day and any succeeding day on which the Appellate Tribunal remains closed shall also be excluded.” 15. Part III of the NCLAT Rules 2016 deals with the procedure E for the institution of appeals. Rule 22 provides that an appeal has to be presented at the filing counter of the Appellate Tribunal, and should be accompanied by a certified copy of the under challenge. Rule 22 provides that: “22. Presentation of appeal— (1) Every appeal shall be presented in Form NCLAT-1 in triplicate F by the appellant or petitioner or applicant or respondent, as the case may be, in person or by his duly authorised representative duly appointed in this behalf in the prescribed form with stipulated fee at the filing counter and non-compliance of this may constitute a valid ground to refuse to entertain the same. G (2) Every appeal shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the impugned . (3) All documents filed in the Appellate Tribunal shall be accompanied by an index in triplicate containing their details and the amount of fee paid thereon. H SANKET KUMAR AGARWAL & ANR v. APG LOGISTICS PVT. 1169 LTD. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (4) Sufficient number of copies of the appeal or petition or A application shall also be filed for service on the opposite party as prescribed. (5) In the pending matters, all other applications shall be presented after serving copies thereof in advance on the opposite side or his advocate or authorised representative. B (6) The processing fee prescribed by the rules, with required number of envelopes of sufficient size and notice forms as prescribed shall be filled along with memorandum of appeal.” 16. In terms of Rule 103, the Appellate Tribunal may allow the C filing of an appeal or proceedings through electronic mode. Rule 103 provides that: “103. Filling through electronic media— The Appellate Tribunal may allow filing of appeal or proceedings through electronic mode such as online filing and provide for rectification of defects by e-mail or internet and in such filing, these rules shall be adopted D as nearly as possible on and form a date to be notified separately and the Central Government may issue instructions in this behalf from time to time.” 17. On 3 January 2021, NCLAT notified a Revised SOP for the hearing of cases through the virtual mode, using its e-filing portal. The E SOP notices that an e-filing facility was available for filing of appeals and related documents, and exhorts “all concerned” to “avail the same through NCLAT e-filing portal”. The circular provides as follows: “It may be noted that it is mandatory that Ld.