25.The market value can be determined by the comparison method even in case of a property in possession of tenants. For example, if there is a sale transaction of a property in possession of a tenant which is comparable to the property sought to be valued and if the said sale C transaction is held to be a genuine transaction, market value can be fixed on the basis of the sale transaction. If no comparable instances are found, the market value can be fixed of the property in possession of tenants by making an appropriate deduction from the market value of a comparable property in which there are no tenants. D 26.In the written submissions, the learned counsel appearing in person has suggested a formula for calculating the market value by taking into consideration the market value on the date of agreement for sale (1966) and the market value of the 1/3rd of the land given up by the appellants by way of compromise. However, this contention is obviously E not acceptable as the market value of the property sold will have to be determined on the date of execution of the sale deed. 27.The Assistant Collector, the Appellate Authority, and the High Court have not decided the issue in terms of what we have held above. Even if the guidance value of Rs. 24,000/- per sq. meter is to be taken as the market value of the sale deed land, necessary deductions will have F to be made from the market value as the appellants were already in possession of the sale deed land as tenants. The extent to which deduction can be made will depend upon the nature of the tenancy and other material factors. Some tenancies may be protected under the relevant rent control legislation, whereas some may not be protected. That is all a matter of G evidence. 28.The issue regarding the market value of the sale deed land on the date of execution of the sale deed is required to be decided by permitting the parties to adduce oral and documentary evidence. The Assistant Collector will have to ascertain whether a comparable sale instance of a H property in possession of tenants is available. If it is not available, the SHANTI BHUSHAN (D) THR. LR. & ORS. v. STATE OF U.P. 531 AND ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Assistant Collector will have to ascertain the market value of the sale A deed property on the relevant date again by comparison method by taking market value of a comparable property which does not have encumbrance of tenancy. Thereafter, he will have to determine the percentage of the deduction which should be made from the market value in the facts of this case. These questions are to be decided by the B Assistant Collector on the basis of the evidence on record. Therefore, subject to what we have held in the , we propose to send back the case to the Assistant Stamp Collector for determination of the market value of the sale deed land on the date of execution of the sale deed.