It was detected that he was HIV positive. The fact that Mr. “X” tested positive was disclosed by the hospital to the fiancée of Mr. “X”. Therefore, the proposal for marriage was called off D and Mr. “X” was ostracised by the community. Mr. “X” sued the hospital for damages, pitching his claim on the right to privacy and the duty of confidentiality that the hospital had in their relationship with him. Though this Court partly agreed with Mr. “X” the court found that the disclosure made by the hospital actually saved the life of a lady. But while dealing with a right under Article 21 vis-à-vis the hospital (a private hospital), E this Court held as follows :- “27. Right of privacy may, apart from contract, also arise out of a particular specific relationship which may be commercial, matrimonial, or even political. As already discussed above, doctor-patient relationship, though basically F commercial, is, professionally, a matter of confidence and, therefore, doctors are morally and ethically bound to maintain confidentiality. In such a situation, public disclosure of even true private facts may amount to an invasion of the right of privacy which may sometimes lead to the clash of one person’s “right to G be let alone” with another person’s right to be informed. 28. Disclosure of even true private facts has the tendency to disturb a person’s tranquillity. It may generate many complexes in him and may even lead to psychological problems. He may, H 97 (1998) 8 SCC 296 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 687 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] thereafter, have a disturbed life all through. In the face of these A potentialities, and as already held by this Court in its various decisions referred to above, the right of privacy is an essential component of the right to life envisaged by Article 21. The right, however, is not absolute and may be lawfully restricted for the prevention of crime, dis or protection of health or morals or B protection of rights and freedom of others.” 95. In Pt. Parmanand Katara (supra), a human rights activist filed a writ petition under Article 32 seeking a direction to the Union of India that every injured person brought for treatment to a hospital should instantaneously be given medical aid to preserve life and that the C procedural Criminal Law should be allowed to operate thereafter. The basis of the said writ petition was a report about a scooterist who got injured in a road traffic accident, being turned away by the nearby hospital on the ground that they were not authorized to handle medico-legal cases. Before the victim could be taken to an authorized hospital located 20 kilometers away, he died, which prompted the writ petition. While issuing D directions, this Court expressed an opinion about the affirmative duty of court in paragraph 8 as follows:- “8. Article 21 of the Constitution casts the obligation on the State to preserve life. The provision as explained by this Court in scores of decisions has emphasized and reiterated with gradually E increasing emphasis that position.