The learned counsel has referred to a 3-Judge Bench decision of this Court in the case of Sanjay Singh and Anr. v. U.P. Public Service Commission, Allahabad and Anr. : (2007) 3 SCC 720 E to submit that it is the ratio decidendi of a and not the final therein which form a precedent and, therefore, Dr. Monga’s case cannot be considered to be a binding precedent so far as the proposition with respect to compound interest is concerned. 8.6. In the sixth fold of submissions, essentially being in the F alternative, the learned senior counsel has submitted that even in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case (supra), this Court upheld the directions for refund with compound interest only until the date of refund post- cancellation, which came to Rs.31,87,131/- and which, at the relevant time, was also the approximate market value of the said flat. In this regard, learned counsel for the appellants has also referred to the G subsequent decision in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case by this Court in K.L. Suneja and Anr. v. Dr. (Mrs.) Manjeet Kaur Monga (D) Through Her LRs and Anr: 2023 SCC OnLine SC 91. It has, thus, been contended that the impugned s, which direct a refund of the principal amount together with compound interest @ 14% without even H 1118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A specifying the period for which it would be payable, are required to be interfered with by this Court. While elaborating on this line of submissions, learned counsel has submitted that in the present case, the appellants had refunded the entire amount (after deducting the earnest money deposited by the respondent) through the cheque dated 07.11.2005 for an amount of Rs. 10,68,031/- and hence, assuming without admitting the B liability towards compound interest at the rate awarded by the State Commission, the total amount payable until 08.11.2005 would be Rs. 84,76,540/- and not beyond. Learned counsel would submit that awarding of compound interest without taking note of the facts of refund cheque issued by the appellants remains wholly unjustified. C 9. On the other hand, learned senior counsel for the complainant- respondent Mr. Sidharth Luthra has duly supported the proposition of awarding compound interest in this case and has strenuously countered the submissions made on behalf of the appellants. 9.1. With reference to the background aspects, learned senior D counsel has submitted that the respondent purchased 3 flats from the appellants in the year 1989 when she was 39 years of age in anticipation of moving to India and staying together with her daughters; and the appellants promised to complete the construction and deliver the flats within 36 months i.e., by the year 1992 and thus induced the respondent E to pay 60% of the consideration amount in a construction-linked payment plan by 1994. However, fact of the matter had been that there was no construction on the ground until about the years 2003-2005 and, thereafter, the appellants fraudulently sold the same flats to a third party without even intimating the alleged cancellation to the respondent.