It is submitted that if there was no intention to grant inter se seniority based on marks, there would have been no reason to admit the 5 already selected H SUNIL & ORS. v. HIGH COURT OF DELHI & ORS. ETC. 95 [M. R. SHAH, J.] candidates to the process of re-evaluation rendering the entire exercise A redundant. 3.9 It is submitted that all recommendations and decisions of Special Committee have been superseded by Minutes dated 01.10.2018, which the High Court has upheld. It is submitted that grant of notional seniority can only mean placing the candidates as per their merit. The said incorrect B marking was under challenge before issuance of the said select list dated 30.01.2017 and the same, thus, had not attained finality. 3.10 It is submitted that the contention of the respondents that as the appellants were to be adjusted against the additional vacancies is erroneous. It is submitted that the Acting Chief Justice in paragraph 31 C of note dated 01.03.2018 had noted that “on date there are 22 vacancies in the post of Private Secretary under 75% test quota in our court. Therefore, there is no difficulty with regard to appointment of those who stand qualified upon the limited re-evaluation without effecting the appointments made earlier. The issue which requires consideration is D the issue of how the seniority of these persons is to be fixed and whether any re-fixation is necessary.” It is submitted that the consideration of the Acting Chief Justice was, thus,that in the event the vacancies were not there, the re-evaluation may have the result of disturbing the appointments of certain private E secretaries already made, whose marks are now lower than those of the appellants. 3.11 It is further submitted that the prayers in the writ petitions at the instance of the respondents herein were in conflict with each other. The respondents on the one hand sought re-evaluation and on the other hand sought to quash the revised merit list denying successful candidates F the benefit of re-evaluation especially when the post in question was a selection-cum-merit post. 3.12 It is submitted that the Acting Chief Justice was posed with an exceptional and emergent situation as a result of incorrect evaluation and the actions taken were within the domain as it had no malafides or G bias. It is submitted that in fact the re-evaluation and adjustment of candidates against the additional vacancies has also been upheld videthe impugned which has not been challenged by the respondents. 3.13 It is submitted that as findings of the High Court upholding the re-evaluation has not been assailed, the consequences of re-evaluation H 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A ought to be taken to the logical end i.e., grant of inter se seniority to appellants based on merit viz-a-viz other candidates. 3.14 It is further submitted that the decision of this Court in the case of K. Meghachandra Singh & Ors. Vs. Ningam Siro & Ors. (2020) 5 SCC 689 and judgement of this Court in W.P.