Before pronouncing upon the tenability or otherwise of the appellant’s prayer for restraining the respondents from using the word “Skyline” for the Institute of Engineering and Technology H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1175 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] established by them, we consider it necessary to observe that as A the suit filed by the appellant is pending trial and issues raised by the parties are yet to be decided, the High Court rightly considered and decided the appellant’s prayer for temporary injunction only on the basis of the undisputed facts and the material placed before the learned Single Judge and unless this Court comes to the B conclusion that the discretion exercised by the High Court in refusing to entertain the appellant’s prayer for temporary injunction is vitiated by an error apparent or perversity and manifest injustice has been done to it, there will be no warrant for exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution. C ***** ***** ***** 22. The ratio of the abovenoted s is that once the court of first instance exercises its discretion to grant or refuse to grant relief of temporary injunction and the said exercise of discretion is based upon objective consideration of the material placed before D the court and is supported by cogent reasons, the appellate court will be loath to interfere simply because on a de novo consideration of the matter it is possible for the appellate court to form a different opinion on the issues of prima facie case, balance of convenience, irreparable injury and equity.” E 21.10. In the case of Nilkantha Sidramappa Ningashetti (supra), this Court held that formality of notice cannot invalidate the action when the parties had intimation of the event; and that the term notice doesnot necessarily mean communication in writing. This Court observed and held, inter alia, as under: - “8. Sub-Section (1) of Section 14 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 F (Act 10 of 1940) requires the arbitrators or umpire to give notice in writing to the parties of the making and signing of the award. Sub-section (2) of that section requires the Court, after the filing of the award, to give notice to the parties of the filing of the award. The difference in the provisions of the two sub-sections with G respect to the giving of notice is significant and indicates clearly that the notice which the court is to give to the parties of the filing of the award need not be a notice in writing. The notice can be given orally. No question of the service of the notice in the formal way of delivering the notice or tendering it to the party can arise H 1176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A in the case of a notice given orally. The communication of the information that an award has been filed is sufficient compliance with the requirements of sub-section, (2) of Section 14 with respect to the giving of the notice to the parties concerned about the filing of the award.