He further submitted that Section 19(1) of the National Green D Tribunal Act, 2010 (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” for the sake of convenience) categorically states that the Tribunal, though not bound by the procedure laid down by the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, shall nevertheless be guided by the principles of natural justice. According to learned Solicitor General in the instant case, there E has been gross violation of the principles of national justice on two counts: firstly, the report of the Committee constituted by the NGT and the recommendations made by the said Committee could not be objected to by the appellant(s) herein as there was hardly any time given to the appellants to even peruse the same. In this regard, he drew our attention to the fact that the report and the recommendations of the Committee F constituted by the NGT were put up on the website of the NGT on 15.01.2022 and three days thereafter i.e., on 18.01.2022 the impugned directions have been issued. Secondly, he submitted that the fact that in such a short span of time the matters were considered and disposed of by the NGT, in the absence of there being objections filed by the appellants G herein nor having heard the appellants herein, would also imply that there has been no consideration by the NGT of the pros and cons vis-a-vis the recommendations made by the expert Committee and as to whether the directions issued were appropriate to the case of each of the appellant(s) herein or not. H 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A It was submitted that had the appellants herein had an opportunity of filing their objections to the recommendations made by the Committee constituted by the NGT and had the appellants been heard in the matter, possibly appropriate directions could have been issued as against the appellant(s) herein. B In conclusion, learned Solicitor General submitted that the impugned may be set aside and the matter may be remanded to the NGT for re-consideration of the entire case of the first respondent herein in compliance with the principles of natural justice, that is, firstly by giving an opportunity to the appellants herein to file their objections, if any, to the recommendations of the Committee constituted by the NGT C and secondly, by giving a further opportunity of hearing to the appellants herein. In this regard, learned Solicitor General relied upon a decision of this Court in Sanghar Zuber Ismail vs. Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change and Another reported in (2021) SCC Online SC D 669. 6. Learned senior counsel Mr. Sanjay Jain and Mr. Nazki adopted the submissions of learned Solicitor General and also contended that the manner in which the original petition has been disposed of by the NGT in these cases was in gross violation of the principles of natural justice. In E this regard, reliance is also placed on another decision of this Court in case of Kantha Vibhag Yuva Koli Samaj Parivartan vs. State of Gujarat reported in 2022 SCC online SC 120.