Thus, the 2015 amendment aims to limit the intervention of Courts to minimal examining the existence and not the validity of an C arbitration agreement at the pre-referral stage of the arbitration proceedings. VI. Scope of Section 11(6A) w.r.t. Section 8, Section 16 and Section 45 of Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 70. Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996 reads as follows: D “The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under sub-section (4) or sub- section (5) or sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any , decree or of any Court, confine to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.” E 71. The scope of inquiry under Section 11(6A) is restricted to examine the “existence of an arbitration agreement”. The phrase ‘existence of an arbitration agreement’ is to be understood in a literal sense keeping the intention of the legislature after the introduction of the 2015 amendment. The position of law that prevails after the insertion of F 2015 amendment is that there should be minimal interference by the Courts. The limited scope of the Court to examine at the pre-referral stage is whether the arbitration agreement, prima facie, exists as referred to under Section 7 of the Act, 1996 which includes determination of the following factors: G (i) Whether the arbitration agreement is in writing; (ii) Whether the core contractual ingredients qua the arbitration agreement are fulfilled? (iii) On rare occasions, on a serious note of objection, if any, it may examine whether the subject matter of dispute is H arbitrable? M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 411 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 72. Section 8(1), which was replaced by the amendment of 2015, A mandates a judicial authority to refer parties to arbitration unless there is prima facie finding that no valid arbitration agreement exists. The language used in the provision is as follows: “8. Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement.— B (1)A judicial authority, before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under him, so applies not later than the date of submitting his first statement on the substance of the dispute, then, notwithstanding C any , decree or of the Supreme Court or any Court, refer the parties to arbitration unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists. (2) The application referred to in sub-section (1) shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied by the original arbitration D agreement or a duly certified copy thereof: [Provided that where the original arbitration agreement or a certified copy thereof is not available with the party applying for reference to arbitration under sub-section (1), and the said agreement or certified copy is retained by the other party to that E agreement, then, the party so applying shall file such application along with a copy of the arbitration agreement and a petition praying the Court to call upon the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or its duly certified copy before that Court.]