As on this day, the GPA holder is not alive and even if any power of attorney exists, it ceases with his death. Therefore, no cause survives for the District Revenue Offi cer to take suo motu review. The other question is whether the assignments made in favour of the petitioners and their predecessor interest is contrary to the Rules then in existence. That issue is into requircd to be examined after a lapse of nearly 40 years. The Laoni patta certifi cates came to be issued in accordance with the provisions of Laoni, Rules, 1950. Merely because those rules came to be amended by substituting some other rules cannot be a ground to exercise suo mo to review by the District Revenue Offi cer or the District Collector under Sec. 166-B of the Act. 4 ibid. YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 617 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] 15. In view of the above discussion, I fi nd that the show cause notice issued by the District Revenue Offi cer, R.R. District is not legal dnd proper. When once the show cause notice is set aside, the basis for passing the impugned in the writ· petitions by the Joint Collector canriot be said to be well founded. Before parting the case, I deem it appropriate to observe that If there Is any contravention of the conditions imposed in the assignment , the Government is always at liberty to cancel the same In accordance with the provisions of law.” (sic) (Emphasis Applied) 21. Taking note of the above-reproduced liberty granted by the High Court, the Deputy Collector-cum-Mandal Revenue Offi cer issued a fresh show cause notice dated 11.12.2006 [Hereinafter, ‘Second SCN’] wherein the factum of the sale deeds entered by M.A. Baksh in the capacity of GPA holder of the Assignees was duly noticed and it was asserted that the Subject Land was liable to be resumed under the 1977 Act. The relevant part of the Second SCN is as follows:– “The Sale transaction above shown are impermissible and void as same are in contravention of the provision of sub-section (2) of section-3 of the Andhra Pradesh assigned land (Prohibition of Transfer) Act, 1977. As per the prohibitions of the said Act there is prohibition to sell the land assigned to you and hence sale transaction above referred are invalid. As per the Section 4 of A.P. assigned land (Prohibition of transfer) Act, 1977, satisfi ed that the assignees are contravened the provision of Sub-sectio (1) of section 3 in respect of assigned lands bearing Sy. No. 393/l to 393/20 of Manchirevula Village. Hence you are hereby show cause as to why the scheduled land should not be resumed into Govt. Possession as in such manner as prescribed by law.” (sic) Post the issuance of Second SCN, the Appellants tendered explanation and proceedings took place pursuant thereto. 22. Eventually, the Second SCN culminated into the resumption dated 27.01.2007, wherein it was noted that the Assignees had alienated the 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.