231. We make it clear that this will be subject to any law to be B made by Parliament. CC. AN ELECTION COMMISSIONER ENTITLED TO SAME PROTECTION AS GIVEN TO CHIEF ELECTION COMMISSIONER? 232. One of the contentions raised by the petitioners is this Court C must provide for the same protection to the Election Commissioners as is available to the Chief Election Commissioners. Even the Report of the Election Commission itself would appear to endorse the said view and complaint. We expatiate. It is the contention of the petitioners that when the Constitution was framed, the Founding Fathers contemplated that appointment of Election Commissioners was to be need based and not a D full-time affair. Contrary to the said view, however, a multi-Member team, is what the Election Commission of India has become, in fact, since 1993. It is here to stay. The distinction between the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners have been whittled down considerably by the amendments brought to the 1991 Act. However, E when it comes to the constitutional protection, it is pointed out that the second proviso to Article 324(5) only enacts the protection that the Election Commissioner or Regional Commissioner shall not be removed from Office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. An attempt has, in fact, been made to persuade this Court to hold that, being in the nature of a further proviso, as the words of the F second proviso begin as ‘provided further’, it is only a further protection to the Election Commissioner or a Regional Commissioner. Thus, it is pointed out, the Court must adopt the following interpretation. An Election Commissioner or Regional Commissioner can be removed only in the like manner and on like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court of G India. A further safeguard is, however, provided to the Election Commissioner, viz., that he can be removed from Office only on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. To appreciate the argument, we recapture Article 324(5). It reads as follows: “324(5) Subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, H the conditions of service and tenure of office of the Election ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 179 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Commissioners and the Regional Commissioners shall be such as A the President may by rule determine; Provided that the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on the like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court and the conditions of service of the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be varied to B his disadvantage after his appointment: Provided further that any other Election Commissioner or a Regional Commissioner shall not be removed from office except on the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner.” C 233. We decode the said provision as follows: The conditions of service and tenure of the Election Commissioners and the Regional Commissioners was to be such as made by the Rule provided. This, however, was subject to any law made by Parliament.