G Ltd. failed to get the permission from the State Government under Section 118 of the 1972 Act. 13. What was done instead was, that when the purchaser failed to get the requisite permission from the State Government under Section 118 of the 1972 Act, it assigned its rights to the Plaintiff (i.e., the present H AJAY DABRA v. PYARE RAM & ORS. 461 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] Appellant before this Court), and the Plaintiff in turn filed a suit for A Specific Performance against the defendants i.e., Surender Singh- Defendant No. 1 who is Respondent No. 1 herein. It was only later that he also impleaded M/s Himalayan Ski Village Pvt. Ltd.- Defendant No. 2 who is Respondent No. 2 herein. 14. The Trial Court dismissed the suits of the plaintiff primarily on B grounds that getting permission from the State Government was an essential condition, which had not been fulfilled by him as per Section 118 of the 1972 Act and under the facts and circumstances of the case, the assignment in terms of the Plaintiff was not proper and valid. 15. All other conditions which have been stipulated in the C Agreement to Sell depended on this primary condition i.e., permission from the State Government, under Section 118 of the 1972 Act. There is no specific clause in the “Agreement to Sell”, which says that in case the purchaser fails to obtain required permission from the State Government, it could assign its rights to an agriculturist of Himachal D Pradesh and the seller therefore would not have any objection in executing the Sale deed in favour of such an assignee. 16. In the present case the assignment is not valid as there was no prior consent or approval of the seller before the assignment. In the absence of such a condition and in lieu of the fact that before assignment E of its rights to the plaintiff/Appellant herein no permission of the seller was obtained, there was no question of granting a decree of Specific Performance in favour of the plaintiff. Consequently, this is not a case which calls for our interference. 17. We may here add that the whole purpose of Section 118 of the 1972 Act is to protect agriculturists with small holdings. Land in F Himachal Pradesh cannot be transferred to a non-agriculturist, and this is with a purpose. The purpose is to save the small agricultural holding of poor persons and also to check the rampant conversion of agricultural land for non-agricultural purposes. A person who is not an agriculturist can only purchase land in Himachal Pradesh with the permission of the G State Government. The Government is expected to examine from a case to case basis whether such permission can be given or not. In the present case, it thought it best, not to grant such a permission. However, the purpose of the transfer remains the same, which is a non-agricultural activity. By merely assigning rights to an agriculturist, who will be using H 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.