of course, without sacrificing the cause of justice. By adopting the above course, the issue of infidelity alone would be determined, without expressly disturbing the presumption contemplated Under Section 112 of the Indian Evidence Act. Even though, as already stated above, undoubtedly B the issue of legitimacy would also be incidentally involved.” 10.1. However, it is necessary to distinguish the facts of the present case with the facts in Dipanwita Roy. In the said case, the respondent- husband had made a specific plea of non-access in to rebut the presumption under Section 112. He made clear and categorical assertions C in the petition filed by him alleging infidelity. He even named the person who was the father of the male child born to the appellant-wife, and asserted that at the relevant time, he and his wife did not share a bed on any occasion. In that backdrop, this Court specifically recorded a finding that in the facts and circumstances of the said case, it would have been impossible to prove the allegations of adultery/infidelity in the absence D of a DNA test. However, in the present case, no plea has been raised by the respondent-husband as to non-access in to dislodge the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act. Further, the respondent has specifically claimed that he is in possession of call recordings/transcripts, and the daily diary of the appellant, which would E point to the infidelity of the appellant. Therefore, this is not a case where a DNA test would be the only possible way to ascertain the truth regarding the appellant’s adultery. Hence, in the present case, there is insufficient material to dislodge the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act and permit a DNA test of Master “X”. F Further, having regard to the compelling need for a DNA test in the said case, in to establish the truth, this Court directed that if the appellant-wife therein refused to comply with the direction of the Court regarding DNA test, the allegations of adultery as against her would be determined by drawing an adverse inference as contemplated under Illustration (h) of Section 114 of the Evidence Act. However, such an G observation made in the said case cannot be regarded as a precedent which can be applied to all cases in a strait jacket manner wherein the wife refuses to comply with the direction of the Court regarding DNA test. It is highlighted at this juncture that presumptions are established H on the basis of facts, and the Court enjoys the discretionary power, either APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 711 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] to presume a fact or not. As observed hereinabove, the facts in A Dipanwita Roy were so compelling, so as to justify a direction to conduct a DNA test. In the said case, the husband had taken a specific plea of non-access. Further, the Court accepted that a DNA test would be the only manner in which the case of adultery could be proved.