as direct recruit. The respondent – original writ petitioner A applied for the said post and was appointed in NTRO as Scientist – H on the approval of the ACC dated 10.05.2018. The original writ petitioner was served with the offer of appointment dated 11.05.2018 stipulating the terms and conditions, including the probation for a period of one year. B (ii) As the respondent – original writ petitioner was appointed in another Government organization, she was required to tender the technical resignation, which she tendered by submitting a technical resignation from the post of Scientist – G in DRDO, which came to be accepted on 22.06.2018 C and the DRDO relieved her to take up the new appointment in NTRO. However, on submitting the technical resignation, the lien of the respondent on the post of Scientist – G in DRDO continued as per the relevant O.M. (iii) At this stage, it is required to be noted that tendering a D technical resignation from the post he/she was working on his/her appointment in another organization of the Centre / State on probation and to continue the lien till the probation period in the new organization is satisfactorily completed and/or he/she is permanently appointed in the new establishment, can be said to be in the interest of the E employee and to the benefit of the concerned employee so that in case she is not made permanent and/or relieved during the probation period, she may not have to lose the job and she can go back and join the duty in the earlier establishment. Under the circumstances, on submitting the technical F resignation from the post of Scientist -G in DRDO on her appointment on probation as Scientist – H in NTRO, she continued to have the lien on the post of Scientist – G in DRDO. (iv) That during the probation period, it appears that her work G was not found satisfactory and a conscious decision was taken by the ACC not to continue her in NTRO and to relieve her as Scientist – H in NTRO and to repatriate her to her parent department – DRDO on the post of Scientist – G as her lien on the post of Scientist – G came to be continued as observed hereinabove. The respondent – H 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A original writ petitioner came to be relieved from NTRO on 12.02.2019 on the approval of the ACC received for her pre-mature repatriation from the post of Scientist – H (probation) in NTRO to her parent cadre – DRDO. In fact, thereafter, the respondent reported for duty at CAIR, DRDO on 13.02.2019 itself. However, simultaneously, she B requested that she may be appointed in a suitable post in DRDO. No s were passed and she continued to be the employee of the DRDO on and after 13.02.2019. Thereafter, she proceeded on three months’ leave as Scientist-G in DRDO. Therefore, once she reported for C duty at CAIR, DRDO and she proceeded on leave for three months as Scientist – G at CAIR, DRDO on the post earlier held by her, i.e., Scientist – G, on which her lien in DRDO continued on her submitting the technical resignation earlier, she ceased to be the employee of NTRO and, that too, as Scientist – H in NTRO.