N.T. Manikantan), the approving authority. The sanction of the disability element of the pension letter, dated 29.08.2017 (EX/741570 CPL Ashish Kumar Chauhan) issued by Air Headquarters CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 637 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] described the disability element sanctioned by the discharge letter, based on the attributability found by the previous boards. 60. The learned ASG sought to attribute some sympathy, as the basis for maintaining that the disability was attributable to service. However, the conduct of the respondents points to entirely diff erent facts. Initially, the respondents’ endeavor was to deny access to relevant information altogether, to the appellant. His repeated RTI queries were turned down; for quite some time, he was also denied access to his medical records. The IAF does not appear to have communicated the discharge , separately to him. No doubt, he refused to sign the medical board proceedings; however, there is nothing forthcoming on the record, to show that the IAF delivered the discharge , on any particular date, or communicated it to him. The affi davits of IAF also do not disclose that there was ever any such communication. 61. In this background, it is signifi cant to notice some facts and developments. The notice of the appellant’s complaint was issued by the Commission/NCDRC on 20.06.2017. The documents placed on the record, demonstrate and establish that the CoI was constituted in response and an answer to the appellant’s complaint. This is clear from the letter (No. B/76779/AK Chauhan/DGMS-5B/GC-75) dated 04.05.2018 written by the Directorate General Medical Service, (Army Adjutant Branch) to the HQ Western Command (Medical). After instructing the relevant offi cials to trace the documents necessary to prepare the counter affi davit, to the appellant’s complaint, it was suggested that: “In view of the above, it is requested to a C of I under the aegis of your HQ for the following: (a) to bring out the detailed facts pertaining to blood transfusion done at 171 MH in 2002 (b) To investigate and bring out the authority which provided the unit of blood and whether the same was duly screened as per the policy/ guidelines in vogue at that time. (c) to bring out all supporting documents pertaining to blood demand, blood transfusion and screening of blood along with SOP/guidelines in vogue at that time. 638 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (d) to investigate into the matter and pin point the lapses or negligence if any and the individuals responsible thereto.” 62. It was in these circumstances, that the CoI was constituted. It is an undisputed fact that though the appellant was the subject matter of that proceeding, none of the respondents cared to involve him or inform him about it. The proceedings scrupulously excluded him, despite the real likelihood of an adverse consequence as the likely outcome. What is clearly discernable from the proceedings in the CoI therefore, is that: (a) Many of the documents, pertaining to appellant’s treatment were denied, and repeatedly the respondents denied access to him.