The former are likely to be degraded and humiliated and experience injuries to their sense of self-worth and acceptance in the larger society and may well, as a consequence, avoid contact with members of the other group within the polity. The non- E targeted members of the group, sometimes representing society at large, on the other hand, may gradually become de-sensitised and may in the long run start accepting and believing the messages of hate directed towards racial and religious groups. These insidious effects pose serious threats to social cohesion in the long run rather than merely F projecting immediate threats to violence. Further, Dixon C.J. of the Canadian Supreme Court in Canada Human Rights Commission vs. Taylor, (1990) 3 SCR 892 (“Taylor”) (Canada)has observed as follows, as regards the interrelationship between messages of hate G propaganda and the values of dignity and equality: “...messages of hate propaganda undermine the dignity and self-worth of targeted group members and, more generally, contribute to disharmonious relations among various racial, cultural and religious groups, as a result H eroding the tolerance and open mindedness that must KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 757 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] flourish in a multicultural society which is committed to A the idea of equality.” ii) Australia: The position of lawin Australia is substantially aligned with that in Canada. The Australian Federal Court, in the case of Pat Eatock vs. Andrew Bolt, (2011) FCA 1103 (“Pat Eatock”) (Australia) followed the dictum in B Keegstra in holding that the right to freedom of expression could be restricted vide legislation which made racial hatred a criminal offence. The Australian Federal Court stated that the rationale for a legislation restraining free speech was as follows: C “(a) The justification from pursuit of truth does not support the protection of hate propaganda, and may even detriment our search for truth. The more erroneous or mendacious a statement, the less its value in the quest of truth. We must not overemphasise that rationality will D overcome all falsehoods. (b) Self-fulfilment and autonomy, in a large part, come from one’s ability to articulate and nurture an identity based on membership in a cultural or religious group. The extent to which this value furthers free speech should E be modulated insofar as it advocates an intolerant and prejudicial disregard for the process of individual self- development and human flourishing. (c) The justification from participation in democracy shows a shortcoming when expression is employed to propagate ideas repugnant to democratic values, thus F undermining the commitment to democracy. Hate propaganda argues for a society with subversion of democracy and denial of respect and dignity to individuals based on group identities.” iii) South Africa: The position which regards dignity as a G paramount constitutional value has been recognised in South Africa. The Constitutional Courthas expressed willingness to subjugate freedom of expression when the same sufficiently undermines dignity. The constitutional provision, therefore, enjoins the legislature and the court to limit free H 758 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.