Even if Section 3 of the Act seeks to take away the basis of the of the Calcutta High Court, without mentioning it, by enacting what may appear E to be a law, yet, I think that, where the rights of the citizen against the State are concerned, we should adopt an interpretation which upholds those rights. Therefore, according to the interpretation I prefer to adopt the rights which had passed into those embodied in a and became the basis of a mandamus from the High Court could not be taken away in this indirect fashion.” F 108. It could thus be clearly seen that the Constitution Bench of learned Seven Judges of this Court clearly held that by a subsequent enactment, the writ of mandamus issued by the Calcutta High Court crystalizing the rights and liabilities between the parties cannot be annulled. G 109. It will also be apposite to refer to the following observation of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, Re. (supra), which reads thus: “76. The principle which emerges from these authorities is that the legislature can change the basis on which a decision is given H 582 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A by the Court and thus change the law in general, which will affect a class of persons and events at large. It cannot, however, set aside an individual decision inter partes and affect their rights and liabilities alone. Such an act on the part of the legislature amounts to exercising the judicial power of the State and to functioning as an appellate court or tribunal.” B 110. Relying on the aforesaid observation, this Court in the case of S.R. Bhagwat and others v. State of Mysore24 observed thus: “12. It is now well settled by a catena of decisions of this Court that a binding judicial pronouncement between the parties cannot be made ineffective with the aid of any legislative power by C enacting a provision which in substance overrules such and is not in the realm of a legislative enactment which displaces the basis or foundation of the and uniformly applies to a class of persons concerned with the entire subject sought to be covered by such an enactment having retrospective effect. We D may only refer to two of these s. xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx 15. We may note at the very outset that in the present case the High Court had not struck down any legislation which was sought E to be re-enacted after removing any defect retrospectively by the impugned provisions. This is a case where on interpretation of existing law, the High Court had given certain benefits to the petitioners. That of mandamus was sought to be nullified by the enactment of the impugned provisions in a new statute. This F in our view would be clearly impermissible legislative exercise.” 111. In the present case also, we may point out that in Common Cause (2021), this Court had not struck down any law, but had issued a mandamus which was binding on the parties before it.