This Court has on earlier occasions interpreted Sections 124 and 164 of the Evidence Act. In State of Punjab v. Sodhi Sukhdev C Singh89,the respondent, a District and Sessions Judge, who was removed from service and later re-employed sought the report of the Public Service Commission and the proceedings of the Council of Ministers. The Chief Secretary filed an affidavit claiming privilege under Section 123 of the Evidence Act. The claim for privilege was allowed. Justice Gajendragadkar, writing the majority opinion of the Constitution Bench, D laid down the scope of review of a claim of non-disclosure. Sections 164 and 123 were construed to deal with the conflict between public interest and private interest. It was observed that the court must assess if the disclosure that affects public interest would outweigh the concerns of private interest which disclosure of material to the litigant furthers: E “13. The principle on which this departure can be and is justified is the principle of the overriding and paramount character of public interest. A valid claim for privilege made under Section 123 proceeds on the basis of the theory that the production of the document in question would cause injury to public interest, and F that, where a conflict arises between public interest and private interest, the latter must yield to the former. No doubt the litigant whose claim may not succeed as a result of the non-production of the relevant and material document may feel aggrieved by the result, and the court, in reaching the said decision, may feel dissatisfied; but that will not affect the validity of the basic principle G that public good and interest must override considerations of private good and private interest.” The court held that when a claim of public interest immunity is made against disclosure, the Court must on a preliminary enquiry of the H 89 (1961) 2 SCR 371 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 679 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] affidavit determine if the document relates to affairs of the State. If the A document relates to state affairs, then the decision of the head of the department on whether the disclosure would violate public interest would be final. The document must be disclosed if on a preliminary enquiry the court is of the opinion that the document does not relate to ‘State affairs’. The court would only possess the power to scrutinise the affidavit and B not inspect the document on which immunity is claimed to determine if the document ‘relates to affairs of state’. 116. Justice Subba Rao in his opinion differed from the majority opinion on this point of law. The divergence was one of principle. While the majority pitted the issues on the lines of public interest and private C interest, Justice Subba Rao held that both disclosure and non-disclosure further public interest. It was held that the disclosure of information aids the party in the proceedings but beyond that the disclosure also serves the purpose of administration of justice.