smuggled gold) and even if the offender is not known, the customs authorities have power to confiscate the contraband gold. 6.6 In the case of JS Parkar (supra), the assessee not only F claimed the value of the gold confiscated as a trading loss but also set off of the said loss against his assumed and assessed income from undisclosed sources. The value of gold was sought to be taxed under Section 69/69A of the Act by the tax authorities. However, the Bombay High Court held the assessee to be the owner of the smuggled confiscated G gold and the assessee was not entitled to claim value of such gold as a trading loss. 6.7 In the present case the ownership of the confiscated silver bars of the assessee now cannot be disputed and even the assessee is not disputing the same. Even on that also there are concurrent findings by all the authorities below and including the customs authorities. H 100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Therefore, the next question which is posed for consideration before this Court is whether the assessee can claim the business loss of the value of the silver bar confiscated and whether the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh (supra) would be applicable? 6.8 To answer to the aforesaid question, it can be seen that in the B present case the main business of the assessee is dealing in silver. His business cannot be said to be smuggling of the silver bars as was the case in the case of Piara Singh (supra). As observed hereinabove in the assessee’s case he was carrying on an otherwise legitimate silver business and in attempt to make larger profits, he indulged into smuggling of silver, which was an infraction of law. In that view of the matter the C decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh (supra) which has been relied upon by the High Court while passing the impugned and and it has been relied upon by the assessee shall not be applicable to the facts of the case. On hand or the other hand the decision of this Court in the case of Haji Aziz (1961) 41 ITR 350 (SC) and the D decisions of the Andhra Pradesh High Court and the Bombay High Court which were pressed into service by the Revenue in Piara Singh (supra) would be applicable with full force. 7. In view of the above and for the reason stated above and looking to the business of the assessee namely silver business and was not in the E business of smuggling silver, the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh (supra) shall not be applicable and therefore the impugned and passed by the High Court quashing and setting aside the passed by the Assessing Officer, CIT(A) and the ITAT rejecting the claim of the Assessee to treat the silver bars confiscated by the customs authorities as business loss and consequently value allowing F the same as business loss is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set side.