The point of time, at which the stamp duty is to be paid is expressly provided for in Section 17 of the Stamp Act. There cannot be any gainsaying, that call it a fi scal enactment, it is intended that it is to be implemented with full vigour. The duty of a Court must be to adopt an interpretation which results in the enforcement of the law, rather than allowing the law to be fl outed with impunity. Once this principle is borne in mind, the task of the Court becomes less diffi cult.” 194. The interpretation accorded to the Stamp Act by this Court in the present does not allow the law to be fl outed. The arbitral tribunal continues to be bound by the provisions of the Stamp Act, including those relating to its impounding and admissibility. The interpretation of the law in this ensures that the provisions of the Arbitration Act are given eff ect to while not detracting from the purpose of the Stamp Act. 195. The interests of revenue are not jeopardised in any manner because the duty chargeable must be paid before the agreement in question is rendered admissible and the lis between the parties adjudicated. The question is at which stage the agreement would be impounded and not whether it would be impounded at all. The courts are not abdicating their duty but are instead giving eff ect to: a. The principle of minimal judicial intervention in Section 5 of the Arbitration Act; b. The prima facie standard applicable to Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act; and c. The purpose of the Stamp Act which is to protect the interests of revenue and not arm litigants with a weapon of technicality by which they delay the adjudication of the lis. d. The interpretation of the law must give eff ect to the purpose of the Arbitration Act in addition to the Stamp Act 118 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 196. The decision of the Constitution Bench in N N Global 2 (supra) gives eff ect exclusively to the purpose of Stamp Act. It prioritises the objective of the Stamp Act, i.e., to collect revenue at the cost of the Arbitration Act. As discussed previously, the purpose of the Arbitration Act is to ensure that a speedy and effi cacious alternative dispute resolution system is available to parties both commercial and otherwise. This purpose is in danger of being undermined by the interpretation accorded to the Stamp Act in N N Global 2 (supra). The impounding of an agreement which contains an arbitration clause at the stage of the appointment of an arbitrator under Section 11 (or Section 8 as the case may be) of the Arbitration Act will delay the commencement of arbitration. It is a well-known fact that courts are burdened with innumerable cases on their docket. This has the inevitable consequence of delaying the speed at which each case progresses. Arbitral tribunals, on the other hand, deal with a smaller volume of cases.