It is the case of the petitioner that instead of appropriately responding to the aforesaid notice of arbitration, the respondent issued a letter dated 09.05.2022, terminating the Contract alleging non-compliance of work and non-fulfi lment of the contractual obligation. 10. In such circumstances referred to above, the petitioner has preferred the present application for appointment of an arbitrator invoking Section 11(6) of the Act 1996. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PETITIONER 11. Mr. Sidhant Goel, the learned counsel appearing for the petitioner submitted that the case on hand, is one of “international commercial arbitration” within the meaning of Section 2(f) of the Act 1996 as his client is incorporated outside India. He submitted that under Section 11(12)(a) of the Act 1996, this Court has the requisite jurisdiction to take necessary measures for the constitution of an arbitral tribunal under Section 11(6) of the Act 1996 as the case is one of international commercial arbitration. 12. The learned counsel submitted that Clause 55.1(b)(I) of the Contract which provides for appointment of a sole arbitrator by the Principal Secretary/Secretary (Irrigation), Government of Uttarakhand is in teeth of the decision of this Court in Perkins Eastman Architects DPC and Another v. HSCC (India) Limited reported in (2020) 20 SCC 760. He submitted that the unilateral right of appointment of the arbitrator given to the respondent under the Contract is unenforceable as on date. 13. The learned counsel further submitted that the condition for pre- deposit of 7% of the claimed amount to initiate arbitration in accordance with Clause 55.1(b)(I) of the Contract is contrary to the decision of this Court in the case of ICOMM Tele Limited v. Punjab State Water Supply and Sewerage Board and Another reported in (2019) 4 SCC 401. 14. It was argued that such a clause could be termed as arbitrary being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution in the sense of being unfair and LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 953 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] unjust. It was also argued that such clauses in the Contract do not have any nexus in preventing any frivolous or vexatious claims in determination to such claims. 15. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in this petition the same may be allowed and a sole arbitrator be appointed to resolve the disputes between the parties. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 16. Mr. Amit Anand Tiwari, the learned counsel appearing for the respondent vehemently submitted that the present petition deserves to be outright rejected as the petitioner has failed to comply with the two pre- conditions: (i) the pre-deposit of 7% of the claimed amount and (ii) failure on the part of the petitioner to approach the Principal Secretary/Secretary (Irrigation), Government of Uttarakhand for appointment of an arbitrator as provided under Clause 55 of the Contract. 17. In the aforesaid context, he strongly relied upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. v. Tiwari Road Lines reported in (2007) 5 SCC 703, National Highways Authority of India and Another v. Bumihiway DDB Ltd. (JV) and Others reported in (2006) 10 SCC 763 and Yashwith Constructions (P)Ltd. v. Simplex Concrete Piles India Ltd. and Another reported in (2006) 6 SCC 204.