3. The say of petitioner no.1 is that we cannot borrow the concept from Roman Law or England, which was feudal in character, as, in England, the concept of Queen’s Counsel representing the crown came into existence in the 18th Century. At the time when the Constitution came into existence, there were admittedly diff erent categories of legal practitioners with varying degrees of the right to practice – Mukhtiyars, Vakils and Pleaders practiced in the Muff asil Courts, while in High Courts, Bar at Laws, Advocates and Solicitors practiced. The said Act was brought into existence to streamline the process of working of the legal system. Petitioner no.1, while lauding the objective behind the said Act, seeks to challenge the provisions of Sections 16 and 23(5) of the said Act, which is stated to have been ‘unwittingly’ incorporated and is stated to be destroying the laudable purpose of the said Act, i.e., a single unifi ed Bar for the entire republic of India. 4. A reference has also been made to the Advocates on Record in the Supreme Court, who are entitled to do the fi ling in the Supreme Court, while the Senior Advocates are the arguing counsels. 5. We may note that the pleadings of petitioner no.1 are almost reckless in character. The vast number of fi rst-generation lawyers who attained prominence and were designated as Senior Advocates are sought to be ignored – something which has grown over a period of time. We say the pleadings are reckless because it has sought to be made out as if the legal profession in India has long been feudalistic and a monopoly of certain higher castes and certain families. In fact, in the post-liberalisation period, it is alleged that lawyers no longer come to be known for their knowledge, values and erudition but for the manifestation of wealth and the proximity to the Bench. These averments are contemptuous in character, 2 (2023) 8 SCC 1 MATHEWS J. NEDUMPARA & ORS. v. 1185 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] and that too by Petitioner no.1, who already faced conviction for contempt and debarment from this court to practice in Mathews Nedumpara, In Re3. 6. The petitioner no.1 does not stop at this but alleges that the Bar has lost all its independence and vitality. The allegations are not only against the ordinary members of the Bar and designated Advocates but also against Government Law Offi cers enjoying Constitutional stature. He has pleaded that designation is insignia of superior status and title and promising lawyers should not undertake the ignominy of applying for designation. He goes as far as to say that the lawyers have lost faith in the system of merit, character, knowledge and uprightness but realised that only a title conferred by the Court as Senior Advocate alone can bring prosperity and success in the profession. Not only that, the entire legal fraternity practicing in subordinate Courts is stated to have been excluded from the zone of consideration for designation, and no meaningful objective is to be achieved by such classifi cation.