The oral submissions were led by Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel, on behalf of Mohd. Akbar Lone and Hasnain Masoodi. Inter alia, these challenge the following State actions: i. Para (c)(ii) of the Proclamation of President’s Rule in the State of Jammu & Kashmir vide GSR 1223(E) dated 19.12.2018, and extended for a further period with eff ect from 3.7.2019. ii. Concurrence given by respondent No.2 State enabling the President of India to issue Constitution of India (Application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir), 2019, numbered CO 272 dated 5.8.2019. iii. Constitution of India (Application to the State of Jammu & Kashmir), 2019 numbered CO No.272 dated 5.8.2019. 324 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. iv. Declaration under Article 370(3) of the Constitution numbered CO No.273 dated 6.8.2019. v. The Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019 (Act No.34 of 2019) which received the assent of the President on 9.8.2019. 44. The oral submissions were elaborate, relying on voluminous documents, reports, views, texts and such. The counsels did endeavour to divide the submissions amongst themselves but due to their nature, there was a considerable overlap of the submissions. Thus, to record submissions of each counsel would require a lot of duplication, which is why it has been thought expedient to deal with the submissions, under diff erent heads of submissions rather than counsel-wise. This will additionally help in making the crisper and help in focusing on the areas of contention between the two parties. Thus, the discussion. 1. The relation between the Union and the State of Jammu & Kashmir. A. The evolution of constitutional relationship between the Union and the State of Jammu & Kashmir prior to the impugned executive actions: A great deal of emphasis was laid on the assurances held out to the Princely State of Jammu & Kashmir prior to it acceding to the Indian State and the consequent constitutional guarantees which emerged in the Constitution of India as evinced by Article 370 of the Constitution of India. Thus, the impugned executive action was alleged to be in breach of the assurances held out and the constitutional scheme which evolved in pursuance thereof. We may summate the diff erent aspects urged on this behalf by the counsel. i. Article 370(1) is stated to be sui generis as it opened with a non obstante clause. The State of Jammu & Kashmir was excluded from Article 238; which limits the lawmaking power of the Parliament; and there was no democratic institution in the State at the time of accession. A fi nal decision on the nature of federal relations crystallized when a democratic frame to determine this was put into existence which was then agreed upon by the IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 325 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Constituent Assembly amongst others. This decision was unique in character as it was urged to be a diff erent arrangement from other States who had merged in the Indian Union. We may note a little divergence on the signifi cance of the Constituent Assembly as according to Mr. Zafar Shah, the Constituent Assembly alone was to determine the relationship while according to Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Counsel there could be other aspects, however in the given circumstances that would not be germane.