The significant aspect is that it is not a mere illegality which would call for interference, but it has to be “a patent illegality”, which obviously signifies that it ought to be apparent on the face of the award and not the one which is culled out by way of a long-drawn analysis of the pleadings and evidence. D Of course, when the terms and conditions of the agreement governing the parties are completely ignored, the matter would be different and an award carrying such a shortcoming shall be directly hit by Section 28(3) of the Act, which enjoins upon an arbitral tribunal to decide in accordance with the terms of contract E while taking into account the usage of trade applicable to the transaction. If an arbitrator construes the term of contract in a reasonable manner, the award cannot be set aside with reference to the deduction drawn from construction. The possibility of interference would arise only if the construction of the arbitrator is such which could not be made by any fair-minded and reasonable F person. [Para 18][433-D-G] 1.2 The instant case had not been a case of the fundamental alteration of the terms of contract during the currency of contract and for that matter, the parties having definitely exchanged communication and having brought into existence an agreement G which, even if construed as supplemental to original one, had been of material difference in regard to the use of particular fuel and then raising of invoices on that basis with reference to fluctuating price of fuel as also the exchange rate of foreign currency (US dollar). [Para 19.3][436-B-C] H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 381 1.3 The matter can be examined from yet another angle. If A the terms agreed to by the parties with exchange of communications commencing from 20.03.2013 were to be ignored, the result would be of ignoring such terms of contract of the parties which had come into existence and which were binding on both. Viewed thus, coupled with the fact that only the limited B dispute was presented for arbitration (i.e., as to whether power was to be supplied on the basis of fixed rate of fuel and fixed rate of currency or on variable charges), the Arbitral tribunal has been justified in focusing on the core issue raised, rather than going astray and entering into such an analysis which was not germane to the issue at hand. [Para 20][436-C-E] C 1.4 No ground for challenge under Sections 34 or 37 of the Act was made out in relation to the award pertaining to variable charges. Hence, the High Court has not been right in setting aside the award relating to variable charges on the ground of so- called non-consideration of clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7 of Power D Purchase Agreement. [Para 21][436-F] 1.5 The High Court, even while reminding itself of the limitation of jurisdiction, committed the same error by extensively dissecting the evidence while assuming that clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7 were decisive of the matter without taking a close look at E the material propositions which formed the dispute and which were presented by the parties before the arbitral tribunal.