45. Thus, none of the decisions relied upon by the appellants revolve around the rights and interests that a Corporate Debtor has in an immovable property. C 46. As a matter of fact, the only decision of this Court which may probably come close to the facts of the present case, is the one in Rajendra K. Bhutta vs. Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority & Anr.14. In the said case, there was a tripartite joint development agreement entered into between (i) a Society D representing a large number of persons occupying 672 tenements in the property; (ii)Maharashtra Housing and Area Development Authority15, which was the owner of the land; and (iii) the corporate debtor. After initiation of CIRP against the corporate debtor, MHADA issued a notice for the termination of the joint development agreement. NCLAT refused E to treat the property as the asset of the corporate debtor. But this Court reversed the said decision, by holding that Section 14(1)(d) stood attracted in the facts and circumstances of the said case and that even a reference to Sections 18 and 25 may not be necessary. Though the said case arose out of a fact situation where the termination of the joint development agreement was hit by Section 14, the said decision clinches the issue on F what constitute a property and the distinction between occupation and possession of a property. 47. Having seen the legal position, let us now come back to the facts of the case to see whether NCLT and NCLAT addressed the issue correctly or not. G 48. As we have seen earlier, two applications were filed before NCLT. One was by the Resolution Professional and the other was by Victory. A careful look at the application filed by Victory in C.A. (IB) 14 (2020) 13 SCC 208 H 15 For short, the “MHADA” VICTORY IRON WORKS LTD. v. JITENDRA LOHIA & ANR. 1045 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] No.146 of 2020 would show that there was no whisper about Victory A occupying any land in excess of what they were permitted to occupy under the Leave and License Agreement. Under the Leave and License Agreement, Victory was allowed to occupy only 10000 sq. ft. of land, upon payment of a monthly license fee of Rs.5,000/-. If at all, a vague averment was made in paragraph VII (c) of their application to the B effect that inasmuch as the Corporate Debtor was unable to commence any development activity in the subject land, the owner and the developer, with their full consent, had decided to allow the applicant to run its business in the usual course from the subject land, because the subject land could not have been left vacant for any substantial period of time. C 49. The fact that there were security guards posted in the property is borne out by records. This is why NCLT as well as NCLAT have done a delicate act of balancing, by protecting the interests of Victory to the extent of the land permitted to be occupied.