G Therefore, a separate return covering the years of the block period is a pre-requisite for making block assessment. It is observed and held that Chapter XIV-B is a complete code in itself providing for self-contained machinery for assessment of undisclosed income for the block period of 10 years or 6 years as the case may be. In paragraphs22 to 25, it is H observed and held as under: K.L. SWAMY v. THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX & 711 ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] “Scheme of Chapter XIV-B A 22. Before we proceed to answer the question, it would be necessary to keep in mind the scheme of block assessment introduced in Chapter XIV-B to the Finance Act, 1995 w.e.f. 1-7- 1995. B 23. As already mentioned in brief by us, Chapter XIV-B of the Act which deals with block assessment lays down a special procedure for search cases. The main reason for adding these provisions in the Act was to curb tax evasion and expedite as well as simplify the assessments in such search cases: C 23.1. Undisclosed incomes have to be related in different years in which income was earned under block assessment. This is because in such cases, the “block period” is for previous years relevant to 10/6 assessment years and also the period of the current previous year up to the date of the search i.e. from 1-4-2000 to D 17-1-2001, in this case. The essence of this new procedure, therefore, is a separate single assessment of the “undisclosed income”, detected as a result of search and this separate assessment has to be in addition to the normal assessment covering the same period. Therefore, a separate return covering the years of the block period is a prerequisite for making block assessment. E Under the said procedure, the Explanation is inserted in Section 158-BB, which is the computation section, explaining the method of computation of “undisclosed income” of the block period. It is now well accepted that this Chapter is a complete code in itself providing for self-contained machinery for assessment of F undisclosed income for the block period of 10 years or 6 years, as the case may be. 23.2. In case of regular assessments for which returns are filed on yearly basis, Section 4 of the Act is the charging section. However, at what rate the income is to be taxed is specified every G year by Parliament in the Finance Act. In contradistinction, when it comes to payment of tax on the undisclosed income relating to the block period, the rate is specified in Section 113 of the Act. It remains static at 60% of the undisclosed income which is the categorical stipulation in Section 113 of the Act. Section 158-BA(2) H 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of the Act clearly states that the total undisclosed income relating to the block period “shall be charged to tax” at the rates specified under Section 113 as income of the block period irrespective of previous year or years.