9. In terms of the Clause 36 of the Letters Patent Act, 1865 of the Calcutta High Court, the matter was referred to a third Judge and the Referee Judge formulated the following two questions for answering the reference:- CHEN KHOI KUI v. LIANG MIAO SHENG & ORS. 313 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] “1. Whether the Registrar of Firms, Societies and Non-trading Corporations, West Bengal, the respondent no.2 in the writ petition (hereafter the Registrar), did have the power to cancel the registration earlier granted in the name of “Pei May Chinese High School” on the ground that such registration was obtained by the appellants/writ petitioners (hereafter the appellants) by suppression of material facts? 2. If the fi rst question were answered in the affi rmative, whether the Registrar prior to passing the impugned of cancellation extended due and reasonable opportunity to the appellants in consonance with the principles of natural justice to defend the allegation levelled against them by the respondent no.4, Mr. Chen Khoi Kui. (hereafter the objector)?” 10. Analysing the distinction between procedural review and substantiative review, the Referee Judge answered above questions in the following terms:- “36. What the 1961 Act expressly bars is registration of a society under a name which is identical with, or too nearly resembles, the name of any other society which has been previously registered. In the present case, it is not in doubt that the names of the two societies are diff erent, although it is true that the Chinese Tannery Owners’ Association has been registered under the 1961 Act, with a disclosure that Pei May Chinese High School is a sister organisation of such association. However, whether registration obtained by the appellants in the name of Pei May Chinese High School is the result of any fraud or is otherwise statutorily barred, is not too clearly refl ected in the of cancellation passed by the Registrar. In to ensure that an allegation of suppression of a material fact succeeds, it is incumbent on the party alleging to prove it by reference to documents on record at the time the application for registration of the appellants was being considered. The 1961 Act requires that registration be applied for with particulars to be disclosed in a memorandum together with the rules and regulations of the proposed registered society. No form of memorandum has been statutorily prescribed. In the absence of such form, one is left to wonder what are the queries that are required to be answered for registration to ensue. The memorandum submitted 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. by the appellants has not been shown to be on the records of the writ appeal. The memorandum or its contents not being on record and the Registrar too not having referred to it in his impugned , the degree of suppression and also whether it is of a material fact which, if disclosed, could have had the eff ect of summary rejection of the application for rejection cannot be ascertained and it is diffi cult in the exercise of the present jurisdiction to return a fi nding one way or the other.