Rule 123 of the rules exempts certain drugs from the provisions of Chapter IV of the Act (which includes both Section 18 and Section 27 referred above, which are penal D provisions), under certain conditions Rule 123 reads as under: “123. The drugs specified in Schedule K shall be exempted from the provisions of Chapter IV of the Act and the rules made thereunder to the extent and subject to the conditions specified in that Schedule.” E Entry No. 5 under Schedule (K) are the drugs which are supplied by a registered medical practitioner with which we are presently concerned. The relevant provision of Schedule (K) reads as under:- Schedule K (See Rule 123) F G H S. ATHILAKSHMI v. THE STATE REP. BY THE DRUGS 921 INSPECTOR [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] A B C D E F G (emphasis supplied) H 922 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A It is not the case of the prosecution that the Appellant was selling drugs from an open shop across the counter. She is a senior doctor who is engaged as an Associate Professor and Head of Department, Dermatology in a Government Medical College, and being a medical practitioner, under certain conditions, she is also protected under the law which has been referred to above. B 9. Considering the small quantity of medicines, most of which are in the category of lotions and ointments, it cannot be said by any stretch of imagination that such medicines could be ‘stocked’ for sale and would come in the category of stocking of medicines for the purpose of sale. When small quantity of medicine has been found in the premises of a C registered medical practitioner, it would not amount to selling their medicines across the counter in an open shop. In fact, this is not even the allegation against the Appellant. Undoubtedly, the provisions of Section 18 and 27 are relevant provisions under the law, which have a social purpose, which is to protect ordinary citizens from being exploited inter D alia, by unethical medical practitioners, and for this reason the punishment under Section 27 can extend up to 5 years under the law, and has a minimum punishment of 3 years. But given the facts and circumstances of the case and considering that the Appellant is a registered medical practitioner, along with the fact that the quantity of medicines which have been seized is extremely small, a quantity which can be easily E found in the house or a consultation room of a doctor, in our considered view no offence is made out in the present case. In fact, an exception has been created under Schedule ‘K’ read with Rule 123 to the rules, the appellant ought to have been given the benefit of these provisions and such a registered medical practitioner should not have been allowed F to face a trial where in all likelihood the prosecution would have failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. The learned single judge while dismissing the application under Section 482 Cr.P.C of the appellant has relied upon a decision of this Court: “9.