[J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 14.….while exercising the powers under Article 227 of the A Constitution of India, the High Court subjects itself to the rigour of Article 227 of the Constitution and the High Court has to exercise the jurisdiction under Article 227 within the parameters within which such jurisdiction is required to be exercised.” B (Emphasis supplied) 35. In Ibrat Faizan (supra), this Court took notice of its earlier decision in the case of Associated Cement (supra), wherein, a Constitution Bench held as under: C “9. … Special matters and questions are entrusted to them for their decision and in that sense, they share with the Courts one common characteristic; both the courts and the tribunals are “constituted by the State and are invested with judicial as distinguished from purely administrative or executive functions”, (vide Durga Shankar Mehta v. Raghuraj Singh, D 1955 1 SCR 267 at p. 272: (AIR 1954 SC 520 at p. 522). They are both adjudicating bodies and they deal with and finally determine disputes between parties which are entrusted to their jurisdiction. The procedure followed by the Courts is regularly prescribed and in discharging their functions and E exercising their powers, the Courts have to conform to that procedure. The procedure which the tribunals have to follow may not always be so strictly prescribed, but the approach adopted by both the Courts and the tribunals is substantially the same, and there is no essential difference between the functions that they discharge. As in the case of Courts, so in F the case of tribunals, it is the State’s inherent judicial power which has been transferred and by virtue of the said power, it is the State’s inherent judicial function which they discharge. Judicial functions and judicial powers are one of the essential attributes of a sovereign State, and on considerations of G policy, the State transfers its judicial functions and powers mainly to the Courts established by the Constitution; but that does not affect the competence of the State, by appropriate measures, to transfer a part of its judicial powers and functions to tribunals by entrusting to them the task of adjudicating upon special matters and disputes between H 1170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A parties. It is really not possible or even expedient to attempt to describe exhaustively the features which are common to the tribunals and the Courts, and features which are distinct and separate. The basic and the fundamental feature which is common to both the Courts and the tribunals is that they discharge judicial functions and exercise judicial powers B which inherently vest in a sovereign State. Xxx xxx xxx 44. An authority other than a Court may be vested by statute with judicial power in widely different circumstances, which it would be impossible and indeed inadvisable to attempt to C define exhaustively. The proper thing is to examine each case as it arises, and to ascertain whether the powers vested in the authority can be truly described as judicial functions or judicial powers of the State.