(viii) On 15.11.2000, the UN General Assembly adopted the United B Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime and it opened for signature by Member States at a high level political Conference convened at Palermo, Italy in December 2000 (now known as Palermo Convention). (ix) On October 31, 2003, the United Nations General Assembly C adopted the UN Convention against corruption and the Convention came into force in 2005. (x) Pursuant to the political Declaration adopted by the special session of the United Nations General Assembly held between 8th to 10th June 1998 (of which India is one of the signatories) calling upon D member States to adopt Anti Money Laundering Legislation & Programme, the Parliament has enacted a special law called the ‘Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002’ (PMLA 2002). The Act has come into force with effect from 1st July 2005. It has been substantially amended, by way of enlarging its scope, in 2009 (w.e.f. 01.06.2009), by E enactment of Prevention of Money Laundering (Amendment) Act, 2009. The Act was further amended by Prevention of Money-Laundering (Amendment) Act, 2012 (w.e.f. 15-02-2013). (xi) As part of the effort to assist jurisdictions prepare or upgrade their legislative framework to conform with international standards and best practices to implement anti-money laundering measures and F combating the financing of terrorism, UNODC issued in 2003, “Model Money-Laundering, Proceeds of Crime and Terrorist Financing Bill”. 90. The Commonwealth Secretariat of the UNODC released in April 2009 an updated version of the “Model Provisions on Money G Laundering, Terrorist Financing, Preventive Measures and Proceeds of Crime”. Some of the provisions of the UN Model Law 2009 show that PMLA has been brought in tune with the Model Law. 91. The Drafting Note on self-laundering, contained in the Model Law deals with the question whether a person should necessarily be H 1084 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A implicated in the predicate offence so as to be an accused in the offence of money-laundering. It reads as follows: “Self-laundering: “As the section refers to “any person,” this includes both the person who committed the predicate offence and third party B launderers. Although generally not an issue in States in the common law tradition, there can be a question whether the offence should be extended to the person who also committed the predicate offence. The Vienna and Palermo Conventions provide an exception C to the general principle that both the predicate offender and third parties should be liable for money laundering where fundamental principles of domestic law require that it not apply to the person who committed the predicate offence. In some countries, constitutional principles prohibit prosecuting a person both for money laundering and a predicate offence. D In the case of most common law countries, there do not appear to be fundamental principles that prohibit the application of the money laundering offence to self-launderers. However, if an exception is necessary, an additional provision, as “[t]he offence of money laundering shall not apply to persons who E have committed the predicate offence” should be incorporated.