No evidence has been taced in the records that ML had a licensed gun. However, nothing turns on it. The failure/neglect to seize the weapons of offence, on facts and in the circumstances of the instant case, has H 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the effect of denting the prosecution story so much so that the same, together with non-examination of material witnesses constitutes a vital circumstance amongst others for granting the appellants the benefit of doubt. [Para 40][241-E-F] 1.9. The medical evidence tendered by PW-1, if believed B in its entirety, leads to form an opinion that the evidence of PW- 4 of he having recovered a bullet leading to its seizure at the place of occurrence as doubtful. [Para 41][241-G] 1.10. Although, mere defects in the investigative process by itself cannot constitute ground for acquittal, it is the legal C obligation of the Court to examine carefully in each case the prosecution evidence de hors the lapses committed by the Investigating Officer to find out whether the evidence brought on record is at all reliable and whether such lapses affect the object of finding out the truth. Being conscious of the above position in law and to avoid erosion of the faith and confidence of D the people in the administration of criminal justice, the evidence led by the prosecution is examined threadbare and refrained from giving primacy to the negligence of the Investigating Officer as well as to the omission or lapses resulting from the perfunctory investigation undertaken by him. The endeavour of this Court E has been to reach the root of the matter by analysing and assessing the evidence on record and to ascertain whether the appellants were duly found to be guilty as well as to ensure that the guilty does not escape the rigours of law. The disturbing features in the process of investigation, since noticed, have not weighed in the Court’s mind to give the benefit of doubt to the appellants but on F proper evaluation of the various facts and circumstances, it has transpired that there were reasons for which PW-2 might have falsely implicated the appellants and also that PW-3 was not a wholly reliable witness. There is a fair degree of uncertainty in the prosecution story and the courts below appear to have G somewhat been influenced by the oral testimony of PW-2 and PW-3, without taking into consideration the effect of the other attending circumstances, thereby warranting interference. [Para 42][242-B-F] 1.11. The charge that the appellants had murdered N, cannot be said to have been proved beyond reasonable doubt; hence, H MUNNA LAL v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 229 they are entitled to the benefit of doubt. The trial court’s A of conviction and of sentence being unsustainable, is set aside; consequently, the impugned and passed by the High Court, upholding the conviction and sentence, too is set aside. [Para 43][242-G; 243-A] Jarnail Singh vs. State of Punjab (2009) 9 SCC 719 : B [2009] 13 SCR 774 – referred to.