He relied upon the decision B of this Court in the case of Sahib Hussain alias Sahib Jan v. State of Rajasthan3 and in the case of Gurvail Singh alias Gala v. State of Punjab4. 5. On facts, he pointed out that at the time of the commission of the offence, the appellant’s age was 22 years. He pointed out that the C appellant has a young wife, a small child and aged parents. Moreover, he has no antecedents and poses no threat to society. Moreover, his conduct in jail is all throughout satisfactory and in fact, he has completed B.A. degree course while in jail. Lastly, he pointed out that the appellant has undergone sentence for approximately seventeen years and two D months. 6. The submission of the learned counsel appearing for the respondent – State is that the Constitutional Courts are not powerless to impose modified sentences considering the gravity of the offence, the conduct of the accused and other relevant factors even though the death E penalty has not been imposed. He submitted that the power of the Constitutional Courts to grant a modified sentence could not be circumscribed by holding that the said power can be exercised only when the question is of commuting the death sentence. By pointing out findings of the Trial Court and the High Court, he submitted that in the facts of this case, the most stringent punishment was contemplated. He submitted F that in any case, the High Court, after considering all the factual aspects, has reiterated the view taken by the Sessions Court by imposing a sentence for the entirety of the appellant’s life. OUR VIEW 7. Under Chapter III of the IPC, different punishments have been G provided. Section 53 provides for five categories of punishments: the death penalty, imprisonment for life, imprisonment (either rigorous or simple), forfeiture of property and fine. It is also a settled position that 3 2013 (9) SCC 778 4 2013 (10) SCC 631 H 674 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A when an offender is sentenced to undergo imprisonment for life, the incarceration can continue till the end of the life of the accused. However, it is subject to a grant of remission under the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘Cr.P.C.’) and the Constitutional powers vested in the Hon’ble Governor and the Hon’ble President of India, as the case may be. While imposing a life sentence, if it is directed B that the accused shall not be released for a specific period, it becomes a modified punishment. In such a case, before the expiry of the fixed period provided, the power to grant remission under Cr.P.C. cannot be exercised. 8. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant has relied upon C what is held in paragraph 56 of the decision of this Court in the case of Swamy Shraddananda2, which reads thus: “56. But this leads to a more important question about the punishment commensurate to the appellant’s crime.