154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute G the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” 10. It can thus be seen that this Court has held that the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. It has been held that the circumstances concerned “must or H 26 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A should” and not “may be” established. It has been held that there is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved”. It has been held that the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty. It has been held that the B circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one sought to be proved, and that there must be a chain of evidence so complete so as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability C the act must have been done by the accused. 11. It is a settled principle of law that however strong a suspicion may be, it cannot take place of a proof beyond reasonable doubt. In the light of these guiding principles, we will have to consider the present case. D 12. The prosecution case rests basically on the extra-judicial confession alleged to have been made by the appellant before Manick Pal (PW-10), Pravat Kumar Misra (PW-11) and Kanai Ch. Saha (PW- 12). 13. The trial court observed that where the prosecution case is E entirely based on extra-judicial confession and the prosecution seeks conviction of the accused on that extra-judicial confession, the evidence of the witnesses before whom the alleged confessional statement was made, requires a greater scrutiny to pass the test of credibility. 14. The trial court found that the evidence of PWs 10 to 12 were F contradictory to each other. It is further to be noted that the trial court had the benefit of witnessing the demeanour of these witnesses. It found the evidence of these witnesses not to be trustworthy. 15. It is a settled principle of law that extra-judicial confession is a weak piece of evidence. It has been held that where an extra-judicial G confession is surrounded by suspicious circumstances, its credibility becomes doubtful and it loses its importance. It has further been held that it is well-settled that it is a rule of caution where the court would generally look for an independent reliable corroboration before placing any reliance upon such extra-judicial confession. It has been held that there is no doubt that conviction can be based on extra-judicial confession, H NIKHIL CHANDRA MONDAL v. STATE OF WEST BENGAL 27 [B. R. GAVAI, J.]