This requirement flows from their duty to act in good faith and make G full disclosure to the shareholders regarding affairs of a company. The acts of Directors in a private limited company are required to be tested on a much finer scale in to rule out any misuse of power for personal gains or ulterior motives. Non-applicability of Section 81 of the Companies Act in case of private limited companies casts a heavier burden on its Directors. Private limited H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 267 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] companies are normally closely held i.e. the share capital is held A within members of a family or within a close-knit group of friends. This brings in considerations akin to those applied in cases of partnership where the partners owe a duty to act with utmost good faith towards each other. Non-applicability of Section 81 of the Act to private companies does not mean that the Directors B have absolute freedom in the matter of management of affairs of the company. In the present case Article 4(iii) of the Articles of Association prohibits any invitation to the public for subscription of shares or debentures of the company. The intention from this appears to be that the share capital of the company remains within a close-knit group. Therefore, if the Directors fail to act in the C manner prescribed above they can in the sense indicated by us earlier be held liable for breach of trust for misapplying funds of the company and for misappropriating its assets.” (Emphasis supplied) 30. It is true that the appellant had 30.80 per cent of the paid-up D share capital. The V.P. Patel Group had 24.20 per cent of the paid-up share capital. The Sheth Group had 45 per cent of the paid-up share capital. This is when the authorised capital of the Company was Rs.1 crore. The position, after the authorised capital was increased to Rs.2 crores, on the other hand, is as follows: E The appellants-Group shareholding has increased to 63.58% of the paid-up share capital. The shareholding of the V.P. Patel Group stands at 12.74% of the paid-up share capital. The shareholding of the Sheth Group is 23.68% percentage of the paid-up share capital. F 31. The appellants were at the helm of the affairs, undoubtedly, of the first respondent-Company. The first appellant was the Chairman of the Company. Somewhere in April, 2009, the Sheth Group Directors had resigned. The Board of Directors consisted of the appellants and two Directors belonging to the V.P. Patel Group. There is a concurrent finding G that the decision taken by the appellants to increase the authorised share capital cannot be treated as an act of oppression or mismanagement. The only question is whether oppression has been occasioned by the manner in which the allotment of the additional shares was done. 32. The first respondent is a private limited company. Section 81(3) of the Act, expressly exempted from the purview of the provision, H 268 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.