1. New Delhi Municipal Committee v/s. Allied Motors Pvt. Ltd (1995) SUPP (4) SCC 150. 2. ICICI Bank & Another v/s. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay & Ors. (2005) 6 SCC 404. 3. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay v/s. Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (2002) 4 SCC 219. 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 4. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay & Ors. v/s. Ratiloku Shetty AIR 2002 Bom 94. 5. Shri Krishna Pictures v/s. Administrator, Indore Municipal Corporation, Indore 1980 JLJ 530. 9. A plain reading of the impugned would clearly indicate that the Writ Petitions fi led by the appellants herein before the High Court was dismissed by relying upon the of Bharti Airtel vs. State of Madhya Pradesh rendering in W.P. No.2296 of 2012 on 12.01.2015 by arriving at a conclusion that all the grounds raised in the writ petitions have been answered in Bharti Airtel. 10. A perusal of the rendered in Bharati Airtel (supra) could indicate that the issue involved or the lis revolved around in the said matter was whether the advertisement tax levied under the impugned notices therein through the medium of an agency is permissible? Namely, “whether contractor can be empowered to recover the terminal tax?” It is in this background the impugned notices therein came to be quashed. Hence, we are of the considered view that principles enunciated in Bharti Airtel (supra) would be inapplicable to the facts on hand the impugned would not be sustainable on this short ground. However, it would not stop at it, inasmuch as the issue regarding levy of advertisement tax would still be at large. It is in this background, we propose to examine as to what further course of action is proposed to be taken? 11. In the instant appeals, a demand was raised by the second respondent on the appellants for payment of advertisement tax which was objected to by the appellants contending inter alia that imposition of tax on sign boards is impermissible and they were not advertising any product or goods and had only displayed the name of the business establishment describing or displaying the goods/ products in which they are dealing and exhibiting or displaying its trade name along with the commodity with which it is dealing, on its premises would not tantamount to advertisement particularly when no details/characteristics, etc. are displayed to attract potential buyers by calling upon such purchasers to purchase a particular product and said notice was unsuccessfully challenged by the respective appellants before the High Court. M/S HARSH AUTOMOBILES PRIVATE LIMITED v. INDORE 35 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 12. The Indore Municipal Corporation is a municipality as defi ned under Article 243-Q of the Constitution of India and by virtue of Entry No.5 of State List-II under Schedule VII of the Constitution the State Government has promulgated Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 for Constitution, regulation of Municipal Corporation whereunder as the Corporation has been empowered to carry out all civil body works including levy and collection of various taxes which includes the tax on “advertisements” (otherwise advertisements published in newspapers and advertisement broadcasted by radio or television) as provided under Entry No.55 of State List.