Minimum fee was also prescribed for later years. It appears that licencees were unable to make payments as per the 1994 agreement and under the 1999 policy, were required to pay lump-sum payment for past arrears before specifi ed dates. 32. There was restriction under the 1994 agreement, on transfer of the licence or even grant sub-licence but there was no specifi c restriction on change of shareholding. 1999 policy ensured that even shareholding did not change for a period of 5 years from the eff ective date. The eff ect of acquiring the licence has been examined in paragraph 15 above. The licence was not assignable or transferrable as such, but induction of share capital, transfer of shares etc. was permitted subject to conditions C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 385 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] in the 1999 policy. In commercial sense the licence constituted and continues to be the most valuable right which the company has and possesses. Thus, the payment made is for acquiring the licence which is essential and mandatory, prerequisite for establishing the business and for operations or continuance and running of business. Yet, as observed below, it cannot be equated with one time entry fee which a person has to pay to establish the business. It therefore, represents composite payment, both capital and revenue. 33. The licence fee was imposed and payable under the Indian Telegraph Act and other statutory provisions and was/is mandatory. Failure to pay the same would/will result in discontinuance or stoppage of business operations. Under 1999 policy, the amount payable speaks of sharing of gross revenue earned by the service provider from the customers. 1994 agreement as noticed did have a provision for sharing but with minimum payment stipulation. In case of non-payment of licence fee, the licence could be revoked and licencee was not permitted to carry on and continue cellular telephone service. Thus, the licence fee payable was/is equally with the objective and purpose to maintain and operate cellular telephone services. It was also an operating expense and non payment can lead to cancellation as one of the consequences. Endurement requires current expenses and is subject to payment on revenue share. It will not be correct to hold or propound that entire payment during the term of licence, is deferred capital payment. This was/is not the intent under the 1994 agreement or 1999 policy. The intent is to also share the gross earning to maintain and operate the licence. 34. The licence fee as such is similar to both prospecting fee, acquisition of right to lease as well as leases which enabled removal of sand/tendu leaves, etc. as nothing has to be won over, or extracted. Part payment was towards an initial investment which an assessee had to make to establish the business. It was a precondition to setting up of business. It has element and includes payment made to acquire the ‘asset’ i.e. the right to establish cellular telephone service. But the licence permits and allows the assessee to maintain, operate and continue business activities.