As a result of the deletion of Paragraph 3, the authority of the Speaker to form even a prima facie opinion regarding a split within a F political party has been removed. Upon the deletion of Paragraph 3, the only defence for disqualification proceedings under the Tenth Schedule is that of a merger under Paragraph 4. The ECI is the sole authority empowered to decide disputes between rival factions of a political party according to the provisions of the Symbols ; G e. A majority of a legislature party may appoint the Leader and the Chief Whip of the legislature party. The 1986 Rules 19 "1986 Rules” 20 (2019) 7 SCC 463 21 (2015) 12 SCC 381 H 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A provide that only the members of the legislature party shall choose their Leader. When the Leader and the Chief Whip are elected by the majority of the legislature party, the Speaker must take a prima facie view and grant recognition to such Leader and Chief Whip for the purposes of the Tenth Schedule. The Speaker has no choice but to appoint B a Leader and a Chief Whip elected by a majority of the members of the legislature party; and f. The decision of the Governor calling Mr. Eknath Shinde to form the Government is valid and cannot be called into question because: C i. Mr. Thackeray resigned on 29 June 2022 without facing the floor test; ii. On the resignation of Mr. Thackeray, it was the constitutional duty of the Governor to call upon another person who commanded the majority in the D Legislative Assembly to form the government; and iii. Mr. Shinde staked his claim to form the government and subsequently proved his majority on the floor of the Legislative Assembly. E 44. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, appearing on behalf of the Governor, made the following submissions: a. The decision of the Governor calling upon Mr. Thackeray to prove his majority on the floor of the House was justified because: F i. The Governor has a constitutional obligation to ensure that the Council of Ministers led by the Chief Minister enjoys the support of the majority of the House. The Governor directed Mr. Thackeray to face the floor test based on the prevailing circumstances and the G material before him; ii. In directing the floor test, the Governor did not decide who enjoys the majority in the Legislative Assembly. Further, he did not decide any matter pertaining to the disqualification petitions or the split within the Shiv H Sena; SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 897 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] iii. The Governor is not precluded from exercising their A discretionary power to call for a floor test. Constitutional propriety requires the Governor to act independently and call for an immediate floor test when serious doubts have been raised about the majority enjoyed by the incumbent government in the B Legislative Assembly. In the present case, the Governor called for the floor test based on the following objective facts: I.