In the instant case, although the respondent borrowers initially approached the Debts Recovery Tribunal by fi ling an application under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act, 2002, but the of the Tribunal indeed was appealable under Section 18 of the Act subject to the compliance of condition of pre-deposit and without exhausting the statutory remedy of appeal, the respondent borrowers approached the High Court by fi ling the writ application under Article 226 of the Constitution. We deprecate such practice of entertaining the writ application by the High Court in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution without exhausting the alternative statutory remedy available under the law. This circuitous route appears to have been adopted to avoid the condition of pre-deposit contemplated under 2nd proviso to Section 18 of the 2002 Act.” 96. More than a decade back, this Court had expressed serious concern despite its repeated pronouncements in regard to the High Courts ignoring the availability of statutory remedies under the RDBFI Act and the SARFAESI Act and exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. Even after, the decision of this Court in Satyawati Tondon (supra), it appears that the High Courts have continued to exercise its writ jurisdiction under 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Article 226 ignoring the statutory remedies under the RDBFI Act and the SARFAESI Act. CONDUCT OF THE BANK 97. The genesis of the entire case lies in the illegitimate conduct of the Bank in placing diff erent concerns above the clear provisions of the law. First, there was failure on the part of the Bank to issue sale certifi cate in favour of the auction purchaser despite the fact that the entire payment of auction bid was made. Secondly, although the right of redemption clearly stood lapsed under Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act and auction having taken place wherein full bid amount was received, yet the Bank proceeded to accept the off er of full payment of the Borrower which is clearly impermissible in law. Once the auction notice is published in accordance with Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, then unless and until the auction is held to be bad and illegal in the facts of the case, the right of redemption of mortgage is not available to the borrower. 98. It is an admitted fact that the entire bid amount was paid by the auction purchaser as observed at Para 10 of the Impugned . Thus, the Bank was legally bound to issue the sale certifi cate as per the language of Rule 9(6) of the Rules of 2002. The said provision employs the phrase “shall”. Thus, it is an instance of mandatory provision. There is nothing more in the realm of law that the auction purchaser can do once he has made the entire payment to the Bank. The fact that the Respondent Bank failed to issue the sale certifi cate raises serious concerns, when there was no stay by any competent forum. Even otherwise the general conduct of the Respondent Bank has not been satisfactory.