Rehabilitation of Hazardous Workers 92. The liberative nature of the statute coupled with the object of Article 17 and 23 require entitlements to be given to the families of those persons who died while working in sewers or septic tanks. This is also because the entire family would be rendered without a bread-winner. The economic and social status of the already downtrodden and oppressed family would dwindle further. The dignity of the individual, guaranteed by law under Article 21, must be ensured through rehabilitative processes. 112 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 93. The Court cannot be blind to such a situation. In fact, it is in pursuance of this aim that this Court in Safai Karamchari (supra) granted a sum of ₹ 10 lakhs to every family where a person had died in a sewer. The Court held: “23.2. If the practice of manual scavenging has to be brought to a close and also to prevent future generations from the inhuman practice of manual scavenging, rehabilitation of manual scavengers will need to include: (a) Sewer deaths — Entering sewer lines without safety gear should be made a crime even in emergency situations. For each such death, compensation of Rs 10 lakhs should be given to the family of the deceased. 23.3. Identify the families of all persons who have died in sewerage work (manholes, septic tanks) since 1993 and award compensation of Rs 10 lakhs for each such death to the family members depending on them. 23.4 Rehabilitation must be based on the principles of justice and transformation.” 94. However, mere economic measures would not suffi ce in the upliftment of the family. Rehabilitation would require elements of long- term and short-term socio-economic measures such as scholarships, etc. To this end, this Court fi nds that entitlements which are akin to those given to manual scavengers must be granted to families of hazardous workers who had died in sewers and septic tanks. 95. In addition to the families of the hazardous workers, endeavors must be made to rehabilitate such persons who continue to be employed as hazardous workers without any protective gear or cleaning devices. States must suitably frame policies to ensure that all hazardous workers are given access to rehabilitative entitlements. Directions 96. In view of the above discussion, the following directions are issued: (1) The Union should take appropriate measures and frame policies, and issue directions, to all statutory bodies, including corporations, railways, cantonments, as well as agencies under DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1129 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] its control, to ensure that manual sewer cleaning is completely eradicated in a phased manner, and also issue such guidelines and directions as are essential, that any sewer cleaning work outsourced, or required to be discharged, by or through contractors or agencies, do not require individuals to enter sewers, for any purpose whatsoever; (2) All States and Union Territories are likewise, directed to ensure that all departments, agencies, corporations and other agencies (by whatever name called) ensure that guidelines and directions framed by the Union are embodied in their own guidelines and directions; the states are specifi cally directed to ensure that such directions are applicable to all municipalities, and local bodies functioning within their territories; (3) The Union, State and Union Territories are directed to ensure that full rehabilitation (including employment to the next of kin, education to the wards, and skill training) measures are taken in respect of sewage workers, and those who die; (4) The court hereby directs the Union and the States to ensure that the compensation for sewer deaths is increased (given that the previous amount fi xed, i.e., ₹ 10 lakhs) was made applicable from 1993.