Placing reliance on the decision of this Court in case of B. Jayaraj v. State of Andhra Pradesh1, he submitted that it was required to be proved by the prosecutor beyond reasonable doubt that the accused had voluntarily accepted the money knowing it to be a bribe, and in absence of proof of demand for illegal gratifi cation, presumption under Section 20 could not be drawn against the accused. According to him in the instant case, the complainant having expired before the commencement of trial, could not be examined and hence the very allegation of demand of money as bribe was not proved by the prosecution. The learned counsel for the appellant placed reliance on the statement of complainant recorded before the Additional I-Class Magistrate under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. to submit that the complainant himself had stated therein that he had paid the amount to the accused towards the Audit fees of the society and that the accused was falsely implicated by the former President of the society Pulla Reddy, who had a grudge against the accused. 9. In our opinion, there is no substance in any of the submissions made by the learned counsel for the appellant. It is well settled proposition of law that the death of the complainant or non-availability of the complainant at 1 (2014) 13 SCC 55 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the time of trial could be not said to be fatal to the case of prosecution, nor could it be said to be a ground to acquit the accused. It is always open for the prosecution to prove the contents of the complaint and other facts in issue by leading other oral or documentary evidence, in case of death of or non-availability of the complainant. Recently, the Constitution Bench in case of Neeraj Dutta vs. State (Government of NCT of Delhi)2, has held that: - “88.6. (f) In the event the complainant turns “hostile”, or has died or is unavailable to let in his evidence during trial, demand of illegal gratifi cation can be proved by letting in the evidence of any other witness who can again let in evidence, either orally or by documentary evidence or the prosecution can prove the case by circumstantial evidence. The trial does not abate nor does it result in an of acquittal of the accused public servant.” 10. In the instant case the appellant/ accused in his explanation under Section 313 had accepted the receipt of alleged amount. The court therefore was required to appreciate the evidence laid by the prosecution in the light of the said explanation and to consider as to whether the said amount was an illegal gratifi cation other than the legal remuneration or not. It cannot be gainsaid that if the accused off ers reasonable and probable explanation based on the evidence that the money was accepted by him other than as illegal gratifi cation, the benefi t of doubt should be granted to the accused. It is also true that the accused is not required to establish his defence beyond reasonable doubt as the prosecution, and can establish the same on the preponderance of probability.