JINI DHANRAJGIR & ANR. v. SHIBU MATHEW & ANR. ETC. 561 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 9. The following subsequent events are of further importance to A the instant case: a. The Executing Court on 27th May 2017, in E.P. No. 379/ 2012, accepted the Appellants’ prayers for delivery of the decretal property, appointed an Advocate Commissioner, and issued directions to deliver possession of the decretal B property within 10 days of the , with the help of the relevant Sub-Inspector of Police. b. The Commissioner, on 23rd June 2017, submitted a report to the effect that the Respondents objected to the delivery of possession to the Appellants. C c. Subsequently, certain Respondents as objectors filed multiple objections in the main execution proceedings objecting to the execution of the Decree and refusing to give possession to the Appellants. They inter alia contended that they were not aware of the proceedings in the Suit and became aware D of the same only when the Commissioner attempted to take delivery of possession as per the of the Executing Court on 27th May 2017. d. The Appellants then filed a petition before the High Court under Article 227 of the Constitution of India. On 5th April E 2018, a Single Judge of the High Court directed the Executing Court to consider the Appellants’ contentions on the objections filed by the Respondents and decide the same on or before 30th June 2018. e. Upon a contested hearing, the Principal Sub-Judge, F Kottayam, being the Executing Court, passed the present impugned interim on 29th June 2018. 10. Mr. Diwan, learned senior counsel for the Appellants contended that: a. The pleadings in S.L.P. (C) No. 24344/2014, filed by Mr. G Thomas and Mr. Abraham, made no disclosure of anyone else being in possession of the decretal property. Further, the conduct of the Respondents was in wilful disobedience of the Decree passed by the trial court and its affirmation up to and by this Court. The Respondents had no rights in H 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the decretal property and hence no locus standi in the matter to resist the Decree which was made two decades back. b. The contentions of the Respondents are based on Purchase Certificate being SM No. 197/1992, obtained by Mr. B Mathew from the Land Tribunal, Kottayam. However, the Respondents held no title to the said properties as the person from whom the title flowed, i.e., Mr. Mathew himself had no title to the decretal property. c. The persons alleging to have purchased different plots in the decretal property from Mr. Mathew did not produce C documents of title along with their objection petitions in the Executing Court. d. The objections are frivolous and not maintainable and in the light of the of this Court dated 13th October 2014, in SLP (C) No. 24344/2014, which had given finality to these D proceedings, the conduct of the Respondents has the effect of nullifying such . e. The Appellants had already deposited Rs.