In adjudicating a merger, potential efficiency losses from the merger should be weighed against potential gains.” 52. It is following the said Report, that in the year 2002, the Act came to be enacted. The Preamble to the Act reads: F “An Act to provide, keeping in view of the economic development of the country, for the establishment of a Commission to prevent practices having adverse effect on competition, to promote and sustain competition in markets, to protect the interests of consumers and to ensure freedom of trade carried on by other G participants in markets, in India, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.” 53. We notice the scheme of the Act by taking note of the following provisions. H 858 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 54. Section 2(h) defines the word ‘enterprise’: “2(h) “enterprise” means a person or a department of the Government, who or which is, or has been, engaged in any activity, relating to the production, storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of articles or goods, or the provision of services, of any B kind, or in investment, or in the business of acquiring, holding, underwriting or dealing with shares, debentures or other securities of any other body corporate, either directly or through one or more of its units or divisions or subsidiaries, whether such unit or division or subsidiary is located at the same place where the enterprise is located or at a different place or at different places, C but does not include any activity of the Government relatable to the sovereign functions of the Government including all activities carried on by the departments of the Central Government dealing with atomic energy, currency, defence and space. Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause,— D (a) “activity” includes profession or occupation; (b) “article” includes a new article and “service” includes a new service; (c) “unit” or “division”, in relation to an enterprise, includes E (i) a plant or factory established for the production, storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of any article or goods; (ii) any branch or office established for the provision of any service;” F 55. Section 2(i) defines the word ‘goods’: “2(i) “goods” means goods as defined in the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 (8 of 1930) and includes— (A) products manufactured, processed or mined; (B) debentures, stocks and shares after allotment; G (C) in relation to goods supplied, distributed or controlled in India, goods imported into India;” 56. Section 2(l) defines the word ‘person’: “2(l) “person” includes— H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 859 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (i) an individual; A (ii) a Hindu undivided family; (iii) a company; (iv) a firm; (v) an association of persons or a body of individuals, whether B incorporated or not, in India or outside India; (vi) any corporation established by or under any Central, State or Provincial Act or a Government company as defined in section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956); C (vii) any body corporate incorporated by or under the laws of a country outside India; (viii) a co-operative society registered under any law relating to co-operative societies; (ix) a local authority; D (x) every artificial juridical person, not falling within any of the preceding sub-clauses;” 57.