The mandatory duty of the Court in confi rming its own jurisdiction has been taken note of and dealt with succinctly by Griffi th, C.J. in Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen’s Association of Australasia v Broken Hill Proprietary Co. Ltd., (1911) 12 CLR 398, “If they exist, it is quite immaterial to inquire by what route the President arrived at a right conclusion. If they do not, it is equally unimportant to inquire how he fell into error. In such a matter this Court is not a Court of Appeal from him. But the fi rst duty of every judicial offi cer is to satisfy himself that he has jurisdiction, if only to avoid putting the parties to unnecessary risk and expense. In this respect a grave responsibility rests upon the President, whose jurisdiction is limited both by the Constitution and the Act. This responsibility is not diminished by tbe possibility that he may be misled by imperfect or erroneous information. The mode of satisfying himself may vary in diff erent cases. In most cases that come before an ordinary Court of law it is not necessary to make any inquiry.” (emphasis supplied) 24. The aforesaid principle of law has been quoted with approval by the New South Wales Court of Appeal (Australia) in Zhang v. Zemin (2010) 79 NSWLR 513, “37. A further, alternative, reason for rejecting the appellant’s contentions is that there is a long line of authority that a court must satisfy itself that it has jurisdiction, whether or not a jurisdictional issue is raised by a party. 38. As Mr H Burmester QC, who appeared for the Attorney, submitted, the Court would have had to address this issue even if the Attorney had not intervened and even without the application for default . 100 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 39. The determination of whether or not it has jurisdiction has been described as the “fi rst duty” of a court. (See Federated Engine Drivers and Firemen’s Association of Australasia v Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd (1911) 12 CLR 398 at 415 per Griffi th CJ.) That case involved a legislative scheme providing for a jurisdictional fact. As Isaacs J said in that context at 454: “What [the court] has to do at the outset is to satisfy its mind that it is not overstepping the bounds which Parliament has laid down for it.” 40. To similar eff ect are the observations of Barton J when he said at 428: “Where the jurisdiction is disputed, adequate and careful inquiry is still the duty of the superior Court. On the other hand, where the jurisdiction is not contested by the party defending, very slight inquiry may be adequate, and many cases will to the mind of the tribunal be so plainly within its competence that it will rightly forego inquiry unless the objection is taken, and the objector tenders proof of facts in its support.” 41. The observations of Griffi th CJ and Barton J in Federated Engine Drivers supra, were applied by Fullagar J in The King v Blakeley; Ex parte The Association of Architects, Engineers, Surveyors and Draughtsmen of Australia (1950) 82 CLR 54 at 90- 91, where his Honour accepted of the language of “duty”.\ 42.