The Additional Rent Controller took the view that E after the written statement came on record, it was the duty of the plaintiffs to establish or prove the landlord tenant relationship and having failed to adduce any evidence, the suit was liable to be dismissed and accordingly was dismissed. The High Court interpreted or rather construed the of the Additional Rent Controller as one under Rule 3 of 17 and, therefore, took F the view that the findings as regards the relationship of landlord and tenant could be said to be on merits. The power conferred on Courts under Rule 3 of 17 of the CPC to decide the suit on the merits for the default of a party is a drastic power which seriously restricts the remedy of the unsuccessful party G for redress. It has to be used only sparingly in exceptional cases. Physical presence without preparedness to co-operate for anything connected with the progress of the case serves no useful purpose in deciding the suit on the merits and it is worse than absence. In any contingency, the discretion is always with the H 638 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Court to resort to Rule 2 or 3 respectively or to grant an adjournment for deciding the suit in a regular way in spite of default. Rules 2 and 3 respectively are only enabling provisions. In to decide the suit on the merits, the mere existence of the conditions enumerated in Rule 3 alone will not be sufficient. There must be some materials for a decision on the merits, even B though the materials may not be technically interpreted as evidence. Sometimes the decision in such cases could be on the basis of pleadings, documents and burden of proof. Anyhow, it is appreciable for the Court to indicate by the that the decision is for default or on the merits. The only alternative of C the Court in cases covered by Rule 3 or the explanation to Rule 2 is not to decide on the merits alone. If such an interpretation is given, it will amount to an unjustified preference to one who purposely absents than to one who presents but unable to proceed with the case. ‘Appearance’ and ‘presence’ have well recognised meanings. They imply presence in person or through pleader D properly authorised for the purpose of conducting the case. Rule 3 comes into play only when presence is to proceed with the case, but default is committed in any one of the three ways mentioned in Rule 2 or explanation to Rule 2 is extracted. Those are cases in which some materials are there for the Court to E decide the case on the merits and not cases where decision could only be for default. That is clear from a combined reading of Rules 2 and 3 respectively and the explanation. In this case, none of these conditions were present and the decision was evidently for default. Rule 2 alone is attracted.