Therefore, the oath was administered to him. Following are the questions E put to him:- “Q. In which school you are studying? Ans. I am studying in Govt. Primary School, Barwashni. Q. What is occupation of your father? F Ans. My father is a Pujari in a Mandir named Hanuman, at Gohanba. Q. Should one speak truth or false? Ans. Truth.” G 11. We are of the view that the learned Sessions Judge has not done his duty. Nevertheless, we have carefully scrutinised the evidence of the minor witness Ajay. In the examination-in-chief, he stated that on the night of 30th December 2002, the accused entered his house by breaking a window. While the appellant held his mother by his hands, H 1030 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A accused no.1 assaulted her with a knife. When he tried to rescue his mother, accused no.1 gave a blow on his back by knife. He stated that he was hiding in the house after the accused fled and he disclosed the incident to milkman Surender who came to the house at 5 a.m. In the examination-in-chief, he deposed about the incident of cutting of crops on their family land by accused nos.1 and 2, which had taken place 6 to B 7 months prior to the date of the offence. He stated that though the accused indulged in the said act, no action was taken as the appellant’s father apologised. In the cross-examination when the witness was confronted with his statement recorded by the police, he admitted that this incident was not recorded therein. In the cross-examination, the C witness volunteered that the accused present in the Court had murdered his mother and they were drunk. However, he accepted that the allegation that the accused were drunk was not recorded in his statement recorded by the police. 12. The incident had taken place after midnight. In the cross- D examination, the witness stated that the accused, before coming to his house, had disconnected the electric supply. He denied the correctness of the suggestion that due to darkness; he did not recognise the assailant who assaulted his mother. He came out with the improved version in the cross-examination that accused no.1 had lit a matchstick and in the light of the matchstick, he recognised the assailants. It is very difficult to E accept that accused no.1 who gave 6 to 7 blows by his knife on the person of the deceased, would light a matchstick while assaulting the deceased. 13. At this stage, we may make a reference to the evidence of PW-6 Rajinder Singh, uncle of Ajay. He claims that on 31st December F 2002 when he had gone to the cattle shed at about 5 am, he heard from milkman Golu that Satpal’s wife has been done to death. He claims that he rushed to the house of the deceased. As PW-1 Ajay did not open the door, he jumped over the wall and entered the house. PW-1 Ajay stated that PW-6 did not enter by jumping over the wall as he opened the door G to facilitate the entry of PW-6.