A two-judge bench of this Court in Haryana State Electricity Board v. Hanuman Rice Mills, Dhanauri41, while summarising the position of law laid down in ParamountPolymers (supra) and Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Ltd. (supra), observed that the supplier can recover the arrears of electricity dues of the previous owner or occupier from F the purchaser of the property if the statutory rules or terms and conditions of supply which are statutory in character authorise the same: “12. The position therefore may be summarised thus: (i) Electricity arrears do not constitute a charge over the property. Therefore in general law, a transferee of a premises cannot be G made liable for the dues of the previous owner/occupier. 39 (1985) 2 SCC 116 40 (1964) 7 SCR 456 41 (2010) 9 SCC 145 H 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (ii) Where the statutory rules or terms and conditions of supply which are statutory in character, authorise the supplier of electricity to demand from the purchaser of a property claiming reconnection or fresh connection of electricity, the arrears due by the previous owner/occupier in regard to supply of electricity to such premises, the B supplier can recover the arrears from a purchaser.” (emphasis supplied) 78. In Paramount Polymers (supra), a two-judge Bench of this Court was called upon to decide the validity of clause 21-A of Terms C and Conditions of Supply which provided that no fresh connection in respect of the premises would be given to a purchaser unless the purchaser cleared the amount that was left in arrears by the previous consumer. The Court held that it was within the power of the Electricity Board to insert clause 21-A in the Terms and Conditions of Supply under section 49 of the Supply Act: D “15. […] Under Section 49 of the Supply Act, the licensee or rather, the Electricity Board, is entitled to set down the Terms and Conditions of Supply of electrical energy. In the light of the power available to it, also in the context of Section 79(j) of the Supply Act, it could not be said that the insertion of clause 21-A in E the Terms and Conditions of Supply of electrical energy is beyond the power of the appellant.” (emphasis supplied) 79. As regards the 2003 Act, the Electric Utilities submit that Section 50 read with Section 181(2)(x) authorises the State Commission F to frame the conditions governing Electricity Supply enabling recovery of electrical charges, including the electricity arrears of the previous owner from the new owner. The auction purchasers concede that Section 50 of the 2003 Act is exhaustive, but contend that it does not enable the State Commission to lay down conditions for recovery of electricity G arrears of the previous owner. To comprehensively analyse the above submission, it is necessary to refer to the relevant provisions under the 2003 Act. 80. Section 2(24) of the 2003 Act defines “Electricity Supply Code” to mean the Electricity Supply Code specified under Section 50.