14. Shri S.S. Deshmukh, learned counsel appearing for some of G the respondents contended, (i) that the proviso to Section 64(1) of the 1948 Act carves out an exception, in the case of persons drawing rate of wages not exceeding the limit specified in Section 1(6) of the Payment 4 1970 (3) SCC 378 H 5 For short, “1947 Act” SECURITY PRINTING AND MINTING CORPORATION OF 257 INDIA LTD. v. VIJAY D. KASBE [V. RAMSUBRAMANIAN, J.] of Wages Act, 19366, insofar as the claim for extra wages for overtime A work is concerned; (ii) that therefore Rule 100 of the 1963 Rules has no application to the case of the respondents in view of the said proviso to Section 64(1); and (iii) that the Central Administrative Tribunal itself had passed s in several applications, in favour of employees identically placed and working as Supervisors, the details of which are B provided in paragraph 5 of the counter affidavit filed by A.K. Biswas in the above appeals and that therefore the s of the Tribunal and the High Court do not call for any interference. 15. We have carefully considered the rival contentions. 16. At the outset, it should be noted that the claim of the respondents C for payment of Double Over Time Allowance arose entirely during the period from 1988 to 2005. Since the ‘Corporation’ was incorporated only on 13.1.2006 and all the nine production units coming under the control of the Currency and Coinage Division of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India were D transferred to the Corporation only with effect from 10.2.2006, the claim of the respondents obviously arose at the time when they were Central Government servants. In other words, their claim should be considered to have arisen only in relation to “service matters” of persons appointed to “a service in connection with the affairs of the Union” or in relation to “holders of civil post.” E 17. The definition of the expression “service matters”, is provided in Section 3(q) of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 19857and it reads as follows:- “3. Definitions.—Inthis Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— F xxx xxx xxx (q) “service matters”, in relation to a person, means all matters relating to the conditions of his service in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State G or of any local or other authority within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India, or, as the case may be, of any corporation or society owned or controlled by the 6 For short, “1936 Act” 7 For short, “1985 Act” H 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Government, as respects— (i) remuneration (including allowances), pension and other retirement benefits; (ii) tenure including confirmation, seniority, promotion, reversion, premature retirement and superannuation; B (iii) leave of any kind; (iv) disciplinary matters; or (v) any other matter whatsoever;” 18. It is seen from sub-clause (i) of clause (q) of Section 3 extracted C above that any issue relating to remuneration including allowances, is a service matter.