SERCs have a corresponding power under Section 181. The rules and regulations have to be placed before Parliament and the State Legislatures, as the case may be, under Sections 179 and 182. Parliament has the power to modify D the rules/regulations. This power is not conferred upon the State Legislatures. A holistic reading of the 2003 Act leads to the conclusion that regulations can be made as long as two conditions are satisfied, namely, that they are consistent with the Act and that they are made for carrying out the provisions of the Act.” E (emphasis supplied) 84. The scheme of the 2003 Act makes it evident that the regulatory powers of the State Commission under section 181(2) are of wide import. The Commission has certain plenary powers to regulate on matters contained in section 181(2), including Electric Supply Code under F Section 50. Accordingly, the Commission can notify a Supply Code governing all the matters pertaining to supply of electricity such as “recovery of charges”, “disconnection of supply” and “restoration of supply”. In our opinion, such an authority also extends to stipulating conditions for recovery of electricity arrears of previous owners from G new or subsequent owners. 85. In Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam (supra), a two-judge Bench was considering the legality of the actions of the appellant licensee to recover electricity dues from the purchaser of subdivided plots. Clause 4.3 of the Uttar Pradesh Electricity Supply Code stipulated that a new H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 691 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] connection to subdivided premises shall be given only after the share of A the outstanding dues attributed to such premises is duly paid by the applicant. This Court held that a distribution licensee can stipulate such terms necessary for supply of electricity, including that the arrears due in regard to the supply of electricity made to the premises when they were in the occupation of the previous owner or occupant, should be B cleared before the electricity supply is restored or a fresh connection is provided to the premises. Therefore, a condition enabling the distribution licensee to insist on the clearance of the arrears of electricity dues of the previous consumer before resuming electricity supply to the premises is valid and permissible under the scheme of the 2003 Act. C 86. The next question that arises for consideration is whether a regulation providing for recouping the arrears of a previous consumer from the subsequent owner has a reasonable nexus with the provisions of the 2003 Act. Section 42 of the 2003 Act requires the distribution licensee to develop and maintain an efficient, coordinated, and economical distribution system in their area of supply to supply electricity in D accordance with the provisions of the said Act. A distribution licensee is an intermediary, performing the function of conveying supply of electricity from generating companies to the consumer, at their premises. In to provide a supply of electricity to consumers, a distribution licensee is required to lay down infrastructure such as electricity lines, transformers, E and other equipment.