We say so because equality before law and equal protection of laws is not limited in its application to the realm of executive action that enforces the law. It is as much available in relation to proceedings before Courts and tribunal and adjudicatory fora where law is applied and justice administered. The citizen’s inability to access Courts or any other adjudicatory mechanism provided for determination of rights and obligations is bound to result in denial of the guarantee contained in Article 14 both in relation to equality before law as well as equal protection of laws. Absence of any adjudicatory mechanism or the inadequacy of such mechanism, needless to say, is bound to prevent those looking for enforcement of their right to equality before laws and equal protection of the laws from seeking redress and thereby negate the guarantee of equality before laws or equal protection of laws and reduce it to a mere teasing illusion. Article 21 of the Constitution apart, access to justice can be said to be part of the guarantee contained in Article 14 as well.” The Constitution Bench enumerated four facets of access to justice as: “33. Four main facets that, in our opinion, constitute the essence of access to justice are: (i) the State must provide an eff ective adjudicatory mechanism; (ii) the mechanism so provided must be reasonably accessible in terms of distance; (iii) the process of adjudication must be speedy; and (iv) the litigant’s access to the adjudicatory process must be aff ordable.” 22. Therefore, this Court has elevated the provision of a just adjudicatory forum for a citizen to agitate his grievance and seek adjudication of what he may perceive as a breach of his right to the level of a fundamental right. Not only is the adjudicatory forum supposed to be eff ective in its functioning PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 575 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] and just, fair and objective in its approach, but it also must be conveniently approachable and aff ordable by observing as under: “35. The forum/mechanism so provided must, having regard to the hierarchy of Courts/tribunals, be reasonably accessible in terms of distance for access to justice since so much depends upon the ability of the litigant to place his/her grievance eff ectively before the Court/ tribunal/Court/competent authority to grant such a relief. (See D.K. Basu v. State of W.B. [D.K. Basu v. State of W.B., (2015) 8 SCC 744 : (2015) 3 SCC (Cri) 824] )” 23. It was also emphasised that access to justice would, therefore, be a constitutional value of any signifi cance and utility only if the delivery of justice to the citizen is speedy, for otherwise, the right to access justice is no more than a hollow slogan of no use or inspiration for the citizen. It was held as under: “38. Access to justice will again be no more than an illusion if the adjudicatory mechanism provided is so expensive as to deter a disputant from taking resort to the same.