Based on the number of doses distributed worldwide, the reported frequency of this adverse reaction could be calculated to a minimal incidence i.e. 0.02 per million doses. At the same time they explained that the relationship of such cases to the vaccine was diffi cult to establish. The opposite party therefore recommended that the complainant undergo muscle biopsy so as to establish the cause of his suff ering with myositis. In this case the muscle biopsy was never sent to the opposite party. In any case, it is brought on record that there could be many other causes leading to the myositis. That apart there are several attenuating circumstances which would rather indicate that the alleged adverse reaction suff ered by the complainant was not on account of the. administration of the above named drug. The circumstances are that before taking third repeat dose on 10.8.1998, the complainant and his family members had already taken two doses but neither the complainant nor his family members suff ered with any such symptoms or reaction on those occasions. According to the complainant’s own showing on 10.8.98 the other two family members of the complainant i.e. his wife and sons were also given the similar single dose besides to the complainant but neither the wife nor the sons of the complainant suff ered any such adverse reaction. The drug used in all the cases was from the same batch. Had the drug of that particular batch had any such defect or defi ciency, the reaction should have been common ·for other members also. Besides no other person from the city of Pune, who must have taken such injection have reportedly suff ered from any adverse reaction as complained of due to the administration of the said drug.” “In any case, the opposite parties have put on record detailed analysis of the various kinds of examination/ tests conducted in the laboratory 572 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. of the opposite party on the sample drug of the particular lot and found that all the values had passed the requisite standard and the drug of that lot suff ered from no defect of any kind which could possibly lead to a reaction of the kind which the complainant had allegedly suff ered.” “That by not mentioning Myositis as one of the adverse reaction, which was too minimal i.e. 0.02 in one million, it was not necessary for the opposite parties to mention the same under the heading “Adverse Reaction”. ln any case, despite such minimal incidences it was not established with certainty that myositis could be a direct cause arising out of the adverse reaction of the said· drug. We fi nd force in this contention because the opposite party could not have mentioned myositis as one of the expected adverse reaction unless it was so established by Laboratory or other tests.” 7. In that background we have heard Ms. Anita Shenoy, learned senior counsel for the appellant, Shri Ujjwal A. Rana, learned counsel for the respondents and perused the appeal papers including the records received from the NCDRC.