16.This Court, in the case of Surjit Singh and Others v. Balbir Singh2, had taken a view thus: “10. It would thus be clear that for taking cognizance of an offence, B the document, the foundation of forgery, if produced before the court or given in evidence, the bar of taking cognizance under Section 195(1)(b)(ii) gets attracted and the criminal court is prohibited from taking cognizance of offence unless a complaint in writing is filed as per the procedure prescribed under Section 340 of the Code by or on behalf of the Court. The object thereby C is to preserve purity of the administration of justice and to allow the parties to adduce evidence in proof of certain documents without being compelled or intimidated to proceed with the judicial process. The bar of Section 195 is to take cognizance of the offence covered thereunder.” D 17.Subsequently, this Court, in the case of Sachida Nand Singh and Another v. State of Bihar and Another3, took the view thus: “11. The scope of the preliminary enquiry envisaged in Section 340(1) of the Code is to ascertain whether any offence affecting administration of justice has been committed in respect of a E document produced in court or given in evidence in a proceeding in that Court. In other words, the offence should have been committed during the time when the document was in custodia legis. 12. It would be a strained thinking that any offence involving F forgery of a document if committed far outside the precincts of the Court and long before its production in the Court, could also be treated as one affecting administration of justice merely because that document later reached the court records. * * * G 23. The sequitur of the above discussion is that the bar contained in Section 195(1)(b)(ii) of the Code is not applicable to a case where forgery of the document was committed before the document was produced in a court.” 2 (1996) 3 SCC 533 H 3 (1998) 2 SCC 493 824 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 18. Finding the two conflicting views taken with regard to the interpretation of Section 195 of the Cr.P.C., the question was referred to the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Iqbal Singh Marwa (supra). It will be relevant to refer to paragraph 7 of the said , which is as under: B “7. On a plain reading clause (b)(ii) of sub-section (1) of Section 195 is capable of two interpretations. One possible interpretation is that when an offence described in Section 463 or punishable under Section 471, Section 475 or Section 476 IPC is alleged to have been committed in respect of a document which is subsequently produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in C any Court, a complaint by the Court would be necessary. The other possible interpretation is that when a document has been produced or given in evidence in a proceeding in any Court and thereafter an offence described as aforesaid is committed in respect thereof, a complaint by the Court would be necessary.