The day- to-day decisions of the Council of Ministers are to be implemented by a neutral civil service, under the administrative control of the ministers. In to ensure that the functioning of the government reflects the G preferences of the elected ministers, and through them the will of the people, it is essential to scrutinize the link of accountability between the civil service professionals and the elected ministers who oversee them. 33 Krishna Kumar Singh v. State of Bihar, (2017) 3 SCC 1; Amarinder Singh v. Punjab H Vidhan Sabha, (2010) 6 SCC 113; 2018 Constitution Bench . GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 557 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Since civil service officers constituting the permanent executive exercise A considerable influence in modern welfare state democracies, effective accountability requires two transactions: “one set of officials, such as the bureaucracy, who give an account of their activity, to another set, such as legislators, who take due account and feed their own considered account back into the political system and, through that mechanism, to B the people.”34 104. In Secretary, Jaipur Development Authority v. Daulat Mal Jain,35this Court held that an individual minister is answerable and accountable to people for the acts done by the officials working under him. This Court observed that: C “The Government acts through its bureaucrats, who shape its social, economic and administrative policies to further the social stability and progress socially, economically and politically…The Minister is responsible not only for his actions but also for the job of the bureaucrats who work or have worked under him. He owes D the responsibility to the electors for all his actions taken in the name of the Governor in relation to the Department of which he is the head… he bears not only moral responsibility but also in relation to all the actions of the bureaucrats who work under him bearing actual responsibility in the working of the department under his ministerial responsibility.” E 105. In the concurring opinion in the 2018 Constitution Bench decision, Justice Chandrachud highlighted the intrinsic link between government accountability and the principle of collective responsibility. The underscored the responsibility of an individual minister to the legislature for any and every action undertaken by public officials in F the department which the minister oversees: “327. Collective responsibility also exists in practice in situations where ministers have no knowledge of the actions taken by the subordinate officers of their respective departments… 343. … Modern government, with its attendant complexities, G comprises of several components and constituent elements. They include Ministers who are also elected as members of the 34 Adam Przeworski, Susan C. Stokes, Bernard Manin, Democracy, Accountability, and Representation (Cambridge University Press 2012), at page 298. 35 (1997) 1 SCC 35 H 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A legislature and unelected public officials who work on issues of daily governance... All Ministers are bound by a decision taken by one of them or their departments. “ 106. Civil service officers thus are accountable to the ministers of the elected government, under whom they function.