Their contention is that investigation of a criminal offence cannot be a free-for-all exercise and that one must B have locus to challenge the proceedings. According to the learned counsel, some of the appellants who are strangers, have not only come to court without any locus, but are also guilty of coming with unclean hands as can be seen from the fact that they have managed even to obtain copies of the confession statements recorded under Section 164 of the Code. It C is also contended that some of the appellants before us are obviously set up by a rival political party and that therefore, this Court should not entertain the appeals filed by persons who have no locus standi. 33. It is true that criminal jurisprudence recognizes a limited role for victims and it is the State which is entrusted with the onerous D responsibility of prosecuting the accused and getting them punished. But we must remember that certain theories of law were developed at a time when the process of administration of the criminal justice system was in the hands of honest and responsible Police officials and the stream remained largely unpolluted. Today the situation is different. In cases of this nature, where some of the complainants and the E accused have come together to form an unholy alliance, the victims of crime cannot be left at the mercy of such partnerships. We have seen in this case, persons aspiring to secure public employment, paying illegal gratification, through persons who are public servants, to persons in power and later coming to the Court supporting the accused on the F basis of an out of Court settlement. What was compromised between the complainant and accused is not just their disputes, but justice, fair-play, good conscience and the fundamental principles of criminal jurisprudence. In fact, the case on hand is one where there are two teams just for the purpose of record, but no one knows who is playing for which team and where the match was fixed. G 34. As a matter of fact, very vocal submissions were made on the question of locus in the previous round of litigation in P. Dharamaraj vs. Shanmugam7 in Criminal Appeal Nos.1514-1516 of 2022. But the objections relating to maintainability were rejected by this Court in the H 7 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1186 Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1061 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] very same proceedings in the first round. Therefore, the accused cannot A raise the question of locus again and again. But for the fact that the victims came to this Court in the first round of litigation, a huge scam would have been buried on the basis of a compromise. 35. One more objection was raised about the locus of Y. Balaji, the appellant in one of these appeals, on the ground that he had already B filed a writ petition in WP No.24275 of 2021 on the file of the High Court seeking further investigation and that, therefore, he must pursue his remedies only in that writ petition.