H HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 537 ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (4) If, owing to death or resignation, the office of an associate A member falls vacant, it shall be filled as far as practicable, in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (3). (5) The Election Commission shall— (a) publish its proposals for the delimitation of constituencies B together with the dissenting proposals, if any, of any associate member who desires publication thereof in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the Commission may consider fit, together with a notice inviting objections and suggestions in relation to the proposals and specifying a date on or after which the proposals will be further considered by it; C (b) consider all objections and suggestions which may have been received by it before the date so specified; and (c) after considering all objections and suggestions which may have been received by it before the date so specified, determine D by one or more s the delimitation of constituencies and cause such or s to be published in the Official Gazette, and there upon such publication, the or s shall have the full force of law and shall not be called in question in any court. (6) As soon as may be after such publication, every such E relating to assembly constituencies shall be laid before the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. 61. (1) The Election Commission may by notification in the Official Gazette,— (a) correct any printing mistakes in any made under section F 60 or any error arising therein from inadvertent slip or omission; and (b) where the boundaries or name of any territorial division mentioned in any such or s is or are altered, make G such amendments as appear to it to be necessary or expedient for bringing such up-to-date. (2) Every notification under this section relating to an assembly constituency shall be laid, as soon as may be after it is issued, before the Legislative Assembly. H 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 62. (1) On and from the appointed day, notwithstanding the publication of s under sub-section (1) of section 10 of the Delimitation Act, 2002 or anything contained in sub-section (2) or sub-section (4) of the said section, the Delimitation Act, 2002 shall be deemed to have been amended as provided below: B (a) in section 2(f), the words “but does not include the State of Jammu and Kashmir” shall be omitted; and (b) for the purpose of delimitation of Assembly and Parliamentary Constituencies, the words and figure “census held in the year 2001”, wherever occurring, shall be C construed as words and figure “census held in the year 2011”. (2) Readjustment of the constituencies as provided under section 60 in the successor Union territory of Jammu & Kashmir into Assembly Constituencies, shall be carried by the Delimitation Commission, to be constituted under the D Delimitation Act, 2002 as amended by this Act, and shall take effect from such date as the Central Government may, by , published in the Official Gazette, specify.