Strict compliance with the letter of the rule, in such a case,has to be the essence of the matter since the statute has the potentiality to interfere with the personal liberty of an individual and a Court is precluded from going behind its face. Though circumstances may make it necessary for ing a detention without trial, but it would be perfectly legitimate to require strict observance of the rules in such cases. If there is any doubt whether the rules have been strictly observed, that doubt must be resolved in favour of the detenu. 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 37. Rekha too (supra) provides a useful guide. It is said in paragraph 30 that: “30.Whenever an under a preventive detention law is challenged one of the questions the court must ask in deciding its legality is: was the ordinary law of the land suffi cient to deal with the situation? If the answer is in the affi rmative, the detention will be illegal. In the present case, the charge against the detenu was of selling expired drugs after changing their labels. Surely the relevant provisions in the Penal Code and the Drugs and Cosmetics Act were suffi cient to deal with this situation. Hence, in our opinion, for this reason also the detention in question was illegal.” 38. At this stage, it would be useful to consider certain events anterior to the Detention but referred to therein. The earlier of detention dated 4th March, 2021 was challenged by the Detenu’s father before the High Court. Such of detention was passed considering 4 (four) FIRs under sections 420 and 406 of the IPC, wherein the Detenu was arraigned as an accused. In its reasoned dated 16th August, 2021, the High Court noted this Court having opined in a catena of decisions that there is a vast diff erence between “law and ” and “public ”; when off ences are committed against a particular individual it falls within the ambit of “law and ” whereas when the public at large is adversely aff ected by the criminal activities of a person, then such conduct of the person is said to disturb “public ”. Holding that the true distinction between the areas of ‘law and ’ and ‘public ’ lies not merely in the nature or quality of the act, but in the proper degree and extent of its impact on the society, it was ruled that the cases do not fall within the ambit of the words “public ” or “disturbance of public ”, instead, they fall within the scope of the words “law and ”, and that there was no need for the detaining authority to pass the impugned . Based thereon, the impugned was quashed and the Detenu set at liberty. 39. In fi ne, what we fi nd is that the of detention impugned in that writ petition failed to diff erentiate between off ences which create a “law and ” situation and which prejudicially aff ect or tend to prejudicially aff ect “public ”.