The indirect discriminatory impacts in relation to earned or compensatory benefi ts, or social welfare entitlements for which marital status is a relevant eligibility factor, for queer couples who in their exercise of choice form relationships, have to be suitably redressed and removed by the State. These measures need to be taken with expedition because inaction will result in injustice and unfairness with regard to the enjoyment of such benefi ts, available to all citizens who are entitled and covered by such laws, regulations or schemes (for instance, those relating to employment benefi ts: provident fund, gratuity, family pension, employee state insurance; medical insurance; 150 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. material entitlements unconnected with matrimonial matters, but resulting in adverse impact upon queer couples). As held earlier, this court cannot within the judicial framework engage in this complex task; the State has to study the impact of these policies, and entitlements. vii. Consistent with the statement made before this Court during the course of proceedings on 03.05.2023, the Union shall set up a high-powered committee chaired by the Union Cabinet Secretary, to undertake a comprehensive examination of all relevant factors, especially including those outlined above. In the conduct of such exercise, the concerned representatives of all stakeholders, and views of all States and Union Territories shall be taken into account. viii. The discussion on discriminatory impacts is in the context of the eff ects of the existing regimes on queer couples. While a heterosexual couple’s right to live together is not contested, the logic of the discriminatory impact [mentioned in conclusion (vi) above] faced by queer couples cohabiting together, would defi nitionally, however, not apply to them. ix. Transgender persons in heterosexual relationships have the freedom and entitlement to marry under the existing statutory provisions. x. Regulation 5(3) of the CARA Regulations cannot be held void on the grounds urged. At the same time, this court is of the considered opinion that CARA and the Central Government should appropriately consider the realities of de facto families, where single individuals are permitted to adopt and thereafter start living in a non-matrimonial relationship. In an unforeseen eventuality, the adopted child in question, could face exclusion from the benefi ts otherwise available to adopted children of married couples. This aspect needs further consideration, for which the court is not the appropriate forum. xi. Furthermore, the State shall ensure - consistent with the previous of this Court in K.S. Puttaswamy (supra), Navtej Johar SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1507 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (supra), Shakti Vahini (supra) and Shafi n Jahan (supra)- that the choice exercised by queer and LGBTQ couples to cohabit is not interfered with and they do no face any threat of violence or coercion. All necessary steps and measures in this regard shall be taken. The respondents shall take suitable steps to ensure that queer couples and transgender persons are not subjected to any involuntary medical or surgical treatment. xii. The above directions in relation to transgender persons are to be read as part of and not in any manner whittling down the directions in NALSA (supra) so far as they apply to transgender persons.