This would defy the legislature’s logic. In this context, when the principle of Ejusdem Generis is applied, the preceding words in Section 69A such as money, bullion, jewellery would suggest that the phrase ‘other valuable article’ which follows those H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 595 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] words, would justify inclusion of only high value goods. Any other way A of reading the phrase ‘other valuable article’ or ‘valuable article’ by ignoring the kind of specific goods mentioned in the preceding part of Section 69A, would be incorrect and would do violence to the plain language of the provision and will travel beyond the legislative intent. 11. Additionally, the maxim ‘noscitur a sociis’ i.e. (a word is B known by its associates) would also support the above view that the other valuable articles should be items in the nature of silver bars, or jewellery or money i.e. only high priced item. It is given, that no law could possibly provide for an exhaustive list of all valuable items that may facilitate high income assessees to adjust their income. Only an C indicative list of valuable articles can practically be mentioned in the Section. But to include bitumen- the residual offshoot material during processing of crude oil, excluding its valuable constituents like petrol, diesel, LPG, aviation fuel etc., within the expression ‘other valuable article’ in Section 69A, would in my opinion, result in absurdities, that we need to eschew. The common place items from kirana store and bitumen are D intrinsically dissimilar to the high value items in Section 69A and through an interpretive exercise, we should not categorise them with items such as gold bars and jewellery. 12. At this stage it may also be beneficial to advert to the principle- “absoluta sententia expositore non indiget” i.e. (a simple proposition E needs no expositor). The maxim provides that if the language employed by the legislature provides for adequate comprehensibility, then nothing additional is required. In New Shorrock Spinning and Manufacturing Co. Ltd. vs. N.V. Raval3 the Division Bench of the Bombay High Court, dealt with the construction of sub-section (10) of section 35 of the Income F Tax Act, 1922, introduced by Amendment through the Finance Act, 1956. In this regard the Court held that- “One safe and infallible principle which is of guidance in these matters is to read the words through and see if the rule is clearly stated. If the language employed gives the rule in G words of sufficient clarity and precision, no more requires to be done.” 3 New Shorrock Spinning and Manufacturing Co. Ltd. vs. N.V. Raval(1959) 37 ITR 41 4 See CIT vs. Kasturi 237 ITR 24 (SC) H 596 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 13. Furthermore, the principle that a fiscal statute should be strictly construed is, well settled.4 The classical words of Justice Rowlatt in the 1920s case of Cape Brandy Syndicate5 would be of valuable assistance here. Justice Rowlatt while interpreting the phrase- ‘pre- war trade years’ in context of the British Finance Act,1915-16, observed as follows: B “…….…in a taxing Act one has to look merely at what is clearly said.