It cannot be disputed that for convening the General Council Meeting on 23.06.2022 necessarily there should be a Presidium Chairman. In the absence of Presidium Chairman, a meeting cannot be convened. Therefore, 2190 members gave a B requisition for convening a Special General Council Meeting to the Presidium Chairman for the reason that there was a rift between the Co-Ordinator and the Joint Co-Ordinator. As already stated, the announcement with regard to the next General Council Meeting on 11.07.2022 was made in the presence of the 1st respondent and also in the presence of about 2500 members. It is C not the case of the 1st respondent that they did not know about the announcement made in the floor of the General Council Meeting on 23.06.2022. Though Rule 19(vii) says that the Co-Ordinator and the Joint Co-Ordinator should convene the Special General Council Meeting within 30 days from the date of receipt of the D requisition by its 1/5th General Council members, since the Co- Ordinator and the Joint Co-Ordinator are at loggerheads, they were not in a position to convene the Special General Council Meeting jointly. Since the Co-Ordinator and the Joint Co-Ordinator are at loggerheads one cannot expect them to jointly convene the Special General Council Meeting and if the 2nd part of rule 19(vii) E of the Bye-Law is strictly applied then it would result in a deadlock situation. If either the Co-Ordinator or the Joint Co-Ordinator is not co-operating for convening the General Council Meeting, it would lead to a situation where no General Council Meeting could be convened. F 31. In the reported in (1997) 3 CTC 229 (cited supra) the expelled member from the AIADMK Party viz., Mr. S.Thirunavukkarasu called for a General Council Meeting, parallel meeting to the meeting called by the then General Secretary Selvi J.Jayalalithaa. The General Secretary approached this Court G seeking for an of interim injunction against the convening of parallel meeting and the same was granted in her favour. Therefore, the facts surrounding the said is completely different to the facts of the present case. In the case on hand, there was no parallel meeting called for by any of the Members. The ratio laid down by the Hon’ble Division Bench of this Court reported in H 1150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (1997) 3 CTC 229 (cited supra) cannot be applied to the facts and circumstances of the present case. It cannot be said as a general rule that the requisitioners have no option but to go to Court if the leaders do not call for a meeting. Such a statement would be undemocratic and illegal. When the Interim General Secretary could not act in the year 2017, the Office Bearers B stepped in to convene the meeting on 12.09.2018 (sic) based on a requisition received. 32. It is not in dispute that the General Secretary was given power to convene the General Council Meeting. After the death of Selvi J.Jayalalithaa, Mrs.V.K.Sasikala was appointed as the Interim C General Secretary and she could not perform as Interim General Secretary in the year 2017 because of her incarceration in a criminal case.