Additionally, the only piece of evidence in the file G to link MBL to JEI-H is the alleged investment in the shares of MBL by cadres of JEI-H. In the support of this, IB has submitted a list of shareholders. However, there is no evidence on record to link them to JEI-H. Thus, the allegation that MBL is linked to JEI-H is fallacious, firstly, because JEI-H is not a banned organisation and there is no material to conclude that the investment by JEI-H sympathizers would affect H 708 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A India’s security, and secondly, even if it is accepted that the investment by JEI-H sympathizers would affect the security of the State, there is no material to prove that the shareholders are sympathizers of JEI-H. In view of the discussion above, the purpose of denying security clearance does not have a legitimate goal or a proper purpose. B 169. The IB has noted that the above material against MIB attracts Sl. No. 20 and 22 of the security parameters annexed to the 2018 Guidelines which are used to assess security clearance proposals. Sl No. 20 reads as “Involvement in religious proselytization activities in India”, and Sl. No. 22 reads as “Intentional or systemic infringement of safety concerns or security systems endangering the safety of C the public”. There is no rational nexus between the material submitted against MBL to the security parameters in Sl. No 20 and 22 of the security parameters. MBL cannot be said to be indulging in religious proselytization for merely publishing reports on the alleged discrimination against the Muslim community in India, or infringing safety concerns by D a mere reference to the shareholding pattern of MBL. L. Conclusion and Directions 170. In view of the discussion above, the appeals are allowed and the of the MIB dated 31 January 2022 and the of the High Court dated 2 March 2022 are set aside. We summarise our findings E below: (i) Security clearance is one of the conditions required to be fulfilled for renewal of permission under Uplinking and Downlinking Guidelines; (ii) The challenge to the of the MIB and of the F High Court on procedural grounds is allowed for the following reasons: (a) The principles of natural justice were constitutionalised by the judgement of this Court in Maneka Gandhi (supra). The effect is that the courts have recognised that there is G an inherent value in securing compliance with the principles of natural justice independent of the outcome of the case. Actions which violate procedural guarantees can be struck down even if non-compliance does not prejudice the outcome of the case. The core of the principles of natural H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 709 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] justice breathes reasonableness into procedure. The burden A is on the claimant to prove that the procedure followed infringes upon the core of procedural guarantees; (b) The appellants have proved that MBL’s right to a fair hearing has been infringed by the unreasoned of the MIB dated 31 January 2022, and the non-disclosure of relevant B material to the appellants, and its disclosure solely to the court.