We shall have a false view of the landscape if we look at the waste spaces only, and refuse to see the acres already sown and fruitful.. F ..The judge, even when he is free, is still not wholly free. He is not to innovate at pleasure. He is not a knight-errant, roaming at will in pursuit of his own ideal of beauty or of goodness. He is to draw his inspiration from consecrated principles. He is not to yield to spasmodic sentiment, to vague and unregulated benevolence. He G is to exercise a discretion informed by tradition, methodized by analogy, disciplined by system, and subordinated to “the primordial necessity of in the social life.” Wide enough in all conscience is the field of discretion that remains.” (Emphasis Supplied) H 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 91. Close to the aspect of separation of powers, is controversial subject of judicial activism. In the work “Judicial Activism, Authority, Principles and Policy in The Judicial Method” by Hon’ble Justice Michael Kirby, we find of particular interest, the following: “The acute needs of the developing countries of the B Commonwealth have sometimes produced an approach to constitutional interpretation that is unashamedly described as “activist”, including by judges themselves. Thus in India, at least in most legal circles, the phrase “judicial activism” is not viewed as one of condemnation. So urgent and numerous are the needs of that society that anything else would be regarded by many – C including many judges and lawyers – as an abdication of the final court’s essential constitutional role. One instance may be cited from Indian experience: the expansion of the traditional notion of standing to sue in public interest litigation. The Indian Supreme Court has upheld the right of prisoners, the D poor and other vulnerable groups to enlist its constitutional jurisdiction by simply sending a letter to the Court. This might not seem appropriate in a developed country. Yet it appears perfectly adapted to the nation to which the Indian Constitution speaks. Lord Chief Justice Woolf recently confessed to having been E astounded at first by the proactive approach of the Indian Supreme Court in this and other aspects. However, he went on: “…I soon realised that if that Court was to perform its essential role in Indian society, it had no option but to adopt the course it did and I congratulate it for the courage it has shown.”” F (Emphasis Supplied) 92. Unlike demands of a formal democracy, the hallmark of a substantive democracy and if we may say so, a liberal democracy must be borne in mind. Democracy is inextricably intertwined with power to the people. The ballot, is more potent than the most powerful gun. G Democracy facilitates a peaceful revolution at the hands of the common man if elections are held in a free and fair manner. Elections can be conflated with a non-violent coup capable of unseating the most seemingly powerful governing parties, if they do not perform to fulfil the aspirations of the governed.