21. It is a settled principle of law that a contract cannot be amended unilaterally. It has been observed by this court in Ssangyong Engg. & Construction Co. Ltd. v. National Highways Authority of India5 E that, “This being the case, a fundamental principle of justice has been breached, namely, that a unilateral addition or alteration of a contract can never be foisted upon an unwilling party, nor can a party to the agreement be liable to perform a bargain not entered into with the other party. Clearly, such a course of conduct would be contrary to fundamental F principles of justice as followed in this country,…” 22. Parties on either side have urged that a unilateral decision has been taken. The Respondents contend that the Appellant has unilaterally amended the contract to reduce the maximum demand to 10000 KVA when no such decision stands taken by them. The Appellant, per contra, G contends that the unilateral decision on the part of the board not to act on the application submitted by them has caused prejudice to them. 23. It is a matter of record that a fresh agreement with the reduced maximum demand of 10000 KVA was entered into between the parties H 5 (2019) 15 SCC 131 THE MADRAS ALUMINIUM CO. LTD. v. THE TAMIL NADU 753 ELECTRICITY BOARD AND ANR. [SANJAY KAROL, J.] in July, 2004. Undisputedly, such fresh agreement was inked more than A two and a half years after the application was made on 24th December, 2001. 24. The contention that others similar agreements have been processed by the Respondents with promptitude and it is only the Appellant whose application was singled out, was rejected by the High Court on B the ground that even the fresh agreement entered into by the parties in July 2004 specifically indicates that the consumer shall not affect any change in the maximum demand or the contracted demand and, that the supplemental agreement is subject to and in addition to the terms of the subsisting agreement. C 25. It appears that the force of this observation of the High Court is that the 1999 agreement also stated, as reproduced above, that the consumer shall not effect any change in maximum demand; and the same restriction has found its place in the supplemental agreement as well and so, without approval of the board no change in the maximum D demand is possible, allegedly done by the Appellant herein. 26. The Appellant in pursuance of the reduction of maximum demand made its application and followed up repeatedly with the authorities. Save and except two letters on behalf of the Board one, acknowledging the said application and stating that same has been put E up before the authorities for consideration: and two, rejecting the date of such reduction being effectuated and listing down certain conditions upon which the same would be granted, no other communication on part of the board forms the record. 27. No reason whatsoever is forthcoming as to why this particular application required such a vast length of time to be acted upon.