He cannot afterwards complain. In literal sense, the term acquiescence means silent C assent, tacit consent, concurrence, or acceptance, which denotes conduct that is evidence of an intention of a party to abandon an equitable right and also to denote conduct from which another party will be justified in inferring such an intention. Acquiescence can be either direct with full knowledge and express approbation, or indirect where a D person having the right to set aside the action stands by and sees another dealing in a manner inconsistent with that right and in spite of the infringement takes no action mirroring acceptance. However, acquiescence will not apply if lapse of time is of no importance or consequence.” E The position expounded as above certainly request consideration with reference to the facts of this case. In that regard we will have to consider whether there was acquiescence on part of the respondent and if so, whether lapse of time, if any, is of no importance or consequence, with reference to the factual position, in view of the exposition thereunder F ‘that acquiescence would not apply if lapse of time is of no importance or consequence’. 14. What is crystal clear from the enunciation of law in catena of cases is that the equity will follow the law and it would tilt in favour of law and further that to claim equity the party must explain previous G conduct. 15. Besides, bearing in mind, the enunciation of law on the principle of estoppel we will have to take note of certain crucial aspects borne out 8 (2022) 2 SCC 301 H 296 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A of the records in the case. The case of the original appellant is that he had carried out the construction of the varandah in the land in dispute as part of his residential house in the year 1986 bona fidely believing it to be his own land before the acquirement of land in question by the respondent. This contention is incoherent with that of acquiescence viz., the contention claims to be embedded in ground ‘b’ that the respondent B remained silent and thereby, made a representation persuading him to alter his position and to go ahead with the construction in the land in question. Actually, the original appellant took up the contention thereunder that neither the plaintiff (respondent herein) nor her husband who were C living at Raghunathpur adjoining his land raised any objection during the construction. Obviously, this contention was taken up jesuitically as what is stated in the preceding sentence is that he constructed house on the land along with land in dispute with verandah and completed it in the month of September, 1986; whereas, admittedly, the respondent herein D purchased the land only in the year 1987. But the evidence on record, dealt with by the Courts below, would reveal that the respondent herein had objected to the carrying out of the construction by the original appellant in the land in question.