the district, state, national and international event(s) organized by the concerned regulating board or organization/federation, etc). These guide and regulate both the determination of inter se ranking of sports candidates, to ensure that those who achieve higher profi ciency in the concerned sports, rather than academic qualifi cation, are duly accommodated. 9. Mr. Sanchar Anand, appearing on behalf of the respondent, urged this court not to intervene, and submitted that admissions have almost concluded. He points out that earlier too, the UT had insisted upon the relevant criterion of 75% minimum cut-off in the qualifying examination and points to a note submitted to the High Court, justifying the 75% minimum criterion for the sports quota. It was argued that whilst for 2017-18, the minimum qualifying marks required for sports category candidates was 60%, DEV GUPTA v. PEC UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY 237 AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] it was increased for the years 2018-19 and 2019- 20 to 75%. Learned counsel, therefore, urged that there is nothing inherently arbitrary or discriminatory in the insistence of such criterion. He reiterated that in the present case too, out of the 34 applications received, 28 fulfi lled the 75% threshold and all but one (out of 17) seats had been fi lled by them. 10. Learned counsel further stated that evolving a minimum threshold educational qualifi cation for the purposes of allocation in the sports quota was essentially a policy matter which the UT exercised legitimately in the present case. He submitted that this Court’s intervention would result in large scale disruption of the allocations made till date and that it would be futile to intervene since several other candidates who might not have applied and who might be better off than the appellant would be kept out of consideration. Analysis & Conclusions 11. Besides the brochure the relevant extracts of which were set out before discussing the relevant submissions, it is necessary to briefl y describe the relevantprovisions of the prevailing sports quota (embodied in a Policy2). Para 2 of the policy stated that the benefi t of this sports category would be available to those who “pass their qualifying examination from schools/colleges recognised by the Chandigarh administration and those who studied in Chandigarh schools or colleges for at least two years before applying for graduation certifi cates”. The policy further stipulated that merit of the certificates, i.e. sports certificates would be graded appropriately as A, B, C and D, and in descending . Grade A contains sports persons of international standing, -who represented the country or who donned the India colour in Olympic Games, World Cups, tournaments and championships organised by international federations at the highest levels, and Commonwealth Games. Grade B comprised of sports persons, who participated in World University/international tournaments and games other than those in Grade A in which at least 10 teams participated, including Asian Federation Cup; Schools Games or obtained fi rst three positions in recognised National Championships, International championships, State Federations, All India Combined Universities team etc.