The period of thirty days is declared inapplicable to perishable consignments, in which case, a period of twenty- four hours’ notice or any lesser period, as may be agreed between the consignor and the common carrier, suffices. In the case of perishable consignment, following such notice, the consignment can be sold. In a case where the goods are not perishable, if there is failure by the consignee H 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A to remove the goods after the receipt of a notice of fifteen days from the carrier, the common carrier is given a right to sell the consignment without further notice. Section 15(3) enables the carrier to retain a sum equal to the freights, storage and other charges, due, including expenses incurred for the sale. The surplus from the sale proceeds is to be returned to the consigner or the consignee. Section 15(4) clothes the carrier with a right B to sell in the event of failure by the consignee to make payment of the freight and other charges, at the time of taking delivery. 34. This Court, in this case, is dealing with the assessment years 1996-1997. The law applicable was contained in the Carriers Act, 1865. It is unnecessary for us to dwell further, as it is not the case of either C party that the appellant had become the owner of the bitumen in question in a manner authorised by law. On the other hand, the specific case of the appellant is that the appellant never became the owner and it remained only a carrier. However, as noticed, if it is found that there has been short delivery, this would mean that the appellant continued in possession D contrary to the terms of contract of carriage. 35. In Mohan B. Samtani v. Commissioner of Income-Tax8, the appellant, who was found in possession of a package, which, when opened at the airport, contained a bronze idle of Nataraja and its pedestal, was sought to be roped in as owner with the aid of Section 69A of the Act: E “6. From the facts on record, there cannot be any dispute that the consignor was the State Trading Corporation of Sikkim and the consignee was the Chogyal of Sikkim and the assessee was a representative of the State Trading Corporation of Sikkim. The assessee also claimed that the Chogyal of Sikkim was the owner and, under his verbal instruction conveyed through his A.D.C., he F arranged for despatch thereof by signing the papers. In fact, the Chogyal also claimed ownership of the said packages on the basis of the letter by the Under Secretary of the Chogyal of Sikkim addressed to the Assistant Collector of Customs dated May 30, 1973. The Chogyal was the head of an independent State at the G relevant time and it was necessary, if the claim for ownership of the Chogyal is to be disputed, to have the said letter verified by obtaining the original from the customs authorities.