(iii) The impugned conditions introduced by the respondents in the notice dated 04.08.2022 limiting the chances of the C appellants being selected were absolutely unreasonable and arbitrary. (iv) For availing the benefit of reservation, the appellants were required to produce the relevant certificates, however any rigid principle with regard to the date of certificate as the D proof for the purpose of seeking entitlement to claim the benefit of reservation, had no nexus with the last date of submission of application. (v) Relying upon the decision of this Court in Dolly Chhanda Vs. Chairman, JEE & Ors.1,it is submitted that there can E be some relaxation in the matter of submission of proof of the certificates/documents and it would not be proper to apply any rigid principle. Every infraction of rule relating to submission of proof need not be necessarily result in rejection of candidature. (vi) Reliance has been placed in case of Ram Kumar Gijroya F Vs. Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board & Anr.2, to submit that the submission of certificate after the last date mentioned in the advertisement was valid for the selection of the candidate under the reserved category. According to the appellants, the said view was affirmed by G Three-Judge Bench in case of Karn Singh Yadav Vs. Government of NCT of Delhi & Ors.3 (SLP (C) 14948/ 2016). 1 (2005) 9 SCC 779 2 (2016) 4 SCC 754 3 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1341 H 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (vii) Distinguishing the of Ashok Kumar Sonkar Vs. Union of India & Ors.4,relied upon by the respondent, it was submitted that the ratio laid down in the said had no relevance to the facts of the present appeals in as much as the said case pertained to the qualification of candidates at the time of selection, whereas in the instant B appeals the issue is with regard to the date of the issuance of certificates which is only procedural matter. 13.The Learned Counsel for the Respondents made the following submissions: C (i) The appellants had failed to reproduce valid certificates as mentioned in the advertisement dated 22.07.2021 and notice dated 04.08.2022. (ii) The State Government had issued the circulars dated 09.09.2015 and 08.08.2019 in which it was clarified that the OBC certificate shall be issued only once, and the D certificate regarding Non-Creamy Layer would also be valid for one year only, however, if the applicant continues to hold the position of “Non-Creamy Layer” in the subsequent year, then the certificate issued in previous year would be treated valid with an affidavit of the candidate. In the instant E appeals the appellants claiming to be belonging to OBC- NCL had not produced the requisite valid certificates nor the affidavit in that regard. (iii) As held in Ashok Kumar Sonkar (supra), the last date for filing application is required to be treated as the cut-off F date in absence of any date specified in this behalf either in the advertisement or in the rules.