for the determination of tariff. The Court, while exercising its A power of judicial review, can step in where a case of manifest unreasonableness or arbitrariness is made out. Similarly, where the delegate of the legislature has failed to follow statutory procedures or to take into account factors which it is mandated by the statute to consider or has founded its determination of tariffs B on extraneous considerations, the Court in the exercise of its power of judicial review will ensure that the statute is not breached. However, it is no part of the function of the Court to substitute its own determination for a determination which was made by an expert body after due consideration of material circumstances. C 39. In Assn. of Industrial Electricity Users v. State of A.P. [Assn. of Industrial Electricity Users v. State of A.P., (2002) 3 SCC 711] a three-Judge Bench of this Court dealt with the fixation of tariffs and held thus : (SCC p. 717, para 11) “11. We also agree with the High Court [S. Bharat D Kumar v. State of A.P., 2000 SCC OnLine AP 565 : (2000) 6 ALD 217] that the judicial review in a matter with regard to fixation of tariff has not to be as that of an appellate authority in exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. All that the High Court has to be satisfied with is that the Commission has followed the proper procedure and E unless it can be demonstrated that its decision is on the face of it arbitrary or illegal or contrary to the Act, the court will not interfere. Fixing a tariff and providing for cross-subsidy is essentially a matter of policy and normally a court would refrain from interfering with a policy decision unless the power F exercised is arbitrary or ex facie bad in law.” 122. As already discussed herein above, various expert bodies including the CERC and the learned APTEL, after taking into consideration various relevant factors, have decided the issue with regard to SHR and GCV. Not only that, but another expert body i.e. CEA has G also advised that GCV value has to be taken not only on ‘as received’ but on ‘as fired’ basis. 123. Recently, the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Vivek Narayan Sharma v. Union of India10 has held that the Courts 10 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1 H 142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A should be slow in interfering with the decisions taken by the experts in the field and unless it is found that the expert bodies have failed to take into consideration the mandatory statutory provisions or the decisions taken are based on extraneous considerations or they are ex facie arbitrary and illegal, it will not be appropriate for this Court to substitute its views with that of the expert bodies. B 124. That leaves us with the third issue as to whether the MERC was correct in holding that, for the purpose of Change in Law compensation, shortfall in domestic linkage coal shall be assessed by considering the coal supply as the maximum of (1) actual quantum of coal offered for offtake by CIL under the LoA/FSA and (2) the minimum C assured quantum in NCDP 2013 for the respective year.