Mere production of naked values without the detailed adjunct report would materially handicap the commercial wisdom of the Committee of Creditors. B 87. Further, Regulation 27 Regulation 35 mandates that two registered valuers value the Corporate Debtor’s assets. It is an admitted fact that the two registered valuers appointed by the Resolution Professional did not value the non-core assets of the Corporate Debtor. However, in view of the detailed valuation C report, no member of the COC of the Appellant herein has any idea as to what was categorised as a ‘Non-Core Assets’ by the Resolution Professional or what its value could be. These are the blatant statutory violations and irregularities committed in violation of the corporate debt assets.” D 19.2. The Appellate Tribunal also held that compliance with statutory requirements regulating a matter of practice and procedure were mandatory in character and the Tribunal being a creature of a statute cannot dilute the statutory compliances in the following words: - “88. However, the learned Adjudicating Authority/NCLT’s E observation that ‘A statutory provision regulating a matter of practice or procedure will generally be read as a directory and not mandatory is erroneous. Compliance with statutory requirements in regulating a matter of practice and procedure are mandatory.’ The Tribunal is a creature of statute, and by interpretation, it cannot dilute the statutory compliances.” F 19.3. After noticing non-compliance of Regulation 36-A(2)(iii) of the CIRP Regulations that mandates publication of Form-G at the earliest and not later than 75th day from the insolvency commencement date, the Appellate Tribunal held that the publication of Form G on the designated website was essential and failure to advertise as mandated had a direct G impact on the maximization of asset value, more so when the entire CIRP was conducted during lockdown at the time of Covid-19 pandemic when most of the people avoided reading the newspaper under the apprehension of infection. The relevant parts of the of the Appellate Tribunal in this regard read as under: - H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 823 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “89. ……… A Non-Publication of Form-G As Per Regulation 36A(2) (iii) of the IBBI Regulations for Corporate Persons, 2016 90. As per Regulation 36A(2)(iii), the RP shall publish ‘Form-G’ on the Corporate Debtors and IBBI websites. This would ensure B adequate publicity to all prospective Resolution Applicants. This was admittedly not done by the RP. The IRP published the Form- G only in a newspaper. 91. In fact, in the 5th CoC Meeting dated 12.11.2020, while discussing whether ‘Form G’ should be re-published, the present C RP points out that it was not published on the IBBI website, which may lead to litigation in the future. However, no steps were taken to re-publish ‘Form-G’ and invite fresh bids despite this. This was done despite the exclusion of the period between 05.05.2020 and 31.10.2020 from the period of CIRP by the Ld. Tribunal. 92. A plea regarding non-compliance of Regulation 36A of IBC D has explicitly been taken by the Appellant in its Affidavit objecting to the Plan before the Ld.