The invoking of the power has to be for a purpose that is D connected to a proceeding and not for sprouting an altogether new issue. A power cannot exceed its own authority beyond its own creation.” 25. In light of the abovementioned facts, we are of the opinion that the actions of the High Court during the bail proceedings of a third E party are manifestly arbitrary and unjust, and the High Court must have confined itself to the issues relevant to it for the purposes of deciding the bail of the Respondent No.1. A court of bail, especially in cases where the bail is sought for by a third party, is not a court that has all the relevant information to pass an on the merits of an unconnected party, and such an , if passed, has the potential to cause great harm F to the said party without them being afforded an actual and meaningful opportunity to defend themselves. It is a well settled principle of law that any party, when being accused of an illegal act, must be given an opportunity be fairly heard. This opportunity to be meaningfully heard however has not been afforded to the Appellant No.2, and hence we G hold issue 2 in favour of the Appellant No.2. CONCLUSION 26. The legal system in general, and the judicial system in particular, has ushered into a new age of accessibility and transparency due to the H 6 (2011) 14 SCC 770 SEEMANT KUMAR SINGH v. MAHESH PS & ORS. 597 [KRISHNA MURARI, J. ] adoption of virtual hearings and live telecasting of open court proceedings. A These changes in the judiciary have ensured that the courts as redressal mechanisms have become more accessible to the common man than ever before. The limitations of physical infrastructure, that has constrained the courts to a physical location, has often been cited as one of the main roadblocks in the path towards access to justice. This roadblock, however, B has now been cleared due to the availability of technology and the adoption of the same. This never before seen transparency in the judicial system, while it brings with it great benefits, it also attaches with it a stricter standard of responsibility on judges while conducting such court proceedings. Remarks passed in court, due to the live broadcasting of court proceedings, now have ramifications that are far reaching, and as C can be seen in the present case, can cause great injury to the reputation of the parties involved. In such a circumstance, it is essential for the courts to be extremely cautious while passing adverse remarks against the parties involved, and must do so with proper justification, in the right forum, and only if it is necessary to meet the ends of justice. D 27. In light of the abovementioned discussions, not only are the adverse remarks passed by the High Court against the Appellants is liable to be expunged, but the impugned interim itself is liable to be quashed.