It is pointed out C that in the said case, on payment of environmental compensation, the industry was permitted to continue. 16. Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned Senior Counselin the other case would adopt the arguments. He would further contend that the principles of contemporaneous exposito are attracted.In this regard, Shri Dhruv D Mehta, learned Senior Counsel sought to draw considerable support from the decision of this Court in K.P. Varghese v. Income Tax Officer, Ernakulam and Another6. This is on the basis that the understanding of all the authorities including respondent No.1 in the impugned is that construction of the container for storage facility is permissible under E CRZ-II. The Tribunal clearly erred in interfering with the views of all the authorities. 17. Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned Senior Counsel, would also contend that the matter may be viewed in the context of Principles of Sustainable Development and Polluter Pays Principle. F 18. Shri Anand Tiwari, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent 2 and 3 would also support the appellants.He would contend that a purposive interpretation is to be placed. Smt. Archana Pathak Dave, learned Counsel for the Union of India equally supported the stand of the Government of India. G 19. Smt. Anitha Shenoy, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No.5 strongly supported the of the NGTand submits 3 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 362 4 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 993 5 (2020) 17 SCC 157 6 1981 (4) SCC 173 H 262 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A that the matter relates to the defending of the environment. In constructing outside the limits of the notified port, a fact, which is not disputed by the appellant, there is an indefensible violation of a law which subservesa salutary and sublimeobject.She would draw support from the body of case law consisting essentially of the views of this Court indicating that this Court has firmly set its face against the trampling of law relating to B the environment [See Indian Council for Enviro-Legal Action v. Union of India7, S. Jagannathan v. Union of India and others8, Piedade Filomena Gonsalves v. State of Goa9, Vaamika Island (Green Lagoon Resort) v. Union of India10, Kapico Kerala Resorts (P) Ltd. v. State of Kerala11, Kerala State Coastal Zone Management Authority v. C State of Kerala12]. She would submit the word ‘in’ cannot mean ‘out’. In other words, it certainly cannot countenance the storage facility being located outside the notified port. In the facts of this case, it is at quiet a long distance from the Chennai Port and the laws relating to environment should be strictly construed. D ANALYSIS 20. The 2011 Notification has been issued under Section 3 of the Act. The first notification in regard to the notification of Coastal Zone was issued in the year 1991. There were amendments. It is thereafter that the notification was issued in the year 2011. The 2011 notification E came to be published on 6th January, 2011. We may indicate that, in fact, the notification which holds the field today was issued in the year 2019.