It is submitted that applying Section 140(5) in its plain language i.e., to change of auditors, saves it from the above serious constitutional infraction without letting auditors “off the hook” under D the Companies Act. xxviii) It is submitted that the NCLT, vide its first , erroneously upheld its jurisdiction to maintain the 140(5) Company Petition against past auditors of IFIN, including BSR, by incorrectly creating a deeming fiction, in absence of any legislation to this effect or E the necessary jurisdiction and power to do so. It is submitted that the NCLT wrongly assumed jurisdiction by holding that it was empowered to pass directions for a deemed change of ex-auditors and therefore the NCLT’s first is contrary to Section 140(5) as it was passed without jurisdiction and based on an incorrect assumption that the jurisdictional fact that the existing auditors of F the company needed to be “changed” existed. xxix) It is submitted that it is trite law that a “jurisdictional fact’ is a sine qua non or the condition precedent to the assumption of jurisdiction by a court. A court cannot erroneously assume jurisdiction either by not deciding the jurisdictional fact or by G erroneously deciding it. Reliance is placed upon the decisions of this Court in the cases of Carona Ltd. v. Parvathy Swaminathan & Sons, (2007) 8 SCC 559 (Para 27, 28, 36) and Arun Kumar v. Union of India, (2007) 1 SCC 732 (Para 74-76). It is submitted that this Court has clearly laid down that the foundational fact must be established before a presumption is made. Reliance is H 998 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Balram Garg v. SEBI, (2022) 9 SCC 425 (Para 45 and 51). xxx) It is further submitted that even the NCLT’s second on the application filed by the Ministry for the appointment of MMC as the statutory auditor of IFIN under the first proviso to B Section 140(5) is wholly without jurisdiction. It is submitted that once the BSR resigned as an auditor, there was no question of invoking first proviso to section 140(5) of the Act. xxxi) It is submitted that statutory auditor appointment application was clearly contrary to law, without jurisdiction and could not C have been under the first proviso to Section 140(5) since firstly, Section 140(5) itself did not apply to the past auditors, and hence no question of invoking the first proviso could arise; secondly, the first proviso is only a pro tem measure pending a jurisdiction under Section 140(5); thirdly, the NCLT’s second is not in the nature of a pro tem ; fourthly, once the proceedings under D section 140(5) of the Act are initiated, only the Central Government is authorised to appoint or change the auditors under the first proviso. Under the first proviso to section 140(5), the power given to Central Government to appoint an auditor due to urgency, does not take away the power of the concerned company to appoint an E auditor of its choice; fifthly, BSR had admittedly already resigned and vacated its office, as accepted by the Ministry in its submissions before this Court and this Court noted the same in the dated 26.09.2019.