It is neither to be guided by a sense of sentimentality nor to be governed by prejudices.” B 5.2.1 It is further observed that the principle of sentencing recognises the corrective measures but there are occasions when the deterrence is an imperative necessity depending upon the facts of the case. 5.2.2 In the aforesaid decision, the High Court reduced the C sentence and shown the mercy while applying the principle that payment of compensation is a factor for reduction. To that, this Court has observed that it is absolutely in the realm of misplaced sympathy. It is, in a way mockery of justice. It is observed and held as under:- “Needless to say, the principle of sentencing recognises the D corrective measures but there are occasions when the deterrence is an imperative necessity depending upon the facts of the case. In our opinion, it is a fit case where we are constrained to say that the High Court has been swayed away by the passion of mercy in applying the principle that payment of compensation is a factor E for reduction of sentence to 24 days. It is absolutely in the realm of misplaced sympathy. It is, in a way mockery of justice. Because justice is “the crowning glory”, “the sovereign mistress” and “queen of virtue” as Cicero had said. Such a crime blights not only the lives of the victims but of many others around them. It ultimately shatters the faith of the public in judicial system.” F 5.2.3 Showing the concern about increasing the road accidents, it is observed in the said decision as under: - “India has a disreputable record of road accidents. There is a nonchalant attitude among the drivers. They feel that they are the “Emperors of all they survey.” Drunkenness contributes to G careless driving where the other people become their prey. The poor feel that their lives are not safe, the pedestrians think of uncertainty and the civilised persons drive in constant fear but still apprehensive about the obnoxious attitude of the people who project themselves as “larger than life.” In such obtaining H 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A circumstances, the lawmakers should scrutinise, relook and revisit the sentencing policy in Section 304-A IPC, so with immense anguish.” 5.3 At this stage, another decision of this Court in the case of Surendra Singh (supra) which is also on the offences under Sections B 279 and 304A of IPC, is required to be referred to. In the case before this Court, the learned Trial Court while convicting the accused for the offence under Section 304A sentenced the accused to undergo two years RI. The High Court while maintaining the conviction, reduced the sentence awarded by the learned Trial Court from two years RI to the period already undergone and granted a further compensation of Rs. C 2000/- payable to the widow/mother of the deceased. While disapproving the view taken by the High Court and setting aside the passed by the High Court reducing the sentence, this Court has observed in paragraphs 6 to 14 as under: - “6.