No doubt, a beneficiary is not to be conflated in his position with a Mutawalli. The Mutawalli is a manager of the waqf. The property of the waqf, in law vests in the almighty. The Mutawalli acts merely as the manager. For the purposes of Section 10 of the Limitation Act, no doubt, he is treated as a E trustee. A plea of adverse possession undoubtedly requires the requisite intention, viz., animus possidendi. This is besides actual possession for the required period. A beneficiary would be entitled to receive benefits in terms of the waqf deed. In the case of adverse possession, since a requirement is that the possession F must be hostile to the real owner and since the real owner is the almighty, the requirement would be that such a person must have the necessary animus to hold contrary to the title of God. In the case of a co- owner while mere assertion of title in himself may hardly suffice as the possession of a co- owner is taken to be possession on behalf of all co-owners a case of ouster being G successfully established would entitle the co-owner to succeed. [Para 56][983-C-H] 1.18. In that a suit may fall under Article 96, there must be a transfer by a Manager which would include a Mutawalli H 938 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of a waqf. It must be for valuable consideration. In that there is a transfer, it must not be still born. It should not be a void transaction. This is for the reason that a void transaction would not amount to a transfer. An unauthorized alienation, a transfer, which was made by a Mutawalli, for which, there was no authority in the waqf deed, would constitute a transfer to which Article B 134B and Article 96 would have applied. With the advent of the laws relating to Waqfs which included the 1960 Act in Uttar Pradesh, the Mutawalli was obliged to obtain the previous sanction of the concerned Board. In cases where a transfer is made under the 1960 Act without previous sanction of the Board, C the transfer would be void. This is for the reason that the requirement of previous sanction is a statutory command conceived with a definite and sublime purpose and the transgression of which can only result in a void transaction. There is no provision which enables the validating of such a sale. In fact, the stand of respondents 2 and 4 is that, the transfers were D void. Therefore, the authorities have also proceeded on the basis that the transaction was void and therefore can proceed on the said foundation. [Para 61][985-G-H; 986-A-D] 1.19. Proceeding on the basis that the sale executed in 1974 was a void transaction. Article 96 of the Limitation Act, 1963 E cannot be invoked in the case of a void transaction. The impugned , proceeding on the said premise, cannot be said to be flawed. There cannot be any embargo against a beneficiary of a waqf claiming acquisition of title by adverse possession.