[2023] 4 S.C.R. 493 493 KUSUM LATA SHARMA A v. ARVIND SINGH (Civil Appeal No. 3111 of 2023) APRIL 25, 2023 B [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 – ss.14(1)(e) and 25-B – Eviction – Grant of – Appellant-landlord had filed eviction petitions seeking to evict her tenants on the ground of her bona fide requirement – C Rent Controller ed the eviction of the tenants – On revision, the High Court reversed the decision of the Rent Controller on the ground that appellant had not been forthright in the description of the property and had taken the pleadings in a misleading manner and the availability of other property had not been clearly disclosed – On appeal, held: A comprehensive look at the pleadings along D with the site plan attached, it makes evident that the appellant gave out a detailed description of the extent of accommodation available in the suit property as also the accommodation presently in her occupation and the nature and extent of her requirement – Appellant had further made position clear in her cross-examination – Thus, it E is clear that there had not been any such misdescription of the property – The material placed on record indicate that the appellant and other members of the family might be having title or interest in some other properties too but, such an aspect would hardly operate against the appellant, when her prayer for eviction had been accepted by the Rent Controller on valid grounds and with cogent F reasons – of High Court set aside and the s of Rent Controller restored. Delhi Rent Control Act, 1958 – s.25-B(8) – Limited jurisdiction under – Held: In terms of the proviso to s.25-B(8), a limited window is allowed to the extent that the High Court may call for the record, G for the purpose of satisfying itself that the had been passed in accordance with law – Pure finding of fact is not open for interference unless such a finding is given on a wrong premise of law. H 493 494 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD. 1. Taking the pleadings as a whole and reading the same with the evidence, it is clear that there had not been any such misdescription of the property which would amount to a material flaw in the case of the appellant or which could have B caused prejudice to the respondent’s tenants. [Para 18][509-G- H] 2. Noteworthy, it is that it had not been the case of the respondents that they were not the tenants in the premises in question. The only attempt on the part of the respondents had C been to suggest that other properties and accommodations were available with the family. Such suggestion on the part of respondents had not been accepted by the Rent Controller as operating against the assertion of bona fide requirement of the appellant. Such findings of the Rent Controller had essentially been the findings of facts on the basis of evidence on record.