Moreover, the appellant and other accused ought to have been put to notice by the High Court that it intended to modify the charge for invoking Section 34. He submitted that prejudice has been caused to the appellant by alteration of the charge apart from the fact that ingredients of Section 34 of IPC were not proved. Hence, the appellant is entitled to acquittal. 10. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent urged that from the impugned , it appears that the High Court has carefully perused the evidence of the prosecution witnesses. He submitted that in an appeal against conviction, under Section 386 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short ‘Cr.PC’) read with Section 216 of Cr.PC, the Appellate Court, has the power to alter or add the charge when no prejudice is shown to the accused. He submitted that there was enough evidence on record to prove the ingredients of Section 34 of IPC. He invited our attention to the gravity of the off ence and submitted that no interference is called for. 1 (2019) 5 SCC 127 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 11. The fi rst issue is whether any prejudice was caused to the appellant, as his appeal was heard in the absence of his advocate. The cause title of the clearly mentions that the advocate representing the appellant was absent. The sheet of the appeal preferred by the appellant and two others (Annexure P-3) records that on 26th October 2004, when the appeal preferred by the appellant and two others was called out, the appellant’s advocate was present. The appeal was heard on 23rd November 2004. The sheet of that date records that the advocate for the appellant was absent. It also notes that the arguments were heard, and was reserved. The impugned does not refer to any submission canvassed on behalf of the appellant. The High Court has, thus, committed illegality by deciding the appeal against the conviction preferred by the appellant without hearing the appellant or his advocate. After fi nding that the advocate appointed by the appellant was absent, the High Court ought to have appointed a lawyer to espouse his cause. 12. In view of the wide powers conferred by Section 386 of Cr.PC, even an Appellate Court can exercise the power under Section 216 of altering or adding the charge. However, if the Appellate Court intends to do so, elementary principles of natural justice require the Appellate Court to put the accused to the notice of the charge proposed to be altered or added when prejudice is likely to be caused to the accused by alteration or addition of charges. Unless the accused was put to notice that the Appellate Court intends to alter or add a charge in a particular manner, his advocate cannot eff ectively argue the case. Only if the accused is put to notice by the Appellate Court that the charge is intended to be altered in a particular manner, his advocate can eff ectively argue that even the altered charge was also not proved.