He furthermore submitted that even if there is a restriction on the transfer of land independent of Section 58-A of the 1317 Fasli Act, as contained in the Temporary Pattas regarding need of permission of the Collector, then such restriction indicates a permissive regime instead of a prohibitory regime which is a necessary corollary for invoking the provisions of 1977 Act. He vehemently reiterated that the Subject Land doesn’t come under the ambit of the term ‘assigned land’ as defi ned under the 1977 Act. C. ANALYSIS 38. Before we analyse the rival contentions raised by the parties, it would be appropriate to broadly highlight the issues which arise for our consideration:– a) Whether the proceedings emanating out of the Second SCN are barred by the doctrine of res judicata or constructive res judicata? b) Whether the exercise of suo motu revisionary powers while issuing the Second SCN is bad in law? 12 Dharama Reddy v Sub-Collector, Bodhan 1986 SCC OnLine AP 141. YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 631 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] c) What is the law governing the assignment of the Subject Land and whether the same contained any bar in respect of alienation? d) Whether the assignment of Subject Land comes under the purview of 1977 Act? e) If question No. (d) is answered in positive, would the entirety of Subject Land or only a part thereof be considered to have violated the 1977 Act in light of the sale deeds executed by M.A. Baksh as the GPA holder? f) Whether the Appellants are entitled to any compensation on account of the resumption dated 27.01.2007? C.1 THE APPLICATION OF DOCTRINE OF RES JUDICATA 39. At the outset, we would like to highlight that since the Second SCN doesn’t speak about the violation of assignment condition regarding cultivation, it would not be expedient to adjudicate or comment on the same. Coming back to the issue of res judicata based upon the allegation of alienability and its legal consequences, it would be prudent to reproduce the reasoning contained in the impugned judgement which is as follows:– “17. In the considered opinion of this Court, the issues involved in W.P.Nos.13165 and 23639 of 2003 and the proceedings involved in the present writ petition are diff erent. In W.P.Nos.13165 and L.3639 of 2003, the issues raised therein pertained to the legality of the assignment s issued in favour of the respondents/assignees and the execution of the GPA in favour of one M.A.Baksh to transfer the lands and consequent violation of the assignment s. The proceedings in the aforesaid cases were by way of suo motu revision under Section 166-B of the Land Revenue Act, 1317F and the High Court has answered that the legality of the assignment s need not be gone into after forty years and the cause of action regarding the execution of GPA does not survive since the GPA holder is· not alive. On the contrary, the issue involved in the present writ petition deals with the proceedings issued by the Mandal Revenue Offi cer (W.P.No.3634 of 2007) relates to the execution of sale deeds by GPA holder in favour of.