188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 12.4. He further submits that though the appellant had placed much emphasis on the fact that the parties are related and that fi ling of the second set of export declarations was an afterthought, the same is totally irrelevant. On the contrary, it is on record that the second set of export declarations were accepted by the Hong Kong customs authority by imposing penalty which was paid by the Hong Kong supplier. 12.5. Asserting that there was no under valuation of the imported goods, learned counsel submits that valuation of imported goods is governed by the Customs Valuation Rules and not by price declaration made by the supplier in another country. Appellant was not justifi ed in by-passing Rules 5, 6 and 7 of the Customs Valuation Rules while determining the transaction value and straightaway invoking Rule 8. Customs department had not made any eff ort to gather evidence to determine transaction value of identical or similar goods imported contemporaneously. In this connection, learned counsel has relied upon the decision of this court in Rabindra Chandra Paul Vs. Commissioner of Customs, (2007) 3 SCC 93 and in the case of South India Television (P) Ltd. (supra). He, therefore, submits that there was no error or infi rmity in the view taken by CESTAT. Consequently, the appeals are liable to the dismissed. 13. Submissions made by learned counsel for the parties have received the due consideration of the court. 14. Before we deal with the rival contentions, it would be relevant to have a brief recap of the factual narrative. Based on an intelligence input received by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence that M/s Ganpati Overseas had imported tuners etc. from Hong Kong at grossly under invoiced prices thereby evading huge customs duty, a show cause notice dated 17.12.1999 was issued to the respondents. As per the show cause notice, M/s Ganpati Overseas had imported twenty consignments of tuners and saw fi lters from M/s Arise Enterprises, Hong Kong during the years 1997-1998 and 1998-1999. Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma and his wife Mrs. Kusum Sharma were the directors of M/s Arise Enterprises, whereas, Mr. Yashpal Sharma was the proprietor of M/s Ganpati Overseas. Mr. Yashpal Sharma and Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma were co-brothers. 14.1. Statements of Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma and Mr. Yashpal Sharma were recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act. In their COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 189 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] respective statements which virtually complimented each other, they admitted that the price of goods as per the export declarations fi led by the foreign supplier before the Hong Kong customs authority refl ected the actual price. On import, the price was kept intentionally low to avoid paying due customs duty. Actual price of the goods was quite high. The diff erence between the actual price and the declared price was retained in India, which Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma used to collect from Mr. Yashpal Sharma whenever he visited India.