All persons who avail the services by doctors and hospitals who give free service to poor patients but charge fee for others, are required to be treated on the same footing irrespective of the fact that some of them pay for the service and others avail the same free of charge. Most of the doctors and hospitals work on commercial lines and the expenses incurred for providing services free of charge to patients who are not in a position to bear the charges are met out of the income earned by such doctors and hospitals from services rendered to paying patients. The government hospitals may not be commercial in that sense but on the overall consideration of the objectives and the scheme of the Act it would not be possible to treat the government hospitals diff erently. In such a situation the persons belonging to ‘poor class’ who are provided services free of charge are the benefi ciaries of the service which is hired or availed of by the ‘paying class’. Service rendered by the doctors and hospitals who render free service to poor patients and charge fees for others 628 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. irrespective of the fact that part of the service is rendered free of charge, would nevertheless fall within the ambit of the expression ‘service’ as defi ned in Section 2(1)(o) of the Act.” 48. Laxman Thamappa Kotgiri (supra) was a case where a railway employee was aggrieved by the negligent treatment of his wife, resulting in her death. His complaint was rejected, on the premise that the railway hospital where the treatment was given, was a part of his condition of service wherein he and his dependents were provided medical advice and treatment, free of charge. This court upset those fi ndings and held the complaint maintainable: “6. There is no dispute that the hospital in question has been set up for the purpose of granting medical treatment to the railway employees and their dependants. Apart from the nominal charges which are taken from such an employee, this facility is part of the service conditions of the railway employees. V.P. Shantha case [(1995) 6 SCC 651] has made a distinction between non-governmental hospital/nursing home where no charge whatsoever was made from any person availing of the service and all patients are given free service [vide para 55(6) at p. 681] and services rendered at government hospital/health centre/ dispensary where no charge whatsoever is made from any person availing of the services and all patients are given free service [vide para 55(9)] on the one hand and service rendered to an employee and his family members by a medical practitioner or a hospital/nursing home which are given as part of the conditions of service to the employee and where the employer bears expenses of the medical treatment of the employee and his family members [para 55(12)] on the other. In the fi rst two circumstances, it would not (sic) be free service within the defi nition of Section 2(1)(o) of the Act.