This document, 8 (supra) H 9 (supra) VIRENDRASING v. THE ADDITIONAL COMMISSIONER AND 801 ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] and the Zilla Parishad’s counter affidavit, reveal that the funds flowed A from the State Government to the Zilla Parishad, and in turn to the Gram Panchayat. This is notwithstanding the translation of the resolution dated 26.01.2020 adduced by the appellant, whereby an impression is sought to be given as if the Gram Panchayat was willing to spend its own funds on the project. In any case, this translation has been seriously disputed B by respondent no. 3. In our view, the issuance of the work dated 09.06.2020 by the Zilla Parishad itself shows the Zilla Parishad’s supervisory and sanctioning role in the contract, which falls within the wide ambit of Section 16(1)(i) of the said Act. 22. We believe that probity in such financial transactions should C be the rule rather than the exception. The appellant had a greater responsibility as a father to make sure that his son does not enter into a contract that is sanctioned by the Zilla Parishad itself. We may note the finding of fact by courts below that nothing had been placed on record to show even a separation of residence between the son and the father, other than a ration card purporting to show that the son was living with D his grandmother. It was rightly observed that this was neither here nor there, more so when the son had just completed his education. 23. We may also note that sufficient opportunities were made available to the appellant to present his arguments. There cannot be a birthright to seek adjournments, especially when the Divisional E Commissioner was mandated to decide the issue of appellant’s disqualification within a period of ninety days from respondent no. 3’s application, as per Section 40(2) of the said Act. The Divisional Commissioner thus rightly treated the appellant’s written submissions as his defence. F Conclusion: 24. In the aforesaid conspectus, we are thus of the view that the appeal must fail and is accordingly dismissed. The consequential disqualification would take effect from the date of the . 25. The appeal is accordingly dismissed leaving the parties to bear G their own costs. Nidhi Jain Appeal dismissed. H