At this juncture, we may also take note of a few other contents of Chapter 30, which carries the heading ‘Pharmaceutical Products’. 6.2.1.Note 1 of Chapter 30 specifies the items not covered thereunder. Clause (e) of this Note 1 has been referred to by the Adjudicating Authority, which reads as under: - H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 301 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “Notes: A 1. This Chapter does not cover : —— (e) preparations of headings 3303 to 3307, even if they have therapeutic or prophylactic properties; B ——-” 6.2.2.In this Chapter 30, apart from heading 3003, medicaments have also been specified under heading 3004, the relevant contents whereof read as under: - C “3004 Medicaments (excluding goods of heading 3002, 3005 or 3006) consisting of mixed or unmixed products for therapeutic or prophylactic uses, put up in measured doses (including those in the form of transdermal administration systems) or in forms or packings for retail sale D 3004 90 - - Other : - - - Ayurvedic, Unani, Homoeopathic, Siddha or Bio-chemic systems medicaments, put up for retail sale : 3004 90 14 - - - - Of Homeopathic system” E 6.3. Reverting to the analysis by the Adjudicating Authority, it is noticed that the Adjudicating Authority referred to the changes made in Chapters 30 and 33 and proceeded to hold that the notice did not suffer from any imperfection while observing as under: - “10.6 It can be seen that there is substantial change in the tariff headings requiring a relook into the classification of the impugned F product. Particularly, Chapter 30 came to be reworded so as to remove the distinction between Patent/proprietary and generic medicaments and classify them according to whether they are put up in unit containers for retail sale or not. Secondly, the mention about the Drugs and Cosmetics Act and the various Pharmacopeia G came to be deleted. Similarly, under Chapter 33 also, the phrase Hair Oil became prominent under which, subsidiary headings of “perfumed hair oil” and “others” came to be specified. All these changes certainly merit interpretation of the new entries vis-à-vis the product in question, than what was decided or settled earlier. H 302 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Thus, even by applying the very ratio of Vicco Laboratories , a different interpretation of tariff can lead to change of classification of a product even though the constituents and use of the product has not undergone any change. Secondly, the additional evidence adduced in the notices certainly merit consideration. Accordingly, I hold that the impugned notice do not B suffer from any imperfection on account of the said . Hence the first question is answered in the negative” 6.4. The Adjudicating Authority also observed that the impugned notice had been issued in the normal period and it was not a case where issue was sought to be reopened for the period for which it was settled. C However, according to the learned Adjudicating Authority, the criteria and ideology in the matter of classification of such products was dynamic in character and hence, revision of classification in view of fresh facts coming to light could not be held to be improper.