It is submitted that the appellants could not qualify to be financial creditors of the Corporate Debtor. It is submitted that there is only a third-party security given in form of pledged shares with respect F to the amounts advanced by the appellants to affiliates of the Corporate Debtor. Thus, the appellants cannot be considered as financial creditor of the Corporate Debtor. 5. The issue and legal question are partly covered by two decisions of this Court namely, Anuj Jain (supra) and Phoenix ARC Private G Limited (supra). We will first examine the decisions in these two cases and then advert to the contention of the Appellant No. 1 – M/s Vistra ITCL that these decisions are distinguishable from the facts of the instant case. H 818 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 5.1 In Anuj Jain (supra), the issue was whether the lenders of Jaypee Associates Limited (JAL), the holding company of Jaypee Infratech Limited (JIL), the Corporate Debtor, hold the status of ‘financial creditors’ of JIL within the meaning of Section 5(7) of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 20163 read with expression ‘financial debt’ as defined in Section 5(8) of the Code. This issue had arisen as JIL had B mortgaged certain land with the creditors of JAL.4 Highlighting and expounding the unique status of the financial creditors in the context of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process5 under the Code, and that the legislature has assigned them a specific role to ensure that the Corporate Debtor is, if possible, revived, rejuvenated, and resuscitated, it was held C that the financial creditors are the only stakeholders who would be obviously concerned and concomitant to the resurgence and restructuring of the Corporate Debtor. A secured creditor may only have an interest in realising the value of its security and, therefore, will not have stake or interest in Corporate Debtor’s revival or equitable liquidation, while a financial creditor, apart from looking for safeguards of its own interests, D will also be simultaneously interested in the revival and growth of the Corporate Debtor. Therefore, a person only having a security interest in the assets of the Corporate Debtor, even if falling in the description of ‘secured creditor’ by virtue of collateral security extended by the Corporate Debtor, would nevertheless stand outside the sect of the E ‘financial creditors’, and consequently outside the CoC as well. The aforesaid decision is also based upon the meaning assigned to the term ‘financial debt’ under Section 5(8) of the Code, which, in the context of the present decision, need not be elaborated. 5.2 In Phoenix ARC (supra), the Corporate Debtor, namely F Doshion Veolia Water Solutions Private Limited (Doshion Veolia), had pledged 40,160 shares of Gondwana Engineers Limited as a security to L&T Infrastructure Finance Company Limited (L&T). A deed of undertaking was also executed by Doshion Veolia in favour of L&T. However, the main and principal transaction was between L&T, which had advanced financial facility, to and with Doshion Limited of Rs.40 G crores, pursuant to which specific agreements were executed.