The abductors of the Lalmuni Devi succeeded in their design to make sure that she was not allowed to make a free deposition before the Bhagalpur Court. The fi nding of the Division Bench is extracted from the and reproduced hereunder: - “…The reports of Dr. D.N. Gautam and the statement of Lalmuni Devi clearly establish the connection between her abduction at Chapra and the murder trial taking place before the Bhagalpur Court. It is evident that Lalmuni Devi was abducted to prevent her from deposing freely in the trial relating to the murder of her son. Her statement made in the Court and recorded by the Magistrate at the Judges’ Guest House, Patna and the report of Justice C.K. Prasad, the Inspecting Judge of Bhagalpur Judgeship further make it clear that the abductors of Lalmuni Devi succeeded in their design and she was not allowed to make a free deposition in the Bhagalpur Court.” 27. Despite the above material which had come on record, the senior counsel appearing for Prabhunath Singh before the High Court continued to oppose any directions to be issued by the Division Bench. He reverted to the old theme that the petition had been rendered infructuous and the Court was needlessly proceeding further in the matter. The submission was that both the reliefs claimed in the petition namely, recovery of Lalmuni Devi and the other for getting a case registered and investigation carried out regarding her abduction stood already granted and the proceedings may be brought to an end. He also objected to the Court’s previous s calling for reports from Dr. D.N. Gautam, Addl. Director General of Police. He also made an eff ort to argue that the report was based upon material which was in the nature of hearsay evidence and as such on its basis the Court may not hold that deposition of Lalmuni Devi before the Trial Court on 03.11.2006 was not free and voluntary. HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 419 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 28. The Division Bench rejected the submissions of Mr. Vindhya Kesari Kumar, learned senior counsel appearing for Prabhunath Singh as being without any substance or merit. The Division Bench further proceeded to record the fi nding that the deposition of Lalmuni Devi on 03.11.2006 before the Trial Court was not voluntary but was made under duress and intimidation while she was under the control of the accused. Following is the relevant extract from the said : “…Every criminal trial, specifi cally a trial relating to a double murder is supposed to be held fairly and impartially. The present trial was not held at Chapra, in departure from the normal, but was transferred to Hazaribagh and then to Bhagalpur in to ensure that it should be held fairly. But the materials before the court leave no room for doubt that the proceedings of the trial were violently interfered with and the trial’s sanctity has been badly abused. In light of the materials before it, the court has no hesitation in fi nding that the deposition of Lalmuni Devi on 03.11.2006 in Sessions Trial No.19 of 2003 before the 7th ADDL.