My niece Sunita told me about the attempt of accused to kill his both the children by way of electric shock but I had not seen personally. We have not made any complaint for the above incident to the police. I had not seen personally any beating by accused to his wife. The house of accused is about 5 km from my house. On 03.05.2009 I went to H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 817 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] canal at about 07:00 pm. When I saw accused near the canal and A also seen his children’s body. I did not report the matter to the police regarding conduct of accused qua my niece and the children. I had not seen the occurance. It is incorrect to suggest that I am deposing falsely being the maternal uncle of Sunita or that accused used to love Sunita and the children or that he did not commit the B alleged offence or that being relative of Sunita I had deposed falsely in the court.” *** *** *** “PW8- Statement of Rajender Yadav, aged 43 years S/O Sh. Jawahar Singh R/O WZ-342 Village Shakur Pur Delhi. C On SA I am running a shop in the name of M/s. Astha Enterprises at Sector-7 Rohini Delhi. Sunita W/O accused Prem Singh is my niece who has been married with accused for about 12-13 years before. Initially, accused Prem Singh was working as a transporter D but later on he left this work and become unemployed and he used to take liquor often. My niece used to tell whenever she visited our house that accused used to abusing her and also demanding money and also gave beating her. We sometime help her in cash. 2-3 years after the marriage Sunita’s both son Jitesh E and Sunny live with us in our house for about 2 years. Because of the habit of acute drinking of accused he was once sent to Nasha Mukti Kendr by his wife Sunita but later on the family members of accused released him against the wishes of Sunita. On the day of release accused Prem Singh has given severe beatings to his wife Sunita and both his children and in turn Sunita came to our F house leaving children at the house of accused at Haider Pur. We received a phone call for PS Prashant Vihar on 03.05.2009 that they have informed by Prem Singh that his 2 children has drown in the Haider Pur Canal while they were playing near the canal in front of him. We went to the PS, I and Mahender Singh son of my G uncle late Sh. Ram Kishan and in the PS we saw that Prem Singh was apprehended by the police and we were having strong suspicion that Prem Singh has drown his both the children as he was suspicion over the character of Sunita. During drunken condition accused also gave beatings to his both the sons and his H 818 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.