I fi nd it diffi cult to reconcile these. 17. The learned Chief Justice opines that “it is insuffi cient if persons have the ability and freedom to form relationships unregulated by the State. For the full enjoyment of such relationships, it is necessary that the State accord recognition to such relationships. Thus, the right to enter into a union includes the right to associate with a partner of one’s choice, according recognition to the association, and ensuring that there is no denial of access to basic goods and services is crucial to achieve the goal of self-development.” The opinion of the Chief Justice, thereafter, classifi es that status of two persons in relationship: (a) ‘relationships’ which do not have legal consequences, (b) ‘unions’ which have legal consequences and marriages. In my considered opinion, it is in positively mandating the State to grant recognition or legal status to ‘unions’ from which benefi ts will fl ow, that the doctrine of separation of powers is violated. The framing of a positive right and the positive entitlements which fl ow therefrom, essentially require the State to regulate such unions and benefi ts. In my 152 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. opinion, the direction in eff ect, is to amend existing statutory frameworks, if not to legislate afresh. 18. Additionally, the opinion of the learned Chief Justice, situates the right to choice of a partner and right to legal recognition of an abiding cohabitational relationship within Article 25 of the Constitution of India. Emphasis is placed on the term “freedom of conscience” which is placed alongside the right to freely profess, practice and propagate religion. The opinion situates in this freedom of conscience, the right not only to judge the moral quality of one’s own action but also to act upon it. If that were permissible under Article 25, then the textual enumeration of freedoms in Article 19 become redundant, since these freedoms can be claimed to be actions on the basis of one’s own moral . I fi nd it diffi cult to agree with such a reading of Article 25. 19. I am not oblivious to the concerns of the LGBTQ+ partners with respect to denial of access to certain benefi ts and privileges that are otherwise available only to married couples. The general statutory scheme for the fl ow of benefi ts gratuitous or earned; property or compensation; leave or compassionate appointment, proceed on a certain defi nitional understanding of partner, dependant, caregiver, and family. In that defi nitional understanding, it is no doubt true, that certain classes of individuals, same-sex partners, live-in relationships and non-intimate care givers including siblings are left out. The impact of some of these defi nitions is iniquitous and in some cases discriminatory. The policy considerations and legislative frameworks underlying these defi nitional contexts are too diverse to be captured and evaluated within a singular judicial proceeding. I am of the fi rm belief that a review of the impact of legislative framework on the fl ow of such benefi ts requires a deliberative and consultative exercise, which exercise the legislature and executive are constitutionally suited, and tasked, to undertake.