Even though this Court in SMS Tea(supra) succinctly recognized the doctrine of separability in the context of Registration Act, 1908, it held that strict and mandatory provisions of the Stamp Act, 1899 on non- payment of Stamp duty could not be read harmoniously with the relevant D provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1996. It was held as under: “22.1. The court should, before admitting any document into evidence or acting upon such document, examine whether the instrument/document is duly stamped and whether it is an instrument which is compulsorily registerable. E 22.2. If the document is found to be not duly stamped, Section 35 of the Stamp Act bars the said document being acted upon. Consequently, even the arbitration clause therein cannot be acted upon. The court should then proceed to impound the document under Section 33 of the Stamp Act and follow the procedure under F Sections 35 and 38 of the Stamp Act.” 67. The in SMS Tea(supra) has been upheld in Naina Thakkar(supra) and Black Pearl Hotels v Planet M. Retail Ltd.52 (for short “Black Pearl Hotels”). It has also been cited with approval in a recent judgement by 3 judges of this Court in Dharmaratnakara (supra). G As noted earlier, the Court in Garware (supra) also followed SMS Tea (supra) which has been cited with approval in Vidya Drolia (supra). This legal proposition is doubted by this Court in NN Global (supra) and referred to us. 52 (2017) 4 SCC 498 H 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 68. Section 11(6A) as we have noted above begins with a non- obstante clause viz. “notwithstanding any , decree or of any Court” and effectively overrules all s which widened the ambit of examination. 69. The first submission before us by Mr. Gagan Sanghi, learned B Counsel for the Appellant on this aspect was that the observations of two different three- Judge Bench decisions in Dharmaratnakara (supra) and Black Pearl Hotels (supra) have not been considered in NN Global(supra) which is another three-judge bench and that this seriously calls into question the finding of NN Global(supra). C 70. It is significant to note here that the above two s did not consider the recent 11(6A) Amendment. Black Pearl Hotels(supra) was delivered pre-11(6A) and hence stands legislatively overruled. In Dharmaratnakara (supra), it appears that the amendment to Section 11(6A) was not brought to the notice of the Court and the earlier in Garware(supra) was not considered. This could also be because the D Court considered the which was passed prior to introduction of Section 11(6A). In Dharmaratnakara (supra), the issue before the Court was whether a document executed between parties was a lease deed or an “agreement to lease”, and whether arbitration could be invoked under the said document. Even after determination by the Registrar E (Judicial) of the Karnataka High Court that the concerned document was a lease deed, the deficit stamp duty was not paid. The Court relied on SMS Tea(supra), to hold that the arbitration agreement could not be acted upon, unless stamp duty is paid.