The legislative field indicated in this provision is the same as indicated in Entry 71 the Union List or Entry 41 of the State List of the Seventh Schedule . In terms of the proviso to Article 309, the President for the Union of India or the F Governor of the State respectively or such person as they may direct, have the power to make similar rules as a stopgap arrangement until provisions in that behalf are made by the appropriate legislature. The proviso to Article 309 is only a transitional provision46, as the power under the proviso can be exercised only so long as the appropriate G legislature does not enact a legislation for recruitment to public posts and other conditions of service relating to that post. If an appropriate legislature has enacted a law under Article 309, the rules framed under the proviso would be subject to that Act.47 Article 309 provides that: 46 A.B. Krishna v. State of Karnataka, (1998) 3 SCC 495 H 47 B.S. Vadera v. Union of India, (1968) 3 SCR 575 GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 573 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “309. Recruitment and conditions of service of persons A serving the Union or a State Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Acts of the appropriate Legislature may regulate the recruitment, and conditions of service of persons appointed, to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State: B Provided that it shall be competent for the President or such person as he may direct in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union, and for the Governor 2 *** of a State or such person as he may direct in the case of services and posts in connection with the affairs of the State, to make rules C regulating the recruitment, and the conditions of service of persons appointed, to such services and posts until provision in that behalf is made by or under an Act of the appropriate Legislature under this article, and any rules so made shall have effect subject to the provisions of any such Act.” D 142. The rule-making function under the proviso to Article 309 is transitional. The President with respect to the posts in connection with the affairs of the Union, and the Governor in connection with the affairs of State shall have the power to make rules under the proviso only until a statute is enacted in this connection. Any rule that is made by the E President or the Governor shall be “Subject to the provisions of any such Act” made by the appropriate legislature. The exercise of power by the President and the Governor under Article 309 does not in any way restrict the power that is otherwise available under Article 309. The exercise of rule making power by the President under Article 309 does not substitute the legislative power granted. F 143. In Tulsiram Patel (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the appropriate legislature, to enact laws under Article 309, would depend upon the provisions of the Constitution with respect to legislative competence and the division of powers.