45. The Writ petition along with application therein are, accordingly, disposed of. H YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 931 SANJAY KAROL, J. A 1. I have perused the erudite opinion proposed by my esteemed brother, Hon’ble Mr. Justice Krishna Murari. Respectfully, I am unable to persuade myself to agree; hence, I separately pen down my conclusions. B 2. Two issues arise for consideration before us; One whether a settlement remedy under Section 127B of the Customs Act, 1962, would be available for the seized goods, which are specified under Section 123 of the said Act? Two, would, in the attending facts, the exercise of powers under Article 32 of the Constitution of India be appropriate? C Nature, Scope, Purpose and Scheme of Customs Act 3. The Customs Act, 1962 (hereafter referred to as the Act) was enacted to consolidate the provisions relating to sea customs, land customs and air customs into one comprehensive measure. It is an act to sternly and expeditiously deal with smuggled goods and curbs the D dents on the revenue thus caused. The act provides for the confiscation of goods and imposition of penalties when any goods are imported contrary to prohibitions imposed [Commissioner of Customs v. M. Ambalal, (2011) 2 SCC 74 (2-Judge Bench)]. 4. To understand the legislative intent behind the Act, it is important E to discuss the scheme therein. 5. Chapter II of the Act relates to the appointment of customs officers and their powers under the Act. 6. Chapter III specifies the appointment of customs ports and airports wherein imported goods shall be unloaded, and export goods F shall be loaded & cleared. 7. Chapter IV empowers the Central Government to prohibit the importation or exportation of goods for the purposes mentioned therein, such as maintaining the security of India and preventing smuggling. G 8. Chapter IVA provides for the detection of illegally imported goods and the prevention of their disposal. 9. Chapter V specifies the imposition of customs duties and exemption therefrom. H 932 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 10. Chapter VII pertains to the clearance of imported and exported goods. This chapter also deals with the procedure employed when goods are not cleared. 11. Chapter XI elucidates special provisions regarding baggage, goods imported or exported, and the required declaration. In this Chapter, B Section 83 allows for the duty rate and tariff to be imposed on goods imported or exported. 12. Chapter XIII provides for powers relating to searches, seizure and arrest. In this Chapter, an officer of customs is empowered to arrest a person under Section 105 if he has reason to believe that such a person C may have made a false declaration (Section 132), obstructed a customs officer (Section 133) or evaded customs duty that is liable to be paid (Section 135). Furthermore, Section 108B penalises failure to furnish information as directed by the proper officer. 13. Chapter XIV allows for the confiscation of goods and the imposition of penalties. Sections 111 and 112 thereunder enumerate a list D of goods which are liable for confiscation and the penalty thereof.