The prosecution has failed to explain the injury sustained by accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased). C A suggestion was also given by the accused persons that the accused were having enmity with Mohan Lal and Kewal Krishna and deceased as well as P.W. 1-Praveen Kumar and P.W.2-Hardev Singh were sent by them to assault accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased). No doubt that this is denied. D 19.The defence of the accused appears to be that the deceased- Jaswinder and Manjit as well as P.W.1-Praveen Kumar and P.W.2-Hardev Singh were engaged by Mohan Lal and Kewal Krishna to take revenge on account of previous enmity. E 20.As already discussed herein above, the place of occurrence is the house of accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased). Out of six remaining accused, 5 are his sons. There are material contradictions as to how and in what circumstances the deceased Jaswinder and Manjit went to the house of the appellants. The version given in the dying F declaration as well as in the evidence of P.W.1-Praveen Kumar and P.W.2-Hardev Singh are totally different. The prosecution has failed to prove the injuries sustained by the accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased). It is the specific case of the accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased) that two persons had come to his house and they assaulted G him with a lathi. The possibility that the accused persons enraged by the assault on accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased) whilst deprived of the power of self-control, by grave and sudden provocation, attacked the deceased-Jaswinder and Manjit resulting in their death cannot be ruled out. We find that the appellants are entitled to benefit of doubt in H 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A view of Exception I of Section 300 of the RPC. As such, we are of the considered view that the prosecution has failed to prove the case under Section 302 of the RPC beyond reasonable doubt. 21.The conviction and sentence imposed upon the appellants under Section 302 RPC is converted to the one under Part-I of Section 304 of B the RPC. The appellants have already served a sentence of about ten years, we, therefore, find that the sentence already undergone would serve the purpose. The bail bonds of the appellants shall stand discharged. 22.The appeal is partly allowed in the above terms. C Bibhuti Bhushan Bose Appeal partly allowed. (Assisted by : Shubhanshu Das, LCRA) D E F G H