A alone which was competent to accord necessary permissions to Respondent No. 1 under the 1959 Rules, and not RIICO in purported exercise of its powers under the 1979 Rules. Our holding is not confined to the decisions taken in favour of Respondent No. 1 alone, and shall encompass all other similarly placed lease-holders, with no discretion to the State Government to blow hot and cold and/or to take ad hoc decisions B on a pick and choose basis. The only exception can be in a case where land has been expressly leased out to RIICO under Rule 11A of 1959 Rules and RIICO has further sub-leased the same land as per the scheme envisaged under clause (viii) of the said Rule. 76. We may at this stage refer to the observations made by this C Court in S.L. Kapoor v. Jagmohan & Ors.22 where the non-observance of Principles of Natural Justice was not condoned, but nonetheless forgone, on the following basis: “17. Linked with this question is the question whether the failure to observe natural justice does at all matter if the D observance of natural justice would have made no difference, the admitted or indisputable facts speaking for themselves. Where on the admitted or indisputable facts only one conclusion is possible and under the law only one penalty is permissible, the Court may not issue its writ to compel the E observance of natural justice, not because it approves the non- observance of natural justice but because Courts do not issue futile writs. But it will be a pernicious principle to apply in other situations where conclusions are controversial, however, slightly, and penalties are discretionary.” F 77. Further affirmation on this point is found in K. Balasubramanian (Ex. Capt.) v. State of Tamil Nadu23: “9…This High Court, has in our opinion rightly held that the directions contained in s dated November 16, 1976, and June 15, 1977, were invalid being contrary to the provisions G contained in Rule 35 of the General Rules. Since the said s were invalid, the petitioners would not claim any right on the basis of the said s and, there was, therefore, no 22 (1980) 4 SCC 379. 23 (1991) 2 SCC 708. H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 297 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] question of affording them an opportunity of a hearing before A passing the dated March 3, 1980…” 78. These decisions fortify our conclusion that steps taken which are themselves vitiated, cannot form the basis for principles of natural justice to be applied. The supplementary lease deeds were signed by RIICO without any authority to do so. It similarly lacked the capacity to B grant the permission for conversion of use for the land to commercial, and the allowance to sub-divide the plot. Thus, no legally vested right of Respondent No. 1 has been infringed and it has no legitimate ground to seek an opportunity to be heard in a matter strictly between RIICO and State Government.