In her statement under Section 164 of the Cr.PC, the victim M had deposed that she was in love with the appellant, had consumed poison, and had even been hospitalized because she was adamant to live with the appellant. No doubt, she resiled from her statement. Yet, the B medical evidence (deposition of PW-11, Dr. Kavitha) indicated that the victim had a ruptured hymen; there was no external injury at her private parts, and that according to her “48 hours before medical examination there was no evidence to show that she had sexual assault is the opinion given by me.” This witness also produced her Notes of C examination (Ex. P-11). In view of these facts, this court is of the opinion that the prosecution was not able to establish that there was any penetrative sexual assault as a result of coercion or compulsion on the part of the appellant. Even the High Court recognized this, albeit while reducing the sentence (since, in its opinion, M was a minor at the time), observing that “P.W.3 had gone to the extent of taking poison to D commit suicide out of love failure, under enormous pressure, he had accompanied P.W.3, married her and had sexual intercourse with her, both before the marriage as well was after the marriage.”From these facts, and the definitions under POCSO Act, especially the definitions of “sexual assault”, Sections 5 and 6, read with E Sections 350 and 351 IPC, it can be seen that it is only when there is penetrative sexual assault, which implies sexual contact with or without consent of the minor victim, that the offences under the POCSO Act are committed. 22. All the facts proved in this case clearly indicate M’s willingness F to accompany the appellant and even celebrate their marriage. However, she did not support the statement under Section 164 Cr.PC. To entirely discard that statement, the trial court observed that: “In this case, on the s of the Inspector of P.W.-16 had produced the girl M6before the Judicial Magistrate Court, G Erode and she has given a statement voluntarily u/s.164 Cr.PC. To prove that the aforesaid statement was not given on any compulsion, no evidences have been put forth before this court.” 6 name redacted. H 492 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A The above surmise by the trial court is untenable. The prosecution did not concededly produce the Judicial Magistrate who recorded the statement; however, that officer was available and was stationed at Erode. She deposed during the trial, as DW-1, and importantly affirmed the veracity of the victim’s statement (Ex. P-4) by stating as follows: B “It is a true statement given by the said girl wilfully. The said statement was not given on compulsion. It is correct if it is stated that, (M), in her statement, had told me that, I and my neighbour who was in the nearby house, by nameYuvaprakash are in love for the past 1 1/2 years, we used to talk to each other frequently over phone, my grand-mother on seeing me C speaking over the phone had told my father about it, I took pesticide for ants and attempted to commit suicide….” The prosecution did not even cross examine this witness.