Respondent No. 1 has consistently acted in consonance with the approach that RIICO has control over the land and the corresponding power to take further measures in respect of it, such as for conversion of use and sub-division of plots; C xxi) The letter dated 12.01.1995 relied upon by Appellants as a proof that the title over the land was retained by the State Government was later overridden by a letter dated 31.03.1995. By virtue of this letter, the files of transferred lands were directed to remain with RIICO; D xxii) The Jan Aavas Yojana scheme under which Respondent No. 1 had applied to the Collector, was purely because it was mandatory to do so under the Scheme itself. In no way does this act as an acceptance that the Collector and the State Government were in charge of the land in LIA, E Kota. In fact, the Collector had sought the opinion of RIICO in the matter, clearly showing the Collector’s own conviction that consent needed to be sought from the Corporation; xxiii) The lack of a show cause notice or an opportunity to Respondent No. 1 to defend itself is fatal to the Appellants’ case. Swadeshi Cotton Mills v. Union of India13 had made F clear the need for principles of natural justice to be followed even for administrative decisions. A process for cancellation was provided already under Rule 24(1) of the 1979 Rules, which had to be adhered to.14 G 13 (1981) 1 SCC 664. 14 24. CANCELLATION The Corporation shall have the right to cancel the plot allotment after issuing a 45 days registered AD show cause notice to the allottee by the concerned Sr. DGM / Senior Regional Manager / Regional Manager for breach of any of these rules, condition of allotment letter or terms of lease agreement. The powers of plot cancellation shall vest with the Unit Head for all categories of the land/plot allotments except for the land/ H plots allotted under Rule 3(W). BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 279 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] xxiv) The Appellants are making unfounded allegations regarding A placement of the Writ Petition filed by respondent No.1 before Division Bench of the High Court. The Chief Justice being Master being Master of the Roster, was competent to enlist any matter before a Single or Division Bench. Challenge to Article 138 of AoA was an issue of paramount B public importance, hence the case was rightly placed before a Division Bench. xxv) The arguments regarding the failure of the AAIFR scheme were irrelevant and beside the point. This Court in its earlier in the context of the petitions filed by the workers C unions had already affirmed that SICA would not apply to Respondent No. 1, given it was not a “sick company”. The land in question had been obtained as part of the AAIFR scheme by way of auction, but that did not mean that the BIFR or AAIFR itself would have jurisdiction over Respondent No.