Photocopies of the aforesaid letters are enclosed for your kind perusal. Thus more than 60% of the total due amount has been paid by my clientess. Since there was H 1106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A no progress in the construction of the above said flats on part of your client, my clientess had no option but to stop the further payment. The cancellation of allotment without show cause notice to my clientess and even non intimation of cancellation is illegal and thus amounts to illegal malafide intention on part of your client. However, my clientess is still ready to make balance B amount if the possession of the above said three flats are handed over to my clientess. It is wrong and denied that your client ever intimated the stage of construction of the flats. My client had applied in the year 1989 and after 16 years she is being told that her allotment C has been cancelled. My client has been cheated by your client with dishonest intention and has misappropriated her hard money whereby causing huge loss, mental agony to my clientess. The above said cheque is enclosed herewith and you are D requested to acknowledge its receipt. I, therefore, through this rejoinder call upon you to advise your client to immediately hand over the physical possession of the above said flats failing which my clientess shall be constrained to initiate legal proceedings both civil and criminal before competent E court of law/forum and in that event your client shall be liable for its cost, risk and consequences.” 5.5. After such exchange of communications, the respondent appears to have filed a civil suit, which was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Thereafter, she preferred the said complaints in the District F Forum. A copy of one such complaint has been placed on record and the relief claimed therein could be usefully reproduced as under: - “Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case the Complainant most respectfully prays that this Hon’ble state Forum may kindly be pleased. G (1) To direct the respondent to give possession of the flat C- 601 to the complainant within one month; (2) To direct the opposite Parties to pay a sum of Rs. 14,00,000/ - (Fourteen lakh rupees only) as damages for the loss of H rent and mental agony and also direct the respondent to M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1107 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] pay interest on 4,43,500/- @ of 18% per annum for 16 years A i.e. Rs. 10,758,00/- i.e. total sum of Rs. 24,758,00/- (3) To grant any other and further reliefs as may be deemed fit and proper in the interest of justice. (4) To award exemplary costs in favour of the Complainant B and against the respondent.” 5.6. The District Forum, while taking the three complaint cases together, proceeded to reject the same while observing, inter alia, as under:- “7. Apart from it, the Complainant is also guilty of concealment of C the material fact from this Forum.