The fi rst reason was that since it had determined a fi nding of illegality in the appointment, it saw no reason to continue with these appointments on grounds of hardship and equity, as that could only be done only under Article 142 of the Constitution of India and these powers the High Court did not have. The second reason given was that in any case the balance of equity would lie in favour of the petitioner (i.e. respondent No. 4 before High Court), and not the present appellants. The reasons given were as follows : “Having carefully perused aforesaid s rendered by Hon’ble Apex Court, which have been otherwise taken note above this Court fi nds that though in the aforesaid cases, selection of the petitioners therein was held to be not in accordance with law but their selection was protected by Hon’ble Apex Court, while exercising power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, which power is fi rstly not available with this Court, and secondly, in the case at hand, there is active challenge to the selection of the respondents Nos. 4 and 6 by the petitioners herein, whose rights are equally important as that of the aforesaid respondents and, in case respondents Nos. 4 and 6 are allowed to continue on their posts, same would result in infringement of 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. right of the petitioners to participate/being considered in the selection process for the posts in question, and while balancing equalities, the party which is fi ghting for a just cause, its right (Sic rights) are to be protected and not of the party, which is benefi ciary of an illegality committed by the selecting /appointing authorities.” 34. The appellants were not entitled for any equitable relief in view of the High Court as they were the benefi ciaries of an illegality committed by the Selection/appointing authority. But then it failed to take this question further, which in our opinion, it ought to have done. What the High Court never answered was as to how much of this blame of “illegal” selection and appointment would rest on the High Court (on its administrative side). Undoubtedly, with all intentions of timely fi lling of the vacancies, the High Court still cannot escape the blame. From the very initiation of adding future vacancies after the select list was published, the High Court has been privy to the selection/appointment process. The decision of the three- member committee which included representatives of the High Court (dated 21.10.2013) to initially add four more posts to the vacancies, and the fact that the High Court never had any objection to the additional appointments, although these appointments were made under its watch, are signifi cant facts. After these appointments were made, it was the High Court which posted these offi cers in diff erent districts in the State under Article 235 of the Constitution of India. It then trained them as Judicial Offi cers. Not one note, letter, or an objection of any kind has been placed before us which can give even the slightest hint that the High Court, at any point of time, had objected to these appointments!