The nondisclosure of a summary of the reasons for the denial of security F clearance to MBL, which constitutes the core irreducible minimum of procedural guarantees, does not satisfy the suitability prong; (g) The courts assess the validity of public interest immunity claims, which address the same harms as the sealed cover procedure, based on the structured proportionality standard. The power of courts to secure material in a sealed cover G when contradistinguished with the scope of assessment of public interest immunity claims is rather unguided and ad-hoc. The standard of review that is used by the courts in public interest immunity claims and the lack of such a standard in sealed cover proceedings to protect procedural safeguards indicates that public H 602 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A interest immunity claims constitute less restrictive means. Additionally, while public interest immunity claims conceivably impact the principles of natural justice, sealed cover proceedings infringe the principles natural justice and open justice; (h) The courts could take the course of redacting confidential portions of the document and providing a summary of the contents of the B document to fairly exclude materials after a successful public interest immunity claim; and (iii) The challenge to the of MIB is allowed on substantive grounds. The non-renewal of permission to operate a media channel is a restriction on the freedom of the press which can only be reasonably restricted on C the grounds stipulated in Article 19(2) of the Constitution. The reasons for denying a security clearance to MBL, that is, its alleged antiestablishment stance and the alleged link of the shareholders to JEI-H, are not legitimate purposes for the restriction of the right of freedom of speech protected under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution. In any event, there was no D material to demonstrate any link of the shareholders, as was alleged. MIB shall now proceed to issue renewal permissions in terms of this within four weeks and all other authorities shall co-operate in issuing necessary approvals. The interim of this Court shall continue to operate until the renewal E permissions are granted. [Paras 170 and 174][708-E-H; 709-A- H; 710-A-F; 711-H; 712-A] 2. An administrative action can be challenged on the ground of a violation of fundamental rights. Following the expansion of the content of the right to equality under Article 14 to include F the guarantee against arbitrariness, the grounds for judicial review of administrative action have expanded. Administrative action is judicially reviewable on the grounds of (i) unreasonableness or irrationality; (ii) illegality; and (iii) procedural impropriety. In addition to the above grounds, administrative action can be reviewed on the ground of proportionality if it affects freedoms G that are guaranteed under Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. The principle of natural justice that is derived from common law has two primary facets- Audi Alterum Partem and Nemo Judex In Causa Sua. Audi Alterum Partem encapsulates the rule of fair hearing. Nemo Judex In Causa Sua encapsulates the rule against H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 603 INDIA & ORS.