The parameters are:- “(1) Where the allegations made in the fi rst information report or the complaint, even if they are taken at their face value and accepted in their entirety do not prima facie constitute any off ence or make out a case against the accused. (2) Where the allegations in the fi rst information report and other materials, if any, accompanying the FIR do not disclose a cognizable 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. off ence, justifying an investigation by police offi cers under Section 156(1) of the Code except under an of a Magistrate within the purview of Section 155(2) of the Code. (3) Where the uncontroverted allegations made in the FIR or complaint and the evidence collected in support of the same do not disclose the commission of any off ence and make out a case against the accused. (4) Where, the allegations in the FIR do not constitute a cognizable off ence but constitute only a non-cognizable off ence, no investigation is permitted by a police offi cer without an of a Magistrate as contemplated under Section 155(2) of the Code. (5) Where the allegations made in the FIR or complaint are so absurd and inherently improbable on the basis of which no prudent person can ever reach a just conclusion that there is suffi cient ground for proceeding against the accused. (6) Where there is an express legal bar engrafted in any of the provisions of the Code or the concerned Act (under which a criminal proceeding is instituted) to the institution and continuance of the proceedings and/or where there is a specifi c provision in the Code or the concerned Act, providing effi cacious redress for the grievance of the aggrieved party. (7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fi de and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.” In our opinion, the present case falls within the parameters Nos. 1, 5 and 7 resply referred to above. 30. At this stage, we would like to observe something important. Whenever an accused comes before the Court invoking either the inherent powers under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) or extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution to get the FIR or the criminal proceedings quashed essentially on the ground that such proceedings are manifestly frivolous or vexatious or instituted with the ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance, then in such circumstances the MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 343 AND ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Court owes a duty to look into the FIR with care and a little more closely. We say so because once the complainant decides to proceed against the accused with an ulterior motive for wreaking personal vengeance, etc., then he would ensure that the FIR/complaint is very well drafted with all the necessary pleadings. The complainant would ensure that the averments made in the FIR/complaint are such that they disclose the necessary ingredients to constitute the alleged off ence.