5.1 It is submitted that thereafter respondent no.1 himself made an application for substitution of the solvency certificate. That thereafter respondent no.1 obtained the fresh solvency certificate in his favour F which came to be permitted to be substituted/filed. Therefore, it cannot be said that the initial solvency certificate produced by respondent no.1 along with the bid was non-est and void ab initio as sought to be contended on behalf of the appellant. 5.2 It is further submitted that even otherwise the power to cancel G the lease deed would vest with the Tehsildar who is the competent authority under Rule 51(7) of the OMMC Rules, 2016. That in the present case the lease deed was cancelled by the Collector and therefore, the High Court has rightly observed and held that the passed by the Collector, Cuttack cancelling the lease was without authority under the H Law. 80 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 5.3 It is further submitted that even during the pendency of the present proceedings not only the lease period has expired but even subsequently the fresh lease deed has been executed pursuant to the impugned passed by the High Court. 6. We have heard learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of B the respective parties at length. 7. By the impugned and the High Court has set aside the passed by the Collector, Cuttack dated 24.03.2021 cancelling the lease which was in favour of respondent no.1 herein inter alia on the grounds that: C (i) the passed by the Collector cancelling the lease deed was without authority under the law as under Rule 51(7) of the Rules, 2016 the Tehsildar is the competent authority to cancel the lease deed; (ii) That the original solvency certificate dated 07.12.2017 D produced by respondent no.1, produced along with the bid was issued in his favour by mistake. 7.1 Now so far as the finding recorded by the High Court that the passed by the Collector dated 24.03.2021 cancelling the lease deed was without authority under the law inasmuch as the competent authority E to cancel the lease deed under Rule 51(7) of the Rules, 2016 would be Tehsildar is concerned, it is required to be noted that the Rule 51(7) shall be applicable in case of breach of any condition of the lease deed. The present case is not a case of breach of any condition of the lease deed, but a case of producing invalid solvency certificate at the time of submission of the bid. Therefore, Rule 51(7) shall not be applicable at all F to the facts of the case at hand. 7.2 It is also required to be noted that in fact Collector passed the dated 24.03.2021 pursuant to the directions issued by the High Court directing the Collector to take an appropriate decision on the representation/(s) made by the appellant. Under the circumstances the G High Court has materially erred in holding that the dated 24.03.2021 passed by the Collector cancelling the lease deed was without authority under the law.