xxx xxx xxx 44. We would only reiterate the aforesaid principle qua a fair investigation through the following of Kumar v. State, (2018) 7 SCC 536: F “27. The action of investigating authority in pursuing the case in the manner in which they have done must be rebuked. The High Court on this aspect, correctly notices that the police authorities have botched up the arrest for reasons best known to them. Although we are aware of the G ratio laid down in Parbhu v. King Emperor [Parbhu v. King Emperor, AIR 1944 PC 73], wherein the Court had ruled that irregularity and illegality of arrest would not affect the culpability of the offence if the same is proved by cogent evidence, yet in this case at hand, such irregularity should H RANVIR SINGH ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 855 PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] be shown deference as the investigating authorities are A responsible for suppression of facts. 28. The criminal justice must be above reproach. It is irrelevant whether the falsity lie in the statement of witnesses or the guilt of the accused. The investigative authority has a responsibility to investigate in a fair manner B and elicit truth. At the cost of repetition, I must remind the authorities concerned to take up the investigation in a neutral manner, without having regard to the ultimate result. In this case at hand, we cannot close our eyes to what has happened; regardless of guilt or the asserted persuasiveness C of the evidence, the aspect wherein the police has actively connived to suppress the facts, cannot be ignored or overlooked.” 45. A fair investigation would become a colourable one when there involves a suppression. Suppressing the motive, injuries and other D existing factors which will have the effect of modifying or altering the charge would amount to a perfunctory investigation and, therefore, become a false narrative. If the courts find that the foundation of the prosecution case is false and would not conform to the doctrine of fairness as against a conscious suppression, then the very case of the prosecution falls to the ground unless E there are unimpeachable evidence to come to a conclusion for awarding a punishment on a different charge.” xxx xxx xxx Falsus In Uno-Falsus in Omnibus F 48. The principle that when a witness deposes falsehood, the evidence in its entirety has to be eschewed may not have strict application to the criminal jurisprudence in our country. The principle governing sifting the chaff from the grain has to be applied. However, when the evidence is inseparable and such an attempt would either be impossible or would make the evidence G unacceptable, the natural consequence would be one of avoidance. The said principle has not assumed the status of law but continues only as a rule of caution. One has to see the nature of discrepancy in a given case. When the discrepancies are very material shaking the very credibility of the witness leading to a conclusion in the H 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.