The State Government being the original owner can be said to be deemed lessor and ‘person interested.’ As per Sub-section (2) of Section 11 of the Act, the Government company in whose favour the E is issued under Section 11 can be said to be the deemed lessee of the State Government. Therefore, the State Government can be said to be the ‘person interested’ in getting the compensation. Therefore, the High Court is absolutely right in observing and taking the view that being ‘person interested’ the State Government is entitled to the compensation/ rental, etc. F 5.1 Now so far as the submission made on behalf of the appellant that the Government company in whose favour the is passed under Section 11 after which the land is vested absolutely with the Central Government except the amount of royalty as per Section 18(a) of the Act, the Government company is not liable to pay any amount is concerned, the aforesaid has no substance. The compensation/rental G payable with respect to the lands by the lessee/deemed lessee is altogether different than the royalty. Royalty is for extraction of minerals in the lands in question. The aforesaid would be clear from the Statements of Objects and Reasons of the Act 54 of 1971 by which Section 18(a) of the Act was introduced. The same reads as under: - H 1060 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A “Act 54 of 1971- The Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (20 of 1957) hereinafter referred to as the Coal Bearing Areas Act) provides inter alia for the acquisition by the Central Government of virgin lands, including underground minerals, or rights in or over such lands. Under the Explanation to clause (a) of sub-section (5) of section 13, B which provides that the value of any minerals lying in the land will not be taken into consideration in determining the market value of any land no compensation is payable to the State Governments in respect of the underground minerals which also vest in the Central Government when the land is acquired by the Central Government. The State Government have been C representing from time to time that this results in their being deprived of large sums by way of revenue. The Central Government has considered the representations of the State Government and has decided that the State Governments should be paid purely on an ex gratia basis such sums as they would have been entitled to receive by way of royalty, had mining D leases been granted in respect of the areas acquired. It is now proposed to amend the Coal Bearing Areas Act to make such payments obligatory. 6. In that view of the matter over and above the amount of royalty the coal company/Government company shall be liable to pay the compensation and surface land rent, etc., Therefore, the High Court is E absolutely justified in confirming the respective demand(s). The amount of royalty cannot be mixed with the compensation/loss caused to the State Government due to loss of land and surface land rent as the State Government is entitled for the adequate compensation.