Entry 56 List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India reads thus: “56. Taxes on goods and passengers carried by road or on inland waterways.” 7.1. The preamble of the Act of 1955 indicates that it is an Act to provide for levying a tax on passengers and goods carried by road in ‘certain’ motor vehicles. Section 2(e) defi ned ‘motor vehicle’ as any transport vehicle, including a motor vehicle used for carrying passengers or goods, for hire or reward even in contravention of the provisions of the MV Act. Section 2 (aa) of the Act of 1955 defi ned ‘business’ to mean the business of carrying passengers and goods by motor vehicles. Section 2 (g) defi ned ‘passenger’ to mean any person travelling in a motor vehicle, but did not include the driver or conductor or any employee of the owner of the vehicle travelling in bona fi de discharge of his duties in connection with the vehicle. The term ‘owner’ was defi ned under Section 2 (f) to mean the owner of the motor vehicle in respect of which a permit had been granted or countersigned under the provisions of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939. 7.2. Section 3 (1) which was and still is the charging provision provided that a tax shall be levied and charged by the State Government on all fares and freights in respect of all passengers carried and goods transported by motor vehicles, at such rates not exceeding one-sixth of the value of the fare or freight, as the Government may, by notifi cation, direct. The charging provision contained an Explanation which read as under: “When passengers are carried and goods are transported by a motor vehicle, and no fare or freight, whether chargeable or not, has been charged the tax shall be leviable and paid as if such passengers were carried or goods were transported at the normal rate prevalent on the route.” NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 23 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 7.3. Section 2(c) provided an inclusive defi nition of the term ‘fare’ which would include sums payable for a season ticket or in respect of a contract carriage. 7.4. It was primarily the aforesaid provisions of the Act of 1955 that formed the subject of interpretation by the Division Bench of the High Court in Writ Petition No.1733 of 1995, which was allowed by the dated 27 March, 1997 as per the reasons indicated above. 8. With a view to bring the employees of the appellants and their children, travelling in the buses of the appellants without payment of fare within the tax net under the Act of 1955 and also to validate the collection of tax already made thereunder, the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 was enacted by the Himachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly. By way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, amendments were brought about to the Preamble and various provisions of the Act of 1955 with retrospective eff ect, viz.