However, the Gauhati High Court has struck down the Assam Act on the ground of repugnancy as per Article 254 of the C Constitution. Submissions: 5. We have heard learned Senior Counsel Mr. Harin P. Raval and learned senior counsel Mr. Sanjay Hegde for the appellants-diploma holders in medicine and learned counsel Sri Shivam Singh, appearing for D the writ petitioner/Respondent No.1 herein namely, Indian Medical Association instructed by Sri Abhinav Singh and learned Additional Solicitor General Sri K.M. Natraj, for the Union of India and learned Senior Counsel Sri Vikas Singh, appearing on behalf of Respondent No. 7, Medical Council of India. We have heard Sri Rana Mukherjee learned E Senior Counsel instructed by Ms. Oindrila Sen appearing on behalf of the petitioners in Transferred Case (C) Nos. 24 and 25 of 2018 and Mr. Ananga Bhattacharyya learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Assam. We have perused the material on record. 5.1. Learned Senior Counsel Sri. Harin P. Raval, appearing for F the appellants submitted as under: i. That the impugned proceeds on a misplaced interpretation of the Indian Medical Council Act, particularly Section 10 thereof and is in the teeth of a three-judge bench of this Court in Dr. Mukhtiar Chand vs. State of G Punjab, (1998) 7 SCC 579, (“Dr. Mukhtiar Chand”). That the High Court erred in holding that as per Section 10A of the Central Act, any new course including the relevant diploma course can only be opened after prior permission of the Central Government. The appellants submitted that Section 10A of the Central Act only prescribes that a new H 932 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A course which would qualify a person for the award of a recognised medical qualification requires the permission of the Central Government. That Diploma in Medicine and Rural Healthcare is not a medical qualification as defined in Section 2(h) of the Central Act. Therefore, no permission of the Central Government was required to start such a B diploma course. ii. That the award of a recognised medical qualification gives a person the right to be included in the Indian Medical Register under Section 21(1) of the IMC Act. However, as per Section 15 of the said Act for practicing medicine in C any State, all that is required is that a person has to be enrolled in a State Medical Register as defined in Section 2(k) thereof as a Register maintained under law enforced in any State regulating the registration of practitioners of medicine. That the impugned Assam Act, is such a law and D the State Register of Rural Health Practitioners created by virtue of Section 17 of the Act is such a State Medical Register in terms of even Section 2(k) of the IMC Act, 1956. iii. That the view taken by the High Court that medical E practitioners cannot practice allopathic medicine unless they have completed any of the recognised courses under the IMC Act, was a view which was taken by this court in Dr. A. K. Sabhapathy vs. State of Kerala, 1992 Supp.