By money is meant legal tender; it does not mean money’s worth. Payment need not, however, be made E in cash: a method of payment that enables the seller to obtain money such as the use by the buyer of a credit card or a debit card or digital cash or cheque or banker’s draft or trading cheque also comes within the expression “payment of price”. It is only a method of payment or a form of payment. It is also irrelevant that the money payment comes, not from the buyer of the goods or to whom the property in the goods F are transferred, but from the card issuer. Thus, there can be various methods of payment i.e., by cash, by negotiable instrument, by credit or charge card or by stored value card or sometimes referred to as digital cash card or electronic purses, internet payments on which that “value” is stored electronically. There can also be payment by direct debits to G effect payment of goods supplied particularly when there are recurring payments of variable amounts. The seller can obtain through the banking system in direct debit forms to the buyer’s bank. A converse to the system of direct debit is the credit note issued by a buyer in favour of a seller which is a recompense or monetary benefit showed in the buyer’s accounts. Thus, the use of the banking system by instructing the bank to H 1336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A transfer of balance from the buyer’s account to the credit of a seller is a form of transmission of a valuable consideration. 48. A credit note is a valuable consideration which is essentially a document to inform a buyer that the buyer’s account is being credited because of errors, returns or allowances. On discharging his obligation B under the warranty appended to a sale of an automobile, a dealer receives a credit note. This would be a receipt in the account of the dealer and a liability in the returns of the manufacturer which may ultimately enable the manufacturer to decrease his tax liability. Consequently, the dealer of the automobile in whose account a credit is shown would be ultimately a recipient of a valuable consideration on account of a transfer of goods, C namely, spare part by a dealer to a customer while discharging his obligation under a warranty and thereby receiving a valuable consideration for the spare part used by the dealer from his stock from the manufacturer in the form of a credit note. When the entire transaction is viewed in the aforesaid perspective and in juxtaposition with the expression “sale” D under the Central Sales Tax Act as well as the respective State enactments under consideration which is of a wider connotation than the definition of sale under the Sale of Goods Act, we hold that the amount shown in the account of the dealer in the form of a credit note is nothing but a price received for a sale of a spare part by the dealer which is from his stock and which belongs to him.