According to the learned counsel, contrary to the suggestions of the writ petitioners, there are many other State Boards in the country who have not granted pensionary benefits to their employees. C 10.5. It is also submitted that the writ petition by the retired employees of the Board seeking pension after having withdrawn the amount from their CPF/EPF account was liable to be dismissed and hence, the impugned s deserve to be set aside. 11. Per contra, learned senior counsel for respondent No. 1 has duly supported the s impugned and has made a variety of D submissions which could be summarised as follows: 11.1. Learned senior counsel has referred to the provisions contained in the Act of 1955 and has submitted that respondent No. 2 is a statutory Board with the State Government exercising absolute control over its affairs including budgetary control; and by virtue of powers E under Section 36, the Regulations of 1960 were framed. In terms of Regulation 40, the rules in the Orissa Service Code, Volume I apply mutatis mutandis to the employees of the Board, meaning thereby that the employees of the Board were and are treated at par with State Government employees but, Regulation 52, which provides for gratuity F and contributory provident fund benefits, unjustifiably denies pensionary benefits to the employees of the Board. 11.2. Learned senior counsel for respondent No. 1 has referred to the aforementioned exchange of communications and has submitted that in the given set of circumstances and in the wake of repeated G representations, the Board, in all earnestness, took up the cause for grant of pension to its employees and also requested the Government to bring about appropriate amendments in view of the powers under Section 36 so that Regulation 52 could be amended to include pension, particularly when Regulation 40 did equate the employees of the Board at par with the State Government employees. Learned senior counsel has strenuously H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1067 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] argued that the State Government, while in principle agreeing to grant of A pensionary benefits by the letter dated 26.10.1994, cited only a specious plea of financial stringency for denying such pensionary benefits to the employees of the Board which could not have been countenanced. According to the learned counsel, the writ petition filed by the employees on the grounds of hostile discrimination and non-consideration of B representation was rightly decided by the learned Single Judge with directions to the State Government to amend the Regulations so as to extend the pensionary benefits to the employees of the Board at par with the employees of the State Government. Further, the Division Bench of the High Court, while affirming the ultimate conclusion of the learned Single Judge, rightly observed that the State Government, while following C Article 41 of the Directive Principles of State Policy, should honour the advice given by the Single Judge, by incorporating the pension scheme for the employees of the Board.