This Court finds it inexplicable as to why police F would go to PW-5’s residence to record his statement when the FIR makes no disclosure about PW-5’s presence at the scene of crime or with regard to his knowledge about the incident. All these circumstances give rise to a lingering doubt as to whether, on discovery of the dead body in the forest, the accused were G implicated at the instance of the police on suspicion rather than on information received from persons conversant with the facts. [Para 29][23-D-F] 7. Upon evaluation of the testimony of PW-2 and PW-5 carefully and with due caution, as is required in the facts of the case, their testimony does not inspire our confidence as to sustain H RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 5 the conviction. Unfortunately, the courts below accepted the same A as gospel truth, without testing it on the anvil of settled legal principles, thereby resulting in grave miscarriage of justice. This Court, therefore, conclude that the prosecution has failed to prove beyond reasonable doubt that the deceased was last seen alive in the company of the accused near the spot at the relevant time. B [Para 30][23-G-H; 24-A] 8. In so far as recovery of the country made pistol and knife from the person of the accused at the time of their arrest is concerned, the same does not inspire our confidence for the following reasons – According to PW-10, while he was looking C out for the suspects/accused, received an information from an informer that the accused were to come to a specified place at 1600 Hours. But, there is no record of receipt of the said information even though it is stated to have been received few hours before the action. Assuming that such information was received, there appears no effort to rope in a public witness even D though a locality, as per statement of PW-10, was just 200 meters away from that spot. Lastly, what is most interesting is that the investigating officer, who investigated the case relating to the offence punishable under the Arms Act, prepared the site plan of the place of arrest/recovery on 06.12.2001 even though arrest E was allegedly affected on 24.11.2001, which, in the facts of the case, would suggest that it was an exercise to complete the formality. Moreover, the site plan does not disclose the place where the Jeep was hidden in the forest to ambush the accused. Having regard to the circumstances noted above, including the fact that ‘S’ was not named as a suspect in the FIR and his name F cropped up later in the statement of PW-5, whose statement was recorded on the same day at his residence, even though, he was not cited as a witness in the FIR, bearing in mind the statement of PW-1 that the police made him to submit the second report indicting ‘S’, this Court is of the view that the police had shown G extraordinary interest in implicating ‘S’ and therefore, for all the reasons above, the alleged recovery of gun and knife shown from the appellants does not inspire our confidence.