In contrast, the Magistrate of the first class can grant pardon only in two stages, namely the stage of inquiring into or the stage of trying B the offence. (iii) Sub-section (2) of Section 306 makes the provisions of Section 306 applicable to any offence triable exclusively by a Court of Session or a Court of Special Judge appointed under the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1952 and to any C offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to seven years or more. (iv) Sub-section (3) of Section 306 obliges the Magistrate tendering pardon, not only to record reasons for doing so but also to state whether the tender was accepted by the D person to whom it was made; (v) Sub-section (4) of Section 306 makes it mandatory that every person accepting a tender of pardon made under sub-section (1) shall be examined as a witness both in the Court of the Magistrate taking cognizance and in the subsequent trial. E Sub-section (4) also imposes an additional condition that the person accepting a tender of pardon shall be detained in custody till the termination of the trial, except when he is already on bail. (vi) A careful look at clauses (a) and (b) of sub-section (4) shows that the procedure prescribed therein is applicable F only to cases covered by sub-section (1). (vii) Sub-section (5) prescribes that once a person has accepted a tender of pardon under sub-section (1) and has been examined under sub-section (4) then the Magistrate taking cognizance should commit the case for trial either to the G Court of Session or to the Court of Special Judge. In cases not covered by clause (a) of sub-section (5), the Magistrate taking cognizance should make over the case to the Chief Judicial Magistrate in terms of clause (b). H 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 62. Section 307 of the Code empowers the Court to which the commitment is made, to tender pardon. The power can be exercised at any time after the commitment of the case but before is passed. 63. Coming to Section 5 of the PC Act, it is seen that sub-section (1) empowers the Special Judge to take cognizance of offences without B the accused being committed to him for trial. It also says that while trying the accused persons, the Special Judge is obliged to follow the procedure prescribed by the Code for the trial of warrant cases by the Magistrates. This is why this court held in Bangaru Laxman (in para 40 of the report) that the Special Judge under the PC Act, while trying offences, has a dual power of the Sessions Judge as well as C that of the Magistrate and that such a Special Judge conducts the proceedings both prior to the filing of the charge sheet and for holding trial. In fact what was in question in Bangaru Laxman was whether the pardon tendered by the Special Judge, one day before the filing of the charge sheet, was correct or not.