registered with ulterior motive deserves to be quashed. f. Hitesh Verma vs. The State of Uttarakhand & Anr.6 G was also placed to support the contention that the High Court ignored the misuse and abuse of the provisions of the SC/ST Act by the complainant; neither the contents of the 5 1992 Supp (1) SCC 335 6 (2020) 10 SCC 710 H 650 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A first F.I.R. nor the charge-sheet discloses the precise content of abusive language employed by the appellant so as to attract the provisions of section 3(1)(x) of the SC/ST Act. 11. It was, accordingly, prayed that relief prayed for by the appellant be granted. B 12. Mr. Prasad, learned Additional Advocate General appearing for the first respondent (State) while seeking dismissal of this appeal contended as follows: a. The appellant had committed a serious crime as a result of which the complainant had sustained multiple injuries in the C resultant altercation. b. The Police, on the basis of the statement given by the complainant and the investigation that followed, filed the charge-sheet dated 21st January, 2016 before the trial court after following due procedure. D c. The High Court, vide the impugned and , has rightly dismissed the application for quashing presented by the appellant. d. It is settled law that the jurisdiction under Section 482, Cr. PC should be sparingly exercised with complete E circumspection and caution and the High Court was not in error in refusing to exercise jurisdiction. 13. Mr. Shukla, learned counsel appearing for the complainant (second respondent) supported the impugned and of the High Court. According to him, completion of investigation within a day F by the I.O. may seem to be unusual but is not an impossibility. He also contended that the charge-sheet having been filed, the law must be allowed to take its own course; and, if at all the appellant is aggrieved by framing of charges, he may seek his remedy in accordance with law. No case for interference having been set up by the appellant, Mr. Shukla G prayed for dismissal of the appeal. 14. We have heard the parties and perused the and of the High Court together with the materials on record. 15. Section 3(1)(x) of the SC/ST Act, prior to its amendment notified vide S.O. 152(E) dated 18th January, 2016, read as follows: H RAMESH CHANDRA VAISHYA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 651 PRADESH & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] “3. Punishments for offences of atrocities. — (1) Whoever, A not being a member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe, — *** (x) intentionally insults or intimidates with intent to humiliate a B member of a Scheduled Caste or a Scheduled Tribe in any place within public view; ***” 16. The first F.I.R., registered at the instance of the complainant, is silent about the place of occurrence and who, being a member of the C public,was present when the appellant is alleged to have hurled caste related abuses at the complainant.