Such agreement contained an arbitration agreement in clause 23. Instead of pursuing its remedy in arbitration, the appellant company unsuccessfully invoked the writ jurisdiction. This Court was approached whereupon it was held that in view of the issues raised, there was no reason why the appellant company F should not pursue its remedy in arbitration, having solemnly accepted clause 23 of the agreement, and instead invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction of the high court under Article 226 of the Constitution to determine questions which really form the subject matter of the arbitration agreement. This decision could not have been of any relevance having G regard to the issue presented for resolution before the High Court by the appellant, particularly when the disputes inter se were not referable to arbitration. 11. We have reasons to believe, considering the nature of objection raised by the respondents as recorded by the High Court in the impugned , that the High Court had mistakenly referred to Titagarh Paper H 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Mills (supra) while intending to rely on a different decision of this Court on an appeal preferred by the same party, reported in (1983) 2 SCC 433 (Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. vs. State of Orissa). While upholding the impugned of dismissal of the writ petition, where an passed by the Sales Tax Officer was under challenge, this Court in Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. (supra) held that the challenge being B confined to the regularity of proceedings before the Sales Tax Officer and there being no suggestion that the concerned officer had no jurisdiction to make an assessment, the decision in Mohd. Nooh (supra) was clearly distinguishable since in that case there was total lack of jurisdiction. This Court also held that under the scheme of the relevant Act, there was a C hierarchy of authorities before which the petitioners can get adequate redress against the wrongful acts complained of and that since the authority of the concerned officer to make an assessment was not in question, recourse ought to be taken by initiating proceedings thereunder. As noted above, the very jurisdiction of the Revisional Authority having been questioned in the writ petition, the impugned of the High D Court dismissing the writ petition without examining the merits of the challenge cannot be sustained even if the High Court were to rely on Titaghur Paper Mills Co. Ltd. (supra) to support such . 12. The High Court by dismissing the writ petition committed a manifest error of law for which the under challenge is unsustainable. E The same is, accordingly, set aside. 13. Moving on to decide the second question, ing a remand is an available option for us. However, having regard to the lapse of time (almost a life term of fourteen years) since the s impugned in the writ petition were made, we feel that it would not be in the best interests F of justice to remit the matter to the High Court. Since prior to reserving on this appeal we had heard the parties on the merits of the jurisdictional issue that the appellant had raised before the High Court, it is time to rule on the jurisdiction of the Revisional Authority.