F Both Parliament and the legislature of NCTD have the power to enact laws with respect to List II (subject to the caveat that entries 1,2,and 18; and entries 64,65, and 66 in as much as they relate to entries 1,2, and 18 are carved out of the domain of the Legislative Assembly of GNCTD) and List III. The executive power of NCTD shall extend to all entries in List II and List III, other than the entries expressly excluded in Article G 239AA(3). Such power shall be subject to the executive power of the Union (through the Lieutenant Governor) only when the Union has been granted such power by the Constitution or a law of Parliament. Therefore, the executive power of NCTD, in the absence of a law by Parliament, shall extend to all subjects on which it has power to legislate. H 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 86. It was held in the 2018 Constitution Bench that the Lieutenant Governor is bound by the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers under Article 239AA(4) while exercising executive powers in relation to matters falling within the legislative domain of the legislative assembly of NCTD except where he exercises the limited route provided under the proviso to Article 239AA(4). This limited discretionary power B under the proviso, as the Constitution Bench held, ought to be exercised in a careful manner in rare circumstances such as on matters of national interest and finance. The Lieutenant Governor could not refer every matter to the President.26 After analysing the provisions of Article 239AA(4), Government of NCTD Act 199127, and the applicable C Transaction of Business Rules 1993, it was held by the majority that: “284.16. As a natural corollary, the Union of India has exclusive executive power with respect to NCT of Delhi relating to the three matters in the State List in respect of which the power of the Delhi Legislative Assembly has been excluded. In respect of D other matters, the executive power is to be exercised by the Government of NCT of Delhi. This, however, is subject to the proviso to Article 239AA(4) of the Constitution… 284.17. The meaning of “aid and advise” employed in Article 239AA(4) has to be construed to mean that the Lieutenant E Governor of NCT of Delhi is bound by the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers and this position holds true so long as the Lieutenant Governor does not exercise his power under the proviso to clause (4) of Article 239-AA. The Lieutenant Governor has not been entrusted with any independent decision-making power. F He has to either act on the “aid and advice” of Council of Ministers or he is bound to implement the decision taken by the President on a reference being made by him. 284.18. The words “any matter” employed in the proviso to clause (4) of Article 239-AA cannot be inferred to mean “every matter”.” G 87. In matters which fall outside the legislative powers of NCTD, the doctrine of “aid and advice” does not apply.