It was submitted that PW-4’s testimony was unreliable, because he recorded his police statement after two months, and as per his admission, though he had seen the deceased in the first two appellants’ company and informed PW-1 about this as early as on 12.10.1999. Likewise, PW-5 deposed having informed PW-1 on 12.10.1999 about witnessing the boy in the D company of the first two appellants on (09.10.1999). No explanation was given by the prosecution why he was examined so late. Furthermore, the deceased’s father, PW-1, did not mention having been told about the involvement of the first two appellants by PW-5 in his written complaint. 9. It is argued that the “last seen” theory is, on the face of it, an E after- thought and concocted in as much as PW7 Mansab stated before the court that PW2 Murad Ali, Sayeed Ahmad PW3, and PW4 Suleman, who all were closely related to the deceased child, were present at the time of inquest proceedings held on 10.10.1999, yet they for the reasons best known to them kept silent for 2 days and for the first time informed F Bisarat PW1, only on 12.10.1999. Yet, that witness PW-1 did not mention these facts in his written version. 10. It was contended that all prosecution witnesses were of the same family, as complainant Bisarat PW1 is the nephew of Murad Ali PW2; Sayeed Ahmad (PW-3) is son of Sharif, PW-1’s cousin, and PW4 Suleman as well as PW5 Munfaid too belonged to PW-1’s family. It was G urged that there was reason for the witnesses to cook up a false story against the appellants because in the year 1996, Munfaid, father of the appellants had lodged an FIR against Murad Ali (PW-2), Phurkan and Shamshad under Section 307, 452, 504, 506 IPC and they were prosecuted. This clearly established their motive to falsely implicate the H appellants. JABIR & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 975 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 11. Counsel highlighted that according to Mansab’s (PW-7) A deposition (who was a witness to establish the Inquest Report) Munfaid, Sayeed, and Murad Ali were also present at the time of inquest. It is unimaginable that had they seen the deceased in the company of accused persons, they would not disclose the same even after seeing the dead body of their kith and kin. This incongruity went to the root of their B credibility, falsifying the prosecution version. 12. Learned counsel relied on Hanumant vs. The State of Madhya Pradesh,2 Sharad Birdhi Chand Sarda vs. State of Maharashtra,3 and Tanviben Pankajkumar Divetia vs. State of Gujarat4 to contend that in circumstantial evidence-based cases, each incriminating circumstance must be clearly established by reliable and clinching C evidence and the circumstances proved must form a chain of events from which the irresistible conclusion of the accused’s guilt can be safely drawn; no other hypothesis is possible. It was submitted that this court has cautioned that in a case depending upon circumstantial evidence, there is a danger that conjecture or suspicion may take the place of legal D proof.