(Clause (f) was inserted w.e.f. 20-08-2010 vide notif. no 1101(2) dt. 20-08-2010, U.P. Act No 19 of 2010) xxx xxx xxx (3) (a)Where purchased goods are to be used or disposed of partially for the purpose specifi ed in clause (a) of sub-section (1) or otherwise, the input tax credit may be claimed and be allowed proportionate to the extent they are used or disposed of for the purposes specifi ed in such clause, (b)Subject to the provisions of this section where during process of manufacture of vat goods, exempt goods and non vat goods except as by product or waste product are produced, the amount of input tax credit may be claimed and be allowed in proportion to the extent they are used or consumed in manufacture of taxable goods other than non vat goods and exempt goods Explanation:- For the purpose of this subsection the “exempt goods” shall include taxable goods other than non vat goods, which are disposed of otherwise than by way of sale within the State or in the course of inter-State trade or commerce or sale in the course of export of goods out of the territory of India or sale out side the State.” xxx xxx xxx Explanation:-For the purposes of this section, – (i) goods for use in manufacture of any goods includes goods required for use, consumption or utilization in manufacture or processing of such goods or goods required for use in packing of such manufactured or processed goods; (ii) manufacture of any goods includes processing of such goods and packing of such manufactured or processed goods; and (iii) where during the process of manufacture of any taxable goods any exempt goods are produced as by-product or waste- product, it shall be deemed that purchased goods have been used M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 759 COMMERCIAL TAX UP [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] in the manufacture of taxable goods. Conversely, where during the process of manufacture of any exempt goods any taxable goods are produced as by-product or waste product; it shall be deemed that purchased goods have been used in the manufacture of exempt goods. (iv) where during the process of manufacture of any vat goods any non-vat goods are produced as by-product or waste-product, it shall be deemed that purchased goods have been used in the manufacture of vat goods. Similarly, where during the process of manufacture of any non-vat goods any vat goods are produced as by-product or waste-product, it shall be deemed that purchased goods have been used in the manufacture of non-vat goods. (w.e.f.01.01.2008).” (Emphasis supplied) 26. As the entire debate revolves around the interpretation of Section 13 of the UP VAT Act, we must look into the Statement of objects and reasons for the enactment of Section 13(1)(f) by way of the 2010 Amendment Act. In the Statement of objects and reasons of the Uttar Pradesh Value Added Tax (Amendment) Bill, 2010 (for short, “the 2010 Amendment”), it has been stated that the amendment was to provide for – “xxx (d) limiting the input tax credit to the extent of tax payable on the sale value of goods or manufactured goods in cases where goods purchased are resold or goods manufactured or processed by using or utilizing such purchased goods are sold at a price lower than purchase price or cost price;” (Emphasis supplied) 27.