Now, we advert to the findings recorded by the Constitution Bench in the case of Sardar Syedna1. The said decision contains G separate opinions of K.C. Das Gupta, J. for himself and J.R. Mudholkar, J.; N. Rajagopala Ayyangar, J. and B. P. Sinha, C.J. We may note here that B.P. Sinha, C.J. has written a dissenting opinion. The other Hon’ble Judges took the view that the Ex- communication Act was void as it infringes the rights guaranteed under Article 26(b) of the Constitution. H CENTRAL BOARD OF DAWOODI BOHRA COMMUNITY 305 v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Das Gupta, J. concluded that: A (a) The exercise of the power of ex-communication on religious grounds forms a part of the management of the community through its religious head; (b) The Ex-communication Act takes away the freedom B conferred by clause (b) of Article 26 on the head of the Dawoodi Bohra community to ex-communicate its members on religious grounds; (c) Though, it is true that the ex-communication of a member of the community will affect many of his civil rights, the C rights conferred by clause (b) of Article 26 have not been made subject to the other fundamental rights. Therefore, the fact that the civil rights of a person are affected by the exercise of the rights under clause (b) of Article 26, is of no consequence; D (d) Prohibiting ex-communication on religious grounds, pure and simple, cannot be considered to promote social welfare and reform. Therefore, the law which invalidates ex-communication on religious grounds, cannot be considered to be a measure of social welfare and reform E as contemplated by clause (2)(b) of Article 25; and (e) Though, in the counter affidavit filed by the State Government, reliance was placed on the fact that Article 26(b) is subject to morality, the said argument was not pressed into service. F 17. Ayyangar, J. in his elaborate opinion concluded that: (a) Though, it was argued that a law preventing ex- communication is a measure of social reform, it was not suggested that the practice of ex-communication offended G public , morality, health or any other part of the Constitution; (b) Though, the right under Article 26(b) is subject to public , morality or health, it was not suggested that the H 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A practice of ex-communication offended public , morality or health; (c) The denomination within the meaning of Article 26 and the members of the denomination are entitled to ensure the continuity of the denomination and such continuity is possible B only by maintaining the bond of religious discipline which would secure the continued adherence of its members to certain essentials like faith, tenets and practices; (d) The right guaranteed under clause (1) of Article 25 is not confined to freedom of conscience as it also includes the C right to practice religion; (e) By the phrase “law providing for social welfare and reforms”, it was not intended to enable the legislature to reform a religion out of existence or identity.