Since the sale exemplars had been placed by the rival parties before the Reference Court, in to take the same into consideration, the Reference Court has in fact taken note of the decision of this Court in State of Gujarat vs. D Kakhot SinghJi VajesinghJi Vaghela (1968) 3 SCR 692. This Court had enunciated the principle that the price agreed between a willing seller and a willing purchaser would be the price which is generally prevailing in the market in respect of the lands having similar advantages which can be the basis to determine the market value of acquired lands E if such sale instances are brought on record. 11. Further, the Reference Court had also kept in view the decision of this Court in Atma Singh (Dead) through Lrs. and Ors. vs. State of Haryana and Anr. (2008) 2 SCC 568 wherein it is held that the sale instances of small pieces of land cannot be ignored while determining F the compensation for a large extent of land acquired. The rule of deduction on development charges would not be uniformly applicable was also taken into consideration. It is in that light, the Reference Court has placed reliance on the document at Ex.PX dated 07.12.2004 relied upon by the land losers. Under the said document, an extent of 5 Marlas was sold in Sultanpur i.e. the area which is the subject matter of these appeals, for G the sale consideration of Rs.1,05,000/- which would amount to Rs.33,60,000/- per acre. On reckoning the said value of land, the Reference Court deducted 35 per cent of the same towards development charges and thereafter added the escalation for 35 days being the difference of the period between the date of the said sale deed and the H 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A date of the preliminary notification. It is on the said basis that the market value of Rs. 22,00,754/- per acre was arrived at by the Reference Court. 12. From the of the Reference Court it is noted that the sale exemplars which were relied upon by the respondent-HSIIDC at Ex.R5/R12, Ex.R6, Ex.R9, Ex.R13 to Ex.R16 were discarded since they B depict the market value of the land which is lower than the amount awarded by the Collector. To that extent, the reason assigned by the Reference Court is not justified. The documents would have to be taken into consideration, to decide as to whether the lands are comparable and, on the determination, if the conclusion is that they are comparable but the market value depicted is lesser than what is awarded by the C SLAO and if there is no other document to indicate a higher market value, it would be open for the Reference Court to confirm the award of the LAO being more beneficial to the land losers. 13. Therefore, since we have already indicated that the High Court was not justified in merely relying on the circular fixing the floor rates D when other evidence was available on the record pursuant to the remand made, it is necessary for us to take note as to whether the Reference Court had committed an error in not relying on the sale exemplars produced by the respondents without analysing the comparability.