3 and 7 herein (defendant Nos. 1 and 6 in the suit), jointly filed a written statement. On the side of the plaintiffs, the first plaintiff got himself examined as PW-1, defendant No.7 was examined as PW-2 and one of the attesting witnesses was examined as PW-3. On the side of the defendants, defendant No.5 was examined as DW-1, one Jathin C. Patna was examined as DW-2 and a finger print and hand writing expert by name C.V. Jayadevi was examined as DW-3. After appreciating the oral and documentary evidence, the trial Court decreed the suit and held that the plaintiffs are entitled to the grant of probate of the last Will and testament dated 10.11.1992 of their deceased mother Cecilia Gertrude Lobo. Further consequential directions were also issued as per the dated 20.02.2001. 3. Aggrieved by the and decree of the trial Court, defendant No.5 preferred appeal viz., M.F.A. No.3077 of 2021, which ultimately culminated in the impugned . None of the other defendants filed any appeal against it. After re-appreciation of the evidence the High Court held that the Will dated 10.11.1992 is shrouded with suspicious circumstances and reversed the and decree of the trial Court. As a necessary sequel the suit was dismissed. 4. As per the dated 09.07.2009, this Court ed the parties to maintain the status quo, as it existed on that date, until further s. 5. Heard Mr. Nikhil Nayyar, the learned senior counsel for the appellants and Mr. Devashish Bharuka, the learned counsel for respondent Nos. 2 and 3 who were defendant Nos. 1 and 6. None of the other respondents including the legal representatives of deceased defendant Nos. 3 and 5 have chosen to contest the matter despite the receipt of notice. 6. A bare perusal of the and decree of the trial Court as well as the impugned would reveal that with respect to the issue of execution of the Will dated 10.11.1992 by deceased Cecelia Gertrude Lobo the courts are ad idem, in the sense that it was she who had signed the same DEREK A C LOBO & ORS. v. 1551 ULRIC M A LOBO (DEAD) BY LRS. & ORS. as testatrix. The trial Court held that the plaintiffs had succeeded in proving the execution of the Will in terms of the provisions under Section 63 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 (for brevity, ‘the Succession Act’) and Section 68 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, ‘the Evidence Act’). However, even after finding that the Will was executed by Mrs. Cecilia Gertrude Lobo the High Court reversed the of the trial Court holding that in view of the suspicious circumstances it could not have been held that the plaintiffs had succeeded in proving due and valid execution of the Will. In troth, High Court did not specifically enter into any specific finding regarding the mental condition of the testatrix for executing the Will in question. The impugned would reveal that after elaborately considering the physical state of the testatrix that she was suffering from arthritis and was in considerable pain the High Court held that there was nothing on record to show that she had executed it after understanding its contents.