Exports (Madras) Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India and others67 and Bajaj Hindustan Limited v. Sir Shadi Lal Enterprises Limited and another (supra). 225. It is not the function of this Court or of any other Court to sit in over such matters of economic policy and they must D necessarily be left to the Government of the day to decide since in such matters with regard to the prediction of ultimate results, even the experts can seriously err and doubtlessly differ. The Courts can certainly not be expected to decide them without even the aid of experts. Application of the aforesaid principles to the present case E 226. Therefore, while exercising the power of judicial review in a matter like the present one, the scope of interference would be still narrower. Applying the principles laid down in the aforesaid s, we will have to examine as to whether the decision-making process in the present case is flawed or not. Our inquiry has to be limited only to find out as to whether there is an illegality in the decision-making process, F i.e. whether the decision makers have understood the law correctly which regulates the decision-making power and as to whether the decision- making process is vitiated by irrationality, i.e. the Wednesbury principles. The test that would have to be applied is that the decision is such that no authority properly conducting itself on the relevant law and acting G reasonably could have reached thereat, and as to whether there has been a procedural impropriety. 227. The learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners vehemently submitted that unless the letter dated 7th November 2016, Minutes of the H 67 (1996) 5 SCC 268 VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 115 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Meeting of the Central Board dated 8th November 2016 and the Note A for the Cabinet Meeting dated 8th November 2016 are perused by this Court, it will not be possible for the Court to satisfy itself as to whether the Central Board while deciding to recommend demonetization and the Central Government while deciding to take the decision in favour of demonetization have taken into consideration the relevant factors and B eschewed the irrelevant factors. While closing the matters for / , we had directed the Union of India and the RBI to produce the relevant records for our perusal. Accordingly, the records were produced by the respondents. 228. We have scrutinized the entire record, i.e., the communication C dated 7th November 2016 addressed by the Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance to the Governor, RBI, the Minutes of the Meeting of the Central Board dated 8th November 2016, the recommendations by the RBI dated 8th November 2016 and the Note for the Cabinet Meeting held on 8th November 2016. D 229. A perusal of the communication dated 7th November 2016 addressed by the Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India to the Governor, RBI would reveal that the Government of India has shared its concern with regard to infusion of Fake Indian Currency Notes (FICN) and generation of black money.