The school documents point to Niranaram’s age to be below 16 years in the year of commission of offence. The case of Abuzar Hossain (supra) was relied upon by the learned counsel for the State to contend that production of documents of the threshold F stage of juvenility-claim is sufficient to call for an inquiry but further inquiry is necessary to examine the authenticity or the genuineness of documents involved. In Parag Bhati (Juvenile) through Legal Guardian-Mother-Rajni Bhati -vs- State of Uttar Pradesh and Another [(2016) 12 SCC 744], in relation to the similar provision under the 2000 Act it has been highlighted that the credibility of documents G should be prima facie to direct inquiry. In the cases of Manoj alias Monu alias Vishal Chaudhary -vs- State of Haryana and Another [(2022) 6 SCC 187], Ravinder Singh Gorkhi (supra) and Birad Mal Singhvi (supra) the necessity of the documents being reliable has been stressed for determining the juvenility claim. H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1105 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 33. As we have already stated, the school in question is a A government school. The “date of birth certificate” of Niranaram has been issued by the office of the headmaster of the said school. This certificate has been issued on the letterhead of the State Government carrying the national emblem. The principal of the school has in writing disclosed that the content of the admission register is maintained in ordinary B course of business. Hence, in normal course the said register would satisfy the test specified in Section 35 of the 1872 Act, of being a relevant fact. The case of Birad Mal Singhvi (supra) dealt with age disclosure in relation to election and not under 2015 Act. The latter gives a guideline under Section 94 thereof about the documents which shall be accepted as evidence. The certificate of date of birth has not been accepted by us C straightway. In the present application, extract from the admission register has been annexed, supported by an affidavit of the applicant himself. Moreover, we had ourselves called for the original school admission record by our passed on 8th September 2022, requesting Dr. Manish Singhvi learned Additional Advocate General, State of Rajasthan to ensure D production of the same and the said register was produced before us. 34.As regards authenticity or genuineness of the admission register, which forms the basis of certificate of the applicant’s date of birth, argument of Mr. Patil is that the whole register was fabricated. His submission is that at the time the extract therefrom was produced before E the Inquiring Judge, the same was not paginated. He also argues that the register was not stitched. Further, he has submitted that serial entry no. 566 of the register shows the date of entry of the student to be 2nd February 1980, which is not in in relation to the other entries. He has also referred certain other entries in the register prior in to serial no.