As per definition, Project includes captive mine and hence, it was Procurer’s obligation to provide for the exemption to the coal mining equipment. B 9.24 It may also noted that:- Xxx xxx xxx (b) PPA defines Project as power plant along with captive coal mines. C 9.35 It is submitted that the Appellant has set up an ultra-mega power project which comprises of captive coal mines. It is not separately indulging in mining activities. Moreover, the coal from the Project is being used only for the Project. The entire capital cost of the power project includes the cost of the coal mines. This is also evident from Article 13 of the PPA where increase in cost D of land and R&R expenditure for the coal mines is included as change in law. Therefore, the finding that the captive coal mines are a separate activity and will fall under Serial No. 399 is incorrect and ought to be set aside. FINDINGS OF THE TRIBUNAL E (17) As far as the complaint about the increased costs on account of change in water intake system, the following is the finding of the Tribunal. “12.4 After due consideration of the rival contentions of both the F parties, what emerges is that after being declared as the successful bidder, the SPL with a view to affirm the technical suitability of the preliminary report of the WAPCOS on Water Intake System, re-engaged the same agency for finalization of the said report. It is not in dispute that the Consultant, WAPCOS reviewed its earlier report and came to a conclusion that the earlier location of Water G Intake was not at proper place and would result in non-availability of water for the plant during lean period. It is relevant to note that based on the recommendations of WAPCOS, SPL decided to go ahead for selection of new location as recommended and got carried out the requisite design and engineering of the entire Water H 30 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Intake System which resulted into longer piping system, increased submergence area along the route, additional construction period etc.. On account of these factors, the cost of Water Intake System went up by over Rs.176 crores. The learned counsel appearing for the Appellant pointed out that the of this Tribunal in Nabha Power case is not applicable to the present case since no B cost relating to seismic zone data was provided to Nabha whereas in the instant case, costs were provided to the bidders. The Appellant has further reiterated that para 2.7.2.1 and para 4 of RFP which were relied upon by the Respondent procurers cannot be taken as obsolute in nature so as to absolve procurers of their C responsibility for providing grossly incorrect information leading to substantial increase in cost of Water Intake System. 12.5 After thoughtful consideration of the submissions made by the learned counsel for the Appellant and the Respondents and the findings of the Central Commission, we find that while the D responsibility of carrying out due diligence before bidding and verifying the correctness of information provided in the bid documents rested with the bidders, at the same time, Respondent procurers cannot justify providing grossly erroneous report on Water Intake System taking shelter under the disclaimer in the bid document.