Whereas, as per the clause 9.2 of the policy guidelines for F Uplinking of Television channels from India- 2011 and para 8.3 of the Downlinking guidelines, 2011, Ministry of Home Affairs was requested to give security clearance of the company (M/s Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited) for renewal of permission of News & Current Affairs TV Channel namely, “Media One” for a G period of 10 years. 5. Whereas, the Ministry of Home Affairs has denied the security clearance to M/s Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited for renewal of permission for uplinking and downlinking of News & Current Affairs TV channel “Media One”. H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 619 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 6. Accordingly, a Show Cause Notice (SCN) dated 05.01.2022 A was given to the company as to why the permission granted to them should not be revoked or cancelled, for Uplinking and Downlinking of above mentioned TV Channel. Copy of the SCN is attached at Annexure-I. 7. The Company has replied to the SCN vide their letter dated B 19.01.2022. In the reply, the company has inter-alia mentioned that they are unaware of the grounds for denial of security clearance and requested not to iniate any further proceedings in the matter. The reply given by the company is attached at Annexure-II. C 8. The reply of the company has been examined. The security clearance is based on security parameters of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Since the Ministry of Home Affairs has denied the security clearance. The channel cannot be allowed to operate. D 9. In view of the above, the permission granted to M/s Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited to uplink and downlink a News and Current Affairs TV Channel namely, “Media One” is revoked with immediate effect and accordingly the name of this channel is removed from the list of permitted channels.” E (emphasis supplied) 9. MBL initiated proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Kerala to challenge MIB’s ‘revoking’ the uplinking and downlinking permission granted to Media One. The appellants sought in the petitions: (i) setting aside of the dated 31 F January 2022 revoking the permission granted to Media-One; (ii) a direction to MIB and MHA to provide MBL an opportunity to be heard before revoking the permission; and (iii) a declaration that there are no circumstances warranting a denial of security clearance or the revocation of the license since MBL has not violated any law or indulged in anti- national activity. G 10. The Assistant Solicitor General6 of India filed a statement before the High Court submitting that security clearance was denied on the basis of intelligence inputs, which are “sensitive and secret in nature”. 6“ASG” H 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A It was further submitted that MHA cannot disclose reasons for the denial “as a matter of policy and in the interest of national security”. 11. By a dated 8 February 2022, the Single Judge of the High Court of Kerala dismissed the writ petition.