In the present case, the only change in question is being made from one primary fuel to another primary fuel i.e. from natural gas to RLNG. Both of these are “primary fuel for RGPPL” in accordance with Article 4.3 of the PPA. This change, unlike the change from primary fuel sources to liquid gas, does not require the consent of the distribution company; b. The PPA did not require the power generation company to obtain the consent of the distribution licensee for entering into the GSA/ GTA with GAIL. The plant was set up after signifi cant eff orts from the central and state governments. The fi rst respondent was left with no choice but to enter into the GSA/GTA with GAIL in to overcome the domestic gas shortage. The appellant had refused to schedule power for the declared availability based on RLNG to be supplied under the GSA/GTA; c. The fi rst respondent has declared the necessary availability of electricity when the appellant has chosen not to schedule the quantum of electricity on the declared availability. As long as the fi rst respondent has the declared available capacity and irrespective of whether the appellant has scheduled the capacity off ered by the fi rst respondent, the appellant is liable to pay the fi xed capacity charges; and d. The fi rst respondent has invested in establishing, operating, and maintaining the generating station. The annual fi xed charges are determined with reference to specifi c tariff requirements stemming from the Tariff Regulations of 2009. The capital costs invested in the station need to be serviced by way of the annual fi xed charges. Thus, APTEL directed that if the appellant wishes to not pay for the electricity from RLNG, it must pay compensation to the fi rst respondent, since it is liable, under Article 5.2 of the PPA, to pay the capacity charges. No prior consent, as envisaged in Article 5.9, is required, in for such liability to arise. 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 13. APTEL thus held that the appellant has been rightly ed to pay the capacity charges notwithstanding the fact that they have not consented to the GSA/GTA with GAIL. The appeal was thus dismissed. 14. The Civil Appeal against APTEL’s decision was initially disposed of by this Court. Since the appellant was not facing any punitive action for recovery, the appeal was dismissed and the appellant was granted the liberty to approach the Court when necessary. 15. In view of the above liberty, the present appeal is before us. 16. Following the issue of notice, the fi rst respondent has entered appearance and fi led a counter affi davit. 17. We have heard Senior Counsel for the appellants and respondents. SUBMISSIONS 18. The appellant urged the following submissions in its challenge to APTEL’s and fi nal : a. CERC has put Clause 4.3 and Clause 5.9 of the PPA in two separate buckets. According to the PPA (clauses 4.3, and 5.9 read conjointly), the fi rst respondent was obligated to obtain prior approval from the appellant before entering into the GSA/GTA with GAIL.