A “21. Operating agency to prepare complete inventory, etc. - Wherefor the proper discharge of the functions of the Board under this Act the circumstances so require, the Board may, through any operating agency, cause to be prepared- (a) to (b) xxx xxx xxx B (c) a valuation report in respect of the shares and assets in to arrive at the reserve price for the sale of a part or whole of the industrial undertaking of the company or for fixation of the lease rent or share exchange ratio;” 23. Indisputedly, in the instant case, it has not been placed on C record if there was any valuation report assessed by the Operating Agency from the approved valuer of the subject property and, at the same time, the reserve price of the subject property was never disclosed/indicated in the first place when the public notice came to be notified on 24th May, 2004 inviting offers from the interested parties for Block IV. Thus, the very procedure adopted by the Operating Agency appears to be defective D at its very inception. 24. The object of the auction is to secure optimum realizable value of the property by giving opportunity to the potential buyers facing competitive bids either in open or closed format. The terms ‘auction’ or ‘bid’ are inter-related as both give the idea of selling the product to the E public. Bidding involves the process where a person offers a price which is known as a bid. The process of bidding takes place in a situation where large number of people show their willingness to buy a particular product or a service and bidding in a sealed envelope is often used by various companies, industries and small businesses for assessing the F needs of the public at large. On the other hand, auction is the process that involves buying and selling goods and services by offering them for bids, taking bids and selling the item to the highest bidder and that is possible if there is a competitive bidding between the bidders. 25. The purpose of auction (open or close format) is to get the G most remunerative price and giving opportunity to the intending bidders to participate and fetch higher realizable value of the property. If that path is cut down or closed, the possibility of fraud or to secure inadequate price or underbidding would loom large. In the given circumstances, it is the duty of the Court to exercise its discretion wisely and with circumspection and keeping in view the facts and circumstances in each case. H RAJIV KUMAR JINDAL v. BCI STAFF COLONY 91 RESIDENTIAL WELFARE ASSOCIATION [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 26. The object of auction has been considered by this Court in A Lakshmanasami Gounder v. C.I.T., Selvamani and Others5 as under:- “…….The object of the sale is to secure the maximum price and to avoid arbitrariness in the procedure adopted before sale and to prevent underhand dealings in effecting sale and purchase of the debtor’s property.