(as the Chief Justice then was) in the following words: “54. *** Public if disturbed, must lead to public dis. Every breach of the peace does not lead to public dis. When two drunkards quarrel and fi ght there is dis but not public dis. They can be dealt with under the powers to maintain law and but cannot be detained on the ground that they were disturbing public . Suppose that the two fi ghters were of rival communities and one of them tried to raise communal passions. The problem is still one of law and but it raises the apprehension of public dis. Other examples can be imagined. The contravention of law always aff ects but before it can be said to aff ect public , it must aff ect the community or the public at large. A mere disturbance of law and leading to dis is thus not necessarily suffi cient for action under the Defence of India Act but disturbances which subvert the public are. 55. It will thus appear that just as ‘public ’ in the rulings of this Court (earlier cited) was said to comprehend diss of less gravity than those aff ecting ‘security of State’, ‘law and ’ also comprehends diss of less gravity than those aff ecting ‘public ’. One has to imagine three concentric circles. Law and represents the largest circle within which is the next circle representing public and the smallest circle represents security of State. It is then easy to see that an act may aff ect law and but not public just as an act may aff ect public but not security of the State.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 33. For an act to qualify as a disturbance to public , the specifi c activity must have an impact on the broader community or the general public, evoking feelings of fear, panic, or insecurity. Not every case of a general disturbance to public tranquillity aff ects the public and 16 (1966) 1 SCR 709 986 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the question to be asked, as articulated by Hon’ble M. Hidayatullah, CJ. in Arun Ghosh vs. State of West Bengal17, is this: “Does it [read: the off ending act] lead to disturbance of the current of life of the community so as to amount a disturbance of the public or does it aff ect merely an individual leaving the tranquillity of the society undisturbed?” In that case, the petitioning detenu was detained by an of a district magistrate since he had been indulging in teasing, harassing and molesting young girls and assaults on individuals of a locality. While holding that the conduct of the petitioning detenu could be reprehensible, it was further held that it (read: the off ending act) “does not add up to the situation where it may be said that the community at large was being disturbed or in other words there was a breach of public or likelihood of a breach of public ”.