ii. DNA tests of children born during the subsistence of a valid marriage may be directed, only when there is sufficient prima-facie material to dislodge the presumption under F Section 112 of the Evidence Act. Further, if no plea has been raised as to non-access, in to rebut the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act, a DNA test may not be directed. iii. A Court would not be justified in mechanically directing a G DNA test of a child, in a case where the paternity of a child is not directly in issue, but is merely collateral to the proceeding. iv. Merely because either of the parties have disputed a factum of paternity, it does not mean that the Court should direct H DNA test or such other test to resolve the controversy. APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 717 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] The parties should be directed to lead evidence to prove or A disprove the factum of paternity and only if the Court finds it impossible to draw an inference based on such evidence, or the controversy in issue cannot be resolved without DNA test, it may direct DNA test and not otherwise. In other words, only in exceptional and deserving cases, where such B a test becomes indispensable to resolve the controversy the Court can direct such test. v. While directing DNA tests as a means to prove adultery, the Court is to be mindful of the consequences thereof on the children born out of adultery, including inheritance- C related consequences, social stigma, etc. 13. Further, in Nandlal Wasudeo Badwaik, the facts of the case were that due to non-opposition of the counsel for the wife, this Court directed that the serological test be conducted. The report was brought on record, which stated that the appellant-husband was not the biological D father of the minor child. At the request of the respondent-wife, a re- test was ed, which also revealed the same result. The plea with regard to the applicability of section 112 of the Evidence Act was taken only after the DNA test was conducted on the direction of this Court and the report was brought on record. This Court held that when a report of a DNA test conducted on the direction of a Court, was available E on record and was in conflict with the presumption of conclusive proof of the legitimacy of the child, the DNA test report cannot be ignored. Hence, this Court relied on the DNA test report and held that the appellant-husband would not be liable to pay maintenance. The said case would be of no assistance to the case of the respondent herein. This is F because, in the said case, this Court was confronted with a situation in which DNA test report, in fact, was available and was in conflict with the presumption of conclusive proof of legitimacy of the child, under Section 112 of the Evidence Act. However, in the present case, no DNA test is available till date, which was conducted on the direction of a competent Court.