It is submitted that 47 of the Supreme Court Rules states that “no application for review will be entertained in a civil proceeding except on the ground mentioned in 47 Rule 1 CPC. That 47 Rule 1 CPC states that a review petition may be preferred on the following grounds, C (a) discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence, was not within knowledge of the petitioner or could not be produced by him, OR (b) made, or on account of some mistake or error apparent D on the face of the record, OR (c) for any other sufficient reason. It is submitted that in the case of Kamlesh Verma v. Mayawati (2013) 8 SCC 320, this Court has reiterated the law on review jurisdiction and it is observed and held that unless the aforesaid grounds are made E out, the review petition shall not be maintainable. 5.7 It is further submitted that even otherwise overruling of an earlier decision cannot be a ground for review. It is contended that the sole ground raised in the present cases is that the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) has been held to be per incuriam F in the earlier decision of Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra (dead) through Lrs. (supra) and it is contended by the review petitioners that as per the in Indore Development Authority v. Shailendra (dead) through Lrs. (supra), the decisions rendered on the basis of the Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) were open to review in appropriate cases based on the said decision. It is submitted G that the explanation to 47 of the Code states that the fact that the decision on a question of law on which the of the Court is based has been reversed or modified by the subsequent decision of a superior court in any other case, shall not be aground for the review of such . It is submitted that a Constitution Bench of this Court in H 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the case of Beghar Foundation v. K.S. Puttaswamy (2021) 3 SCC 1 has observed that change in law or subsequent decision/ of a coordinate or larger Bench by itself cannot be regarded as a ground for review. 5.8 Learned counsel for the respective respondents have submitted B that in some of the cases, similar review petitions post Constitution Bench decision in the case of Indore Development Authority v. Manohar Lal (supra) have been dismissed. It is submitted that merely because the in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) has been recalled subsequently may not be a ground to review and/or recall the s passed in the present cases and that too after such a long C delay. It is submitted that the of recall does not in any manner afford any additional impetus to the applicants to seek a review of the in the present cases. 5.9 Making the above submissions and relying upon the aforesaid decisions, it is prayed to dismiss the review applications.