Such appointments should be made only as and when necessary and not on a permanent footing. 2. Steps for securing independence of the Commission E 6. The protection of salary and other allied matters relating to the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners should be provided for in the Constitution itself on the analogy of the provisions in respect of the Chief Justice and Judges of the Supreme Court. Pending such measures being taken, a parliamentary law should be enacted. F 7. The expenditure of the Commission should continue to be ‘voted’ as of now. 8. The Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners should be made ineligible not only for any appointment under the Government but also to any office including G the office of Governor appointment to which is made by the President. 9. The tenure of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners should be for a term of five years or sixty-five years of age, whichever is later and they should in no H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 75 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] case continue in office beyond sixty-five years and for more than A ten years in all.” 63. In the year 1991, Parliament enacted the Election Commission (Conditions of Service of Election Commissioners and Transaction of Business) Act, 1991. Section 3 provides, as it stands, that there shall be paid to the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election B Commissioners a salary, which is equal to the salary of the Judge of the Supreme Court. Section 4 deals with the term of Office and reads as follows: “4. Term of office. —The Chief Election Commissioner or an Election Commissioner shall hold office for a term of six years C from the date on which he assumes his office: Provided that where the Chief Election Commissioner or an Election Commissioner attains the age of sixty-five years before the expiry of the said term of six years, he shall vacate his office on the date on which he attains the said age: D Provided further that the Chief Election Commissioner or an Election Commissioner may, at any time, by writing under his hand addressed to the President, resign his office. Explanation.—For the purpose of this section, the term of six years in respect of the Chief Election Commissioner or an Election E Commissioner holding office immediately before the commencement of this Act, shall be computed from the date on which he had assumed office.” 64. Section 5 deals with the leave available to both the Chief Election Commissioner or an Election Commissioner. The power to grant F relief or refuse leave to them vests with the President. Section 6 deals with their right to pension. Section 7 deals with the right to subscribe to the general provident fund. Section 8 provides for other conditions of service: “8. Other conditions of service.—Save as otherwise provided in G this Act, the conditions of service relating to travelling allowance, provision of rent-free residence and exemption from payment of income-tax on the value of such rent-free residence, conveyance facilities, sumptuary allowance, medical facilities and such other conditions of service as are, for the time being, applicable to a H 76 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.