After finding that Article 174 did not apply to a dissolved assembly as was indeed the case, this Court reiterated that the words ‘superintendence, control, C direction as also ‘the conduct of all elections’ were the broadest terms. This court also found that if there is no free and fair periodic election, it is the end of democracy. [See (2000) 8 SCC 237]. The said was rendered while answering a reference made to this Court under Article 143 of the Constitution. D 158. The Election Commission has the power to lay down a certain benchmark to be achieved by a party in State politics before it could be recognised as a political party [See Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) v. Election Commission of India and Others56]. Justice J. Chelameswar wrote a dissenting opinion. E 159. While dealing with the aspect of jurisdiction of the Election Commission under Section 10A of the 1951 Act to ascertain whether there has been a failure to lodge true, correct and genuine accounts of bona fide election expenditure and that it did not exceed the maximum limit, the Election Commission has been found to have overarching powers and it has been described as a ‘guardian of democracy’.In this regard, F we notice the following words of this Court in Ashok Shankarrao Chavan v. Madhavrao Kinhalkar57 : “67. In this context, we also keep in mind the Preamble to the Constitution which in liberal words states that the People of India having solemnly resolved to constitute India into a Sovereign G Socialist Secular Democratic Republic and to secure to all citizens justice, liberty, equality and fraternity. In such a large democratic country such as ours, if purity in elections is not maintained, and 55(2002) 5 SCC 294 56(2012) 7 SCC 340 57 (2014) 7 SCC 99 H 134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A for that purpose when the Constitution makers in their wisdom thought it fit to create an authority, namely, the Election Commission and invested with it the power of superintendence, control and also to issue directions, it must be stated that such power invested with the said constitutional authority should not be a mere empty formality but an effective and stable one, in whom B the citizens of this country can repose in and look upon to ensure that such unscrupulous elements and their attempts to enter into political administration of this vast country are scuttled. In that respect, since the ruling of this vast country is always in the hands of the elected representatives of the people, the enormous powers C of the Election Commission as the guardian of democracy should be recognised. It is unfortunate that those who are really interested in the welfare of society and who are incapable of indulging in any such corrupt practices are virtually side-lined and are treated as totally ineligible for contesting the elections.” D (Emphasis supplied) 160. Under Article 103(2) and Article 192(2), the President and the Governor are to act on the opinion of the Election Commission as regards the question of disqualification of the Member of Parliament and of the Legislature of a State, respectively.