Act, 1961, while arbitrarily excluding settlers of Indian origin such as the petitioners herein. That the object sought to be achieved by E the exemption provision contained in Section 10(26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961 was to grant exemption to the residents of Sikkim as per the definition of Sikkimese which is in the form of an Explanation to the provision. Therefore, the discriminatory classification of Sikkim Subjects vis-à-vis old Sikkim settlers, who had not been registered as Sikkim Subjects, whereby the former category of persons was admitted to the F benefits of the exemption while excluding the latter, had no nexus with the object of the exemption provision. 26. It was next submitted that classification into groups or categories ought to be based on an intelligible differentia which set one group apart from the other. In this regard, it was stated that Sikkim, G having merged with India on 26th April, 1975, all residents and subjects of Sikkim, had thereafter become Indian citizens. Therefore, there was no justifiable reason to treat Indian settlers of Sikkim differently from Sikkim Subjects who had all subsequently become Indian citizens. That following the merger of Sikkim with India, and Indian citizenship having been conferred on Sikkim Subjects, the basis for classification had been H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 333 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] eroded. That migrants/settlers who had earlier not been registered as A Sikkim Subjects, as well as Sikkim Subjects were uniformly considered as Indian residents of Sikkim, after 26th April, 1975, and therefore, both such categories were to be admitted to the benefits of income tax exemption under Section 10(26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961. The fact that migrants/settlers had earlier not been registered as Sikkim Subjects B on the ground that they failed to surrender their Indian citizenship at the relevant time, would have no relevance after the merger of Sikkim with the India, since such migrants as well as Sikkim Subjects had been placed in the same class of Indian residents of Sikkim, after the merger. 27. It was urged that the rules to the effect that provisions of C legislation ought to reflect the object sought to be achieved and that any classification into groups or categories ought to be based on an intelligible differentia, would apply equally to tax legislations, as they apply in any other area of law, vide S.K. Dutta vs. Lawrence Singh Ingty, A.I.R. 1968 SC 658. D 28. Sri K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Counsel, further submitted that the Explanation to Section 10(26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961 begins with the phrase, “‘Sikkimese’ shall mean,” and thereafter lists three categories of persons who shall be considered to be ‘Sikkimese’ for the purposes of the Act. That the term used in the Explanation is ‘mean.’ Therefore, the definition would have to be treated as inclusive, E but not exhaustive of the scope of the term ‘Sikkimese.’ In this regard, reliance was placed on Southern Electricity Supply Co. of Orissa Ltd. vs. Sri Seetaram Rice Mill, (2012) 2 SCC 108.