12. While quoting the aforesaid decision with respectful approval, we would like to clarify that the decision rendered in Bipin Chander Jaisinghbhai Shah v. Prabhawati1, 1956 SCR 838, is not a proposition to hold that the proof required from a petitioner in a matrimonial case alleging cruelty is of beyond reasonable doubt, and not of preponderance of probability. The Court in Bipin Chander (supra) was dealing with a case of desertion, and therefore, more onus was fi xed on the person who asserts it. The Court is not deciding and adjudicating an off ence, when a petition for divorce is a civil remedy. 13. Though Section 23(1)2 of the Act of 1955 speaks of condonation of cruelty by the petitioner in a divorce petition fi led on the ground of cruelty, and thus non-suiting a decree of divorce, it has to be seen in context with the position of a man and woman in a marital relationship. In other words, Section 23(1) of the Act of 1955 is a word of caution to check cases of abuse and misuse of law to get relief. To elaborate, due to her unenviable position, a wife may not be in a state to raise her voice and express her dissent, which cannot be construed as a passive consent. 1 This has been quoted with approval by a fi ve Judge Bench of this Court in Lachman Utamchand Kirpalani v. Meena alias Mota, (1964) 4 SCR 331, which relates to ‘desertion’, whereas the present case involves ‘cruelty’. 2 23. Decree in proceedings. – (1) In any proceeding under this Act, whether defended or not, if the court is satisfi ed that – (a) any of the grounds for granting relief exists and the petitioner except in cases where the relief is sought by him on the ground specifi ed in sub-clause (a), sub-clause (b) or sub-clause (c) of clause (ii) of section 5 is not in any way taking advantage of his or her own wrong or disability for the purpose of such relief, and (b) where the ground of the petition is the ground specifi ed in clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 13, the petitioner has not in any manner been accessory to or connived at or condoned the act or acts complained of, or where the ground of the petition is cruelty the petitioner has not in any manner condoned the cruelty, and (bb) when a divorce is sought on the ground of mutual consent, such consent has not been obtained by force, fraud or undue infl uence, and (c) the petition (not being a petition presented under section 11) is not presented or prosecuted in collusion with the respondent, and (d) there has not been any unnecessary or improper delay in instituting the proceeding, and (e) there is no other legal ground why relief should not be granted, then, and in such a case, but not otherwise, the court shall decree such relief accordingly. SMT. ROOPA SONI v. KAMALNARAYAN SONI 883 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.]