3. We have heard Shri Anand Grover, learned Senior Counsel appearing for appellant Madan in Criminal Appeal Nos. 1381-82 of 2017, Shri Manish Kumar Vikkey, learned counsel appearing for appellant Sudesh Pal in Criminal Appeal No. 1790 of 2017 and Shri Brijender Chahar, learned Senior Counsel appearing for respondent-State of Uttar Pradesh. 4. Shri Grover, learned Senior Counsel appearing for appellant Madan fi rstly, addressed us on merits of the matter. He submitted that the of conviction as passed by the trial court and confi rmed by the High Court is not at all sustainable. He submitted that initially 11 witnesses were cited as eye witnesses. However, 7 of them have turned hostile. The prosecution case is therefore left with only 4 alleged eye witnesses i.e. Lokendra (PW- 1), Irshad Khan (PW-7), Harpal Singh (PW-10) and Sudhir (PW-11). 5. Shri Grover submitted that, from the testimony of Lokendra (PW- 1) itself, it can be seen that his presence at the scene of crime is doubtful. It is submitted that the evidence of this witness is contradictory to his MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 779 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] original statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C. There are substantial improvements in his evidence. Though in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., he stated that he was with a group of people, but in cross-examination he admitted that he was not walking along with the group, but was behind them by around 10 yards from the cross roads (towards the north) when the group of people reached Rashid’s house. He submitted that Lokendra (PW-1) admitted that he could not clearly see the place of incident or the group of people from where he was standing. He further submitted that the said witness has admitted that on hearing the sound of fi ring, he ran further northwards from the cross-roads from Rashid’s house and could not see the site. 6. Shri Grover submitted that there are also substantial contradictions in the testimony of Lokendra (PW-1) which casts doubt with regard to his presence at Rizwan’s house. He submitted that, in the chief-examination, this witness has stated that on witnessing the shooting at Rashid’s house, he ran towards Rizwan and Rihan’s house and took cover there and witnessed the incident at Rizwan’s house. However, in cross-examination, he contrarily stated that on hearing the sounds of fi ring, he ran further northwards from the cross-roads and stayed there for 15-20 minutes. From the evidence of Jai Singh (PW-8) and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2), father and uncle of Lokendra (PW-1) respectively, it is clear that Lokendra (PW-1) was not present at the place of incident. Even in the case registered by Lokendra (PW-1), he does not show himself to be an eye witness. It is submitted that there are contradictions in his testimony about the authorship of Tehrir. 7. Shri Grover submitted that if Lokendra (PW-1) had really accompanied the group, then certainly he would also have received some injuries. The learned Senior Counsel, relying on the s of this Court in the cases of Jaikam Khan v. State of Uttar Pradesh1 and Khema @ Khem Chandra v. State of Uttar Pradesh2, submitted that the testimony of this witness, being totally contradictory, cannot be relied upon for convicting the appellant Madan.