[J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “LAW AND ” AND “PUBLIC ” 53. This Court on several occasions examined the concepts of “law and ” and “public ”. Immediately after the Constitution came into force, a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Brij Bhushan and Another v. The State of Delhi, (1950) SCR 605, dealt with a case pertaining to public . The Court observed that “public ” may well be paraphrased in the context as “public tranquility”. 54. Another celebrated Constitution Bench of this Court is in the case of Romesh Thappar v. The State of Madras, (1950) SCR 594. In this case, Romesh Thappar, a printer, publisher and editor of weekly journal in English called Cross Roads printed and published in Bombay was detained under the Madras Maintenance of Public Act, 1949. The detention was challenged directly in this Court by fi ling a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution. The allegation was that the detenu circulated documents to disturb the public tranquility and to create disturbance of public and tranquility. This Court observed:- “... ‘Public ’ is an expression of wide connotation and signifi es that state of tranquillity which prevails among the members of a political society as a result of internal regulations enforced by the Government which they have established .... ... it must be taken that ‘public safety’ is used as a part of the wider concept of public .....” 55. The distinction between “public ” and “law and ” has been carefully defi ned in a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar and Others, (1966) 1 SCR 709. In this , Hidayatullah, J. by giving various illustrations clearly defi ned the “public ” and “law and ”. Relevant portion of the reads thus:- “....Does the expression “public ” take in every kind of dis or only some? The answer to this serves to distinguish “public ” from “law and ” because the latter undoubtedly takes in all of them. Public if disturbed, must lead to public dis. Every breach of the peace does not leadto public dis. When two 574 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. drunkards quarrel and fi ght there is dis but not public dis. They can be dealt with under the powers to maintain law and but cannot be detained on the ground that they were disturbing public . Suppose that the two fi ghters were of rival communities and one of them tried to raise communal passions. The problem is still one of law and but it raises the apprehension of public dis. Other examples can be imagined. The contravention of law always aff ects but before it can be said to aff ect public , it must aff ect the community or the public at large. A mere disturbance of law and leading to dis is thus not necessarily suffi cient for action under the Defence of India Act but disturbances which subvert the public are.