79 (2007) 1 SCR 350 80“2001 Act” 81 Section 7 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms stipulates that the right to life, liberty, and security of a person shall not be deprived except in accordance with the principles of fundamental justice. H 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A protects the interests of the affected party. The court concluded that the procedure prescribed in the statute cannot be ‘justified as minimum impairment of the individual’s right to a judicial determination on the facts and the law, and right to know and meet the case.’ 105. The Canadian Supreme Court referred to the jurisprudence B on the procedure followed by courts across various jurisdictions to decide claims that involve State secrets and held that there were other lesser restrictive means that could have been employed, as in the United Kingdom. As a part of the analysis of the least restrictive means prong, we deem it necessary to refer to alternative procedures that are available in India and in other countries that substantially aid in realising the C objective and which protects the interest of the affected party in a better fashion. (I) Totten claim: non-justiciability of the issue 106. The Courts in the United States have recognised that in exceptional circumstances, the court must act in the interest of national D security to prevent the disclosure of state secrets. One of the applications of this principle is through the Totten claim. According to the Totten claim, if claims are premised on state secrets, then they are barred from adjudication82. If the subject matter is a matter of state secret then the action may be dismissed on pleadings before the proceedings could E reach the stage of evidence. The Totten claim, if allowed, permits the dismissal of the suit in the pre-discovery stage. (II) Closed Material Procedure and Special Advocates 107. In Chahal v. United Kingdom83,the Home Secretary issued an to deport the appellant, an Indian national and a Sikh separatist. F One of the grounds of the appellant’s challenge to the deportation was that although the Home Secretary’s decision is amenable to judicial review, the effective determination of his risk to national security was made by an internal Home Office advisory panel on the basis of material which was not disclosed to him. The European Court of Human Rights84 G accepted the contention of the appellant and held that the procedure violated the rights under Article 5(4) of the European Convention on 82 Totten v. United States, 92 US 105,107 (1876) 83 (1996) 23 EHRR 413 H 84“ECHR” MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 673 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Human Rights.85 The court observed that there are other less restrictive A methods which could be employed to accommodate legitimate concerns of national security and procedural justice. The Court referred to the procedure that is applied in Canada under the Canadian Immigration Act 1976 under which a Federal Court judge holds an in - camera hearing of all the evidence; the applicant is provided a statement summarising B the case that is made against them; and the confidential material is then disclosed to a security-cleared counsel who assists the court in testing the strength of the State’s case.