71. From the discussion above, it is clear that Dharmaratnakara (supra) does not lay down the correct position in light of the post-2015 F amendment regime. Through the Amending Act, SMS Tea (supra) stands legislatively overruled. 72.The correct exposition of law after the insertion of Section 11(6A) is to be found in Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd53 (for short “Duro Felguera”) where it was held that, ”(a)fter the G (2015) amendment, all that the courts need to see is whether an arbitration agreement exists—nothing more, nothing less. The legislative policy and purpose is essentially to minimise the Court’s intervention at the stage of appointing the arbitrator and this H 53 (2017) 9 SCC 729 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 463 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] intention as incorporated in Section 11(6-A) ought to be respected.” A This has been re-affirmed by a 3-judge bench in Mayavati Trading Private Limited v. Pradyuat Deb Burman54where it was held as under: “10. This being the position, it is clear that the law prior to the 2015 Amendment that has been laid down by this Court, which would have included going into whether accord and satisfaction B has taken place, has now been legislatively overruled. This being the position, it is difficult to agree with the reasoning contained in the aforesaid as Section 11(6A) is confined to the 15 examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement and is to be understood in the narrow sense as has been laid down in the C Duro Felguera, S.A. (supra) – see paras 48 & 59.” 73. The following extract from Pravin Electricals (P) Ltd. v. Galaxy Infra & Engg. (P) Ltd.55is equally pertinent where the Court interpreted Section 11 (6A) to conclusively hold that a Section 11 judge cannot conduct a mini-trial at that stage: D “29. The facts of this case remind one of Alice in Wonderland. In Chapter II of Lewis Caroll’s classic, after little Alice had gone down the Rabbit hole, she exclaims “Curiouser and curiouser!” and Lewis Caroll states “(she was so much surprised, that for the moment she quite forgot how to speak good English)”. This is a E case which eminently cries for the truth to come out between the parties through documentary evidence and cross-examination. Large pieces of the jigsaw puzzle that forms the documentary evidence between the parties in this case remained unfilled. The emails dated 22nd July, 2014 and 25th July, 2014 produced here for the first time as well as certain correspondence between F SBPDCL and the Respondent do show that there is some dealing between the Appellant and the Respondent qua a tender floated by SBPDCL, but that is not sufficient to conclude that there is a concluded contract between the parties, which contains an arbitration clause. Given the inconclusive nature of the finding by G CFSL together with the signing of the agreement in Haryana by parties whose registered offices are at Bombay and Bihar qua works to be executed in Bihar; given the fact that the Notary who 54 (2019) 8 SCC 714 55 (2021) 5 SCC 671 H 464 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.