However, this does not take away the duty of the civil court to check its own jurisdiction, more so when a specialized forum has come into being as a creature of a statute. Of course, there may be certain exceptions when fundamental principles governing common law, including the one pertaining to the principle of natural justice, stand violated. To deal with the said issue one has to take into consideration the objective behind the enactment, along with the provisions contained thereunder. Dhulabhai etc. v. State of Madhya Pradesh and Another, (1968) 3 SCR 662 : AIR 1969 SC 78, “32. Neither of the two cases of Firm of Illuri Subayya, 1964-1 SCR 752 = (AIR 1964 SC 322) or Kamla Mills, 1966 1 SCR 64 = (AIR 1965 SC 1942) can be said to run counter to the series of cases earlier noticed. The result of this inquiry into the diverse views expressed in this Court may be stated as follows: (1) Where the statute gives a fi nality to the s of the special tribunals the civil courts’ jurisdiction must be held to be excluded if there is adequate remedy to do what the civil courts would normally do in a suit. Such provision, however, does not exclude those cases where the provisions of the particular Act have not been complied with or the statutory tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure. (2) Where there is an express bar of the jurisdiction of the court, an examination of the scheme of the particular Act to fi nd the adequacy or the suffi ciency of the remedies provided may be relevant but is not decisive to sustain the jurisdiction of the civil court. Where there is no express exclusion the examination of the remedies and the scheme of the particular Act to fi nd out the intendment becomes necessary and the result of the inquiry 101 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. may be decisive. In the latter case it is necessary to see if the statute creates a special right or a liability and provides for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right and liability shall be determined by the tribunals so constituted, and whether remedies normally associated with actions in civil courts are prescribed by the said statute or not. ××××× (7) An exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil court is not readily to be inferred unless the conditions above set down apply.” (emphasis supplied) The aforesaid decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court is also followed in a catena of s including the one in M. Hariharasudhan v. R. Karmegam, (2019) 10 SCC 94. EFFECT OF REMOVING THE BASIS OF 28. On the question of the eff ect of removal of the basis of the , once again, the distinction between a procedural and substantial law has to be kept in mind. An adjudicating forum being a product of a procedural right has to come under retrospective operation when an amendment is introduced to cure a defect which paved the way for a decision of the Court in holding otherwise.