The application of all the provisions of the Constitution has the same eff ect as exercising power under Article 370(3) declaring that Article 370 ceases to exist because when Article 370 ceases to exist, all the provisions of the Constitution automatically apply to Jammu and Kashmir. However, there is a crucial diff erence. The exercise of power under Article 370(1)(d) to apply all provisions of the Constitution is reversible and modifi able. That is, the President could issue another omitting or modifying certain provisions of the Constitution in its application to Jammu and Kashmir. This Court in Sampath Prakash (supra) held that the power of the President to issue a Constitutional under Article 370(1) (d) includes the power to modify or amend the in terms of Section 21 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of the General Clauses Act 1897. Thus, an issued Article 370(1)(d) applying all the provisions of the Constitution to the State can be amended, rescinded or modifi ed. However, the exercise of power under Article 370(3) is irreversible. Once issued, the special status of the State ceases to exist. Thus, while applying all the provisions of the Constitution by exercising power under Article 370(1)(d), a conscious decision is being made to apply the entire Constitution but not abrogate the special provision. In the subsequent section, we have elucidated the Constitutional s issued in exercise of power under Article 370(1)(d) applying the provisions of the Constitution to Jammu and Kashmir to bring out the point that CO 273 is the culmination of the process of integration. The observations equally apply to the exercise of power to issue CO 272. c. Securing the concurrence of the Union Government under the second proviso to Article 370(1)(d) 421. Article 370(1)(d) states that the President may by specify which of the provisions of the Constitution other than Articles 1 and 370 shall apply to Jammu and Kashmir. The second proviso to Article 370(1) (d) stipulates that if the provision does not relate to matters in the IoA, the President must issue the with the concurrence of the Government of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. In exercise of the power under Article 370(1) (d), the President issued CO 272 by which all provisions of the Constitution of India were applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The CO states that the President issued the CO “with the concurrence of the Government of the State of Jammu and Kashmir”. The phrase Government of the State as it occurs in Article 370 was defi ned in CO 1965 to mean the Governor on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. However, it was the President giving concurrence since the Governor had by then dissolved the Legislative Assembly of State and the President by the 2018 Proclamation assumed to himself “all the functions of the Government of the said State and all powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor of that State under the Constitution”. The petitioners have challenged CO 272 on the ground that the Union Government (acting through the President) could not have given concurrence for issuing a CO 272.