In the said case, the accused had committed murder of his wife and daughter. However, this Court observed that in the facts and circumstances, 19 (2002) 2 SCC 35 20 (2013) 3 SCC 294 MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 809 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] it could not be said that imposition of death penalty was the only alternative and commuted the of death sentence confi rmed by the High Court to life imprisonment. 66. Recently, this Court, in the case of Sundar @ Sundarrajan v. State by Inspector of Police21, held that ‘rarest of rare’ doctrine does not require that in such a case only death sentence has to be imposed. This Court held that, while considering as to whether the death sentence is to be infl icted or not, the Court will have to consider not only the grave nature of crime but also as to whether there was a possibility of reformation of a criminal. 67. It is a settled position of law that, while sentencing, the Court is not required to apply only the ‘crime test’ but also the ‘criminal test’. 68. This Court, in the present case, vide dated 16th March 2023, had called for the Probation Offi cer’s Report, Prison Conduct Report and Psychological Assessment Report. 69. As per the Prison Conduct Report submitted by the Superintendent, District Jail, Baghpat, appellant Madan is currently 64 years old. He has been in prison for 18 years 3 months. During this entire duration, he has no history of any kind of prison off ence. The Report further shows that he has not been involved in any form of quarrels or fi ghts in prison. The Report shows that he has cordial relations with other prisoners in his barrack and follows the prison rules. The Report shows that he spends his time engaging in constructive activities, such as playing games and reading books. He observes the prison timings and assists the prison administration as well. 70. The IHBAS has also submitted appellant Madan’s Psychological Assessment Report. As per the said Report, appellant Madan is maintaining his daily activities adequately and his socio-occupational functioning is unaff ected except occasional forgetfulness which could be age related. As per the said Report, appellant Madan has voluntarily taken up tasks in prison to keep himself occupied. He has also taken up responsibilities to help younger prisoners to lead a better life in prison. 21 2023 SCC OnLine SC 310 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 71. This Court, in the case of Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik v. State of Maharashtra22, after referring to various earlier s, has held that in awarding death penalty, it is mandatory that the probability that the convict can be reformed and rehabilitated in the society, must be seriously and earnestly considered. It has been held that it is one of the mandates of the “special reasons” requirement of Section 354(3) Cr.P.C. This Court, in the cases of Bachan Singh (supra), Santosh Kumar Satishbhushan Bariyar v. State of Maharashtra23, Chhannu Lal Verma v. State of Chhattisgarh24, Rajendra Pralhadrao Wasnik (supra) and Manoj and Others v. State of Madhya Pradesh25, consistently held that it is the obligation of the prosecution to prove to the Court through evidence that there is a probability that the convict cannot be reformed or rehabilitated.