ETC. v. M. S. 351 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Jah, the property of the Paigah was kept under the A supervision of Zafar Jung who was never designated as Amir Paigah; (x) that after the death of Zafar Jung, the whole property of Khurshid Jah was taken over by the Court of Wards, which managed the same till 1338 F; B (xi) that after Farman of 1338F, all the properties were declared as properties belonging to the estate of Khurshid Jah; (xii) that till the abolition of Paigah the properties were managed by the Committee Intezami Paigah; C (xiii) that Exhibit P.7(a) relates to lands and maktajat; (xiv) that they were Hashmatpet, Hafeezpet, Hydernagar, etc; (xv) that the documents Exhibit P.2(a), P.3(a), P.4(a), P.6(a) and P.7(a) were all copies of the statements of income and D expenditure obtained from the Central Records Office; (xvi) that the claim of defendant No.1 that under Exhibits D.1(6) and D.1(29) the properties belonging to Khurshid Jah were gifted away and partitioned, cannot be accepted; (xvii)that the property left by Khurshid Jah was never partitioned E and they continued to be in possession of successive Amir Paigah; (xviii) that till the abolition of Paigahs, these properties were managed by the Committee of Amir Paigahs; (xix) that the estate of Khurshid Jah, for some time prior to the F abolition of the Jagirs, was put under a Special Court of Wards; (xx) that though under Exhibit D.1(3) dated 25.04.1950, the estate was directed to be released under a Farman, the supervision of the estate nevertheless continued under s G of the Chief Minister of Khurshid Jah Paigah; (xxi) that merely because the Government handed over the estate to Himayat Nawaz Jung, in recognition of his right as Amir Paigah, he cannot be deemed to be the exclusive owner; and H 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (xxii) that defendant No.1 cannot possibly set up title to Item No.1 of Plaint Schedule IV against any other defendant who comes in the line of succession of Khurshid Jah. 148. In the preceding paragraph, we have summarised all the findings recorded by the Trial Judge under Issue Nos.7(a) and 7(b) taken B up together with Issue Nos.8(a) and 8(b), 9, 11, 12 and 20. In fact, the discussion on Issue Nos. 7(a) and 7(b) starts at internal page No.198 of the certified copy (photocopy) of the dated 28.06.1963 and it goes up to internal page No.224. In all these 27 pages, the word ‘Mathurka’ appears perhaps only in one place namely page No.212 and that too as a statement made by one of the witnesses to the effect that C Mathruka was never partitioned between Zafar Jung and Imam Jung. 149. In other words, no finding was ever recorded by the Trial Judge in his dated 28.06.1963 that the properties left behind by Khurshid Jah were Mahtruka properties. Therefore, the contention as though there was such a finding and that the finding D has attained finality and that the impugned goes contrary to such a finding, is wholly misconceived.