50. In the present case, since none of the exceptions as laid down by this court in M.V. Narasimhan (supra)stand satisfi ed, the amendment in the Telangana VAT Act would not be applicable to the Telangana Tax on Entry of Goods into Local Area Act, 2001 and as such the entire demand is in any case barred by limitation. 51. The intention behind Section 19 was to stipulate a time frame for subsuming of erstwhile indirect taxes and for States to amend or repeal to pave the way for imposition of SGST. It was not for permitting States to freely amend their legislation till GST laws were enforced. Post 16.09.2016 28 (1976) 1 SCR6 THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 173 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the States had no competence to freely legislate on goods other than those mentioned in Entry 54List II of Constitution as amended by the 101st CAA. Section 19 was intended only to allow the States to bring their laws into compliance with the Constitution as amended by the 101stCAA. Section19 is pari materia with Article 243ZT. In Vipulbhai M Chaudhary v Gujarat Milk Mktg Federation Ltdṅ29 (hereafter, “Vipulbhai”), it was observed, in the context of Article 243ZT, which required laws relating to co-operative societies in force in States prior to the Amendment Act to be in tune with and in terms of the constitutional concept and set up of cooperative societies and provided a period of one year, it was held that “the Constitution enables the competent legislature or authority to suitably amend the existing provisions in their laws in tune with the constitutional mandate.” 52. The Telangana Amendment Act to the extent it seeks to legislate on the basis of erstwhile Entry 54 of List Il of the 7th Schedule is bereft of legislative competence.Section19 contemplates amendment by a “competent legislature”. Post amendment the competence has to be determined with reference to post amendment provisions. It is submitted that States had legislative competence only as an incidental power to amend or repeal the provisions dealing with State indirect taxes so as to bring them in line with the amended Constitution. An example of a valid amendment would have been to amend the defi nition of “goods” in the Telangana VAT Act. The same was however achieved by S.174(1)(i) of the Telangana Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (“TGST Act”) by confi ning the repeal of the Telangana VAT Act to all goods except those covered by Entry 54 of List II of the 7th Schedule. Section 19 of the101stAmendment is pari materia with Clause 20 of the Constitution 122nd Amendment Bill, 2014. The said Bill was considered by the Select Committee of Rajya Sabha in its report dated 22.07.2015. 53. The assessees also argue that the extension of limitation is done so with a view to secure revenue of the state by enlarging the duration. It is submitted that this argument is not tenable and cannot be sustained. The further argument that provisions of limitation on assessments etc., are only procedural and aspects of levy and assessment are not substantial, is also untenable.