[2023] 13 S.C.R. 289 : 2023 INSC 878 CASE DETAILS RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH (Criminal Appeal Nos. 2239-2240 of 2011) OCTOBER 06, 2023 [M.M. SUNDRESH AND J.B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration : The contention raised was that the High Court erred in holding the appellant guilty of off ence punishable under Section 20 of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (NDPS Act) as Section 50 of the NDPS Act was not complied with. It was contended that the High Court committed error in recording the fi nding that Section 50 of the NDPS Act was not applicable in the present case as the recovery of the contraband substance was not made as a result of the personal search of the accused but on account of the search of his bag. The issue was whether Section 50 of the NDPS Act was at all applicable to the present case. The question, therefore, that required consideration was what meaning should be assigned to the phrase “to search any person” occurring in Section 50 of the NDPS Act. Whether the phrase “to search any person” means (a) search of articles on the person or body of the person; (b) would include search of articles in immediate possession as such bag or other luggage carried by him or in physical possession of the person to be searched; (c) would include search of bag or luggage which is presumed to be in possession of the person even though it may be lying in a house or railway compartment or at the airport; or (d) whether application of Section 50 could be extended to a case of search of a place, a conveyance or a house if the accused is physically present at the time of the search. Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – Search in bag of accused – Applicability of s.50 – What would be included within “search of a person” as stipulated u/s.50 – Term “person” – How to be construed – Whether a bag carried by the accused can be considered 289 290 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. to be inextricably linked to the accused, and therefore, any recovery of a contraband from such a bag without complying with s.50 would be inadmissible – Interpretation of Statutes. Held: According to Constitution Bench in Baldev Singh case, the provisions of s.50 will come into play only in the case of personal search of the accused and not of some baggage like a bag, article or container, etc. which he may be carrying – In the three Judge bench decision in Pawan Kumar case, it was held that the term “person” under s.50 would mean a natural person or a living unit and not an artifi cial person i.e., a bag or a briefcase – The three Judge Bench in Pawan Kumar case concluded that an external article which does not form part of body is outside the ambit of the word “person” occurring in s.50 of the NDPS Act – In view of plain and unambiguous statutory provision, there is no scope of interpreting section 50 in any other manner than the interpretation explained in Baldev Singh and Pawan Kumar – One must adhere to the principle of law as explained by the Constitution Bench in Baldev Singh and the three Judge Bench in Pawan Kumar – In the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court was justifi ed in holding the appellant guilty of the off ence under the NDPS Act and at the same time, the High Court was also correct in saying that s.50 of the NDPS Act was not required to be complied with as the recovery was from the bag.