of varying size, dimension or weight. However, while carrying or moving along with them, some extra eff ort or energy would be required. They would have to be carried either by the hand or hung on the shoulder or back or placed on the head. In common parlance it would be said that a person is carrying a particular article, specifying the manner in which it was carried like hand, shoulder, back or head, etc.” Therefore, Pawan Kumar (supra) concluded RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 351 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] that an external article which does not form part of body is outside the ambit of the word “person” occurring in Section 50 of the NDPS Act. 90. What is most important to note in Pawan Kumar (supra) is that the search was not only of the bag, but also of the person of the accused, however, the contraband was recovered only from the bag and not from the person of the accused therein. What we are trying to highlight is that although in Pawan Kumar (supra) the search was of the accused as well as the bag, yet since the recovery of the contraband was only from the bag, this Court took the view that Section 50 would have no application. 91. In State of Rajasthan v. Daulat Ram reported in (2005) 7 SCC 36, opium was recovered from a bag being carried on the accused person’s head. This Court while relying upon Pawan Kumar (supra) held that the recovery made from the accused person’s bag would not constitute personal search of the accused and thus, would not attract Section 50. It was held as under:- “9. … In view of the principles laid down in the aforesaid of this Court, there is no scope for the argument that in the facts and circumstances of this case, the provisions of Section 50 of the NDPS Act were attracted. The and of the High Court must, therefore, be set aside.” 92. This Court in State of Haryana v. Mai Ram reported in (2008) 8 SCC 292, while examining the scope of Section 50 held as under:- “14. … A bare reading of Section 50 shows that it only applies in case of personal search of a person. It does not extend to search of a vehicle or a container or a bag, or premises. (See Kalema Tumba v. State of Maharashtra, State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh and Gurbax Singh v. State of Haryana). 15. The language of Section 50 is implicitly (sic explicitly) clear that the search has to be in relation to a person as contrasted to search of premises, vehicles or articles. This position was settled beyond doubt by the Constitution Bench in Baldev Singh case [(1999) 6 SCC 172]. A similar question was examined in Madan Lal v. State of H.P. [(2003) 7 SCC 465].” 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 93. In Balbir Kaur v. State of Punjab reported in (2009) 15 SCC 795, the contraband was recovered from two bags on which the accused was sitting but no personal search was conducted.