That G the compliance of requirements of readiness and willingness have to be in spirt and substance and not in letter and form. That is why the deletion of the words “who fails to aver” in Section 16 (c) of the Act does bring about any real change in the position of law as it stood prior to the amendment. [Para 20, 21][272-E-H; 273-A-B] H 248 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 1.4 Readiness and willingness cannot be considered in a straitjacket formula; it has to be inferred on a consideration of the entire facts and circumstances of each case and the intention and conduct of the parties concerned. Even if a party to the contract is ready and has the requisite funds he may not be willing to perform his part of the contract and vice versa. Thus, both B readiness as well as willingness have to be established by the plaintiff on whom the burden is cast in a suit for specific performance of an agreement. [Para 22, 23][273-C-D; 274-B] 1.5 Nothing was brought on record by the plaintiff to demonstrate that positive steps were taken by him in pursuance C of the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. It is trite that the relief of specific performance cannot be granted in favour of a party who has not performed his obligations under the contract. The only exception to such rule is that a party is not required to perform those obligations, as are prevented or waived D by the other party to the contract. [Para 26][275-G-H] 1.6 It is an admitted fact that the plaintiff had paid an amount, which constituted merely 4% of the consideration. The trial court itself recorded findings to the effect that neither party had initiated timely steps to perform their respective obligations under the E contract. Although the defendants did not make available the title deeds of the schedule property to the plaintiff, it could not be said that the conduct of the defendants had prevented the plaintiff from tendering the balance sale consideration, within the stipulated date, or at any time before filing the suit for specific performance as the whole object of the intended sale was to garner F funds for discharging a debt which was ultimately done by the defendants by selling family jewellery. Further, there was no delay on the part of the defendant in acting in pursuance of the agreement. The fact that the purchase certificate was granted by the concerned authority only on 31st May, 2007, was beyond the G control of the defendants and such delay could not be attributed to the defendants. The defendants had duly initiated the process of obtaining a purchase certificate soon after entering into the agreement. [Para 27, 28][276-A-E] 1.7 While the counsel for the appellant-plaintiff has contended that since the transaction in question involved the H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 249 KURUP transfer of rights in immovable property, a prudent purchaser A would have to satisfy himself as to the genuineness and validity of the documents of title, and therefore, owing to the nonavailability of documents of title, the plaintiff was unable to proceed with his obligations, no explanation has been provided as to why ancillary steps such as measurement of the property B was not proceeded with.