By and large, from the averments in the various affi davits fi led by the appellants over a period of time; referred to by the High Court in its , the stance had been that the appellants should not have defi ed the of the High Court and are extremely sorry in that regard. In such circumstances, the appellants pleaded before the High Court that their apology may be accepted and they may be discharged from the proceedings. 101. We may take judicial notice of the fact with all humility at our command that over a period of time, the courts have shown undue leniency and magnanimity towards the contemnors. This lenient attitude shown by the courts over a period of time has actually emboldened unscrupulous litigants to disobey or commit breach of the passed by any court or any undertaking given to the court with impunity. 102. The litigants, proceeded for contempt of court have realised that they have a very potent weapon in their hands in the form of apology. Take for instance, the present case itself. What do the appellants want us to do? The appellants want this Court to accept their apology and set aside the of punishment and sentence passed by the High Court. There ought not to be a tendency by courts to show compassion when disobedience of an undertaking or an is with impunity and with total consciousness. 1126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 103. In re. Tapan Kumar Mukherjee v. Heromoni Mondal and Another reported in (1991) 1 SCC 397, this Court in a contempt matter has observed:— “9.… we should like to put out a warning that where a case of wilful disobedience is made out, the courts will not hesitate and will convict delinquent offi cer and that no lenience in the court's attitude should be expected from the court as a matter of course merely on the ground that an of conviction would damage the service career of the concerned offi cer”. 104. In re. Tapan Kumar (supra), this Court was dealing with a public servant facing an action for contempt. 105. We wonder what could be the ultimate outcome if we accept the apology and allow the appellants to go scot-free. First, they would have to face no legal consequences for the alleged act of contempt and secondly, would continue to enjoy or retain the fruits of their contempt. We say so because they have already pocketed a sizeable amount towards the sale consideration obtained from the purchasers. 106. In the case of Sub-Judge,First Class, Hoshangabad v. Jawahar Lal Ramchand Parwar reported in AIR 1940 Nagpur 407, Justice Bose (as he then was) said that an apology is not a weapon of defence forged to purge the guilty of their off ences. It is not an additional insult to be hurled at the heads of those who have been wronged. It is intended to be evidence of real contriteness, the manly consciousness of a wrong done, of an injury infl icted, and the earnest desire to make such reparation as lies in the wrong- doer's power.