16.9. A similar guideline was expressed in Sun Newspapers Limited and the Associated Newspapers Limited vs. The Federal Commissioner of Taxation, (1938) 61 C.L.R. 337, wherein it was stated that the expenditure incurred towards establishing, replacing and enlarging the profi t yielding subject must be contrasted with the continual fl ow of working expenses, which ought to be supplied continually out of the returns of revenue. While the former category of expenditure would be capital in nature, the latter would be revenue. It was further held that while applying the ‘enduring benefi t’ test the words, ‘permanent’ or ‘enduring’ are not to be understood to mean ever-lasting. The distinction which is drawn is that between more or less recurrent expenses involved in running a business and an expenditure for the benefi t of the business as a whole. 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 16.10. Certain supplementary tests have been laid down by the Judicial Committee in Mohanlal Hargovind of Jubbulpore vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, (1949) L.R. 76 IndAp 235 wherein the assessee had paid for purchasing tendu leaves from the forest, which right included the right of entry and coppicing and pollarding. The said expenditure was for acquiring the raw materials for the manufacturing business and thus a capital expenditure. In the said case, the assessee was a paid manufacturer who had obtained short-term contracts with the Government and other forest owners to obtain tendu leaves from the forests. The Judicial Committee held that these contracts were, in a business sense, for the purpose of securing supplies to the manufacturers of one of the raw materials of his business. They granted no interest in land or the plants or trees and therefore, the expense incurred in this regard was not a capital expenditure. 17. A study of the aforesaid decisions of the Courts of England would reveal that the following factors have guided the Courts in the said jurisdiction in determining the nature of transactions: i. Periodicity of payments: In the broadest sense, capital expenditure is a thing that is going to be spent once and for all and income expenditure is a thing which will incur every year. However, expenditure which is not ‘once and for all’ may nevertheless be capital. Expenditure of a recurring nature on the acquisition of assets which are clearly fi xed rather than circulating capital, remains capital. Moreover, an outgoing does not cease to be of a capital nature merely because it is payable in instalments, vide CIR vs. Adam, (1928) 14 T.C. 34. The test is therefore to determine, whether, the payment is made as a matter of such frequent recurrence that it is a part of ordinary working expenditure, Bonner vs. Basset Mines Ltd., (1912) 6 T.C. 145. ii. Object of the expenditure: The Atherton test looks to the purpose or motive of expenditure. For expenditure to be capital it must be spent for the acquisition, improvement or disposal of a capital asset, vide Rolfe vs. Wimpy Waste Management Ltd., (1989) 62 T.C.