B ii) The Model Code of Conduct is irrelevant, as the application for conversion of the land to commercial, and permission for sub-division, was filed in August 2018, much before the election process even began. In between, there were several other decisions taken by the same Land Planning Committee C and Infrastructure Development Committee none of which were cancelled. Even in regard to the Land Planning Committee, several other proposals were considered and granted during the same period when Respondent No. 1’s application was pending. There were around 70 cases approved in September 2018, as well as December 2018, D apart from Respondent No. 1’s. None of these have been subsequently annulled by the Appellants, clearly showing that this is an act of pure arbitrariness and the arguments raised on the Model Code of Conduct are nothing but a lame excuse; E iii) There are 30 other instances of conversion in which RIICO has acted as the competent authority to grant permission, from 1996 to 2019. Out of these 30, 3 of the cases are from LIA, Kota. These three cases involved conversion of 100% of the land to commercial usage, as opposed to Respondent No. 1 which only sought conversion of 23%. The residential F colonies that have been raised by Respondent No. 1 have not been objected to by the State. Further, as recently as in 2022, RIICO has been demanding lease rent and service charges from Respondent No. 1, clearly showing that it is in charge; G iv) The Collector had only signed the initial transfer lease deeds of 2007 with Respondent No. 1 because the lease deeds in question were not fresh leases, but were executed for the remainder of the term of the already subsisting lease in favour of JKSL. The AAIFR scheme referred to the consent H 272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A of the state government, which also necessitated the Collector’s participation. This was the only reason for the 2007 deeds to have been executed with the Collector and not RIICO; v) It is very clear that the land in LIA, Kota, had been B transferred and allotted to RIICO and the Corporation was considered to be the sole authority, even by the State Government, which was capable of dealing with the land. The dated 18.09.1979 by the State Government states that industrial areas are to be transferred, pursuant to which the Joint Director of Industries allotted the land to RIICO C on 28.09.1979 by an . vi) Under Section 100 of the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, the State Government had framed the 1959 Rules, which were meant to govern the allotment of industrial plots across the state and the grant of leases over these areas. The D 1959 Rules, were purposefully amended with insertion of Rules 11A & 12. Rule 11A states that industrial lands are to be allocated to RIICO for industrial development, and under Rule 12, the Company is empowered to further distribute land via leases to different entrepreneurs for development.