It is considered, that accused persons who are subject to military, naval or air force law may be permitted to be remanded to military, naval or air force custody. In fact, such custody has been ed in some cases. In that there may be no doubt left in the matter, the following additions should (it has been suggested) be made in the aforesaid sections after the word “custody” :— 892 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “including military, naval or air force custody where the accused belongs to any of these services.” We have considered the suggestion. In section 167(2), the words used are “in such custody as the Magistrate thinks ût”. These words are very wide (sic). In fact, it has been held even under section 344, that the Magistrate can remand the accused to whatever custody he thinks ût. We are therefore of the view, that no change is necessary.” (emphasis supplied) We give our fullest imprimatur to the views expressed by the Law Commission as Section 167 of the CrPC, 1973 is meant for not only protecting the liberty of a person but also to conclude the investigation in a fair manner. A balancing act is expected to be undertaken by the Magistrate. 56. Sub-section (2) of Section 167 of the CrPC, 1973 further makes a reference to the words “a term not exceeding 15 days in the whole”. The term has been introduced on purpose keeping in view the proviso which gives an outer limit for the conclusion of the investigation. Similarly, the words “not exceeding 15 days in the whole” should be understood in the very same manner. The word “whole” means “total, not divided, lacking no part, entire, full, and complete”. In Glaze v. Hart 225 M.O. App. 1205, the Kansas City Court of Appeals has dealt with the word “whole”: “…It would be doing violence to the plain, ordinary meaning of the word total to hold that claimant, in the circumstances revealed in said fi ndings, was, at the time of injury, totally dependent upon the employee for support. The word total is defi ned as whole; undivided; entire; complete in degree; utter; absolute….” (emphasis supplied) As a sequitur, 15 days of maximum custody has to be seen contextually from the point of view of the period of investigation as provided under the proviso. 57. Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973 authorises the detention of the accused in custody by an of the Magistrate. It does consciously treat V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 893 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] a detention diff erent from custody. Custody will be either to the court or an investigating agency. Detention is normally made only by an investigating agency prior to the production before the learned Magistrate. A custody from being judicial may turn into police through an passed by the learned Magistrate. Detention may at best be a facet of custody. However, they are not synonymous with each other. When detention is authorised, it would become custody.