Thus, it is obvious, that Parliament intended to exclude from the scope of defi nition not merely persons who obtain goods for resale but also those who purchase goods with a view to using such goods for carrying on any activity ROHIT CHAUDHARY & ANR. v. M/S VIPUL LTD. 407 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] on a large scale for the purpose of earning profi t. Thus, persons buying goods either for resale or for use in large scale profi t making activity will not be a consumer entitled to protection under the Act, which would be a plain interpretation of this defi nition clause. The intention of the Parliament as can be gathered from the defi nition section is to deny the benefi ts of the Act to persons purchasing goods either for purpose of resale or for the purpose of being used in profi t making activity engaged on a large scale. 12. The expression ‘commercial purpose’ has not been defi ned under the Act. In the absence thereof we have to go by its ordinary meaning. ‘Commercial’ denotes “pertaining to commerce” (chambers 20th Century dictionary); it means ‘connected’ with or engaged in commerce; mercantile; “having profi t as the main aim” (Collin’s English Dictionary); relate to or is connected with trade and traffi c or commerce in general, is occupied with business and commerce. The Explanation (added by Consumer Protection (Amendment) Act 50 of 1993 (replacing Ordinance of 24 of 1993 w.e.f. 18.06.1993) excludes certain purposes from the purview of the expression ‘commercial purpose’- a case of explanation to an exception to amplify this defi nition by way of an illustration would certainly clear the clouds surrounding such interpretation. For instance, a person who buys a car for his personal use would certainly be a consumer, but if purchased for plying the car for commercial purposes namely as a taxi, it can be said that it is for a commercial purpose. However, the Explanation clarifi es that even purchases in certain situations for ‘commercial purposes’ would not take within its sweep the purchaser out of the defi nition of expression ‘consumer’. In other words, if the commercial use is by the purchaser himself for the purpose of earning his livelihood by means of self-employment, such purchaser of goods would continue to be a ‘consumer’. This court in the case of Lilavati Kirtilal Mehta Medical Trust v. Unique Shanti Developers (supra), has held that a straight jacket formula cannot be adopted in every case and the broad principles which can be curled out for determining whether an activity or transaction is for a commercial purpose would depend on facts and circumstances of each case. Thus, if the dominant purpose of purchasing the goods or services is for a profi t motive and this fact is evident from record, such purchaser would not fall within the four corners of the defi nition of ‘consumer’. On the other hand, if the answer is in the negative, namely if such person purchases the goods or services is not for 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.