The registration of SAD(B) was challenged through a reference letter sent by the respondent No. 1, Balwant Singh Khera to the Election Commission of India. After receiving the comments of SAD(B), the Secretariat of the ECI B informed the counsel for respondent No. 1 that the challenge was not sustainable. The passed by the ECI was intimated vide communication dated 10.01.2008. 3.3 It is submitted that thereafter having failed to get the registration of the Party cancelled, the respondent No. 1 has lodged C the present complaint dated 20.02.2009, which is belatedly filed after 20 years of the registration and is nothing but an abuse of process of law and court. 3.4 It is submitted that the very premise of the complaint was that the undertaking given to the ECI while complying with Section D 29-A of the Act, 1951 conflicted with the Constitution submitted to the Gurudwara Election Commission insofar as the Party was engaged in religious activities, while giving false declaration on secularism. It is submitted that according to respondent No. 1, as per the Constitution of the Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak E Committee, only a person believing in Sikhism and a particular religion can contest the election. It is submitted that as per the respondent No. 1, the clauses in the Constitution of the Party cannot be said to be believing in secularism and therefore, according to respondent No. 1, while submitting the declaration under Section 29-A of the Act, 1951, a false and contrary claim was made, it is F submitted that as such the aforesaid has no substance. 3.5 It is submitted that the management of a religious place is a secular act. The Sikh Gurdwaras Act, 1925 is concerned with better management of the gurudwaras and participating in elections for Shiromani Gurudwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC) is not G a non-secular act. It is submitted that even while believing in a particular religion, a person / Party can be secular. Reliance is placed on the decisions of this Court in the case of Sardar Sarup Singh and Ors. Vs. State of Punjab and Ors., AIR 1959 SC 860; S.R. Bommai and Ors. Vs. Union of India and Ors., (1994) 3 SCC 1; and Commissioner, Hindu Religious H SHRI SUKHBIR SINGH BADAL v. BALWANT SINGH KHERA 925 AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Endowments, Madras Vs. Sri Lakshmindra Thirtha Swamiar A of Sri Shirur Mutt, 1954 SCR 1005. 3.6 It is submitted that being religious is not antithetical to secularism. One can be religious as well as secular in outlook. It is submitted that Party’s membership is open to all. It is submitted that therefore, the basis on which the complaint is filed with itself B is baseless. 3.7 It is further submitted by Shri Viswanathan, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants that even otherwise on merits also, no case is made out for the offence for which the learned Trial Court has summoned the appellants to C face the trial, namely, under Sections 420, 465, 466, 467, 468, 471 read with 120B IPC.