(2) Arson, looting, damage to property No of witness statements recorded : 1366 No of 164 statements recorded : 3 No of arrests made : 14 No of medical examination : 6 (3) Destruction of religious place of worship No of witness statements recorded : 10 No of 164 statements recorded : nil No of arrests made : nil No of medical examination : nil (4) Grievous Hurt No of witness statements recorded : 56 No of 164 statements recorded : nil No of arrests made : 12 No of medical examination : 7” 14. During the course of the submissions which have been addressed before this Court, certain fundamental aspects warranting the immediate attention of this Court have crystallized. Counsel for the petitioners specifi cally highlighted the following issues: a. The need for the appointment of a court-mandated Committee for hearing and healing and for restoring the confi dence of survivors and the families of victims of violence, particularly sexual violence against women; b. Constituting a court-appointed Special Investigating Team5 comprising fi ve police offi cers drawn from outside the State of Manipur with a specifi c mandate to ensure: 5 SIT DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1099 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] i. registration of FIRs; ii. recording of statements of victims under Section 164 CrPC; and iii. medical examination of the victims under Section 164A CrPC; c. Protection of victims and witnesses; d. Provision of legal aid; e. Enforcing the right to a speedy trial; f. Provision of free and comprehensive medical aid to survivors or victims; g. Transformative and reparative justice for the victims of ethnic violence, including by: i. Ensuring conditions of dignity in the relief camps; ii. Providing compensation and restitution to the victims of violence; and iii. Taking preventive measures; h. Facilitating the right to information by appointing nodal offi cers at relief camps and other places to bridge the informational vacuum; i. Providing dignity in the disposal of dead bodies; and j. Appointment of a Commission of Inquiry to enquire into dereliction of duty by public servants. 15. The circumstances which justify the intervention of this Court in the exercise of its jurisdiction under Article 32 of the Constitution, clearly emerge from the sequence narrated earlier in this . The sectarian violence and strife in Manipur has received extensive coverage in the media. The affi davit which has been fi led by the Union Home Secretary in these proceedings states that: “4. … large-scale violence broke out in the State of Manipur on 03.05.2023 after a Tribal Solidarity March undertaken by All Tribal Students Union Manipur (ATSUM) in opposition to the demand for 1100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. inclusion of the Meitei community in the list of Scheduled Tribes. The call for this march led to a counter response by Meiteis. Thereafter large-scale violence broke out in the State of Manipur, and as a result of the violence, many residents of Manipur lost their lives and several other got seriously injured, their houses and properties were burnt down as a result of arson and many of them were rendered homeless.