(b) Whether the Group of Companies doctrine should continue to be invoked on the basis of the principle of “single economic reality”? (c) Whether the Group of Companies doctrine should be construed as a means of interpreting the implied consent or intent to arbitrate between the parties? (d) Whether the principles of alter ego and/or piercing the corporate veil can alone justify pressing the Group of Companies doctrine into operation even in the absence of implied consent?”6 4 Chloro Controls India (P) Ltd. v. Severn Trent Water Purifi cation Inc., (2013) 1 SCC 641 [2012 INSC 436]. 5 Cox and Kings Ltd v. SAP India Pvt Ltd, (2022) 8 SCC 1, para 54 [2022 INSC 523]. 6 ibid, para 104. 718 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 4. I have had the advantage of going through the erudite and comprehensive opinion of the learned Chief Justice. While I agree with his reasoning and conclusions, I consider it necessary to supplement them with my own reasoning on some important aspects. The broad question before us relates to the ‘parties’ to an ‘arbitration agreement’. This question must take us to Section 7 of the Act that defi nes an ‘arbitration agreement’ as under: “7. Arbitration agreement.—(1) In this Part, “arbitration agreement” means an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not. (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement. (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing. (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in— (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication including communication through electronic means which provide a record of the agreement; or (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence in which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other. (5) The reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the contract.” 5. It is evident from the above-referred statutory prescription that an ‘arbitration agreement’ is described in sub-section (1) of Section 7 as, “an agreement by the parties”. Both these expressions, ‘agreement’ and ‘parties’ are important for our consideration. For a proper understanding COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 719 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] of these expressions, it is necessary to examine the place of arbitration as a dispute redressal mechanism in the larger body of institutional remedies in civil law. B. Civil Remedy and Arbitration 6. In our legal system, access to civil courts is a standard judicial remedy. Civil courts have the jurisdiction to try all civil suits,7 and any agreement to restrict the remedy is declared void under Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.8 However, exceptions to Section 28 save a “contract to refer to arbitration” any dispute that has arisen or may arise between two or more persons.9 Thus, a restriction on accessing civil remedy is saved under Section 28 of the Contract Act, if there is a contract to arbitrate.