16. As noticed, there had been multiple transactions in this matter. Learned counsel for the contesting respondent has placed before us in tabular form the relevant agreements, the contracting parties thereto, the purpose of the agreement, and availability of arbitration clause therein. E We may reproduce the same to facilitate an eye view of the salient features of the transactions in question as follows: - F G H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 137 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] A B C D E 17. Thus, except the principal agreement dated 07.04.2005, none of the other agreements contained any arbitration clause, even if they F related to the same property and also involved the appellant and the respondent No. 1. The later transactions involved other parties too like the tripartite agreement dated 06.07.2006 whereby the respondent No. 2 bank sanctioned loan to the respondent No. 1 and then, supplemental to the said tripartite agreement for dealing with the deposit of title deeds. Similarly, the other deeds of conveyance dated 23.01.2015 involve the G appellant and the other defendants. 17.1. The aforesaid position of the dealings of the parties, when examined with reference to the reliefs claimed in the suit and the cause of action pertaining to the said reliefs, as extensively noticed by the High Court and extracted hereinabove, we are clearly of the view that the H 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A submissions made by the appellant with reference to the amendment of Section 8 of the Act of 1996 and the later decisions of this Court in interpretation of the amended Section 8 do not inure to the benefit of the appellant. This is for the simple reason that no such conjunction can be provided to the original licence agreement dated 07.04.2005 and the tripartite agreement involving the Bank dated 06.07.2006 and 23.01.2008, B whereby the arbitration clause could be held applicable to the tripartite agreement too. This is apart from the fact that in the frame of the suit and various other reliefs claimed, involving subsequent purchasers too and the allegations of fraud, the dispute cannot be said to be arbitrable at all. The present one cannot be said to be a case involving any “doubt” C about non-existence of arbitration agreement in relation to the dispute in question. 17.2. There being no doubt about non-existence of arbitration agreement in relation to the entire subject-matter of the suit, and when the substantive reliefs claimed in the suits fall outside the arbitration D clause in the original licence agreement, the view taken by the High Court does not appear to be suffering from any infirmity or against any principle laid down by this Court. 18. Even if by reference to remote pedigree, the original licence agreement is said to be the genesis of the contractual relations of the E appellant and the respondent No. 1, that does not ipso facto lead to the availability of the arbitration agreement in relation to the dispute in question, which emanates from the tripartite agreement and which cannot be determined without reference to the said tripartite agreement and without involving all the parties thereto.