On 09.03.2001, tension mounted between the Hindus and the Muslims as some people from the minority community damaged the idol of Ganesh. A report with the police was lodged in that regard. In such circumstances, the witnesses deposed falsely against them. 12. At the conclusion of the trial, the learned Trial Judge convicted E the appellants herein for the offence punishable under Section 302 read with Section 34 IPC and sentenced both as stated hereinbefore. The original accused Nos. 2 and 4 were ed to be acquitted of all the charges. 13. In such circumstances referred to above, the two appellants F are here before this Court with the present appeal. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF FOF THE APPELLANTS 14. The learned counsel appearing for the appellants vehemently submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in dismissing the appeal filed by the two appellants herein against the and G of conviction passed by the Trial Court. According to the learned counsel, the High Court failed to appreciate that no reliance could have been placed on the evidence of the so called eyewitnesses. According to the learned counsel, the ocular version on record does not inspire any confidence and deserves to be discarded. H 864 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 15. The learned counsel further submitted that the very presence of the first informant PW 1 Asgar Shaikh is doubtful because although he claims to have suffered an injury on his head during the assault yet no medical treatment was taken by him and there is no medical certificate on record that he had suffered any injury on his head. In such circumstances, according to the learned counsel, the entire first B information report, at the instance of the PW 1 is unreliable. 16. The learned counsel further submitted that the discovery of the weapons under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for short, ‘the Act 1872’) could also not have been relied upon as the panch witnesses failed to support the case of the prosecution or rather failed to C prove the contents of the panchnama. 17. In the last, the learned counsel appearing for the appellants vehemently submitted that even if the entire case of the prosecution is believed to be true, the case at the most would be one of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. According to the learned counsel, the case D falls within the purview of Exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC. 18. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prays that there being merit in his appeal, the same may be allowed and the appellants be acquitted of all the charges. In the alternative, he prayed that the conviction may be altered from one under Section 302 of the E IPC to Section 304 Part 1 of the IPC by giving benefit of Exception 4 to the Section 300 of the IPC. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 19. Mr. Abhikalp Pratap Singh, the learned counsel appearing for the State of Maharashtra, on the other hand has vehemently opposed F this appeal submitting that no error not to speak of any error of law can be said to have been committed by the High Court in dismissing the appeal thereby affirming the of conviction and the consequence sentence passed by the Trial Court.