20.9. In the case of an offence of kidnapping or abduction, it may be inquired into or tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction G the person was kidnapped or conveyed or concealed or detained. 20.10. The offences of theft, extortion or robbery may be inquired into or tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction, the offence was committed or the stolen property was possessed, received or retained. H RANA AYYUB v. DIRECTORATE OF ENFORCEMENT 907 THROUGH ITS ASSISTANT DIRECTOR [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 20.11. An offence of criminal misappropriation or criminal breach A of trust may be inquired into or tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed or any part of the property was received or retained or was required to be returned or accounted for by the accused person. 20.12. An offence which includes the possession of stolen B property, may be inquired into or tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed or the stolen property was possessed by any person, having knowledge that it is stolen property. (Nos. 8 to 12 are found in Section 181) 20.13. An offence which includes cheating, if committed by means C of letters or telecommunication messages, may be inquired into or tried by any court within whose local jurisdiction such letters or messages were sent or received. 20.14. An offence of cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of the property may be inquired into or tried by a court within D whose local jurisdiction the property was delivered by the person deceived or was received by the accused person. 20.15. Some offences relating to marriage such as Section 494 IPC (marrying again during the lifetime of husband or wife) and Section 495 IPC (committing the offence under Section 494 with E concealment of former marriage) may be inquired into or tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction the offence was committed or the offender last resided with the spouse by the first marriage. (Nos. 13 to 15 are found in Section 182) 20.16. An offence committed in the course of a journey or voyage F may be inquired into or tried by a court through or into whose local jurisdiction that person or thing passed in the course of that journey or voyage. (Section 183). 20.17. Cases falling under Section 219 (three offences of the same kind committed within a space of twelve months whether G in respect of the same person or not), cases falling under Section 220 (commission of more offences than one, in one series of acts committed together as to form the same transaction) and cases falling under Section 221, (where it is doubtful what offences have been committed), may be inquired into or tried by any court competent to inquire into or try any of the offences. (Section 184). H 908 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 21. Apart from Sections 177 to 184, which lay down in elaborate detail, the rules relating to jurisdiction, Chapter XIII of the Code also contains a few other sections.