73. The obvious question pops up in the mind of any prudent person, as to why he was instrumental, when he was not guilty of the off ence to which he was being tried. The obvious answer to this would reasonably come to mind of any prudent person that his guilty mind was fearful about the result. All these aspects leave no room for doubt that the subsequent conduct of Respondent No.2 is one of the major circumstances pointing towards his guilt for the incident that occurred at 9AM on 25.3.1995. 74. We may quote a Latin Maxim which aptly means that a person who receives advantage must also bear the burden, “qui sentit commodom, sentire debit et onus” Issue (C): -Status of the Bayan Tahriri/Written Statement of the deceased 75. Before discussing the status of the record of the case, it is noted, at the cost of repetition, that this Court, with the strength of Section 56 of the Evidence Act, has already taken judicial notice of certain fi ndings and observations recorded by the Division Bench of the High Court in the Habeas Corpus Petition. 76. According to the case record, the incident had occurred at 09:00 AM on 25.03.1995. A written statement (Bayan Tahriri) of the injured Rajendra Rai was recorded in CMHC, Panapur, on the morning of 25.03.1995 at 10:30 hours. An FIR was lodged on 25.03.1995 at ………. Hours, which was based on the written statement (Bayan Tahriri) of the injured Rajendra Rai, who subsequently succumbed to the injuries he received in the incident. The FIR was forwarded to the Judicial Magistrate on 26.03.1995, and on 27.03.1995, the FIR was seen by the Judicial Magistrate. 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 77. Because of the indescribably regrettable subversion of the Trial proceedings, the formal witness, i.e., the Constable Clerk and Investigating Offi cer, were not produced to prove the lodging of FIR and written complaint. Eventually, the written statement/Bayan Tahriri, as well as the FIR, were not marked as Exhibits. All the witnesses of fact, except CW-1 Lalmuni Devi (mother of deceased Rajendra Rai), had turned hostile either under fear or being won over. Even the testimony of PW-10, Dr. Sudhir Kumar also appears to be infl uenced by the accused -side as he repeatedly stated (four times) before the Trial Court that “injured were unconscious”, despite the fact that the injury report does not mention that the “injured were unconscious” 78. The deplorable conduct of the Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court also resulted in the miscarriage of justice at various steps of the trial, but the most objectionable aspect is that one person Kishori Rai, a seizure list witness (who was not included as a witness in the chargesheet by the Investigating Offi cer)had fi led an application before the Trial Court seeking his examination as well as examination of other two persons namely Nagendra Singh and Sanjeev Kumar Singh (who had signed said Bayan Tahriri as attesting persons but were not included as witnesses in the chargesheet by the Investigating Offi cer)as witnesses during the trial.