From the above discussion, it is amply clear that power to arrest a person by a Customs Offi cer is statutory in character and cannot be interfered with. Such power of arrest can be exercised only in those cases where the Customs Offi cer has “reason to believe” that a person has been guilty of an off ence punishable under Sections 132, 133, 135, 135-A or 136 of the Act. Thus, the power must be exercised on objective facts of commission of an off ence enumerated and the Customs Offi cer has reason to believe that a person sought to be arrested has been guilty of commission of such off ence. The power to arrest thus is circumscribed by objective considerations and cannot be exercised on whims, caprice or fancy of the offi cer. 37. The section Ed. : Section 104 of the Customs Act, 1962 also obliges the Customs Offi cer to inform the person arrested of the grounds of arrest as soon as may be. The law requires such person to be produced before a Magistrate without unnecessary delay. 38. The law thus, on the one hand, allows a Customs Offi cer to exercise power to arrest a person who has committed certain V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 883 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] offences, and on the other hand, takes due care to ensure individual freedom and liberty by laying down norms and providing safeguards so that the power of arrest is not abused or misused by the authorities. ….” ××× ××× ××× “169. Notably, this dichotomy does not exist in the 2002 Act for more than one reason. For, there is no role for the regular Police Offi cer. The investigation is to be done only by the authorities under the 2002 Act and upon culmination of the investigation, to fi le complaint before the Special Court. Moreover, by virtue of Clause (ii) of Explanation in Section 44(1) of the 2002 Act, it is open to the authorities under this Act to bring any further evidence, oral or documentary, against any accused person involved in respect of off ence of money-laundering, for which, a complaint has already been fi led by him or against person not named in the complaint and by legal fi ction, such further complaint is deemed to be part of the complaint originally fi led. Strikingly, in Tofan Singh v. State of Tamil Nadu, (2021) 4 SCC 1, the Court also noted that, while dealing with the provisions of the NDPS Act, the designated offi cer has no express power to fi le a closure report unlike the power bestowed on the police offi cer, if he had investigated the same crime under the NDPS Act. Once again, this lack of authority to fi le closure report is not there in the 2002 Act. For, by the virtue of proviso in Section 44(1)(b), after conclusion of investigation, if no off ence of money-laundering is made out requiring fi ling of a complaint, the Authority under the Act expected to fi le such complaint, is permitted to fi le a closure report before the Special Court in that regard.