If it requires an examination or argument to establish it, if it has to be established by a long drawn out process of reasoning, or lengthy or complicated arguments, on points where there may considerably be two opinions, then such an error would cease to be an error of law. (See : Satyanarayan Laxminarayan Hegde and Others v. Mallikarjun Bhavanappa Tirumale, reported in AIR 1960 SC 137.) 60. However, in our opinion, such a test should not be applied in a straitjacket formula and may fail because what might be considered by one Judge as an error self-evident, might not be considered so by another Judge. 61. At this stage, it may not be out of place to remind ourselves of the observations of this Court in Syed Yakoob (supra) on this point, which are as follows: “Where it is manifest or clear that the conclusion of law recorded by an inferior court or tribunal is based on an obvious misinterpretation of the relevant statutory provision, or something in ignorance of it, or may be even in disregard of it, or is expressly founded on reasons which are wrong in law, the said conclusion can be corrected by a writ of certiorari. Certiorari would also not lie to correct mere errors of fact even though such errors may be apparent on the face of the record. The writ jurisdiction is supervisory and the court exercising it is not to act as an appellate court. It is well settled that the writ court would not re-appreciate the evidence and substitute its own conclusion of fact for that recorded by the adjudicating body, be it a court or a tribunal. A fi nding of fact, howsoever erroneous, recorded by a court or a tribunal cannot be challenged in proceedings for certiorari on the ground that the relevant and material evidence adduced before 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the court or the tribunal was insuffi cient or inadequate to sustain the impugned fi nding. It is also well settled that adequacy or suffi ciency of evidence led on a point and the inference of fact to be drawn from the said fi nding are within the exclusive jurisdiction of the tribunal and these points cannot be agitated before the writ court.” 62. In the aforesaid context, it will be profi table for us to refer to the decision of this Court in the case of Indian Overseas Bank v. I.O.B. Staff Canteen Workers’ Union and Another, reported in AIR 2000 SC 1508. This Court observed as under: “… The fi ndings of fact recorded by a fact-fi nding authority duly constituted for the purpose and which ordinarily should be considered to have become fi nal, cannot be disturbed for the mere reason of having been based on materials or evidence not suffi cient or credible in the opinion of the writ Court to warrant those fi ndings at any rate, as long as they are based upon such materials which are relevant for the purpose or even on the ground that there is yet another view which can be reasonably and possibly undertaken.