They married each other at a temple in Tuticorin and sought to have their marriage registered by the state, which refused. They then approached the Madras High Court under its writ jurisdiction. The Court held that: a. The expression “bride” in the HMA cannot have a static and immutable meaning and that statutes must be interpreted in light of the legal system in its present form; and b. The fundamental right of the petitioners under Article 25 was infringed. The Court directed the concerned respondent to register the marriage solemnized between the petitioners. xii. The conditions for the exercise of the rights of LGBTQ persons a. The right of queer persons under the Mental Healthcare Act 280. The fi rst segment of this detailed how the families or relatives of queer persons compel them to undergo “conversion” therapies (to “convert” their sexual orientation from homosexual to heterosexual) or make them marry a person of the opposite sex to “cure” their homosexuality or for other reasons. Other pseudo-medical treatments are similarly designed to “cure” queerness. Such practices violate the right to health of queer persons as also their right to autonomy and dignity. In terms of Article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Article 7 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, no one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. “Conversion” therapies and other “treatments” which are aimed at altering sexual orientation amount to cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of queer persons. They have the eff ect of denying their full humanity. The mental well-being suff ers to no end because cruel techniques are used in these so- called treatments. The treatment is by its very nature cruel. It is the duty married Transgender couples’ <http://sjd.kerala.gov.in/scheme-info.php?scheme_ id=IDE1MnNWOHVxUiN2eQ==> 252 2019 SCC OnLine Mad 8779 138 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of the state to ensure that these inhumane practices do not continue. The deleterious eff ects of discrimination on the mental health of queer persons was also noticed by this Court in Navtej (supra). Other segments of this discussed instances of queer persons and couples being driven to die by suicide as a result of the discrimination and violence meted out to them. This phenomenon is undoubtedly related to the mental health of queer persons and the state is equally under an obligation to prevent suicides because of one’s gender identity or sexual orientation. Section 29 of the Mental Healthcare Act stipulates that: “(1) The appropriate Government shall have a duty to plan, design and implement programmes for the promotion of mental health and prevention of mental illness in the country. (2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions contained in sub-section (1), the appropriate Government shall, in particular, plan, design and implement public health programmes to reduce suicides and attempted suicides in the country.” The programmes for the promotion of mental health (envisaged by Section 29(1)) must include provisions for the mental health of queer persons.