The committee must be set up under the chairpersonship of District CMO. NCD Nodal, District RCH Nodal Officers/ Maternal Health Nodal Officers, other key government personnel at the district level, representatives from FOGSI (both public and private sector), representatives from G development partners etc. The monitoring committee is expected to: • Issue necessary s to both public and private sectors to submit a line list of all women who underwent H DR NARENDRA GUPTA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 997 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] hysterectomy every month. The line list must include A information on parameters such as: • Age • Parity B • Occupation • Indication of hysterectomy • Previous medical/surgical history • Hysterectomy route: C • Abdominal • Vaginal • Laparoscopic D • Any other surgery done along with hysterectomy: • Past treatment history: • HPE: E • Every quarter the district committee must audit cases with following indications and issue necessary instructions if required: • Hysterectomy with/ without BSO in women <35 yrs. of age F • Hysterectomy with BSO in women< 40 yrs. of age • All cases where no indication for doing the procedure is mentioned in the records • All cases where no records of treatment prior to G hysterectomy (in papers or in history) are available • Discrepancy between mentioned indication and HPE report • Any severe morbidity/mortality due to hysterectomy H 998 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A • Annexure 3 provides detailed guidelines on how to conduct audits of hysterectomies • Arrange necessary trainings and sensitization sessions for both public and private sector professionals. B State Hysterectomy Monitoring Committees A State Hysterectomy Monitoring Committee must be set up in each State to enable effective monitoring. The committee must be set up under the chairpersonship of State Principle Secretary. State level DPH (Director Pubtic Health) will be the nodal Officer C & NCD State program officer, RCH/FW/MH programme officers will be the other key government personnel at the state level, representatives from FOGSI (both public and private sector), representatives from development partners etc. The monitoring committee is expected to meet once in every six months and review district level data to ensure that unnecessary hysterectomies can D be avoided. The State Hysterectomy Monitoring Committees must also arrange necessary trainings and sensitization sessions for both public and private sector professionals and district officials. National Hysterectomy Monitoring Committees E A National Hysterectomy Monitoring Committee must be set up to enable effective monitoring and ensure necessary policy decisions at the National level. The monitoring committee would comprise of officials from NCD, ICMR, MH Officers under the chairpersonship of Additional Commisssioner& Mission Director, F NHM and is expected to meet once in every six months and review State level data to ensure that unnecessary hysterectomies can be avoided. The national committees must also arrange necessary trainings and sensitization sessions for both public and private sector professionals and district officials. Most importantly G national committees must review the landscape and take necessary policy decisions as required.” 10.