B 129. In that context, the High Court held that Union territories could not be said to be “States”, and held the definition of “State” under Rule 2(c) of the Cadre Rules to be ultra vires the Constitution and the All India Services Act 1951. The High Court held that the Union Territories were not “States” for the purpose of Part XIV of the Constitution, in view of the definition of “State” in Article 308, which did not include C Part C states before its amendment. The High Court reasoned that Union territories are successors of Part C States, and accordingly Union Territories were excluded from the definition of ‘State’ in Part XIV. The High Court declined to place any reliance on the definition of the word ‘State’ in Section 3(58)(b) of the General Clauses Act, as amended in D 1956. The High Court reasoned that only the adaptations made in the General Clauses Act under Article 372(2) applied to the interpretation of the Constitution in view of Article 367(1), and accordingly the adaptations made later, by Article 372A, were inapplicable. The High Court observed that: E ‘(7) The next question, therefore, is whether the Union Territories are “State” for the purpose of Article 312(1). Article 312 is a part of Chapter XIV of the Constitution, which is significantly entitled ‘’Services under the Union and the States”. Part XIV does not create an All India Service. [...] The key to the meaning of the word “State” used in Part XIV including F Articles 309 and 312(1) is provided by the interpretation clause in Article 308. Before the Constitution (VII Amendment) Act, 1956 Article 308 was as follows: “IN this part. unless the context otherwise requires the expression “State” means a State specified in Part A or Part B G of the I Schedule”. This definition, thus, made it clear that the word “State” in Part XIV was not to include part C States. Union Territories are the successors of the Part C States. It follows, therefore, that they are also expressly excluded from the definition of H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 567 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “State” in Part XIV. There is nothing particular in the context of A Article 313 which would require the word “State” therein to include a Union Territory. … Article 367(1) of the Constitution applies to the B interpretation of the Constitution the provision of the General Clauses Act as adapted under Article 372(2) of the Constitution. In view of Article 372(2)(a) such an adaptation had to be made within three years from the commencement of the Constitution. The definition of a “State” in section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act as adapted by the C Adaptation of laws , 1950 issued under Article 372(2) of the Constitution [...]” (emphasis supplied) 130. In appeal, this Court set aside the of the High Court of Delhi. Firstly, this Court held that in view of the amended definition of D the expression “State” under Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act, as adapted by the Adaptation of Laws 1956, there was nothing repugnant to the subject or context to make that definition inapplicable to Part XIV of the Constitution.