contained in the Companies Act, 2013 which has now been changed A through the IBC. It is submitted that therefore, the argument that the waterfall mechanism from the Companies Act, 2013 must apply even under the IBC, would be wholly untenable and unworkable. 3.13 It is submitted that subsequently, the Insolvency Law Committee submitted its report in 2018 under the chairmanship of Mr. B Injeti Srinivas. The Report contained summary responses of the Committee to the comments and issues raised with respect to the IBC. It is submitted that importantly, all questions that raised the issue of workmen’s dues either being unfairly ranked with secured creditors or that workmen’s dues were not protected under the IBC, the Committee C noted that the interests of workmen were protected in line with the Objects sought to be achieved by the IBC. 3.14 It is further submitted that therefore, the legislature through the IBC has attempted to overhaul the existing system of law and provide for a different modality through which liquidation would function. It is D submitted that under the Companies Act, 2013, the waterfall mechanism and preferential payments were being made, keeping in mind the scheme of winding up of a Company. It is submitted that admittedly, workmen’s dues were given pari passu priority with secured creditors of a defined kind and the wages and salaries owed for two years preceding the of winding up was to get absolute priority. It is further submitted that on E the contrary, the scheme of the IBC is different from that of the Companies Act, 2013. It is submitted that the focus, in the IBC, is to revive the Company and it is only as a matter of last resort that liquidation envisaged. In liquidation, from the time of the BLRC Report, the focus has been on defined payout prioritisation and organically, the workmen’s F dues have increased from 3 months to 12 months and now to 24 months to rank pari passu with secured creditors who relinquish their security. It is submitted that this evolution of the IBC has been as a result of a consultative process, the position of workmen’s dues has been reviewed at multiple occasions and the legislature, in its wisdom, has opted to cap it to a period of 24 months prior to liquidation commencement date. It is G further submitted that the Pension Fund, Gratuity Fund and Provident Fund are left out of the liquidation estate, in a bid to protect the social safety net of the workmen. Therefore, the changes made through the IBC, to the existing scheme under the Companies Act, 2013 would not be unconstitutional. H 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 3.15 Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Advocate and Amicus Curiae has further submitted that this Hon’ble Court in a catena of s has considered the principle of “judicial hands-off” when it comes to economic legislations. It is submitted that in economic matters, a wider latitude is given to the law-maker and the Court allows for experimentation in such legislations based on practical experiences and B other problems seen by the law-makers.