The consideration for the alleged compromise/settlement was C therefore inadequate and whole agreement has to fall to the ground due to changed and supervening circumstances effectuated by change in law. Lastly, even otherwise, the allotment of a co-ownership property in a specie to one coparcener cannot be modified in D a preliminary decree. Moreover, under Hindu Law, the gift/ renunciation/relinquishment or alienation by one coparcener of his undivided coparcenary interest to another coparcener without consent of other coparceners is void.” 93. It is now well settled that under XXIII Rule 3 of the E CPC as it now stands, when a claim in suit has been adjusted wholly or in part by any lawful agreement or compromise, the compromise must be in writing and signed by the parties and there must be a completed agreement between them. To constitute an adjustment, the agreement or compromise must itself be capable of being embodied in a decree. (See: Gurpreet Singh v. Chatur Bhuj Goel, (1988) 1 SCC 270.) F 94. Indisputably, in the case on hand, the plaintiff has not put her signature on the deed of settlement, which was produced before the High Court in first appeal. The Plaintiff has made herself very clear that she never joined in the settlement between her brother i.e., the Defendant No. 1 and her sister i.e., the Defendant No. 2. On this ground alone, the G settlement could be said to be unlawful, being without any written consent of all the parties. In a suit for partition of joint property, a decree by consent amongst some only of the parties cannot be maintained. 95. In Nityamoni Dasi v. Gokul Chandra Sen reported in (1911) 9 Ind Cas 210 (Cal), the Calcutta High Court observed: H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 77 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “… The decree of the Subordinate Judge must be set aside A and the whole case retried, because as this is a suit for partition of joint property, a decree by consent amongst some only of the parties cannot possibly be maintained…..” 96. In Vir Singh and Others v. Kharak Singh and Others reported in AIR 1925 Lah 280, all the proprietors had not assented to the B compromise, Moti Sagar, J. observed:— “…the alleged compromise not having been assented to by all the proprietors was clearly contrary to law and the Court was, therefore, fully justified in refusing to enforce it. …” C 97. In Taraprasanna Sarkar and Another v. Kalikamohan Sarkarand Others reported in AIR 1924 Cal 80 Mookerjee and Rankin, JJ., held:— “…There can be no compromise binding upon, all the parties to a partition suit until and unless all the parties have joined in the compromise:…” D 98. In the aforesaid context, we shall also now look into the findings recorded by the Division Bench of the High Court while allowing the cross-appeal filed by the Defendant No. 2. We quote the relevant observations as under: E “The appeal was filed by defendant no.