A Treatise on Universal Justice).” 30. On the basis of the above-mentioned reasons, we are of the D considered opinion that the Appellants, because of their signing of the agreement, have not forfeited their right to seek revised compensation, because ,the cause of action accrued to them much after entering into the agreement. The issue no. 1 is answered accordingly in the negative and in favour of the Appellants. E Whether the classification made by and executive fiat between Pushtaini Landowners and Gair-pushtaini Landowners for payment of compensation at different rates is liable to be struck down as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution? 31. The High Court, while upholding the classification between F ‘Pushtaini’ and ‘Gair-pushtaini’ landowners, stated that there is no discrimination being caused to similarly situated parties, and the rendered by the Division Bench in the case of Smt. Madhuri Srivastava (Supra) lays down the correct law. Thus, the Full Bench upheld the classification and negated the challenge made to the said classification. G The relevant paragraphs of the impugned are reproduced hereunder :- “Before coming on merits of the case, it would be appropriate to state that sovereign power of state to acquire private property for public purpose is based upon maxim “salus H 450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A populi est suprema lax” means welfare of the public is paramount law and maxim “necessita publica major est quam privata” means public necessity is greater than private. The maxim “eminent domain” (sabai bhumi Govind Ki) means state is supreme owner of the land. Constitution of India incorporates these maxims. Acquisition of private property B can be made by legislation, exercising powers under Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution. Subject “acquisition and requisition of property for the purposes of the Union” was mentioned as Entry No. 33 of List-I and “acquisition and requisition of property except for the purposes of the Union” C was mentioned as Entry No. 36 of List-II of the Seventh Schedule of Constitution. By Section 26 of Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, Entry No. 33 of List-I and Entry No. 36 of List-II were deleted and Entry No. 42 of List- III of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution was amended as “acquisition and requisition of property”. Acquisition of D private parties can be made by exercise of executive power under Article 298 of Constitution. Union of India and State Governments can acquire private property, exercising legislative or executive powers. While dealing with an issue pertaining to classification and E its reasonability, we must also keep in mind that the governance is not a simple thing. It encounters and deals with the problems which come from persons in an infinite variety of relations. Classification is the recognition of those relations, and, in making it a wide latitude of discretion and must be F given. Having considered all aspects of the matter by keeping in mind the Constitutional provisions discussed above and also the intent of the Act, 1894 especially the provisions of Sections 23 and 24 of the Act, 1894, we are of considered opinion that G the classification introduced among the Pushtaini and Gair- pushtaini farmers is reasonable with intelligible differentia and that in no manner causes any discrimination among the similarly situated person.