11. While considering the said submission, it is noted that in Bankipur Club, in so far as the Group A and D cases were concerned, it was held that the principle of mutuality applied and therefore, income earned from such activities was exempt from taxation. As already noted above in Bankipur Club, Group “E” cases in which the assessee clubs earned income from interest received from fi xed deposits receipts (FDR) and National Savings certifi cates (NSC etc.) were de-linked, to be posted separately to be heard on merits. In paragraph 19 of the in Bankipur Club, the reasons for segregation or delinking of the cases falling under Group “E” has been specifi cally stated, the reason being that in those appeals, the question was with regard to income earned from letting out property only. Thereafter in Cawnpore Club, another Coordinate Bench noted that the High Court had decided that “the income earned from the assessee from the rooms let out to its members could not be subjected to tax”. No appeal had been fi led against the said decision by the Revenue on that point and therefore, the matter stood concluded in so far as the assessee therein, namely, Cawnpore Clubwas concerned. Having said that, it was further observed that no useful purpose would be served in proceeding with the appeals on the other questions when the respondent cannot be taxed by virtue of the principle of mutuality. This SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1017 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Court did not spell out what “the other questions” were in respect of which the respondent Cawnpore Club could not be taxed owing to the principle of mutuality. It must be remembered that the appeal had been fi led by the Revenue against Cawnpore Club and not vice-versa. In the absence of there being even an indication as to “the other questions” in respect of which, this Court found that the proceedings in the appeals fi led by the Revenue could not be continued because of the principle of mutuality, such an observation would not imply that the passed in the said case is a binding precedent within the scope and meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution. It must be remembered that the appeals in the case of Cawnpore Club were fi led by the Revenue and merely because the Revenue did not press its appeal in respect of the other aspects of the case and this Court found that the income earned by the assessee from the rooms let out to its members could not be subjected to tax on the principle of mutuality, it would not mean that the other questions which were not pressed by the Revenue in the said appeal stood answered in favour of the asseesse and against the Revenue. On the other hand, in the absence of there being any indication in the as to what “the other questions” were in respect of which the principle of mutuality applied, in our view, there is no ratio decidendi emanating from the said which would be a binding precedent for subsequent cases.