(cid:1) That the instant writ petition is coming up for preliminary hearing only on 13.07.2023, when the admission process is already underway and thus, the petition in barred by latches. (cid:1) That the prospectus is sacrosanct and at this stage, in case, the criteria is changed, the entire admission process shall get delayed and derailed. (cid:1) The academic session is scheduled to start from 31.07.2023 and the candidates have to attend minimum 75% of lectures to become eligible for appearing in examination.” 14. It is now entrenched in our constitutional jurisprudence, that the doctrine of equality has varied- and layered dimensions, one of which is 240 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. that under Article 14, “Equals must be treated equally. Unequals must not be treated equally. What constitutes reasonable classifi cation must depend upon the facts of each case, the context provided by the statute, the existence of intelligible diff erentia which has led to the grouping of the persons or things as a class and the leaving out of those who do not share the intelligible diff erentia. No doubt it must bear rational nexus to the objects sought to be achieved.” (Ref Manish Kumar v Union of India (UOI) & Ors3). 15. This court, in Ashutosh Gupta v. State of Rajasthan4 explained how the reasonable classifi cation is to be applied: “6. The concept of equality before law does not involve the idea of absolute equality amongst all, which may be a physical impossibility. All that Article 14 guarantees is the similarity of treatment and not identical treatment. The protection of equal laws does not mean that all laws must be uniform. Equality before the law means that among equals the law should be equal and should be equally administered and that the likes should be treated alike. Equality before the law does not mean that things which are diff erent shall be treated as though they were the same. It is true that Article 14 enjoins that the people similarly situated should be treated similarly but what amount of dissimilarity would make the people disentitled to be treated equally, is rather a vexed question. A legislature, which has to deal with diverse problems arising out of an infi nite variety of human relations must of necessity, have the power of making special laws, to attain particular objects; and for that purpose it must have large powers of selection or classifi cation of persons and things upon which such laws are to operate. Mere diff erentiation or inequality of treatment does not “per se” amount to discrimination within the inhibition of the equal protection clause. The State has always the power to make classifi cation on a basis of rational distinctions relevant to the particular subject to be dealt with. In to pass the test of permissible classifi cation, two conditions must be fulfi lled, namely, (i) that the classifi cation must be founded on an intelligible diff erentia which distinguishes persons or things 3 2021 (14) SCR 895 4 2002 (2) SCR 649 DEV GUPTA v. PEC UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY 241 AND ORS.