The heading referring to parts cannot be treated as heading covering the LCDs more specifically. 16. It is submitted that the description under heading 8529 is general E and not specific, whereas the description under heading 90.13 is more specific. LCDs consist of items like LCD TV, (referred to under Chapter Heading 8528.7218 and 8528.7510) and indicator panels incorporating LCDs (referred to in entry 8531.2000) and other items which are specifically provided for. The Supreme Court decision in G.S. Auto F (supra) is in the context of Section XVII where Note 2 and 3 provides: “2 The expression parts’ and ‘parts and accessories’ do not apply to the following articles, whether or not they are identifiable as for the goods this section: (a) ******** G (b) Parts of general use, as defined in Note 2 to Section XV, of base metal (Section XV), or similar goods of plastics (Chapter 39)” “3. References in Chapters 86 to 88 to parts or accessories do not apply to parts or accessories which are not suitable H 268 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A for use solely or’ principally with the articles of those Chapters. A part or accessory which answers to a description in two or more of the headings of those Chapters is to be classified under that heading which corresponds to the principal se of that part of accessory.” B 17. It was argued that the section notes clearly provide that the word “parts and accessories” will not apply to parts of general use as defined in Note 2 to Section XV of base metal, and it was in view of this note that this Court held that parts which are suitable for use solely or principally with articles of Chapters 86 to 88 are to be treated as parts and accessories of articles falling under Chapter 86 to 88 in terms of C Note 3. These notes are missing from Section XVI and are, therefore, irrelevant. Chapter notes/section notes and explanatory notes are unique to the respective section, chapters and headings they deal with and cannot be generalized or interchanged. Consequently, classification has reference to section and chapter notes of the section to which the goods belong, D i.e., Section XVI. Section Note 2(a) and 2(b) in Section XVI are different from Section Notes of Section XVII. According to Section Note 2(a) of Section XVI the parts which are goods included in any of the headings of Chapter 84 or 85 are, in all cases, to be classified in their respective headings, and it is only when the parts are not classifiable as per Section Note 2(a) that Section Note 2(b) is attracted. Therefore, even though a E part is suitable for use or solely with a particular kind of machine finds mention under any headings in Chapter 84 or 85, it will then get classified under that heading and not as a part of apparatus or a machine. 18. Learned senior counsel relied on the decision of this court in Secure Meters (supra) and urged that the distinction sought to be made F by the revenue, with this case, is on untenable grounds.