Therefore, the question whether such issue(s) falling under Section 36B of the Fragmentation Act is involved or not was to be decided with reference C to the averments in the plaint. On their own the plaint averments did not disclose involvement of any such issue(s) requiring a reference to a competent authority under the Fragmentation Act. Since the issue is whether the suit involves such issue(s), we will refer to the written statement as well. We have already referred to the sole, vague averment in the written statement filed by the second defendant in the suit referring D to the Fragmentation Act, which in no way could construe as a counter- claim capable of treating as a plaint and governed by the rules applicable to plaints in terms of VIII Rule 6 A, CPC and enabling the court to pronounce a final in the same suit, both on the original claim and on the counter-claim. That apart, we have also already noted the E case projected and proved by the second defendant that Ext.128 sale deed and sale deed dated 04.07.1978 were never intended to be acted upon. Thus, going by his mutually destructive pleas as well, no case for attracting the provisions of ‘the Fragmentation Act’ was made out by the second defendant. F 25.In the above context the decision of this court in Jag Mohan Chawla and Anr. v. Dera Radha Swami Satsang & Ors.3 is noteworthy. It was held therein that in sub-rule (1) of Rule 6A, CPC the language is so couched with words of wide width as to enable the parties to bring his own independent cause of action in respect of any claim that would be subject matter of an independent suit. It is no longer confined to money G claim or to cause of action of the same nature as original cause of action of the plaintiff and it need not relate to or be connected with the original cause of action or matter pleaded by the plaintiff. It was further held that the words “any right or claim in respect of a cause of action accruing with the defendant” would show that the cause of action from which the H 3 (1996) 4 SCC 699 DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS. v. SHRI 195 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] counter claim arises need not necessarily arise from or have any nexus A with the cause of action of the plaintiff. 26.The decision of this court in Rohit Singh and Ors. v. State of Bihar4 also assumes relevance in the above context. This court held that a defendant could not be permitted to raise counter-claim against co-defendant because by virtue of VIII Rule 6A, CPC, it could B be raised by defendant against the claim of the plaintiff. 27. Now, it is required to be noted that despite the lack of foundational facts attracting the applicability of the ‘Fragmentation Act’ (in fact, there is no serious consideration of such aspects by the trial Court and the High Court) and the position revealed from the aforesaid C decisions and the provisions and on the question of raising of any right or claim by way of counter-claims, we are at a loss to understand as to how the trial Court and the High Court came to frame issues and consider such issue(s), that too, ignoring the statutory bar of jurisdiction to go into and decide, issue No.9 framed by the trial Court, as extracted in D paragraph 4 hereinabove and issue No.