As per Section 3 of the Act, as already stated above, the provisions of the Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of any other provisions of any other law for the time being in force. Having due regard to the scheme of the Act and purpose sought to be achieved to protect the interest of the consumers better, the provisions are to be interpreted broadly, positively and purposefully in the context of the present case to give meaning to additional/extended jurisdiction, particularly when Section 3 seeks to provide remedy under the Act in addition to other remedies provided under other Acts unless there is a clear bar.” It was held that the 1986 Act was enacted to provide better protection of the interest of consumers and for providing a redressal mechanism, which is cheaper, easier, expeditious and eff ective. For this purpose, various quasi-judicial forums were setup at district, state and national level with a wider range of powers vested in these Judicial Authorities. These Judicial Authorities were vested with the powers to give relief of a specifi c nature and to award compensation to the consumer wherever it was felt necessary to impose penalty for non-compliance of their s, and the judicial authorities were vested with such powers. Now compare this with the power of the arbitrator. An arbitrator does not have the power to impose a penalty. This is also one of the essential diff erences between the two forums. It was fi nally held that the provisions given under the 1986 Act were in addition to, and not in derogation to, any other provisions or any other law for the time being in force. 15. In Fair Air Engineers (P) Ltd. (supra) and in Skypak Couriers Ltd. v. Tata Chemicals Ltd., (2000) 5 SCC 294 the above position was reiterated by this Court. The fi nding of this Court in National Seeds Corporation 280 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Limited (supra) has also been referred to in the preceding paragraphs of this wherein it was held that arbitration is not the only remedy available to the consumer and they can either seek a reference to arbitration or fi le a complaint under the 1986 Act, but can never be forced to seek a remedy only under Arbitration Act, 1996, in spite of the arbitration agreement in the contract. This position was reiterated by this Court in Rosedale Developers Private Limited (supra), wherein paras 4, 6 and 7 stated as under: “4. In our opinion, there is no merit in the submission of the learned counsel. The question whether the existence of an arbitration clause contained in the agreement executed between the parties excludes the jurisdiction of the consumer forum and on an application made by either party, the consumer forum is duty-bound to make a reference to the arbitrator was extensively considered in National Seeds Corpn. Ltd. v. M. Madhusudhan Reddy [National Seeds Corpn. Ltd. v. M. Madhusudhan Reddy, (2012) 2 SCC 506: (2012) 1 SCC (Civ) 908] and it was observed…… (SCC pp.