20. The principle of adverse possession has been defi ned by the Privy Council in Perry v. Clissold7 in the following terms: “It cannot be disputed that a person in possession of land in the assumed character of the owner and exercising peaceably the ordinary rights of ownership has a perfectly good title against all the world but the rightful owner. And if the rightful owner does not come forward and assert his title by the process of law within the period prescribed by the provisions of the statute of Limitation applicable to the case, his right is forever extinguished and the possessory owner acquires an absolute title.” 21. Before proceeding to do so, it is essential to take note of the law governing such a claim. After a perusal and consideration of various 7 [1907] A.C. 73 GOVERNMENT OF KERALA & ANR. v. 275 JOSEPH AND OTHERS [SANJAY KAROL, J.] judgements rendered by this Court, the following principles can be observed: 21.1 Possession must be open, clear, continuous and hostile to the claim or possession of the other party; all three classic requirements must coexist- nec vi, i.e., adequate in continuity; nec clam, i.e., adequate in publicity; and necprecario, i.e., adverse to a competitor, in denial of title and knowledge; (a) In Radhamoni Debi v. Collector of Khulna8, the Privy Council held that- “The possession required must be adequate in continuity, in publicity, and in extent to show that it is possession adverse to the competitor.” (b) Further, the Council Maharaja Sri Chandra Nandi v. Baijnath Jugal Kishore9 observed- “It is suffi cient that the possession should be overt and without any attempt at concealment, so that the person against whom time is running ought, if he exercises due vigilance, to be aware of what is happening.” (c) A Bench of three judges of this Court in Parsinni v. Sukhi10 held that “Party claiming adverse possession must prove that his possession must be ‘nec vi, nec clam, necprecario’ i.e. peaceful, open and continuous. The possession must be adequate, in continuity, in publicity and in extent to show that their possession is adverse to the true owner.” (d) In Karnataka Board of Wakf v. Govt. of India (two-Judge Bench)11 it was held:- “It is a well-settled principle that a party claiming adverse possession must prove that his possession is “nec vi, nec clam, necprecario”, that is, peaceful, open and continuous. The possession must be adequate in continuity, in publicity and in extent to show that their possession is adverse to the true owner. 8 1900 SCC OnLine PC 4 9 AIR 1935 PC 36 10 (1993) 4 SCC 375 11 (2004) 10 SCC 779 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. It must start with a wrongful disposition of the rightful owner and be actual, visible, exclusive, hostile and continued over the statutory period.” This case was relied on in the case of M. Venkatesh v. Bangalore Development Authority12 (three-Judge Bench), Ravinder Kaur Grewal v. Manjit Kaur13 (three-Judge Bench). (e) This Court in a recent case of M Siddiq (D) through LRs v. Mahant Suresh Das & Ors.14 (fi ve-Judge Bench) reiterated this principle as under- “748.