It incorporates all the terms of the Amenities agreement as an integral C part of the Leave and Licence agreement. By doing so, the parties have intended to make the arbitration clause in the Amenities agreement an integral part of the Leave and Licence agreement. 16. Section 7(5) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 stipulates that the reference in a contract to a document containing an D arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the contract. Clause (1) of the Amenities agreement is intended to make the arbitration clause which is embodied in the Amenities agreement (Clause 17) an integral part of the Leave and Licence E agreement. 17. In M R Engineers and Contractors Private Limited vs Som Datt Builders Limited (supra), this Court held thus: “We will give a few instances of incorporation and mere reference to explain the position (illustrative and not exhaustive). If a contract F refers to a document and provides that the said document shall form part and parcel of the contract, or that all terms and conditions of the said document shall be read or treated as a part of the contract, or that the contract will be governed by the provisions of the said document, or that the terms and conditions of the said document shall be incorporated into the contract, the terms and G conditions of the document in entirety will get bodily lifted and incorporated into the contract. When there is such incorporation of the terms and conditions of a document, every term of such document (except to the extent it is inconsistent with any specific provision in the contract) will apply to the contract. If the document H SHINHAN BANK v. CAROL INFO SERVICES LIMITED 711 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] so incorporated contains a provision for settlement of disputes by A arbitration, the said arbitration clause also will apply to the contract.” 18. The principle which emerges from the provisions of Section 7(5) is elucidated in paragraph 19 of the , which is extracted below: B “Sub-section (5) of Section 7 merely reiterates these well- settled principles of construction of contracts. It makes it clear that where there is a reference to a document in a contract, and the reference shows that the document was not intended to be incorporated in entirety, then the reference will not make the arbitration clause in C the document, a part of the contract, unless there is a special reference to the arbitration clause so as to make it applicable.” 19. The arbitration agreement which is embodied in clause 17 of the Amenities agreement was intended by the parties for all intents and purposes to be a part of the Leave and Licence agreement. D 20. There is no merit in the submission that the petitioner should be now relegated to pursuing the remedy under Section 8. In view of the clear terms of the contract between the parties, a reference to arbitration would be necessitated.