In Satpal Vs. State of Haryana5, this Court observed as under:- “6. We have considered the respective submissions and the evidence on record. There is no eyewitness to the occurrence but only circumstances coupled with the fact of the deceased having been last seen with the appellant. Criminal jurisprudence and the F plethora of judicial precedents leave little room for reconsideration of the basic principles for invocation of the last seen theory as a facet of circumstantial evidence. Succinctly stated, it may be a weak kind of evidence by itself to found conviction upon the same singularly. But when it is coupled with other circumstances such G as the time when the deceased was last seen with the accused, and the recovery of the corpse being in very close proximity of time, the accused owes an explanation under Section 106 of the Evidence Act with regard to the circumstances under which death may have taken place. If the accused offers no explanation, or H 5 (2018) 6 SCC 610 RAM GOPAL S/O MANSHARAM v. STATE OF MADHYA 409 PRADESH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] furnishes a wrong explanation, absconds, motive is established, A and there is corroborative evidence available inter alia in the form of recovery or otherwise forming a chain of circumstances leading to the only inference for guilt of the accused, incompatible with any possible hypothesis of innocence, conviction can be based on the same. If there be any doubt or break in the link of chain of B circumstances, the benefit of doubt must go to the accused. Each case will therefore have to be examined on its own facts for invocation of the doctrine.” 9. In view of the afore-stated legal position, it is discernible that though the last seen theory as propounded by the prosecution in a case C based on circumstantial evidence may be a weak kind of evidence by itself to base conviction solely on such theory, when the said theory is proved coupled with other circumstances such as the time when the deceased was last seen with the accused, and the recovery of the corpse being in very close proximity of time, the accused does owe an explanation under Section 106 of the Evidence Act with regard to the circumstances D under which death might have taken place. If the accused offers no explanation or furnishes a wrong explanation, absconds, motive is established and some other corroborative evidence in the form of recovery of weapon etc. forming a chain of circumstances is established, the conviction could be based on such evidence. E 10. So far as the facts in the instant case are concerned, it was duly proved that the death of the deceased was homicidal. It was not disputed that the petitioner had taken the deceased with him on the previous day evening and thereafter he was also seen with the deceased by the witness Vijay Singh (PW-4) and the very next day early morning, F the dead body of the deceased was found lying in the field at village Chachiha.