01.01.2016 shall be paid during the calendar year 2020, after adjusting the interim relief already paid under the Interim Report dated 09.03.2018. B 44.14 The present practice of sanction of DA at the rates prescribed by Central Government from time to time shall continue. The Hon’ble Supreme Court may issue directions that the benefit of revised DA in conformity with the s issued by the Central Government from time to time shall be paid to the Judicial officers without delay, and in any case, not later than 3 months from the date of issuance of the by the Central Government. The benefit of C revised rates of DA shall accrue from the effective date as specified in the issued by Central Government in this behalf. 44.15(i) Grant of 1st ACP to Civil Judge (Jr. Div.) shall not be based on the application of the existing norm of seniority-cum-merit. There shall be relaxed norms for assessing the performance in terms of output. The scrutiny shall be for the D limited purpose of ascertaining whether there is anything positively adverse such as consistently poor/unsatisfactory performance or adverse report of serious nature leading to the inference that the Officer is unfit to have the benefit of ACP. 44.15(ii) If for any reason, delay in grant of ACP goes beyond one year, one additional E increment for every year delay shall be granted subject to adjustment while drawing the arrears on grant of ACP. 44.16(i) The posts of District Judges (Selection Grade) shall be increased to 35% of the cadre strength as against the existing 25%, and the District Judges (Super Time Scale) shall be increased to 15% of the cadre strength as against the F existing 10%. It will be effective from 01.01.2020 44.16(ii) The upgradation benefit shall be given to the District Judges by applying the principle of seniority-cum-merit instead of meritcum-seniority. 44.16(iii) If the post remains or continues for three years it shall form part of cadre strength. G 44.17 The Pay Revision benefit which is already available to the Presiding Judges of Industrial Tribunals/Labour Courts (outside the regular cadre of subordinate judiciary) in view of the recommendation of JPC, shall be extended to them also simultaneously with Judicial Officers of regular cadre without administrative delays. H 58 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 44.18 The Judges of the Family Courts in Maharashtra who belong to a separate cadre have to be extended the benefit of pay of District Judge (Selection Grade) and District Judge (Super Time Scale) in the same ratio as prescribed for regular District Judges. The High Court to propose the minimum age for grant of Selection Grade, if considered necessary. The Principal Judge Family Court (ex-cadre) to be allotted quarters preferentially, in General Pool B Accommodation. 44.19 Special Judicial Magistrates (Second Class)/Special Metropolitan Magistrates (dealing with petty criminal cases) shall get minimum remuneration of Rs.30,000/- per month in addition to conveyance allowance of Rs.5,000/- per month w.e.f. 01.04.2019 and to be suitably revised every five years.