Raju, Mrs. Lekha Sudhakaran, S. Senthil Kumar, V. Senthil Kumar, M. Venkatesulu, Raghavendran, M. Sriharibabu, M. A. Chinnasamy, Sriharsha Peechara, Rajiv Kumar Choudhry, Ms. Pallavi, Duvvuri Subrahmanya G Bhanu, Vinayak Goel, Byrapaneni Suyodhan, Bharat J Joshi, Kumar Shashank, Abhijit Basu, Ms. Tatini Basu, Rohan Divan, Balaji Srinivasan, V. V. S. Rao, K. S. Murthy, Mullapudi Rambabu, K. Venkat Rao, M/s. M. Rambabu and Co., Rajnish Kumar Jha, Ms. Jasmine Damkewala, Ms. Anu Gupta, Kaushal Yadav, Nandlal Kumar Mishra, H Ms. Yashoda Katiyar, Arjun Raghuvanshi, Ritul Tandon, Ram Kishor M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 289 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. Singh Yadav, Namit Saxena, Awnish Maithani, Prashanth Reddy, A Shivam Raghuwanshi, Ms. Shiksha Ashra, Suyash Vyas, Kumar Shashank, Nivesh Kumar, Ms. Suditi Singh, Nitish Rai, Piyush Tonk, Vishal Prasad, Advs. for the appearing parties. The of the Court was delivered by B V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J. Permission to file special leave petitions is granted in Diary No.19266 of 2022. 2. Delay condoned. 3. Leave granted. C 4. Aggrieved by a common rendered by the Division Bench of the High Court for the State of Telangana in a batch of intra- Court appeals, confirming the of the learned Single Judge of the High Court in a batch of applications in a civil suit, various parties including the State of Telangana and some third parties have come up D with these civil appeals. 5. We have heard Shri Gopal Sankarnarayanan, learned senior counsel appearing for one set of parties who are the appellants herein (and who claim to be the assignees of the decree), Shri B. Adinarayana Rao, Shri Chander Uday Singh, Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned senior counsel E and Shri Santosh Krishnan, learned counsel appearing for parties who obstructed the execution of the decree (claim petitioners) and who succeeded before the High Court, Shri C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned senior counsel appearing for the State of Telangana and Shri V.V.S. Rao, Shri Hemendranath Reddy and Shri K.S. Murthy, learned senior counsel F appearing for third parties and Shri Dushyant Dave, learned senior counsel appearing for an Asset Reconstruction Company which has filed an application for intervention. Background Facts: 6. Hyderabad was a Princely State until it came to be annexed to G the Union of India on 18.09.1948 through police action which came to be popularly known as “Operation Polo.” HEH the Nizam was its Ruler till then. While outsourcing is something which we have now come to be familiar with only in the twentieth century, HEH the Nizam seems to have adopted the practice of outsourcing even defence services more H 290 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A than 200 years ago. It seems that the Nizam had the practice of granting certain lands to people for the purpose of supply and maintenance of Armed Forces. The lands so granted came to be known as “Paigah Estate.”The dispute on hand relates to a Paigah granted to a person by name Khurshid Jah and the grant came to be known as Khurshid Jah Paigah.