G 17.2. The question of motive in the present case, in our view, cannot be examined only with reference to the testimony of the wife of the appellant who has, even while admitting that she left the children in the company of the appellant and thereafter heard only about their demise, chosen not to support the accusations against the appellant. However, her testimony is contradicted by at least three prosecution witnesses H 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A with two of them, PW-7 Mahender Kumar Yadav and PW-8 Rajender Yadav being her uncles, who maintained that there were strained relations of the appellant and his wife and that the appellant doubted the character of his wife as also the paternity of the children. Even PW-5 Bishan Singh,brother of the appellant, though attempted to depose against the prosecution case but indeed testified to the fact that there had been B strains in the relationship of the appellant and his wife. The submission that strained relationship of appellant with his wife may not provide sufficient motive for killing the children cannot be accepted for the reason that the motive projected in the present case had been that the appellant doubted the paternity of the deceased children and suspected that they C were not his sons. 17.3. We are clearly of the view that when the evidence on record unambiguously proves the guilt of the accused-appellant, the factor relating to motive cannot displace or weaken the conclusions naturally flowing from the evidence. Moreover, the present case cannot be said D to be of want of motive altogether. Differently put, in our view, when all the facts and circumstances are taken together, the present one is not a case where there had been any missing link in the chain of circumstances, leading only to the conclusion of the guilt of the appellant. 18. As noticed, the Trial Court and the High Court have E concurrently recorded the findings that the prosecution has been able to establish the chain of circumstances leading to the conclusion that the appellant is guilty of the offence of murder of the victim children, his sons, as also the offence of causing disappearance of evidence. There appears no infirmity in the findings so recorded. Plea of mental incapacity of the appellant F 19. The chain of circumstances against the appellant being complete and strong, learned counsel for the appellant has endeavoured to make out a case of alleged unsoundness of mind of the accused- appellant and has developed a few contentions in that regard that the intent of committing crime cannot be imputed on the appellant looking to G his mental instability; and that the entire trial stood vitiated for want of compliance of Section 329 CrPC. 19.1. Sections 84 IPC,86 IPC,329 CrPC and 105 Evidence Act with its illustration (a),carrying relevance in relation to the submissions so made, could be usefully reproduced as under: - H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 853 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.]