The area in which each one of these places is located, will be the area in which the offence of money- laundering has been committed. To C put it differently, the area in which the place of acquisition of the proceeds of crime is located or the place of keeping it in possession is located or the place in which it is concealed is located or the place in which it is used is located, will be the area in which the offence has been committed. 40. In addition, the definition of the words “proceeds of crime” D focuses on “deriving or obtaining a property” as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence. Therefore, the area in which the property is derived or obtained or even held or concealed, will be the area in which the offence of money- laundering is committed. 41. Having seen the legal landscape on the question of jurisdiction, E let us now come back to the facts of the case on hand. It is the case of the petitioner that what was attached by the Enforcement Directorate under Section 5 of the Act as proceeds of crime, was the bank account of the petitioner in Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra and that therefore the offence of money- laundering, even according to the respondent has been committed in Maharashtra. F 42. But the said contention overlooks the six different types of processes or activities mentioned in Explanation (i) under Section 3 of the Act, as connected with proceeds of crime, namely, concealment, possession, acquisition, or use, etc. 43. Even according to the petitioner, she ran three campaigns G from April 2020 to September 2021 in an online crowdfunding platform named “Ketto”. From the pleadings on record, we are not able to make out (i) the number of persons who provided funds; and (ii) the places where the donors were located. H 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 44. The bank account of the petitioner in HDFC Bank, Koperkhairane Branch, Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra, is the ultimate destination, to which all funds reached. Therefore, Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra is the place where the proceeds of crime were taken possession of (if they were actually proceeds of crime). Therefore, Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra is a place where only one of the six different B processes or activities listed in Section 3 has been carried out. The other activity namely acquisition of the proceeds of crime (if they really are) has taken place in the virtual mode with people from different parts of the country/world transferring money online. If acquisition has taken place in the real physical world, the difficulty with respect to the question C of jurisdiction would have been lesser. Since acquisition has taken place in the virtual world, the places from where online transfers of money took place, are known only to the petitioner or perhaps their Bankers. 45. Therefore, the question of territorial jurisdiction in this case requires an enquiry into a question of fact as to the place where the D alleged proceeds of crime were (i)concealed; or (ii)possessed; or (iii) acquired; or (iv) used.