In passing, it may be stated that there is no expression ‘police offi cer’ deployed in Section 167(1) nor does it appear in any part of Section 167(2). The authority for detaining a person as contemplated under Section 167(2) is in aid of investigation to be carried on by any prosecuting agency who is invested with the power of investigation. ××× ××× ××× 108. The word ‘investigation’ is defi ned under Section 2(h) of the present Code [which is an exact reproduction of Section 4(1)(b) of V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 915 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] the old Code] which is an inclusive defi nition as including all the proceedings under the Code for the collection of evidence conducted by a police offi cer or any person (other than a Magistrate) who is authorised by a Magistrate in this behalf. The said word ‘investigation’ runs through the entire fabric of the Code. There is a long course of decisions of this Court as well as of the various High Courts explaining in detail, what the word ‘investigation’ means and is? It is not necessary for the purpose of this case to recapitulate all those decisions except the one in H.N. Rishbud v. State of Delhi. In that decision, it has been held that: (SCR pp. 1157-58) “Under the Code investigation consists generally of the following steps: (1) Proceeding to the spot, (2) Ascertainment of the facts and circumstances of the case, (3) Discovery and arrest of the suspected off ender, (4) Collection of evidence relating to the commission of the off ence which may consist of (a) the examination of various persons (including the accused) and the reduction of their statements into writing, if the offi cer thinks fi t, (b) the search of places of seizure of things considered necessary for the investigation and to be produced at the trial, and (5) Formation of the opinion as to whether on the material collected there is a case to place the accused before a Magistrate for trial and if so taking the necessary steps for the same by the fi ling of a charge-sheet under Section 173.” The steps involved in the course of investigation, as pointed out in Rishbud case have been reiterated in State of M.P. v. Mubarak Ali. 109. No doubt, it is true that there are a series of decisions holding the view that an Offi cer of Enforcement or a Customs Offi cer is not a police offi cer though such offi cers are vested with the powers of arrest and other analogous powers. Vide Ramesh Chandra v. State of W.B. and Illias v. Collector of Customs, Madras. In the above decisions, this Court has held that the above offi cers under the special Acts are not vested with the powers of a police offi cer qua investigation of an off ence under Chapter XII of the Code including the power to forward a report under Section 173 of the 916 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.