Viewed from any angle, it remains a medicament. Whether re-look at classification of the product in question C justified 30. For what has discussed hereinabove, it is apparent that the product in question had rightly been classified as ‘medicament’ in the past and nothing material had changed so as to re-classify the same. However, the Revenue has attempted to rely on the amendment of the D tariff structure in the year 2012 as justification for re-look at its classification. The Adjudicating Authority stated this justification in the manner that there were substantial changes in the tariff headings, particularly when Chapter 30 came to be reworded so as to remove the distinction between patent/proprietary and generic medicaments and to classify them according to whether they are put up in unit containers for E retail sale or not; the mention about the Act of 1940 and the various Pharmacopeia came to be deleted; and under Chapter 33, the phrase ‘Hair oil’ became prominent under which, subsidiary headings of ‘perfumed hair oil’ and ‘others’ came to be specified. According to the Adjudicating Authority, all these changes merited interpretation of the F new entries vis-à-vis the product in question than what was decided or settled earlier. Learned ASG has also relied upon these very reasons in support of his contentions. In our view, there had been no justification in the Department seeking to re-open the settled position in relation to the product in question merely with reference to certain changes made in Chapter 30 and Chapter 33, which had essentially broadened their ambit G and scope and provided modified marginal notes and tariff entries with detailed specifications. These changes had otherwise no impact, so far as the product of the respondent, AHAHO, is concerned. 31. In support of the proposition for re-classification, the decision in Andhra Sugar Ltd. (supra) has been cited on behalf of the appellant. H 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A We have extracted the relied upon paragraph of the said decision hereinbefore and it is difficult to accept that the proposition therein, to the effect that the meaning ascribed by the authorities issuing Notification is a good guide of a contemporaneous composition of exposition of law, has any application to the present case. The applicable principles, as noticed from the decisions in BPL Pharmaceuticals and Vicco B Laboratories (supra) remain that change of classification cannot be countenanced merely on the ground of coming into force of different tax structure without showing that the product has changed its character. The decision in ShreeBaidyanath Ayurved Bhawan (supra) is pertinent to the point wherein, after an unsuccessful attempt to have the product C DML accepted as a medicinal preparation (in Baidyanath I), the assessee-company made another attempt for change of classification after coming into force of the Act of 1985. While rejecting such an attempt on the part of the assessee-company, this Court held that since the product in its composition, character and uses continued to be the same, even after insertion of new Sub-Heading 3301.30, change in D classification was not justified (vide paragraph 58 of the decision in ShreeBaidyanath Ayurved Bhawan, reproduced hereinbefore).