The former deals with resolution of insolvencies of corporate entities, whereas the latter deals with the resolution of insolvencies of individuals and partnership fi rms. 2. The Role of the Resolution Professional in Corporate as opposed to Individual Insolvency 46. In the above backdrop, it would now be necessary to advert to the role which is ascribed to the resolution professional in Part II and Part III. While both the Parts use the expression “resolution professional”, notably, the provisions of Part II contain a material diff erence from those of Part III relating to the role and functions of a resolution professional. Section 5(27) provides that a resolution professional, for the purposes of Part II, means an insolvency professional appointed to conduct the CIRP or the pre-packaged insolvency resolution process, as the case may be, and to include an interim resolution professional. Part II of the IBC provides in Section 16 for the adjudicating authority to appoint an interim resolution professional on the insolvency commencing date. The insolvency commencing date is defi ned in Section 5(12) to mean the date of the admission of an application for initiating the CIRP by the adjudicating authority under Sections 7, 9 or Section 10, as the case may be. In other words, upon the admission of an application which has been fi led by the operational creditor or the debtor, (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the provision for the appointment of an interim resolution professional is triggered in terms of Section 16. Since Part II of the IBC deals with the resolution of corporate insolvencies, the statute has implicated the role of the adjudicating authority at the very threshold. 47. Upon the appointment of the interim resolution professional, Section 1715 postulates that: (a) The management of the aff airs of the corporate debtor shall vest in the interim resolution professional; (b) The powers of the Board of Directors or partners of the corporate debtor shall stand suspended and be exercised by the interim resolution professional; (c) The offi cers and managers of the corporate debtor shall report 15 17. Management of aff airs of corporate debtor by interim resolution professional.— (1) From the date of appointment of the interim resolution professional,— (a) the management of the aff airs of the corporate debtor shall vest in the interim resolution professional; (b) the powers of the board of directors or the partners of the corporate debtor, as the case may be, shall stand suspended and be exercised by the interim resolution professional; (c) the offi cers and managers of the corporate debtor shall report to the interim resolution professional and provide access to such documents and records of the corporate debtor as may be required by the interim resolution professional; (d) the fi nancial institutions maintaining accounts of the corporate debtor shall act on the instructions of the interim resolution professional in relation to such accounts and furnish all information relating to the corporate debtor available with them to the interim resolution professional.