According to them, the expression “wiped out” had been used out of context and that what was sought to be removed by the High Court was only the conclusions reached by the Investigating Officer on F the basis of the materials already collected. In other words, their contention was that the investigation so far made and the materials so far collected can never be thrown into the dustbin but that the conclusions reached by the Investigating Officer on the basis of those materials alone required to be wiped out. G 24. It is true that English is not our mother tongue. It is also true that some allowance (or discount ranging from 0 to 90%) can be given at times to the use of certain loose expressions. But the expressions used in paragraphs 79 to 81 of the impugned do not reflect a mere deficiency in language or law, but something more. As rightly pointed out by Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned H 1056 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A senior counsel, the High Court has used in the impugned , several words and expressions such as, (i) reinvestigation to be started ab initio, (ii) wiping out the earlier investigation altogether; (iii) collect fresh evidence and material; and (iv) without reference to the earlier investigation on record. 25. Apart from the usage of the above words and phrases, B which in our opinion, not merely opened up a small loophole in the law but opened up a huge black hole in the galaxy, the High Court issued one more direction in paragraph 80. This direction is to the investigating agency to find out whether the offences under the PC Act are made out against the accused or not. Such a direction stares at what C this Court has said in paragraph 45 of the decision dated 08.09.2022 in Criminal Appeal Nos.1514-1516 of 2022. This Court has said “We are constrained to say that even a novice in Criminal Law would not have left the offences under the PC Act, out of the final report.” Ignoring the said opinion of this Court, the High Court has directed the Investigating Officer to find out afresh whether the offences under the D PC Act are made out or not. Therefore, the problem with the impugned is not merely one of improper usage of language, as sought to be diluted by the learned senior counsel for the accused and the complainant, but something more. 26. Even while supporting the impugned , the learned senior E counsel for the accused and the learned senior counsel for Devasagayam, requested us to read down paragraphs 79 to 81 of the impugned and go by its intent. But it is easier said than done since we have had precedents of this Court reading down statutes but never one of reading down a . In view of the stand so taken even by the F counsel for the accused and counsel for Devasagayam, it may not be strictly necessary to deal with the law relating to de novo investigation.