The other staff presumed that this hurry was due to the respondent’s desire to drive the complainant home. Shri Rynjan Singh, peon (PW8) stated that he had seen the respondent off ering a lift to the complainant and that it was only the complainant to whom the respondent used to off er. Smt. Pema Narzary, AFO(WI) (PW9) stated to have heard from other offi ce staff that the respondent would off er lifts to the complainant in his offi cial vehicle. f. Shri B.B. Sonar, chowkidar (PW4) stated that once while the complainant was standing in the ladies’ queue for booking tickets at the railway station, the respondent approached her from behind and 568 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. placed his hand on her shoulder. This made the complainant very uncomfortable and on shrugging off her shoulder the respondent withdrew his hand. He further stated that he saw the complainant looking upset and uncomfortable. To the aforesaid allegations, the respondent offered his explanation saying that he had done so as it was his “bounden duty to protect the dignity of the complainant” from the “boisterous crowd” and also to make people know standing at the railway station that the complainant was not alone. g. Shri Mast Ram Thakur, SFA(H) stated that he overheard the respondent making sexually coloured remarks to the complainant at the railway station saying; “aap to jaa rehen hain, meri jaan jaa rahi hai. Aap chinta mat karo main tumhara dimag taza karne ke iye bhej rahaa huu, vahaan se aane ke baad tum shrimati paul banogi”. h. Shri B.B. Sonar, chowkidar (PW4), Shri A. Deben Singh, AFO(M) (PW13) Shri Surjit Singh, Driver (PW2), Shri Rynjan Singh, peon (PW8) all stated to have heard from the other offi ce staff that the respondent would often visit the complainant’s residence uninvited and make proposal of marriage. Other witnesses namely; Shri Shyam Dass, Section Offi cer DACS (retd.) (PW19), Shri Subhash Prasad, UDC (PW18), Shri Ashok Gahlot, PA (PW17), Shir Jinen Singh, UDC (PW11), Shri Ranjit Patoi, Shri Samir Nandi, SFA(G) and Smt. Pema Nazary, AFO(WI) (PW9) all supported these allegations and said to have heard from the complainant sometime in 2009-10 that the respondent used to visit her house at odd hours and also used to misbehave with her by making sexual advances and asking the complainant to leave her husband and marry him. Shri Chandan Sarkar, SFA(M) (PW6), stated to have even heard a telephonic recording of the respondent making sexual remarks to the complainant. Shri P.K. Rawat, UDC (PW5) stated that on many occasions he had seen the respondent sitting at the complainant’s house. i. Shri S.C. Katoch, IG (PW20), stated that the complainant had once telephoned him making a complaint against the respondent for detaining her beyond working hours. He further stated that, he had then telephonically reprimanded the respondent after which the respondent UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 569 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] assigned her no work. Shri Mast Ram Thakur, SFA(H) (PW3) and Shri Ranjit Patoi, Assitant (PW7) also corroborated the aforesaid and stated that the respondent withdrew all work from the complainant after she made a complaint against him.