The tenanted premises was described to be part of the property bearing No.C-586, G reference being made to its graphical depiction in the site plan (Annexure-‘A’) in colour red. The Copy of the site plan, which was filed with the eviction petition, it having been captioned as the site plan of property No.C-586, Gali No.12 & 13, Majlis Park, Delhi-110 033, would show the property to be a three storeyed structure, there being two bed rooms, one drawing room, atleast H 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A three rooms, besides kitchen, toilet, verandah and other areas (courtyard, staircase, etc.) at the ground floor and atleast three rooms on the first floor and the second floor (Ex.PW-1/16). Reliance was also placed on another site plan (Ex.PW-15) which would primarily depict the accommodation at the first and the second floor level, the said site plan also having been captioned as one of B property No.C-586, Gali No.15, Majlis Park, Azadpur, Delhi. For clarity, it may be added here that there was no reference to property No.C-587 in the site plan, the impression thereby created being that the entire structure/accommodation depicted therein relates to property No.C-586 only. C 6. The respondent appeared as her own witness (PW-1) and during her cross-examination, she explained that her husband had passed away in 1999 and further that she does not have any child of her own, she not even having adopted any child. She, however, sought to explain in that context that she considered the children of her D brother-in-law (devar) as her own children and that they had been residing with her since the very beginning. This clearly shows improvement being made over the case as originally set up. 7. Be that as it may, PW-1 in cross-examination stated that she would not remember as to when she had purchased property No.C- E 586, Gali No.13, Majlis Park, Delhi. She admitted that Geeta Sharma, wife of her brother-in-law (Prem Kumar Sharma) for whose needs the eviction is sought is owner of property bearing No.C-587, Gali No.12, Majlis Park, Azadpur, Delhi. She also admitted that Geeta Sharma was residing in her property bearing No.C-587. It was at that stage that she would add that the plot F No.586 and 587 had been joined for raising a construction of one building and that she and her sister-in-law Geeta Sharma are residing in that one building as one family. 8. The argument raised against the above backdrop has been that the site plans (Ex.PW-1/5 and Ex.PW-1/6) depict a common G building constructed over two adjoining plots, they bearing No. C- 586 and C-587. This argument cannot be accepted as it is not based on any pleadings to this effect. On the contrary, in the averments in the petition it was a clear case of the respondent/ landlady that the tenanted portion forms part of property No. C-586, which is depicted in the said site plan filed therewith. H KUSUM LATA SHARMA v. ARVIND SINGH 505 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.]