Even otherwise, in view of the factum H 200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of registration of Ext.128 and admission of its execution and the recording of payment of consideration thereon, the second respondent was not justified in raising grievance, initially, even against the sale of the aforesaid extent of one acre. 34.Now, what remains to be looked into is the grievance of the B second respondent with respect to the balance extent of 2 acres and 20 guntas involved in the transaction. In the context of the contentions raised by the second defendant viz., the first respondent in this appeal, what is relevant and crucial is not only the factum of registration of Ext.128 and its execution by the second defendant but also the admission of execution of sale deed dated 04.07.1978 by him in favour of the first defendant. C True that the second defendant contended that it was executed as a collateral security for a money lending transaction. We have noted earlier, by referring to the decision in Rohit Singh’s Case (supra) that a defendant could not be permitted to raise counter-claim against a co-defendant as by virtue of VIII Rule 6A, CPC, it could be raised by a defendant D only against the claim of the plaintiff. Evidently, the High Court did not frame the validity of the sale deed dated 04.07.1978 executed by the second defendant in favour of the first defendant as a question of law though the trial Court also arrived at a finding on this issue without framing it as a specific issue. The indisputable fact is that the said sale deed dated 04.07.1978 was admittedly, executed and registered about nine E (9) months prior to the execution and registration of Ext. 128 sale deed. Ext. 128 would reveal that it involves the entire extent of 3 acres 20 guntas in Survey No. 20/2 of Gangalgaon village and the first defendant is also an executant of the same. The observation and finding of the High Court in the first limb of paragraph 24 of the impugned F that the second defendant did not dispute the sale of one acre of land to the plaintiff as per Ext. 128 for the consideration of Rs. 3000/- would indicate that the balance amount of Rs. 7000/- was the consideration for the balance extent of land covered under Ext. 128. Since the validity of the sale deed dated 04.07.1978 was not an issue/question that could be raised by the second defendant against the first defendant in the subject G suit and was rightly, not raised as an issue, the first defendant not only did not dispute the sale of such extent to the plaintiff but admitted the joint execution of Ext. 128 and receipt of sale consideration, as incorporated in Ext. 128 and since the second defendant got no case that he had assailed the validity of the sale deed dated 04.07.1978 either H before any competent authority or competent Civil Court this question DAMODHAR NARAYAN SAWALE (D) THROUGH LRS.