H 1060 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “shall be goods included in the relevant heads and sub-heads of the First Schedule to the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance Act, 1957, but does not include goods where no additional duties of excise are levied under that Schedule.” B 16. This court held that ‘gutkha’ is tobacco covered by an Entry in the First Schedule to the said ADE Act and that the branded gutka in question was “gutkha”, and therefore, “goods” covered by Explanation to the Fourth Schedule to the APGST Act. It was hence exempted by Section 8. It was held that the Schedule to the APGST Act could not be amended by including gutkha as a kind of pan masala in Entry 194 of C the First Schedule. Its inclusion was held to be invalid in law. 17. The revenue’s stand before the High Court, was that tobacco in Entry No. 22 of the Third Schedule of the DST Act, is a general entry. Chapter 24 of the Schedule to the CET Act referred to various items under six heads. It was open for the state to levy tax in accordance with D the Sales Tax Act; what was needed was to test the legislative competence of the state in levying the tax. It was urged that Entry No. 22 in Third Schedule is a general entry, and Entry No. 46, in the First Schedule is a specific entry. The revenue relied on this court’s ruling in Commissioner, Sales Tax, U.P. v. Agra Belting Works11, where the Court pointed out E that if a notification under a provision12 grants exemption from tax, and later, a subsequent notification (under another provision) prescribes the rate of tax, the intention is to withdraw the exemption and impose the levy at the rate prescribed in the later notification. The court held that since the power to grant exemption and variation of the rate of tax is with the State, there is no compulsion in the statute that a separate F notification recalling exemption is a pre-condition for imposing tax at any rate. The revenue also relied on two cases that followed the ratio in Agra Belting Works (supra) - Sale Tax Officer, Sector IX, Kanpur v. Dealing Dairy Products &Anr.13 and State of Bihar v. Krishna Kuthar Kabra.14. In the latter case, this court followed the two previous decisions G and held that a notification introducing an entry and subjecting it to levy, when previously, it was exempt in another part of the taxing statute the 11 [1987] 3 SCR 93: (1987) 3 SCC 140 [hereafter ‘Agra Belting Works’] 12 In that case, Section 4 - as in Section 7 of the DST Act in the present case 13 (1994) 94 STC 93 (SC): 1994 Supp (2) SCC 639 [hereafter ‘Dealing Dairy Products’] H 14 (1997) 9 SCC 763 [hereafter ‘Krishna Kumar Kabra’] M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1061 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT.