would serve the ends of justice and their sentences might be reduced to the period of sentence already undergone as both the surviving accused 144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (appellants herein) have served over 10 years of sentence during the course of the trial / appeal. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE STATE 11. Per contra, the learned counsel for the State submitted that PW-9 (i.e. the informant) had deposed that the villagers guarded the body entire night and next day morning FIR was lodged. In these circumstances, it cannot be said that the FIR is delayed and, therefore, contrived. PW-2 is a natural witness who, on his way return, witnessed the incident and informed the informant. Even if PW-2 did not name all the three accused in his deposition, his deposition corroborates the testimony of PW-6 with regard to the manner in which the deceased was assaulted by the accused. The testimony of PW-6 inculpates all the three accused and is consistent with medical evidence. Further, nothing has come out from their cross-examination to attribute any improper motive on them to falsely implicate the accused persons. Thus, there is no good reason to disbelieve the said witnesses particularly when the trial court and the appellate court has placed reliance on their testimony after testing the same on the strength of other materials/evidence(s) on record. She also argued that the ocular account rendered by PW-2 and PW-6 is corroborated by the circumstance of discovery of lathi and clothes at the instance of the accused and serologist report confi rms presence of blood on it. 12. In response to the contention that the conviction of the accused could be altered from one punishable under section 302 IPC to one under section 304 Part-I, the learned counsel for the State submitted that the injuries found on the body of the deceased refl ects that he was mercilessly beaten. Medical evidence indicates that there were not only head injuries but fracture of ribs as well; that too, on both sides. That apart, no plea was taken by the accused persons to bring their case under any of the Exceptions of Section 300 of the I.P.C. Hence, the accused have been rightly convicted for the off ence punishable under section 302 I.P.C. and the appeals lack merit. DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 13. We have considered the rival submissions and have perused the record. 14. In this case, we notice from the record that the trial court as well as the High Court while appreciating the evidence have not properly addressed HARILAL ETC. v. STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 145 (NOW CHHATTISGARH) [MANOJ MISRA, J.] various aspects, namely, (a) there is no clear cut motive proved against the accused except that there was some incident concerning a lady of the village; (b) PW-2 and PW-6 both state that the deceased was assaulted in front of the house of one of the accused persons, namely, Anshram, but, the site plan (Ex. P-21/P-22) does not disclose the house of Anshram and from the site plan as well as the testimonies of PW-6, PW-9 (the informant) and police witnesses it is clear that dead body of the deceased was found near a temple about 300 feet away from the place where the deceased was allegedly assaulted; as to how the dead body reached there, the ocular account has no explanation though some drag marks were noticed by the investigating offi cer; (c) as per seizure memorandum (Ex.