Circumstance (a) — Re: Apartment from where the dead E body was foundstood in the tenancy and possession of Santosh. 29. Insofar as tenancy of the apartment being with Santosh is concerned, the same has been proved by the testimonies of PW3 and PW4. Nothing material could come out from their cross-examination, nor any such suggestion has been given to them, as may cast a doubt on F their deposition in respect thereof. No doubt Santosh denied tenancy and claimed that there exists no documentary proof in respect thereof but as there could be an oral tenancy also, in our view, the finding returned by the courts below in respect thereof calls for no interference. However, mere tenancy of the apartment being with Santosh by itself is not sufficient to hold him guilty as there is no general presumption against the owner/ G tenant of a property with regard to his/her guilt if a dead body with homicidal injuries is found in his/her property. No doubt, if the prosecution succeeds in proving a chain of circumstances from which a reasonable inference can be drawn regarding one’s guilt then, in absence of proper explanation, the Court can always draw an appropriate conclusion with H respect to his/her guilt with the aid of section 106 of the IEA, 1872. But, SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 743 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] if the chain of circumstances is not established, mere failure of the A accused to offer an explanation is not sufficient to hold him guilty. 30. Expounding the law on the scope and applicability of section 106 of the IEA, 1872, in Shambu Nath Mehra v. State of Ajmer8, this Court observed: “9. This lays down the general rule that in a criminal case B the burden of proof is on the prosecution and Section 106 is certainly not intended to relieve it of that duty. On the contrary, it is designed to meet certain exceptional cases in which it would be impossible, or at any rate disproportionately difficult, for the prosecution to establish facts which are “especially” C within the knowledge of the accused and which he could prove without difficulty or inconvenience. The word “especially” stresses that. It means facts that are pre-eminently or exceptionally within his knowledge. If the section were to be interpreted otherwise, it would lead to the very startling conclusion that in a murder case the burden lies on the accused D to prove that he did not commit the murder because who could know better than he whether he did or did not. It is evident that that cannot be the intention and the Privy Council has twice refused to construe this section, as reproduced in certain other Acts outside India, to mean that the burden lies on an E accused person to show that he did not commit the crime for which he is tried.” 31. In Nagendra Sah v. State of Bihar9, following the decision in Shambu Nath Mehra’s case (supra), the law with regard to applicability of Section 106 of the IEA, 1872 was crystallised as under: F “22.