the matter as if this were an appeal and even if two views are possible, the view taken by the arbitrator would prevail. So long as an award made by an arbitrator can be said to be one by a reasonable person no interference is called for. However, in cases where an arbitrator exceeds the terms of the agreement or passes an award in the absence of any evidence, which is apparent on the face of the award, the same could be set aside.” c) According to Section 34, an award cannot be modifi ed but can only be set aside under specifi c grounds outlined in the provision. Unlike the Arbitration Act of 1940, which explicitly allowed for modifi cation, the Act of 1996, modelled on the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration 1985, does not grant the court the power to modify awards under Section 34. This aligns with the legislative intent of minimizing judicial intervention in arbitral awards. Reliance in support of the said contention was placed on The Project Director, NHAI vs. M. Hakeem and Another3; d) M/s AT Brij Paul Singh & Ors. vs. State of Gujarat4 was relied upon to submit that a contractor is entitled to damages for loss of expected profi t on the remaining work and only a broad evaluation is required to assess the amount of damages instead of going into minute details; and e) Hudson’s formula has received legal acceptance and is generally used by courts and other judicial bodies in awarding loss of profi t. Learned counsel further submitted that Hudson’s formula works on the numbers and fi gures contemplated in the contract as envisaged by the parties at the time of signing of the contract rather than the actuals during the ongoing work. Therefore, the actual number of men, material and machinery allocated by the appellant for the work bears no relevance whatsoever in calculating the loss of profi t incurred by the appellant due 3 (2021) 9 SCC 1 4 (1984) 4 SCC 59 M/S UNIBROS v. ALL INDIA RADIO 693 DIPANKAR DATTA, J. to the breach of contract by the respondent, else Hudson’s formula would be rendered redundant. Reliance was placed on McDermott International Inc. vs. Burn Standard Co. Ltd. and Ors5 to draw support. 6. Mr. Sanjay Jain, learned Additional Solicitor General (“ASG”, hereafter) appearing on behalf of the respondent submitted that the arbitral award was passed in an arbitrary and whimsical manner, and was rightly rejected both by the Single Bench and the Division Bench. Urging this Court to dismiss the appeal and confi rm the decisions of the Division Bench as well as the Single Judge, the ASG advanced the following submissions: a) The present case being that of delay simpliciter, Hudson’s formula will have no application to award any amount for loss of profi t without the aggrieved party leading any evidence as a condition precedent to the application of the said formula. b) The application of Hudson’s formula hinges upon three essential conditions: i. Firstly, the profi t awarded to the contractor must have been realistically attainable elsewhere had it been free to leave the contract at the appropriate time; ii.