c. However, in to appreciate whether the common High Court has the power to withdraw any suit, appeal or other proceeding 5 (2019) 6 GLR 379 6 2015 SCC OnLine Hyd 978 H 7 2018 (6) Mh. L.J. 199 SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 993 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] pending before any Court subordinate to it from one State and to transfer A the same to any Court subordinate to it, in another State, the provisions of both sections 24 and 25 of the Code will have to be examined as it involves an inter-State transfer and not an intra-State transfer simplicitor. d. To appreciate the true import and meaning of the provisions of section 25(1), the said provision will have to be read in two parts as it B contains two-fold power to direct any suit, appeal or other proceeding to be transferred: i. From one High Court to another High Court; or ii. From one Civil Court in one State to another Civil Court in C any other State. This interpretation is substantiated by the observation made by this Court in Durgesh Sharma (supra). e. Section 25 is the only provision in the CPC, which refers to transfer of a case from a Civil Court in one State to a Civil Court in D another State. Incidentally, the appellants themselves are asking for this relief. f. Report of the Joint Committee, Lok Sabha of the Code of Civil Procedure (Amendment) Bill 1974 which was passed on 1st April, 1976 shows that this issue was raised by one of the North-Eastern States, i.e., E State of Meghalaya with regard to conflict between sections 24 and 25 insofar as the North-East area is concerned and reading of the minutes suggests that the Committee assured to look into the issue. g. In view of the specific provision in section 25(1) of the CPC, it is only the Supreme Court and no other court which has the power to F direct transfer of the suit instituted by the appellants from the Civil Court in Dimapur, Nagaland to the Civil Court in Guwahati, Assam, if at all any ground is set up therefor. 10. In view of the aforesaid contentions, it was submitted by Mr. Balgopal that the impugned judgement needs no interference and deserves G to be upheld. ARGUMENTS OF THE RESPONDENTS 4 AND 5 11. Mr. Sharma, learned counsel appearing for the respondents 4 and 5, advanced the following arguments: H 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A a. Power to effect inter-State transfer of any suit, appeal or other proceeding is not available to be exercised by a High Court in terms of section 24 of the CPC since such power is expressly and exclusively provided in section 25 thereof, to be exercised only by the Supreme Court. B b. Reliance placed by the learned senior counsel for the appellants on Durgesh Sharma (supra) is misplaced since that case is distinguishable. The observations in paragraph 47 were made by this Court to decide the issue captured in paragraph 3 and this Court had no occasion to examine the issue in the light as it has occurred in the present case.