22. The learned senior counsel for the appellant, during the course of his argument has repeatedly contended that at best the sum of Rs.1,00,000/- advanced towards replacement of the engine crank shaft can be recovered and not deny the claim when the policy was in force. In our view, such contention is not acceptable at a point after the accident. When we have noted that the issue of policy is based on trust, the natural conduct of the appellant ought to have been to come clean on this aspect before the issuance of subsequent policy by informing the respondent of non-utilisation of the 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. advance receipt, off er to return the sum or with consent retain it to be utilised when the engine crank shaft was available. Only if such course was adopted, the appellant could have been heard to put forth such a plea, not otherwise. 23. The learned senior counsel for the respondent has on this aspect relied on the decision in the case of Sea Lark Fisheries vs. United India Insurance Company & Anr., (2008) 4 SCC 131 wherein the requirements of Marine Insurance Policy and the implied warranty of seaworthiness was considered and it was also held that as per Section 19 of the Act, insurance is Uberrimae Fidei, which means that the issuance of the policy is based on trust. To the same eff ect, the learned senior counsel for the respondent has also relied on the decision in the case of Contship Container Lines Ltd. vs. D.K. Lall & Ors., (2010) 4 SCC 256. 24. Therefore, keeping in view the consideration made by us hereinabove and also taking note of the provisions relating to warranty and the manner in which the Classifi cation Certifi cate is issued, in the instant facts the appellant had failed to establish that the warranty class had not been breached by them and in that context the seaworthiness or otherwise at the point of accident is not of relevance. In that circumstance, we are of the opinion that the NCDRC having considered the relevant aspects of the matter in its correct perspective has arrived at its conclusion, which would not call for interference. 25. Accordingly, the appeal being devoid of merit is dismissed with no as to costs. 26. Pending application, if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Divya Pandey