2 to 11, subject to the consent of the learned Trial Court. This notification was challenged by the De-facto Complainant before the C Calcutta High Court. 7. Soon thereafter, on 01.03.2021, a newly appointed Public Prosecutor moved an application before the learned Trial Court praying for withdrawal of the prosecution case stating that it was marred with political and personal vendetta. This application was taken up for hearing D on the very next day by a Link Judge who was presiding over the Trial Court, despite the fact that the case was listed for recording evidence on 10.03.2021. The Link Judge was reportedly informed about the pending challenge to the notification dated 26.02.2021 at the Calcutta High Court, but regardless thereto, he proceeded to hear the application and allowed the Prosecution to withdraw the case. As a result, Respondent Nos. 2- E 11 were acquitted. 8. Meanwhile, the writ petition filed by the De-facto Complainant was taken up for hearing on the afternoon of the same day when the Trial Court had allowed the Public Prosecutor to withdraw the criminal case. A learned Single Judge of the High Court noted as follows: F “Surprisingly, in the instant case, a specific notification was issued on February 26, 2021, apparently communicating a direction of the Governor to instruct the concerned Public Prosecutor to withdraw the case–in-question subject to the consent of the Sessions Court. However, not an iota of reason G and/or how such withdrawal would advance the cause of justice and public interest has been indicated in the said . That apart, the modus operandi in the present case is rather transparent since the Public Prosecutor actually acted on such instruction and made an application pursuant to the of the State Government and, despite having knowledge of this H 1098 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Court being in seisin of the present writ petition, the concerned Sessions Judge has granted consent for such withdrawal, which has the effect of acquitting the accused persons. It is evident from the stand of the State taken on all previous occasions when bail was rejected, that the State B vehemently opposed even the grant of bail to the accused. Hence, it defies logic completely as to what prompted the Government to instruct the Public Prosecutor-in- question to withdraw the case against the accused persons all of a sudden. C Despite the self-imposed restraint which this court imposes upon itself in the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, such restraint cannot be a fetter to the court exercising such jurisdiction for the ends of justice where manifest abuse of the process of law has taken place. If the writ court shuts its eyes to the perpetration of D mala fide and arbitrary administrative action, it would be failing in its incumbent duty of judicial review conferred by the Constitution of India. In the present case, in view of the arbitrary and unreasoned nature of the instructions of the State to the Public E Prosecutor dated February 26, 2021, pursuant to which the Public Prosecutor acted and even the Sessions Court granted consent to such withdrawal, the said instruction as well as the effects thereof have to be set aside.” 9.