Deposition of a chance witness whose presence at the place of incident remains doubtful should be discarded (See: Rajesh Yadav & Another v. State of Uttar Pradesh2; and, Jarnail Singh & Others v. State of G Punjab3. 27. The explanation offered by PW-5 for his presence at the spot at that odd hour appears false. According to PW-5, he was having an 2 (2022) 12 SCC 200 H 3 (2009) 9 SCC 719 RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 23 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] upset stomach, therefore, while watching a night show of a movie, to A attend to nature’s call, he came out of the cinema hall and, while he was easing himself, he got the chance to witness the incident. It be noted that the investigating officer (PW-10) and PW-7, a gram vendor in that cinema hall, have deposed that there are toilets in the cinema hall where no money is charged for their use. This falsifies the explanation of PW-5 B that he went out of the cinema hall to ease himself because cinema hall charged money for use of the toilet. Otherwise also, PW-10 (the investigating officer) in his deposition had stated that he was not shown the place where PW-5 squatted to ease himself. 28. Besides that, PW-5 is not consistent because, in his statement C under section 161 Cr.P.C., with which he was confronted during the course of his deposition, he had indicted Govind, Ravi Bangali and Shabbir by stating that all three were present with the deceased but, during his deposition in Court, he stated that Govind was not present. He is also not consistent with regard to the place where his statement was recorded. At one place he states that it was recorded at the police station and at D another place he states that it was recorded at his shop. 29. Another important feature of the case is that, according to PW-10 (investigating Officer), PW-5’s statement was recorded by him on 01.11.2001 at PW-5’s house. What was the reason for the police to go to the residence of PW-5 to record his statement is not disclosed by E the prosecution. We find it inexplicable as to why police would go to PW-5’s residence to record his statement when the FIR makes no disclosure about PW-5’s presence at the scene of crime or with regard to his knowledge about the incident. All these circumstances give rise to a lingering doubt in our mind as to whether, on discovery of the dead F body in the forest, the accused were implicated at the instance of the police on suspicion rather than on information received from persons conversant with the facts. 30. For all the reasons above, when we evaluate the testimony of PW-2 and PW-5 carefully and with due caution, as is required in the facts of the case, we find that their testimony does not inspire our G confidence as to sustain the conviction. Unfortunately, the courts below accepted the same as gospel truth, without testing it on the anvil of settled legal principles, thereby resulting in grave miscarriage of justice.