C [...]” 107. Rule 3(4) stipulates that the Leader of the legislature party must furnish the updated information if there has been a change in the information furnished under Rule 3(1). Rule 3(5) states that if a member D votes or abstains from voting in the assembly contrary to the direction of the political party without the prior permission of the political party, the Leader of the legislature Party may within thirty days of such voting or abstention communicate to the Speaker as to whether such voting or abstention has been condoned by the political party. The rule also stipulates that the Leader must inform the Speaker even if they voted contrary to E the direction of the political party. The 1986 Rules neither use nor define the term ‘Whip’. 108. The term ‘Whip’ is defined in the Act of 1956. Section 2 of the Act of 1956 provides that an MLA shall not be disqualified for holding the offices stipulated in Schedule I. Clause 23 of Schedule I mentions F the offices of Chief Whip or Whip in the Maharashtra State Legislature. The explanation to this clause defines a Whip as follows: “Explanation.- (1) The expression “Chief Whip” or “Whip”, in relation to the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, means that Member of the House who is, for the time being, declared by the G party forming the Government to be the Chief Whip or Whip in that House and recognized as such by the Speaker; and includes a member of the House, who, is for the time being, declared as such by the party having at-least ten percent of the total number of the House and recognized as such by the Speaker; and H 930 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (2) The expression “Chief Whip” or “whip”, in relation to the Maharashtra Legislative Council, means that member of the House who is, for the time being, declared by the party forming the Government to be the Chief Whip or Whip in the House and recognized as such by the Chairman; and includes a member of the House, who, is for the time being, declared as such by the B party having at-least ten percent of the total members of the House and recognized as such by the Chairman.” 109. On a literal interpretation of the provisions of the Tenth Schedule, the 1986 Rules and the Act of 1956, the direction to vote or abstain from voting arises from the political party and not the legislature C party for the following reasons: a. Paragraph 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule provides that the direction to vote or abstain from voting must be issued by the political party or by “any person or authority authorised by it,” with the word ‘it’ referring to the political party. The D provision states that prior permission must have been received from the political party if the member wants to vote contrary to the direction issued, and the political party must condone such action within fifteen days.