In paragraph 6, it was held that expenditure on technical know-how is capital in nature and should be apportioned at 25% and the services rendered relatable to 75% of the consideration was revenue in nature. When the assessee therein fi led an appeal before this Court against the fi nding that technical know-how is capital in nature and should be apportioned at 25%, the appeal was dismissed. Therefore, it is clear that the said case also did not pertain to one source of expenditure being split, partly as capital and partly as revenue in nature. In the said case, the Courts have examined two diff erent constituents of expenditure and held one component to be capital in nature while the other to be revenue in nature. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 467 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 24.4. Next, we advert to the facts in Sarada Binding Works on which heavy reliance was placed by learned senior counsel Mr. Datar. The agreement relevant to the said case envisaged conveyances of two aspects: fi rst, the right to run the business of ‘Chandamama Publications’ on payment of a fi xed sum of Rs. 5000/- per annum; second, royalty to be paid annually on sales equivalent to 10% of the annual net profi ts. The High Court held that the right to run the business is capital in nature, whereas, the sharing of 10% profi t per annum is revenue in nature. In the concluding paragraph, the High Court made the following fi rm conclusions as to why 10% profi t sharing would constitute a revenue expenditure: i. That payments calculated as a certain percentage of profi ts of a business for an indefi nite period of time as royalty cannot be treated as payments by instalments of a capital sum; ii. The payment of royalty was related to the future profi ts of the assessee and had no nexus with the capital sum. In the said case, there are clear fi ndings to the eff ect that the payment of royalty in instalments, in the absence of any defi nitive duration, cannot be linked to the right to carry on trade. That the payment of royalty had no nexus with the capital sum. However, in the present case, it cannot be said that the variable licence fee payable annually has no nexus with the acquisition of the capital asset, i.e., the licence to render telecom services, as, it is the payment of entry fee as well as the variable licence fees which together enable the assessees to carry on the said business. Hence the aforesaid case would not apply to the present case having regard to its distinct facts. 24.5. Sri Datar has also sought to rely upon the decision of this Court in Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd. However, we do not see how this would bolster up the respondents’ case. In the said case, the grant of licence by an agreement dated 05 April, 1932 contemplated two diff erent aspects: fi rst, a monopoly right to cultivate sugarcane and produce sugar, and second, payment of 2% royalty on the price of the sugar manufactured.