In other words, the CCI may be invited to have a cumulative view of all the factors which are relevant in a given case. In fact, the learned Additional D Solicitor General fairly states that the factors may be read as cumulative. 88. Apposite in the facts is Section 19(4)(k). It requires the CCI to factor in social obligations and social cause. Equally, we may notice Section 19(4)(l). It declares the relative advantage by way of contribution to economic development having or likely to have an appreciable effect E on competition to be a relevant factor. What we have deliberately omitted and now supply are the following words to be found in Section 19(4)(l). They are the words “by the enterprise enjoying the dominant position”. Therefore, being found in a dominant position under Section 19(4)(g) is only one of the factors. We do not intend to elaborate further on the F scope and impact of the other factors. It would all depend upon the facts of the individual case. Equally, we may only indicate, that, in particular, countervailing buying power would be a relevant factor. Section 26 provides for the procedure for holding the inquiry employing the methods declared in Section 19(4) to find the presence or absence of dominant position. Section 26 contemplates the CCI acting on: G a. Reference by the Central Government or a State Government or a statutory authority. b. Information given under Section 19 of the Act. c. On its own motion. H 872 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 89. Section 26 contemplates that, in such conditions, if the CCI forms an opinion that a prima facie case exists, then, it should direct the Director General to cause an investigation into the matter. Under Section 26(2), the CCI may close the matter, if it finds that there exists no prima facie case. The Director General is obliged to submit a report on his findings. The CCI is to forward the report to the parties. The Director B General may recommend that there is no contravention of the Act. In such an eventuality, the CCI is obliged to invite objections or suggestions on the said report. The CCI may thereafter decide to close the matter after considering the objections or it may further investigation or further inquiry by the Director General. The CCI may itself proceed C with the further inquiry. Under Section 26(8), if the recommendation by the Director General points to contravention of any of the provisions of the Act, and the CCI is of the opinion that further inquiry is to be held, it must hold an inquiry. Section 27 speaks about the s that may be passed in the case of anti-competitive agreements and abuse of dominant position. The s which may be passed include a direction to discontinue D abuse of dominant position as found in the case of abuse of dominant position. The CCI may impose penalty as provided therein. It can direct modification of the agreement. It can also direct the enterprise to abide by the s that the CCI may pass.