The notifi cation dated 04.03.2021 pertinently states as follows: “MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRSNOTIFICATION New Delhi, the 4th March, 2021 “S.O. 1050(E) – In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 7B of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955) and in supersession of the notifi cation of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Aff airs published in the Offi cial Gazette vide number S.O. 542(E), dated the 11th April, 2005 and the notifi cations of the Government of India in the erstwhile Ministry of Overseas Indian Aff airs published in the Offi cial Gazette vide numbers S.O. 12(E), dated the 5th January, 2007 and S.O. 36(E), dated the 5th January, 2009, except as respect things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby specifi es the following rights to which an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder (hereinafter referred to as the OCI cardholder) shall be entitled, with eff ect from the date of publication of this notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette, namely;- (4)parity with Non-Resident Indians in the matter of: - (ii) appearing for the all India entrance tests such as National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, Joint Entrance Examination (Mains), Joint Entrance Examination (Advanced) or such other tests to make them eligible for admission only against any Non-Resident Indian seat or any supernumerary seat; 950 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Provided that the OCI cardholder shall not be eligible for admission against any seat reserved exclusively for Indian citizens.” 14. The facts in this case are not disputed; undoubtedly the petitioner was treated as a foreign national and allowed to appear in the NEET mains- as OCI cardholder; she even secured a fairly high rank. She was allowed to participate in the mock rounds of allocations which led to an indication that she would be off ered PG in Paediatrics in AIIMS and just before the fi rst round of counselling she was informed that her status would no longer be as a foreign national and that she would be treated as an Indian national. 15. A plain reading of the notifi cation undoubtedly leads one to conclude that it withdraws the eligibility or privileges which had been hitherto conferred upon OCI Card holders regarding their parity with Indian nationals for appearing in All India examinations such as NEET. This meant that after the date of issuance of that notifi cation, i.e. 04.03.2021, such OCI card holders could not claim the privilege of eligibility for admission in any competitive entrance examination “any seat reserved exclusively for Indian citizens” was an abrupt notifi cations all these notifi cations were somewhat softened by of the retroactive application facially was that all OCI Card holders who had planned their academic careers based upon pre- existing notifi cations dated 11.04.2005, 05.01.2007 and 05.01.2009 were held to be eligible to continue with that privilege in terms of the in Anushka (supra). The relevant portions of the in Anushka (supra) are extracted below: “45.