395, 364, 365, 380, 201, 302 and 302 r/w s.34. Evidence – Circumstantial evidence – Appreciation of – Golden principles with regard to conviction in a case which rests D entirely on circumstantial evidence – Discussed – Criminal Trial. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. It is necessary for the prosecution that the circumstances from which the conclusion of the guilt is to be drawn E should be fully established. It is a primary principle that the accused ‘must be’ and not merely ‘may be’ guilty before a court can convict the accused. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between ‘may be proved’ and “must be or should be proved”. The facts so established should be consistent only F with the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty. The circumstances should be such that they exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved. There must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the G accused and must show that in all human probabilities the act must have been done by the accused. [Para 10] 2. Section 27 of the Evidence Act requires that the fact discovered embraces the place from which the object is produced and the knowledge of the accused as to this, and the information H BOBY v. STATE OF KERALA 337 given must relate distinctly to the said fact. The information as to A past user, or the past history, of the object produced is not related to its discovery. The law expects the IO to draw the discovery panchnama as contemplated under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. In the present case, leave aside the recovery panchnama being in accordance with the aforesaid requirement, there is no B statement of accused No. 3/appellant recorded under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. Therefore, the prosecution has failed to prove the circumstance that the dead body of the deceased was recovered at the instance of accused No. 3/appellant. [Paras 21, 26] C 3. Insofar as accused No.1 is concerned, the additional circumstance sought to be relied on by the trial court and the High Court is the alleged recovery of the spade. It is to be noted that the spade was also recovered from the same place from where the dead body of the deceased was alleged to have been recovered at the instance of accused No. 3/appellant. The trial court again D held that the place from where the spade was recovered was already known from the disclosure statement of accused No. 3/ appellant; however, it still held the recovery of the said spade to be admissible in evidence. It is thus clear that the said recovery was from a place which was already known and not exclusively E within the knowledge of accused No. 1. Hence, the trial court has again committed perversity in arriving at such a finding.