This Court observed that, the supply of the buses, if any, by EVEY would be subject to the result of these petitions and EVEY shall not claim any equity at a later stage. E SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE “EVEY” 28. Mr. Rohatgi, the learned Senior counsel appearing for EVEY placed strong reliance on the decision of this Court in W.B. State Electricity Board v. Patel Engineering Co. Ltd. & Ors., reported in (2001) 2 SCC 451 to submit that the equitable relief can be granted to the bidder where it has made a material mistake of fact in the bid and F upon discovery of that mistake he has acted promptly and rectified his mistake. He submitted that, Clause 16 of Schedule I of the Tender would not apply to a document, like Annexure Y, which was originally required to be submitted by the “Successful Bidder’’ after the evaluation of the bid. Furthermore, the learned Senior counsel proceeded to submit that, G even in the original Annexure Y as submitted on 02.05.2022, his client had mentioned that, “These offered buses will run above mentioned minimum Kms without any interruption”. 29. He submitted that, Annexure F specifies that “If the variations specified herein, are found to be in nature of contradiction to BEST’s H requirements/specifications then such Bids will be treated as Non- TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE BRIHAN MUMBAI ELECTRIC SUPPLY 707 & TRANSPORT UNDERTAKING (BEST) [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] responsive” and therefore, the bidder would have to essentially comply A with the specifications mentioned in Annexure F otherwise the bid would be treated as “technically non-responsive”. He submitted that Annexure F can be rightly termed as an essential condition of Tender. He placed strong reliance on the decision of this Court in the case of Kanhaiya Lal Agrawal v. Union of India and Others, reported in (2002) 6 SCC B 315, to submit that whether a condition is essential, or collateral could be ascertained by reference to the consequence of non-compliance thereto. It was submitted that if non-fulfilment of the requirement results in rejection of the tender, then it would be an essential part of the tender otherwise it is only a collateral term. He further submitted that, non- compliance of the conditions mentioned in Annexure Y would lead to C levy of penalty and if the instance keeps on recurring, it may lead to termination of contract and therefore, Annexure Y should be treated as a collateral term of the Tender. Under Clause 5.1.1 of Schedule II (Definitions and Instructions to Bidders) of the Tender document Annexure Y was not required to be submitted along with the bid documents D but the same was to be submitted by the “Successful Bidder’’. 30. He submitted that, in view of the decision of this Court in, N.G. Projects Limited v. Vinod Kumar Jain and Others, reported in (2022) 6 SCC 127,the writ court should refrain itself from imposing its decision over the decision of the employer as to whether to accept the bid of a tenderer and that contract of public service should not be interfered E with lightly.