The Trial Court, however relied upon the evidence MANAK CHAND @ MANI v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 81 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] placed by the prosecution regarding the date of birth of the prosecutrix, which was recorded in the school register as 04.04.1987 and therefore at the time of the alleged off ence she was only thirteen and half years of age and thus the fi nding of the Trial Court is that, even if it is assumed for the sake of argument that the prosecutrix was a consenting party to the sexual intercourse, her consent would be immaterial since she was less than sixteen years of age and therefore the off ence of rape stands proved. The High Court in the appeal, however, even discards the presumption of the prosecutrix being a consenting party and has completely relied upon the testimony of the prosecutrix regarding rape and has dismissed the appeal. The evidence, as to the age or even rape has not been examined properly by the Trial Court as well as the High Court. Courts must examine each evidence with open mind dispassionately as an accused is to be presumed innocent till proved guilty. In our adversarial system of criminal jurisprudence, the guiding principle shall always be the Blackstone ratio which holds that it is better that ten guilty persons escape than one innocent be punished. 8. There are two aspects which ought to have been considered by the Trial Court and the High Court in greater detail than what has been done. The fi rst is the age of the prosecutrix. The age of the prosecutrix has an extremely crucial bearing in the case. The only evidence relied by the court for holding the prosecutrix as a minor (less than sixteen years of age), is the school register of Government Girls High School, which was placed in the Court by the clerk of the school, Ram Sahay (PW-2). Undoubtedly, the date of birth in the school register is 04.04.1987 which makes the prosecutrix less than sixteen years of age at the time of the incident. But it has also come in the evidence of Ram Sahay (PW-2) that this date of birth was recorded not on the statement of the parents of the prosecutrix, but by some other person and more importantly, it was based on the transfer certifi cate of Government Primary School where the date of birth was recorded as 04.04.1987. All the same, this transfer certifi cate, on the basis of which the date of birth was recorded, was never produced in the Court. Yet, both the Trial Court and the High Court have relied upon the veracity of the school register. It is the same school register which marks the presence of the prosecutrix on 12.09.2000 in the school. This is also the date when the prosecutrix was 82 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. allegedly raped for the fi rst time, in the house of the appellant in village Sanwat Khera, whereas the school is at another place called Dabwali Mandi.