It is submitted that in the facts of the present case, the lien acquired by each of the respondents under the Government could not have come to an end by their posting and C continuance in the respective Milk Unions until they were absorbed therein. It is submitted that till the date they were absorbed they continued to be the Government servant and, therefore, were entitled to the pension according to the Rules. It is submitted that Rule 158 governs the cases of pension of those who are working under the Local Bodies and paid by D the Local Funds administered by the Government of Rajasthan, but so far as the respondents are concerned, they were continuing as confirmed Government servants without confirmation in their respective unions and therefore the guideline dated 30.01.1976 could not override the operation of the Rules relating to the lien. It is submitted that the legal position is that the lien could not be terminated even with the consent of the E Government servant, if he is left without lien. 5.5 Making above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. 6. Heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length. F 7. At the outset, it is required to be noted and it cannot be disputed that all the respondents were initially appointed in the year 1971 on the post of Animal Husbandry Extension Officer or Veterinary Assistant Surgeon in the Animal Husbandry Department of the State of Rajasthan. However, thereafter, all of them applied for appointment in the Rajasthan G State Dairy Development Corporation Ltd. by making applications and after they were interviewed, they were appointed in the respective Milk Unions under the Dairy Federations between 1976 to 1978. After their applications and interviews, the respondents were informed with the terms and conditions on which they are absorbed / appointed in the Rajasthan State Dairy Development Corporation Ltd., which read as H under:- STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. v. DR. HAMIR SINGH 123 CHOUHAN (DEAD) BY LRS & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] “With reference to your application and interview for the post A of Assistant Officer you are informed that before the appointment can be made your acceptance to the following terms and conditions is necessary. 1. You will be appointed in the grade of 375-850 and your way will on fined suitably protecting your existing pay. B 2. Other allowances like Dearness Allowances House Rent allowance and Travelling Allowance etc., shall be at par with these admissible in State Government service. 3. Though the recruitment is being done by the Corporation C your ultimate employer may be the Union of Cooperative Societies established at the District level. 4. Regarding your previous service the matter will have to be settled between you and the State Government. So far as the Corporation is concerned this will be a fresh appointment. D If the terms are acceptable, please send the acceptance in the acknowledgement, given below latest by 16th August 1975, failing which it shall be assumed that you are not interested in the job.” 7.1 Thus, all of them were specifically informed that regarding their previous service, the matter will have to be settled between them E and the State Government and so far as the Corporation is concerned, the appointment will be a fresh appointment.