362. We do not agree with the above submission. It is clear that a fine distinction was drawn between the right to vote and the C freedom of voting as a species of freedom of expression, while reiterating the view in Jyoti Basu v. Debi Ghosal [(1982) 1 SCC 691] that a right to elect, fundamental though it is to democracy, is neither a fundamental right nor a common law right, but pure and simple, a statutory right. 363. Even otherwise, there is no basis to contend that the right to D vote and elect representatives of the State in the Council of States is a constitutional right. Article 80(4) merely deals with the manner of election of the representatives in the Council of States as an aspect of the composition of the Council of States. There is nothing in the constitutional provisions declaring the right to vote in such E election as an absolute right under the Constitution.” 106. It will be noticed that the Council of States is not the same as the House of the People within the meaning of Article 326. We cannot overlook the following observations: “448. It shows that the right to vote in “free and fair elections” is F always in terms of an electoral system prescribed by national legislation. The right to vote derives its colour from the right to “free and fair elections”; that the right to vote is empty without the right to “free and fair elections”. It is the concept of “free and fair elections” in terms of an electoral system which provides content and meaning to the “right to vote”. In other words, “right G to vote” is not (sic) an ingredient of the free and fair elections. It is essential but not the necessary ingredient.” 107. In K. Krishna Murthy v. Union of India38, a Constitution Bench was dealing with the constitutional validity of certain aspects of 38(2010) 7 SCC 202 H 108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the reservation policy in regard to the composition of elected local self- government institutions. The Bench relied upon M.M. Tripathi case (supra) and observed as follows: “..It is a well-settled principle in Indian Law, that the right to vote and contest elections does not have the status of fundamental B rights. Instead, they are in the nature of legal rights which can be controlled though legislative means…” 108. The request of the petitioner therein to reconsider the precedent wherein the right of political participation was categorised as statutory right was turned down. No doubt, this case was not dealing with elections to the House of the People or the State Legislature. C 109. In People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of India39, [the second PUCL case], a Bench of three learned Judges recognised the right of the person to express his disapproval of the candidates who stood for election by pressing a button which would indicate ‘none of the above’ (NOTA). In the course of this dealing with the first D PUCL (supra), the Court held as follows: “After a careful perusal of the verdicts of this Court in Kuldip Nayar [(2006) 7 SCC 1], Assn.