the complainant/respondent No.1 herein and M/s Morgan Securities & Credits Pvt. Ltd., i.e. accused No. 1, on 7th March 2000. Under the said ICDA, accused No.1 Company had agreed to grant the complainant/respondent No.1 the said ICD of G Rs.50,00,000/- for a period of 90 days at an interest rate of 26% per annum. It will be relevant to refer to Clauses 2 and 3 of the terms of the ICDA, which read thus: “2. The Borrower is aware that the ICD is being granted by the lender on the basis of securities agreed to be provided as per the H terms of the sanction. PRAKASH AGGARWAL v. GANESH BENZOPLAST LIMITED 851 AND ANOTHER [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 3. The borrower hereby irrevocably agrees that it shall arrange to A issue an irrevocable instruction to their dematerialised participant to mark a lien in favour of the lender till the ICD and any other dues remains unpaid. All expenses related to dematerialising of shares shall be bone by the borrower.” 10.It could thus be seen that the ICD was granted by the lender B on the basis of the securities agreed to be provided as per the terms of the sanction. The complainant/respondent No.1 has also irrevocably agreed that it shall arrange to issue an irrevocable instruction to its dematerialized participant to mark a lien in favour of the lender till the ICD and any other dues remains unpaid. It will further be relevant to C refer to the following part of Clause 9 of the ICDA: “9. ………. a) Any installment of interest if any required to be paid in installment as agreed hereinabove remains unpaid even after the expiry of 3 days from the respective due date for payment. D b) Any shortfall in the security pledged vide Letter of Pledge executed subject to which facility granted is not replenished even after giving due Notice as provided therein. c) …….…. E d) ………. e) ……….. f) ………… h) ……….. F i) ………….” 11.It is thus clear that in the event of any of the events occurring in sub-clauses (a) to (i) of Clause 9 of the ICDA, the lender would be entitled at its discretion to enforce its rights as mentioned in the ICDA, Deed of Personal Guarantees, Corporate Guarantee and LoP. A perusal G of sub-clause (a) of Clause 9 of the ICDA would reveal that, if any installment of interest required to be paid as per the ICDA remains unpaid even after the expiry of 3 days from the respective due date for payment, accused No.1 Company was entitled to enforce its rights as mentioned in Clause 9 of the ICDA. Similarly, if any shortfall in the security pledged H 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A vide LoP executed, subject to which facility was granted, was not replenished even after giving due Notice, accused No.1 Company was entitled to invoke Clause 9 of the ICDA. 12.It will further be relevant to refer to Clauses 5 and 8(5) of the LoP, which read thus: B “5.