8.5 The difficulty which arises in the present case is that, in terms of the decision of this Court in Anuj Jain (supra) and Phoenix ARC (supra), Appellant No. 1 - Vistra is to be treated as a secured creditor, but would not fall under the category of financial creditors or operational F creditors. Therefore, they would be denied the benefit of the amendments 7 31. Approval of resolution plan.— (1) If the Adjudicating Authority is satisfied that the resolution plan as approved by the committee of creditors under sub-section (4) of Section 30 meets the requirements as referred to in sub-section (2) of Section 30, it shall by approve the resolution plan which shall be binding on the corporate debtor and its employees, members, creditors, including the Central Government, any State G Government or any local authority to whom a debt in respect of the payment of dues arising under any law for the time being in force, such as authorities to whom statutory dues are owed, guarantors and other stakeholders involved in the resolution plan: Provided that the Adjudicating Authority shall, before passing an for approval of resolution plan under this sub-section, satisfy that the resolution plan has provisions for its effective implementation. H 828 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A to Section 30(2) of the Code made vide Act No. 26 of 2019, or for that matter Act No. 26 of 2018. Consequently, a very odd and a peculiar situation is created where a secured creditor is denied the benefit of the secured interest i.e., the right to exercise the sale of the secured interest, yet not be treated as either a financial creditor or an operational creditor. In terms of Section 52 of the Code, a secured creditor in liquidation B proceedings has the right to relinquish its security interest to the liquidation estate and receive proceeds from the sale of assets by the liquidator in the manner specified under Section 53 of the Code. The second option given to the secured creditor is to realise the security interest in the manner specified in aforesaid Section. Rule 21-A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 20168 deals C with the presumption of security interest, which we need not elaborate for the present decision. If the secured creditor relinquishes the security interest, it is then entitled to priority in payment under clause (b) to sub- section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. The debts owed to the secured creditor in such event, rank pari passu with the workmen’s dues for the D period 24 months preceding the liquidation commencement date. As per Section 52(9) of the Code, where the proceeds on realisation of secured assets are not adequate to repay the debts due to the secured creditors who have exercised the option to realise the security interest, the unpaid dues of such secured creditors are to be paid by the liquidator in terms of clause (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 53 of the Code.