In view of the said finding, the Tribunal held that the applicants before the Tribunal were entitled to Double Over Time Allowance. E 9. In contrast, the very same Tribunal found in its dated 15.9.2006 in the original application filed by A.K. Biswas and others that the applicants before the Tribunal were not performing any manual labour or clerical work as a regular part of their duties and that therefore by virtue of Rule 100 of the 1963 Rules, they stood excluded from the F benefit conferred by Section 59(1) of the 1948 Act. 10. Thus, the Central Administrative Tribunal reached diametrically opposite findings of fact, in two different sets of cases filed by employees who were identically placed and discharging identical duties and responsibilities. The reason why we record this fact is that in normal G circumstances, the High Court exercising supervisory jurisdiction under Article 226/227 and this Court exercising jurisdiction under Article 136, will not be inclined to interfere with the findings of fact recorded by a Tribunal. But in this case, there are two diametrically opposite set of 3 For short, “1963 Rules” H 256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A findings, both of which cannot co-exist. 11. Keeping the above aspect in mind, let us now proceed to consider the rival contentions. 12. Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants contended, (i) that a perusal of the list of duties assigned to B the respondents, as reflected by the ACRs clearly show that the respondents were performing supervisory duties, exercising control over 50 to 100 workers; (ii) that as per the law laid down by this Court in Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distribution Company of India Ltd. vs. The Burma Shell Management Staff Association & Ors.4, a person C whose predominant nature of work is supervisory, will not be qualified as a workman merely because he also carries on clerical/mechanical work incidental to his supervisory work; (iii) that the Tribunal as well as the High Court failed to appreciate the scope of Rule 100 of the 1963 Rules in the proper perspective; and (iv) that the Supervisors enjoying higher scales of pay than workers, cannot claim the benefit of overtime D allowance as extended to workers. 13. In response, it is contended by Shri K. Parameswar, learned counsel appearing for the respondents, (i) that the decision in Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distribution Company of India Ltd. (supra) cannot have any application to the case on hand, since the definition of E the expression “workman” under the Industrial Disputes Act, 19475is quite different from the definition of the same expression under the 1948 Act; (ii) that therefore the dominant nature test propounded in Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distribution Company of India Ltd. is not applicable here; (iii) that the Tribunal and the High Court have found on F evidence that the respondents are performing manual labour or clerical work as a regular part of their duties and, hence, Rule 100 of the 1963 Rules has no application; and (iv) that the findings of fact recorded by a quasi-judicial tribunal cannot be interfered with lightly.