b) In Air India Cabin Crew Assn. vs. Yeshaswinee Merchant and others, AIR 2004 SC 187, this Court set aside a decision of the Bombay High Court and upheld the early retirement of women employees, namely, Air F Hostesses in Air India which was then a Public Sector Undertaking. Justifying its decision, this Court observed that, “there cannot be any cut and dried formula for fixing the age of retirement” and this “would always depend on a proper assessment of the relevant factors and may conceivably vary from case to case”. G 58. With due respect, I find that the aforesaid two s have an underlying emphasis on the physique and physical appearance of women related to their marriage, consequent pregnancy and ageing which cannot be the rationale or basis for making policy decisions or regulations as they are discriminatory on the basis of sex and thus, unconstitutional. H 344 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 59. As opposed to the aforesaid decisions, it is necessary to also cite the following decisions of this Court: i) The decision of this Court in C.B. Muthamma Vs Union of India AIR 1979 SC 1868 is highly instructive in this regard. The petitioner therein was an officer in the Indian Foreign Service. She filed B a writ petition before this Court claiming denial of promotion on the ground of hostile discrimination, as she was a woman. She also brought to the notice of this court, the following two rules, challenging the same as being violative of the right to equality: 1. Rule 8(2) of the Indian Foreign Service (Conduct and C Discipline) Rules, 1961 which required a woman member in foreign service to obtain permission of the Government in writing before her marriage and to resign if the Government is satisfied that her family and domestic commitments are likely to come in the way of due and efficient discharge of her duties. D 2. Rule 18(4) of the Indian Foreign Service (Recruitment, Cadre, Seniority and Promotion) Rules, 1961, which prohibited a married woman to be appointed in Foreign Service as of right. Although during the pendency of the writ petition, Rule 18(4) was E deleted, and an affidavit was filed by the Respondent-State that Rule 8(2) was also in the process of being repealed, this Court made the following observations as regards disabilities based on marriage: “5. Discrimination against women, in traumatic transparency, is found in this rule. If a woman member shall F obtain the permission of government before she marries, the same risk is run by government if a male member contracts a marriage. If the family and domestic commitments of a woman member of the Service is likely to come in the way of efficient discharge of duties, a similar G situation may well arise in the case of a male member. In these days of nuclear families, inter-continental marriages and unconventional behaviour, one fails to understand the naked bias against the gentler of the species. 6. At the first blush this rule is in defiance of Article H 16.