Article IV of the Protocol (of the same date), to the DTAA provided that “if after the signature of the aforesaid Convention under any Convention or Agreement between India and a third State which is a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, India, should limit its taxation at source on dividends, interest, royalties, fees for technical services or payments for the use of equipment to a rate lower or a scope more restricted than the rate or scope provided for in this Convention on the said items of income “then, as from the date on which the relevant Indian Convention or Agreement enters into force the same rate or scope as provided for in that Convention or Agreement on the said items of income shall also apply under this Convention” 53. The DTAA between India and Germany entered into force on 26.10.1996; the DTAA between India and Sweden entered into force on 25.12.1997, the India-Swiss Confederation DTAA entered into force on 19.10.1994, and the DTAA between India and the United States of America entered into force on 18.12.1990. These states were members of the OECD. The Union limited the taxation at source on dividends, interest, royalties, fees for technical services and payments for the use of equipment to a rate lower or a scope more restricted than that provided in the DTAA between India and the Netherlands on the said items of income. Consequently, the notifi cation dated 30.08.1999, provided the following benefi ts expressly on diff erent dates, having regard to the fact that India entered into DTAAs with OECD members and gave them eff ect, subsequently: “Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred by section 90 of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961), the Central Government hereby directs that the following modifi cations shall be made in the Convention notifi ed by the said notifi cation which are necessary for implementing the aforesaid Convention between India and the Netherlands, namely: 117 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. I. With eff ect from April 1, 1997, for the existing paragraph 2 of article 10 relating to dividends the following paragraph shall be read : “2. However, such dividends may also be taxed in the Contracting State of which the company paying the dividends is a resident and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the benefi cial owner of the dividends, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent. of the gross amount of the dividends.” II. With eff ect from April 1, 1997, for the existing paragraph 2 of article 11 relating to interest the following paragraph shall be read : “2. However, such interest may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which it arises and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the benefi cial owner of the interest the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent. of the gross amount of the interest.” III.