(concurring): Being unstamped or insufficiently stamped, the agreement would not be available to be ‘admitted in evidence’ and ‘to be acted upon’, till it is validated following the procedures prescribed under the provisions of the Stamp Act and till then, it would not exist ‘in law’ – When the original document carrying the D arbitration clause is produced and if it is found that it is unstamped or insufficiently stamped, the Court acting under s.11 is duty bound to act u/s.33 of the Indian Stamp Act – Held (per Ajay Rastogi, J.) (dissenting): The existence of a copy/certified copy of an arbitration agreement whether unstamped/insufficiently stamped at the pre- E referral stage is an enforceable document for purposes of appointment of an Arbitrator under s.11(6A) of the Act, 1996 where the judicial intervention shall be minimal confined only to the prima facie examination of “existence of an arbitration agreement” alone keeping in view the object of 2015 amendment and the courts must strictly adhere to the time schedule for appointment of Arbitrator F prescribed under s.11(13) of the Act, 1996 – All the preliminary / debatable issues including insufficiently stamped/unduly stamped or validity of the arbitration agreement etc. are referrable to the Arbitrator/Arbitral Tribunal under s.16 of the Act, 1996 which, by virtue of the Doctrine of Kompetenz - Kompetenz has the power to G do so – Held (per Hrishikesh Roy, J.) (dissenting): The examination of stamping and impounding need not be done at the threshold by a Court, at the pre-reference stage under s.11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 – Non-stamping /insufficient stamping of the substantive contract/instrument would not render the arbitration agreement non- existent in law and unenforceable /void, for the purpose of referring H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 287 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. a matter for arbitration – An arbitration agreement should not be A rendered void if it is suffering stamp deficiency which is a curable defect. Answering the reference, the Court HELD: B per K. M. JOSEPH, J. (for himself and ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.) 1.1. An agreement, which is unenforceable on account of a substantive law, which would include the Stamp Act, would not be a contract, applying Section 2(h) of the Contract Act. It is only if an agreement is enforceable, that it would become a contract. It C is only a ‘contract’, which would be the ‘Arbitration Agreement’, which is contemplated in Section 11(6A) of the Act. It may not be apposite to merely describe an unstamped Arbitration Agreement as a ‘curable defect’. As long it remains an unstamped instrument, it cannot be taken notice of for any purpose, as contemplated in Section 35 of the Stamp Act. It remains unenforceable. Section D 17 declares the time at which an instrument, executed in India, must be stamped. The said provision contemplates that stamping of such an instrument must take place before or at the time of the execution of document. No Public Officer, nor Court nor Arbitrator, can permit any person to ask them to act upon it or E receive it as evidence.