The discretion to call for a floor test is not an unfettered discretion but one that must be exercised with circumspection, in accordance with the limits placed on it by law. E b. The Governor’s exercise of the power to call for a floor test 182. In his letter dated 28 June 2022, the Governor relied on the five circumstances mentioned above to arrive at following conclusions: (i) a majority of the MLAs of Shiv Sena intended to exit from the MVA government; (ii) Mr. Thackeray was trying to win over the MLAs using F undemocratic methods; and (iii) Mr. Thackeray had lost the trust of the House and the MVA Government was in the minority. 183. The petitioners have urged that the Governor was not justified in reaching the conclusion that he did on the basis of the resolution dated 21 June 2022 because: (i) the thirty-four MLAs belonging to Shiv Sena G did not express their intention to exit the MVA government; and (ii) the MLAs who signed the resolution constituted a faction of the SSLP. 184. Although the resolution dated 21 June 2022 specifies that some MLAs of the SSLP were dissatisfied with the functioning of the MVA government, it does not record their intention to withdraw support H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 959 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] from the Government. Among the thirty-four MLAs who signed the A resolution dated 28 June 2022, a few were also Ministers in the Government. On the basis of this resolution, the Governor concluded that “a majority of the Shiv Sena MLAs have given a clear indication … that they intend to exit from the Maha Vikas Aghadi Government.” 185. The assembly was not in session when Mr. Fadnavis and B seven independent MLAs wrote to the Governor. However, there was no attempt made by the members of the opposition parties to issue a notice for a no-confidence motion against the incumbent government. 186. The Governor had no objective material on the basis of which he could doubt the confidence of the incumbent government. The C resolution on which the Governor relied did not contain any indication that the MLAs wished to exit from the MVA government. The communication expressing discontent on the part of some MLAs is not sufficient for the Governor to call for a floor test. The Governor ought to apply his mind to the communication (or any other material) before him D to assess whether the Government seemed to have lost the confidence of the House. We use the term ‘opinion’ to mean satisfaction based on objective criteria as to whether he possessed relevant material, and not to mean the subjective satisfaction of the Governor. Once a government is democratically elected in accordance with law, there is a presumption that it enjoys the confidence of the House. There must exist some E objective material to dislodge this presumption. 187. The MLAs did not express their desire to withdraw support from the MVA Government in the resolution dated 21 June 2022.