The court naturally has to weigh carefully such a testimony and if it is satisfi ed that the evidence 117 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. is reliable and free from all taints which tend to render oral testimony open to suspicion, it becomes its duty to act upon such testimony. The law reports contain many precedents where the court had to depend and act upon the testimony of a single witness in support of the prosecution. There are exceptions to this rule, for example, in cases of sexual off ences or of the testimony of an approver; both these are cases in which the oral testimony is, by its very nature, suspect, being that of a participator in crime. But, where there are no such exceptional reasons operating, it becomes the duty of the court to convict, if it is satisfi ed that the testimony of a single witness is entirely reliable. We have, therefore, no reasons to refuse to act upon the testimony of the fi rst witness, which is the only reliable evidence in support of the prosecution.” (emphasis supplied) CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE “The mind was apt to take a pleasure in adapting circumstances to one another, and even in straining them a little, if need be, to force them to form parts of one connected whole; and the more ingenious the mind of the individual, the more likely was it, considering such matters, to overreach and mislead itself, to supply some little link that is wanting, to take for granted some fact consistent with its previous theories and necessary to render them complete.” Warning addressed by Baron Alderson to the jury in Reg. v. Hodge [(1838) 2 Lewin 227] 22. Law governing circumstantial evidence has been reiterated quite often by this Court. One has to be circumspect and cautious while undertaking the exercise of linking the evidence available. Courts should not lose sight of the fact that such evidence should unerringly lead and point out the accused alone, of course, on the facts of each case. We wish to quote with profi t the Panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence, laid down by this Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra, (1984) 4 SCC 116, HARVINDER SINGH @ BACHHU v. 1173 THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] “153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfi lled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned ‘must or should’ and not ‘may be’ established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between ‘may be proved’ and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra [(1973) 2 SCC 793 : 1973 SCC (Cri) 1033 : 1973 Cri LJ 1783] where the following observations were made: [SCC para 19, p. 807: SCC (Cri) p. 1047] Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.