Article 329 provides for a bar to the interference by courts in electoral matters including the validity of any law relating to the delimitation of constituencies or the allotment of seats to constituencies made under Articles 327 or 328. 9. Entry 72 of the Union List to the Seventh Schedule deals with elections to Parliament and to the legislatures of States among other Subjects. The legislative domain consequently lies exclusively with Parliament in terms of Articles 245 and 246 read with Entry 72 of List I. 10. For the State of Sikkim, in addition to the constitutional provisions already noted, a special provision is contained in Article 371F(f) in terms of which, notwithstanding anything in the Constitution: “(f) Parliament may, for the purpose of protecting the rights and interests of the diff erent sections of the population of Sikkim make provision for the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim which may be fi lled by candidates belonging to such sections and for the delimitation of the Assembly constituencies from which candidates belonging to such sections alone may stand for election to the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim;” Representation of Peoples Act, 1950 11. Section 3 of the Representation of the People Act 1950 provides for the allocation of seats to the States in the House of the People and the number of seats which are reserved for the Scheduled Castes and for the Scheduled Tribes as indicated in the First Schedule. Section 7(1), inter alia, provides that the total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of each State specifi ed in the Second Schedule by direct election from Assembly constituencies and the number of seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes and for the Scheduled Tribes of the State, shall be as indicated in that Schedule. As regards the State of Sikkim, specifi c provisions are contained in sub- section (1A) of Section 7 which reads as follows: “7. Total number of seats in Legislative Assemblies and assembly constituencies. — … … ... 108 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim, to be constituted at any time after the commencement of the Representation of the People (Amendment) Act, 1980 (8 of 1980), to be fi lled by persons chosen by direct election from assembly constituencies shall be thirty-two, of which – (a) twelve seats shall be reserved for Sikkimese of Bhutia-Lepcha origin; (b) two seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Castes of that State; and (c) one seat shall be reserved for the Sanghas referred to in section 25A. Explanation—In this sub-section “Bhutia” includes Chumbipa, Dopthapa, Dukpa, Kagatey, Sherpa, Tibetan, Tromopa and Yolmo.” 12. Sub-section (1A) indicates that the total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of Sikkim shall be thirty-two. Of these, twelve seats are reserved for Sikkimese of Bhutia-Lepcha origin; two seats for the Scheduled Castes; and one seat for the Sanghas as referred to in Section 25A.