• Balance sheet copy attested by CA D • Detail relating to land in case trade effluent is discharged on land for percolation • Occupation registration accorded by Town & Country Planning Department in case of area development projects/ Building & construction projects E • MOA /Partnership Deed 42. It will be in the fitness of things to incorporate in this the guidelines issued by the CPCB vide its Office Memorandum dated 07.01.2020 for setting up new petroleum pumps. The guidelines are as follows:- F “GUIDELINES FOR SETTING UP OF NEW PETROL PUMPS A. Containment and treatment of spillages from fuel filling operations at petrol pumps: G 1. Petrol pumps located in areas with high groundwater table i.e. groundwater levels less than 04 meters shall have secondary containment by way of double walled tanks or concrete protection wails so as to minimize groundwater and soil contamination. It shall be the responsibility of OMC H to properly get measured groundwater level at the site of M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 235 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] proposed petrol pump and ensure implementation of these A adequate protection measures for such sites. Details of measures taken by Oil Marketing Company shall be placed in public domain and in case of contradictory view, view of State/ Central Ground Water Board/ Authority wild prevail. 2. All new retail outlets shall have underground tanks/ above B ground tank and its ancillary components such as pipes, flexible connectors, pumps fittings etc( protected from leaks due to corrosion by adopting materials (HDPE/ Mild Steel etc.) with required protective coating, as applicable, duly approved by PESO. C 3. Any major leakage/ spillage of Petrol, Diesel, Lube Oil (more than barrel-165 litres) occurs at fueling station, concerned OMC shall report to State Pollution Control Board, PESO and District Administration under intimation to CPCB within 24 hours of occurrence. D Operation of concerned underground storage tank (UST) and its ancillary components shall be stopped immediately and not be resumed till corrective measures to contain and stop leakage/ spillages are implemented to the satisfaction of PESO and concerned SPCB. E OMCs will be held liable for Environmental Compensation (imposed by SPCBs/PCCs) and assessment of environmental damage (depending on extent of contamination in soil and groundwater) and site remediation. Consultant/ Expert agency appointed by OMCs for damage assessment and site remediation shall have minimum F national/ international experience of 5 years in this field. Various approved methods shall be considered for cleaning underground contaminants. 4. All DUs shall have Auto Cut off Nozzles which shuts dispensation of fuel if its level in customer fuel tank reaches G full capacity. 5. Breakaways to be installed for all the hoses of dispensing units to reduce spillage in the event of customer vehicles moves away with nozzle still in the fueling position. H 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 6. Single/double plane swivel with breakaway coupling shall be installed for all the dispensing units for better positioning of nozzle while refueling does not fall off accidently.