[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “22. The following principles emerge from an analysis of clauses A (2) and (2-A): compulsory acquisition or requisition may be made for a public purpose alone, and must be made by authority of law. Law which deprives a person of property but does not transfer ownership of the property or right to possession of the property to the State or a corporation owned or controlled by the State is not B a law for compulsory acquisition or requisition. The law, under the authority of which property is compulsorily acquired or requisitioned, must either fix the amount of compensation or specify the principles on which, and the manner in which, the compensation is to be determined and given. If these conditions are fulfilled the validity of the law cannot be questioned on the plea that it does C not provide adequate compensation to the owner. xxx xxx xxx 26. Article 31 guarantees that the law providing for compulsory acquisition must provide for determining the giving of compensation for the property acquired. The expression “compensation” is not D defined in the Constitution. Under the Land Acquisition Act compensation is always paid in terms of money. But that is no reason for holding that compensation which is guaranteed by Article 31(2) for compulsory acquisition must be paid in terms of money alone. A law which provides for making satisfaction to an expropriated owner by allotment of other property may be deemed E to be a law providing for compensation. In ordinary parlance the expression “compensation” means anything given to make things equivalent; a thing given to or to make amends for loss, recompense, remuneration or pay; it need not therefore necessarily be in terms of money. The phraseology of the Constitutional provision also indicates that compensation need not necessarily be in terms of F money, because it expressly provides that the law may specify the principles on which, and the manner in which, compensation is to be determined and “given”. If it were to be in terms of money alone, the expression “paid” would have been more appropriate.” 95. In the course of its , the Court disapproved G observations contained in P. VajraveluMudaliar v. Special Deputy Collector for Land Acquisition and another50. Equally, the Court overruled the decision of this Court in Union of India v. Metal Corporation of India Ltd. and another51. 50 (1965) 1 SCR 614 51 (1967) 1 SCR 255) H 1112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 96. It was relying on these two s, inter alia, that this Court found that the High Court had wrongly concluded that in that compensation based on market value be sufficient for the purpose of Article 31(2), it must be a just equivalent. We may also notice that the Court repelled the attempt on behalf of the State that because the object of the Act was to promote public health, it fell within the exception to B Article 31(5)(b)(ii). 97. Regarding purport of the Fourth Amendment, in Shantilal Mangaldas (supra), this Court declared as follows: “41.