In the context of the aforesaid provisions, this Court observed as under:- “16. ... A conjoint reading of Section 2(b) and Section 3(4) with the explanation annexed thereto clearly spells out that in to clamp an of detention upon a ‘boot- legger’ under Section 3 of the Act, the detaining authority must not only be satisfi ed that the person is a bootlegger within the meaning of Section 2(b) but also that the activities of the said bootlegger aff ect adversely or likely to aff ect adversely the maintenance of public . Reverting to the facts of this case, the vague allegations in the grounds of detention that the detenu is the main member of the gang of Abdul Latif Abdul Wahab Shaikh indulging in bootlegging activities and that the detenu PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 581 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] is taking active part in such dangerous activities, are not suffi cient for holding that his activities aff ected adversely or were likely to aff ect adversely the maintenance of public in compliance with sub- section 4 of Section 3 of the Act that the activities of the detenu have caused harm, danger or alarm or a feeling of insecurity among the general public or any Section thereof or a grave or widespread danger to life, property or public health as per the explanation to Section 3(4). 17. The off ences registered in the above mentioned four cases against the detenu on the ground that he was dealing in liquor have no bearing on the question of maintenance of public in the absence of any other material that those activities of the detenu have adversely aff ected the maintenance of public .” From the aforesaid observations, it becomes evident that this Court, in the facts of the said case, found that the mere fact that the petitioner therein was dealing in liquor had no bearing on the question of maintenance of public in the absence of any other material that those activities of the detenu have adversely aff ected the maintenance of public . 69. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant has also placed strong reliance on the decision of this Court in Piyush Kantilal Mehta (supra). In that case, the allegations in the grounds of detention were that the detenu was a prohibition boot-legger; that he was indulging in the sale of foreign liquor and that he and his associates indulged in use of force and violence. In that case, the detenu was alleged to have been caught red-handed possessing bottles of English wine with foreign marks and on the second occasion, he was caught while transporting 296 bottles of foreign liquor in an Ambassador car. While dealing with that case, this Court observed as follows:- “It is true some incidents of beating by the petitioner had taken place, as alleged by the witnesses. But, such incidents, in our view, do not have any bearing on the maintenance of public . The petitioner may be punished for the alleged off ences committed by him but, surely, the acts constituting the off ences cannot be said to have aff ected the even tempo of the life of the community.