the scope of arguments which a Court (Chief Justice) will consider while deciding whether to appoint an arbitrator or not – i.e. whether the H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 453 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] arbitration agreement exists, whether it is null and void, whether A it is voidable etc; and which of these it should leave for decision of the arbitral tribunal. -the nature of such intervention – i.e. would the Court (Chief Justice) consider the issues upon a detailed trial and whether the same would be decided finally or be left for determination B of the arbitral tribunal” [emphasis supplied] 51. As regards nature, the 246th LCI Report(supra) noted that the exposition of law on the point is to be found in Shin Etsu (supra)where C this Court while interpreting Section 45 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 held that the issue should be looked at on a “prima facie” basis only. On scope, it was recommended that the Court should restrict to the examination of whether the agreement is “null and void” and if the Court finds that the agreement does not exist, that decision would be final. It made the following recommendation as regards Section 8 and 11 of the D Arbitration Act, 1996: “33. …The scope of the judicial intervention is only restricted to situations where the Court/Judicial Authority finds that the arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void. In so far as the nature of intervention is concerned, it is recommended E that in the event the Court/Judicial Authority is prima facie satisfied against the argument challenging the arbitration agreement, it shall appoint the arbitrator and/or refer the parties to arbitration, as the case may be.” 52. The 2015-Amendment significantly restricted the scope of F intervention even further as we will notice below. ii) Post-2015 Regime: Insertion of Section 11(6A) 53. There has been a major shift post-2015 amendment with the insertion of Section 11(6A) in the Arbitration Act, 1996. The legislative G intent is clear from the plain reading of Section 11(6A) as extracted below: ”The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, while considering any application under sub-section(4) or sub- section(5) or sub-section(6), shall, notwithstanding any , H 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A decree or of any Court, confine to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.” [emphasis supplied] 54. The basis for this amendment, as explained in 246th LCI Report (supra), was to undo the effect of SBP (supra) and Boghara (supra) B which widened the scope of inquiry and intervention by a Court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act, 1996. Section 11(6A) uses the phrase “notwithstanding any , decree or of any Court” and effectively overrules s which widened the scope of inquiry. Section 11(6A) does not use the word “null and void” as recommended C by the Law Commission. Thus, the legislature went one step further and confined the examination to the “existence” of the arbitration agreement.