48 Ramachandra Guha, India After Gandhi: The History of the World’s Largest Democracy (Picador 2008) 69. 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Instrument of Accession and the Constituent Assembly Debates 16. The moot point – whether the original Instrument of Accession (hereinafter referred to as “IoA”) was diff erent for the 500 Principality States. The answer would be in the negative. The next question - was the IoA for Jammu & Kashmir State diff erent in any manner. The answer is again in the negative. The IoA for the State of Jammu & Kashmir reads as under: “Instrument of Accession of Jammu and Kashmir State WHEREAS the Indian Independence Act, 1947, provides that as from the fi fteenth day of August, 1947, there shall be set up an independent Dominion known as INDIA, and that the Government of India Act, 1935, shall, with such omissions, additions, adaptations and modifi cation as the Governor- General may by specify be applicable to the Dominion of India ; AND WHEREAS the Government of India Act, 1935, as so adapted by the Governor-General, provides that an Indian State may accede to the Dominion of India by an Instrument of Accession executed by the Ruler thereof : NOW THEREFORE I Shriman Inder Mahinder Rajrajeswar Maharajadhiraj Shri Hari Singhji, Jammu and Kashmir Naresh Tatha Tibbet adi Deshadhipatti, Ruler of Jammu &Kashmir State in the exercise of my sovereignty in and over my said State Do hereby execute this my Instrument of Accession and 1. I hereby declare that I accede to the Dominion of India with the intent that the Governor-General of India, the Dominion Legislature, the Federal Court and any other Dominion authority established for the purposes of the Dominion shall, by virtue of this my Instrument of Accession, but subject always to the terms thereof, and for the purposes only of the Dominion, exercise in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir (hereinafter referred to as “this State”) such functions as may be vested in them by or under the Government of India Act, 1935, as in force in the Dominion of India on the 15th day of August, 1947 (which Act as so in force is hereinafter referred to as “the Act”). IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 305 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 2. I hereby assume the obligation of ensuring that due eff ect is given to the provisions of the Act within this State so far as they are applicable therein by virtue of this my Instrument of Accession. 3. I accept the matters specifi ed in the Schedule hereto as the matters with respect to which the Dominion Legislature may make laws for this State. 4. I hereby declare that I accede to the Dominion of India on the assurance that if an agreement is made between the Governor General and the Ruler of this State whereby any functions in relation to the administration in this State of any law of the Dominion Legislature shall be exercised by the Ruler of this State, then any such agreement shall be deemed to form part of this Instrument and shall be construed and have eff ect accordingly.