that gestation age and after considering whether the foetal malformation leads to a substantial risk of the foetus being incompatible with life, or where the child (if it is born) may suff er from such physical or mental abnormalities as to be seriously handicapped.17 Therefore, the outer temporal limit within which a pregnancy may be terminated is lifted in some cases. 17. The position of law can therefore be summarized as follows: Length of the pregnancy Requirements for termination Up to twenty weeks Opinion of one RMP in terms of Section 3(2) Between twenty and twenty-four weeks Opinion of two RMPs in terms of Section 3(2) read with Rule 3B. Beyond twenty-four weeks If the termination is required to save the life of the pregnant woman, the opinion of one RMP in terms of Section 5 If there are substantial foetal abnormalities, with the approval of the Medical Board in terms of Section 3(2B) read with Rule 3A(a)(i) C. Analysis i. The jurisdiction of this Court to hear this case 18. Having described the factual background, the procedural history, and the framework of law, we turn to the issues raised in this case. As noticed in the fi rst segment of this , the Union of India fi led an application for the recall of the dated 9 October 2023 passed by a two-Judge Bench of this Court on the ground that one of the doctors on the Medical Board emailed the learned ASG, seeking a clarifi cation of that . 19. It is trite law that once a or attains fi nality, a party seeking to challenge the decision rendered may do so only by taking recourse to one of the following: 17 Ibid X v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. 459 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a. Invoking the jurisdiction of the court to review the or ; b. Preferring an appeal against the or (where an appeal lies); or c. In the case of the Supreme Court, fi ling a curative petition; The reason for the availability of a limited number of routes by which a can be challenged is that there must be quietus to a dispute. Unlimited modes by which s or s can be challenged would result in chaos, uncertainty, and unpredictability. This is also the reason why an application for recall of an or cannot be entertained by this Court, save and except in exceptional circumstances such as where a party which is directly aff ected was not served with notice of the proceedings. Otherwise, the hearing and disposal of an application for recall may even have the eff ect of creating an intra-court appeal, which is impermissible and wholly unknown to this Court. Indeed, this Court has repeatedly deprecated the practice of fi ling applications for recall and noted that they may sometimes be an abuse of the process of the law.18 20. In the present case, the Union of India fi led an application for recall because certain aspects of the situation at hand were brought to its attention after the petition was disposed of by the dated 9 October 2023.