H 14 (2004) 4 SCC 158. STATE OF RAJASTHAN v. ASHARAM @ ASHUMAL 15 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] after by the trial court has been pronounced. It may not be A totally correct to state that the same considerations would apply to both situations as there is a difference in the stages. Section 311 of the Cr.P.C. consists of two parts; the first gives power to the court to summon any witness at any stage of inquiry, trial or other proceedings, whether the person is listed as a witness, or is in attendance though not summoned as B a witness. Secondly, the trial court has the power to recall and re-examine any person already examined if his evidence appears to be essential to the just decision of the case. On the other hand, the discretion under Section 391 of the Cr.P.C. should be read as somewhat more restricted in comparison to Section 311 of the Cr.P.C., as the appellate court is C dealing with an appeal, after the trial court has come to the conclusion with regard to the guilt or otherwise of the person being prosecuted. The appellate court can examine the evidence in depth and in detail, yet it does not possess all the powers of the trial court as it deals with caseswherein the decision has already been pronounced. D 17. State (NCT of Delhi) v. Shiv Kumar Yadav and Another15 emphasises that in exercise of the discretion under Section 311 of the Cr.P.C., the court, while considering an application for recall of witness, should not get swayed by the argument that only the accused who is in custody will suffer by the prolongation of proceedings, as this may not be valid and serving the ends of justice.It is not only the matter of delay E but also the hardship to the victim/witnesses when they are recalled for examination. Recall is certainly permitted if essential for the just decision and for which there should be a tangible reason that fair trial would suffer without it. The discretion is to be exercised judiciously to prevent failure of justice, and must not be exercised arbitrarily. In our opinion, F the appellate court must be equally, if not more cautious,of the desire to delay the hearing of the appeal, or the attempt to lead additional evidence to explore a chance of contradictory evidence. While the prayer for leading additional evidence should be permitted to correct a bona fide error or otherwise, and a party may be entitled to further opportunity without any G fault on the part of the opposite party, the request for recall should be bonafide and is to be balanced carefully with relevant considerations, including hardship to the witness and delay of the proceedings. Right to speedy trial, including speedy disposal of an appeal, is not the exclusive 15 (2016) 2 SCC 402. H 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A right of an accused, but an obligation of the court towards the society in general, and the victim in particular.