For the same reasons, the contention of the respondent that pending the proceedings before the BIFR the appellant could have resorted to arbitration proceedings also has to fail. E 15. Now, we will have to consider the purported intent of Section 22 (5), SICA. The intention appears to be to protect the interest of such a party who was prevented from lawfully enforcing the right to seek for recovery of dues during the operative period of the bar under Section 22 (1), SICA, if it is otherwise available even after the conclusion of proceedings before the BIFR, to the extent specifically mentioned therein. F According to us, any other understanding of the provisions under Section 22 (5) would be wholly pointless and purposeless. When the appellant being a party to BIFR in the sense, on intervention obtained an to the respondent company to incorporate its dues in the Draft Rehabilitation Scheme (DRS) in an application seeking permission to effect recovery G of the dues and such a stage had not reached till 01.12.2016, whether there would be any justification to hold that on the repeal of SICA it could not claim the benefit flowing from the provisions under Section 22 (5) of SICA, subject to the provisions under the relevant laws governing the appropriate forum chosen? H 202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 16. In the contextual situation, it is apropos to refer to Section 252 of IBC which reads thus: - “252. The Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Repeal Act, 2003 shall be amended in the manner specified in the Eighth Schedule.” B 16.1The Eighth Schedule would reveal the nature and manner of amendment specified thereunder as substitution to sub-clause (b) of Section 4, of SICA Repeal Act, 2003 w.e.f. 01.12.2016, as hereunder: “(b) On such date as may be notified by the Central Government in this behalf, any appeal preferred to the C Appellate Authority or any reference made or inquiry pending to or before the Board or any proceeding of whatever nature pending before the Appellate Authority or the Board under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 (1 of 1986) shall stand abated: Provided that a company in D respect of which such appeal or reference or inquiry stands abated under this clause may make reference to the National Company Law Tribunal under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 within one hundred and eighty days from the commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 in accordance with the provisions of the Insolvency and E Bankruptcy Code, 2016: Provided further that no fees shall be payable for making such reference under Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016 by a company whose appeal or reference or inquiry stands abated under this clause.”. F (Emphasis added) 17. A perusal of the substituted sub-clause (b), as extracted above would reveal that reference made or inquiry pending or any proceeding of whatever nature, before the Board under SICA would stand abated upon its notification by the Central Government.