Section 112 uses the words “unless it can be shown”. C 11. A combined reading of Section 4 and Section 112 would show that once the party questioning the legitimacy of the birth of a child shows that the parties to the marriage had no access to each other, then the benefit of Section 112 is not available to the party invoking Section 112. In other words, if a party to a marriage establishes that there was D no access to the other party to the marriage, then the shield of conclusive proof becomes unavailable. If on the contrary, such a party is not able to prove that he had no access to the other party to the marriage, then the shield of Section 112 protects the other party to such an extent that it cannot be pierced by any amount of evidence in view of the prohibition contained in Section 4. E 12. In contrast, Section 114 on which heavy reliance is placed by Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel for the respondent, deals only with facts which the Court “may presume”. The existence of any fact which the Court may presume to have likely to have happened, turn on three things, namely, (i) common course of natural events; (ii) common F course of human conduct; and (iii) common course of public and private business. Since natural events, human conduct, etc. are not always consistent, the presumption regarding the existence of any fact with regard to these things, are placed only under the category of facts which “may be presumed”. G 13. As pointed out earlier, wherever the Act uses the expression “may presume”, it is only optional and not mandatory for the Court to presume the existence of such a fact. That it is only optional stands reinforced by, (i) the Illustrations under Section 114; and (ii) the further exposition of those Illustrations. At this stage it may be useful to extract H 730 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (i) Section 114; (ii) the Illustrations under Section 114; and (iii) the exposition of those Illustrations, all of which read as follows:- “114. Court may presume existence of certain facts.— The Court may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of B natural events, human conduct and public and private business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case. Illustrations The Court may presume— (a) That a man who is in possession of stolen goods soon after C the theft is either the thief or has received the goods knowing them to be stolen, unless he can account for his possession; (b) That an accomplice is unworthy of credit, unless he is corroborated in material particulars; (c) That a bill of exchange, accepted or endorsed, was accepted D or endorsed for good consideration; (d) That a thing or state of things which has been shown to be in existence within a period shorter than that within which such things or state of things usually cease to exist, is still in existence; (e) That judicial and official acts have been regularly performed; E (f) That the common course of business has been followed in particular cases; (g) That evidence which could be and is not produced would, if produced, be unfavourable to the person who withholds it; F (h) That if a man refuses to answer a question which he is not compelled to answer by law, the answer, if given, would be unfavourable to him; (i) That when a document creating an obligation is in the hands of the obligor, the obligation has been discharged.