MERG intimation was recorded under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19733. On coming to know about the discovery of a dead body, Sunil went to the spot and identifi ed the deceased as his daughter. Postmortem of the dead body was conducted, and the Report thereof was submitted by Dr. Poonam Mathur (PW-20) vide Ex. P-53. After completing the investigation including collection of evidence from CCTV footage, recovery of incriminating articles, chemical analysis report etc., the charge-sheet was fi led on 27.04.2018. The DNA report was produced later during the trial. 3. On the basis of evidence brought on record during the course of trial, wherein the prosecution examined 29 witnesses and also proved 78 documents including expert opinion/chemical report/FSL report, the Trial Court convicted the appellant for the subject off ences against which the appellant preferred appeal before the High Court. The Sessions Court also sent reference to the High Court under Section 396 Cr.P.C. for confi rmation of death sentence. The High Court has confi rmed the death sentence and 3 (for short, ‘Cr.P.C.) NAVEEN @ AJAY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 981 [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] resultantly the Criminal Appeal preferred by the appellant has also been dismissed by the impugned . 4. We have heard learned counsel for the parties. They have advanced lengthy arguments and have taken us through the entire evidence on record. However, considering the nature of the , we propose to pass, we are not referring to the details of the evidence on record. 5. At the outset, learned senior counsel Mr. B.H. Marlappalle assisted by Mr. Rajat Mittal, Advocate-on-Record for the appellant argued that the entire trial for such serious off ences has been completed within a span of 15 days i.e. from 27th April, 2018 (when the charge-sheet was fi led) to 12th May, 2018 (when the was delivered by the Sessions Court). Referring to the -sheet recorded by the trial court from 27th April, 2018 to 12th May, 2018, learned senior counsel would submit that the appellant has not been aff orded a fair trial depriving him of his valuable legal rights. It is also argued that the DNA report (Ex.P-72) has not been proved in accordance with law. The forensic experts were not examined during the trial, nor the report was put to the accused for admission or otherwise. 6. Per contra learned counsel for the respondent-State, while supporting the impugned of the High Court, would submit that the appellant having not raised any objection regarding hasty completion of trial or denial of a fair trial, it is not open for the appellant to argue, at this stage, that the trial has not been conducted properly and fairly. He would submit that in view of clinching evidence against the appellant which are scientifi c in nature, the Sessions Court and the High Court as well, have not committed any illegality in convicting and sentencing the appellant. 7. To appreciate the arguments regarding denial of fair trial, we have gone through the complete -sheet recorded by the trial court from 27th April, 2018 to 12th May, 2018.