F 11. In respect of some of the empty cartridges matching with service rifles of the accused, the trial court noticed that out of four .303 cartridges recovered from the scene of crime, one was fired from the rifle of accused Anil, one from the rifle of accused Shyam Bihari whereas the remaining two cartridges were not fired from service rifles of any of G the three accused persons. Thus, it was not clear from the prosecution evidence as to from whose rifle the remaining two bullets were fired. This discrepancy, according to the trial court, rendered the prosecution version against the accused doubtful because there could be the hand of some other person also. H 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 12. In addition to the above, the trial court noticed from the autopsy report that the gun shot injury sustained by the deceased was not from a rifle bullet but from a .12 bore weapon which was not recovered from any of the accused persons. Hence, even if rifle bullets were found at the spot, they were not the ones from which injuries were caused to the deceased. As regards the cross version of the incident (i.e. Case Crime B No.48A/87), no adverse inference was drawn against the accused as it was not at their behest. 13. Apart from above, the trial court noticed that, according to the prosecution version, several persons (i.e. villagers including PW-3 and PW-6 and police personnel) had arrived at the spot and the three accused C were also present there, yet they were not identified. In these circumstances, it was concluded that if PW-3 and PW-6, who were travelling on another scooter in close proximity to the deceased, had recognized the accused persons, they would have identified them at the scene of crime as those who killed the deceased, and country made D pistols might have also been recovered. 14. After analysing the entire prosecution evidence in detail, the trial court concluded that the prosecution had failed to prove that those three policemen in uniform, who attacked Raj Kumar Baliyan (the deceased), were the persons facing trial. E High Court’s observations 15. Having failed to succeed in the trial, the State filed a time- barred appeal along with a delay condonation application and an application seeking leave to appeal. The High Court by the impugned allowed the delay condonation application but rejected the F application seeking leave to appeal and dismissed the appeal accordingly. 16. While rejecting the application seeking leave to appeal, the High Court noticed that the prosecution case rested on three eye- witnesses’ accounts. Eye-witnesses PW-3 and PW-6 could not identify the policemen and in so far as PW-15 was concerned, he was found not G reliable. Moreover, the medical evidence indicated that the deceased died due to gun-shot injuries fired from a .12 bore weapon and not a rifle, which was with the accused, hence, granting leave to appeal to formally hear the appeal would be an exercise in futility.