Then I gave this information in the Police Station, Kotdwar at 2 o’clock in the night over the telephone and also informed my brother Virendra. Thereafter, my brother came to the Police Station, Kotdwar in the morning. I also went to the police station. Then I had gone to the village of Balvir. There I saw the dead body of Sudha. I do not know as to whether Sudha died in Delhi or in the village.” 30. In the aforesaid context, the oral evidence of the PW1 Virendra Singh (father of the deceased) is also relevant. In his oral evidence, PW1 has stated as under: “Balvir Singh took my daughter to Delhi in the year 2007 and left his son here in the village itself. At the time of going, she telephoned my brother Harender, who lives in Jhandi Chaur, and had told him that she does not want to go to Delhi. She unwillingly went, but I cannot tell how she had gone. Two days after going to Delhi, my brother received information that Sudha had died. My brother Shivcharan informed about it. Balvir was living in Mangolpuri in Delhi. The neighbours told Shivcharan that Sudha had died. Then, Balvir came to Ratanpur with the dead body of Sudha. Then, I came to Kotdwar the next day and gave this information in the police station. Then the police came with me to BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 835 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Ratanpur. There the police prepared the inquest report and I was the panch in the inquest proceedings. There was a mark of injury on the neck of my daughter. I was suspicious of her death and so, I asked for a post-mortem. The witness was shown the inquest report Paper No. 9Ka, upon which he admitted his signature at the opinion of the Panches. Thereafter the dead body was sent for the post-mortem.” 31. We shall now look into the two letters addressed by the deceased to her father (PW1). Both these letters have been proved through the oral evidence of the PW1 and have been exhibited. The letter dated 20.05.2004, Exh. Ka-1 reads thus: “Dated : 20.05.04 Respected mother and father, please accept my pranam with folded hands. At the moment I am alive and pray before the Almighty for wellbeing of your whole family. Father Saheb, the reason behind writing this letter is that I am feeling quite harassed here. There is no faith of life as to when it may come to an end, any untoward incident may happen with me at any time. Father Saheb, since the time my marriage was solemnized, I have been feeling extremely harassed from the acts of my mother-in-law and husband but I have not told you about this till date thinking that good sense will prevail with passage of time but, both of these intend to eliminate me. They say that your father has not given anything in dowry. They told me that if you bring Rs.1 lakh cash from your father then only you can stay here, otherwise you go to your parents’ home, or else we will eliminate you.