Not only was the material proposed to be used against him during the inquiry furnished to him, he was also called upon to explain the said material by F submitting his reply and furnishing a list of witnesses, which he did. Furthermore, on perusing the Report submitted by the Committee, it transpires that depositions of some of the complainants were recorded audio-visually by the Committee, wherever consent was given and the appellant was duly afforded an opportunity to cross-examine the said G witnesses including the complainants. The charges levelled by all the complainants were of sexual harassment by the appellant with a narration of specific instances. Therefore, in the given facts and circumstances, non-framing of the Articles of Charge by the Committee cannot be treated 73 Dr. Vijaykumaran C.P.V. v. Central University of Kerala and Others, (2020) 12 H SCC 426 AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 817 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] as fatal. Nor can the appellant be heard to state that he was completely A in the dark as to the nature of the allegations levelled against him and was not in a position to respond appropriately. So far, so good. (c) THE COMMITTEE’S UNDERSTANDING OF ITS MANDATE : B 60. As noted above, when the Registrar of the respondent No. 2– University addressed a letter to the Chairperson of the Committee, he forwarded nine complaints of sexual harassment that had been received by the Vice Chancellor of the University. The process of the inquiry was set into motion on 17th March 2009 when the appellant was informed that on receiving complaints of sexual harassment against him, the C Committee had conducted a preliminary verification of the complaints by recording the statements of the concerned students. Till then, no specific Articles of Charge were framed by the Committee and no imputation of charges were forwarded to the appellant. At the same time, copies of all the complaints received and the statements recorded D were forwarded directly to the appellant calling upon him to explain the charges levelled against him. 61. The plea of the appellant that the Committee understood the remit of its inquiry as a ‘fact-finding proceeding’, can be discerned from the contents of the letters dated 17th March 2009 and 20th April 2009 E addressed to the appellant. The impression carried by the Committee that it was only required to submit a fact-finding report to the University was no different for the EC as is borne out from a perusal of the Memorandum dated 8th September 2009, issued by the Chairman of the EC who, after receiving the Committee’s Report, informed the appellant that an inquiry was proposed to be conducted against him under Rule 14 F of the CCS (CCA) Rules. This was the first time when the respondents informed the appellant that the EC had decided to follow the procedure prescribed under the rules of drawing up a Statement of Articles of Charge, imputation of misconduct in support of each Article of Charge and other documents and had granted the appellant time to submit his G reply in defence.