In D K Yadav v. J M A Industries28, 25 AIR 1967 SC 1269 26 (1978) 1 SCC 248 27 (1978) 1 SCC 405 H 28 (1993) 3 SCC 259 STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 505 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a three-judge bench of this Court observed that “everything that affects A a citizen in his civil life inflicts a civil consequence.” 36. In Canara Bank v. V K Awasthy29, a two-judge bench of this Court succinctly summarized the history, scope, and application of the principles of natural justice to administrative actions involving civil consequences in the following terms: B 14. Concept of natural justice has undergone a great deal of change in recent years. Rules of natural justice are not rules embodied always expressly in a statute or in rules framed thereunder. They may be implied from the nature of the duty to be performed under a statute. What particular rule of natural justice should be implied C and what its context should be in a given case must depend to a great extent on the fact and circumstances of that case, the framework of the statute under which the enquiry is held. The old distinction between a judicial act and an administrative act has withered away. Even an administrative which involves D civil consequences must be consistent with the rules of natural justice. The expression “civil consequences” encompasses infraction of not merely property or personal rights but of civil liberties, material deprivations and non- pecuniary damages. In its wide umbrella comes everything that affects a citizen in his civil life. E (emphasis supplied) There is a consistent pattern of judicial thought that civil consequences entail infractions not merely of property or personal rights, but also of civil liberties, material deprivations, and non-pecuniary damages. Every or proceeding which involves civil consequences F or adversely affects a citizen should be in accordance with the principles of natural justice. 37. The next question that requires our consideration is whether the classification of a borrower’s account as fraudulent under the Master Directions on Frauds entails civil consequences to borrowers. G 38. The RBI and lender banks have argued that the civil consequences contemplated in Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds are reasonable. Under the said clause, the borrower, including 29 (2005) 6 SCC 321 H 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the promoters and directors of the company, are barred from availing credit from financial markets and credit markets for a period of five years, and possibly even beyond. According to RBI and lender banks, such a restriction has to be perceived from the perspective of public interest. While acknowledging that the procedure which has been laid down in the Master Directions on Frauds is conceived in public interest, B to protect the banking system, we cannot ignore the serious civil consequences which emanate to the borrowers. 39. Clause 8.12 of the Master Directions on Frauds deals with the penal measures for borrowers.