of consignment has necessarily infl icted damage to the appellant which is liable to be satisfi ed by the respondent No.1 as provided under Section 19 and 13(3) of the Carriage by Air Act 1972. 21. The provisions contained in Section 19 and 13 (3) of the Carriage by Air Act 1972 read as follows: “19. The carrier is liable for damage occasioned by delay in the carriage by air of passengers, luggage or goods.” “13 (3). If the carrier admits the loss of the goods, or if the goods have not arrived at the expiration of seven days after the date on which they ought to have arrived, the consignee is entitled to put into force against the carrier the rights which fl ow from the contract of carriage.” By virtue of the above provisions, the consignee is entitled to seek damages for delay in delivering the consignment. It is not the case of the respondent No.1 that the respondent No.2 had acted beyond the terms of agency. Neither it is averred that the respondent no.2 was not the agent of respondent No.1. 22. Section 186 of the Contract Act, 1872 provides that authority of an agent may be expressed or implied. Similarly, Section 188 of the Contract Act, 1872 prescribes that an agent, having an authority to do an act, has authority to do every lawful thing which is necessary in to do such act. In Dilawari Exporters v. Alitalia Cargo & Ors.2 this Court has observed in Paragraph 17 to 20 as follows: - “17. Section 186 of the Contract Act, 1872 (for short “the Contract Act”) lays down that the authority of an agent may be expressed or implied. As per Section 187 of the Contract Act, an authority is said to be express when it is given by words spoken or written, and an authority is said to be implied when it is to be inferred from the circumstances of the case; and things spoken or written, or the ordinary course of dealing, which may be accounted circumstances of the case. 18. Section 188 of the Contract Act prescribes that: 2 (2010) 5 SCC 754 M/S. RAJASTHAN ART EMPORIUM v. KUWAIT AIRWAYS 291 PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J. “188. Extent of agent’s authority.—An agent, having an authority to do an act, has authority to do every lawful thing which is necessary in to do such act.” 19. Section 237 of the Contract Act provides that: “237. Liability of principal inducing belief that agent’s unauthorised acts were authorised.—When an agent has, without authority, done acts or incurred obligations to third persons on behalf of his principal, the principal is bound by such acts or obligations if he has by his words or conduct induced such third persons to believe that such acts and obligations were within the scope of the agent’s authority.” 20. There is no gainsaying that onus to show that the act done by an agent was within the scope of his authority or ostensible authority held or exercised by him is on the person claiming against the principal.