[Paras 82, 83, 85, 87 and 89] 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Evidence Act, 1872 – s.32 – Treatment of FIR /Bayan Tahriri as dying declaration: Held: Statement by an injured person recorded as FIR can be treated as a dying declaration and such a statement is admissible u/s.32 of the Evidence Act. On facts, the deceased gave his statement in the form of Bayan Tahriri and narrated the entire incident and circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death. Subsequently, he died on account of injuries suff ered by him in the incident in question. FIR lodged on the basis of Bayan Tahrir of the injured is liable to be treated as a dying declaration, which itself is a substantive piece of evidence and is admissible u/s.32(1) of the Evidence Act. [Paras 91 and 95] Evidence – Ocular evidence – Testimony of deceased’s mother, an eyewitness, who was abducted by the accused side just before her examination in the trial court. Held: The High Court ought to have considered the checkered history of events that occurred in the case, resulting in the of the Division Bench of the High Court in the Habeas Corpus Petition containing serious observations about the conduct of all the stakeholders of the said criminal trial. CW-1’s fi rst examination was scrapped by the High Court on the allegation of her kidnapping just a few days before that fi rst examination dated 03.11.2006. She was under continuous threat and fear of facing dire consequence, which is apparent on the face of the record. Under these circumstances, in case she had stated in the end of her cross-examination that her son had asked her to take the name of the accused before the Trial Court, there is nothing so contradictory or surprising so as to treat the rest of the substantive ocular evidence as tutored one. There is no serious discrepancy or variation in the testimony of CW-1 with regard to the sequence of events that occurred during the incident in question. When the entire family of CW-1 was facing so many storms, it is quite natural for a son to say to her mother (who was old, illiterate, rustic woman having faced immense trauma) that she should not forget to disclose the name of accused persons, in as much as the second occasion of her examination, as ed by the Division Bench of High Court under Section 311 of CrPC, was the last opportunity for her to speak the truth before the Trial Court. There is nothing unusual in the statement of CW-1. Her statement is found to be reliable, and the Courts below wrongly discarded it on the ground that it was hearsay and tutored. [Paras 101, 102, 103, 104 and 114] HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 407 Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.311 – Power under – Scope: Held: s.311 CrPC confers wide powers on any court at any stage of any inquiry, trial or other proceeding under this Code to summon material witness or examine person present.