COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 523 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] WHETHER CARBON CREDIT IS CAPITAL OR REVENUE RECEIPT. 53. This brings us to the last of the three additional issues i.e., whether carbon credit is capital or revenue receipt. This additional issue has been raised by the revenue in Civil Appeal No. 9917/2017 (ACIT Vs. M/s Godawari Power and Ispat Pvt. Ltd.) and in Civil Appeal No. 8983/2017 (ACIT Vs. M/s Godawari Power and Ispat Pvt. Ltd.). In the two appeals, revenue has raised the question as to whether receipts on sale of carbon credit is a capital receipt whereafter assessee is not liable to pay any tax. 54. We may mention that before the Tribunal in Civil Appeal No. 9917/2017, the assessee had questioned amongst others the fi nding of CIT (A) confi rming the decision of the assessing offi cer that an amount of Rs. 4,47,75,122.00 realised on account of carbon credit had no direct and immediate nexus with the income of the power division and hence did not qualify for deduction under Section 80-IA (4) (iv) of the Act. On due consideration, Tribunal vide the dated 31.03.2016 held that carbon credit is generated under the Kyoto Protocol and because of international commitments. Carbon credit emanates out of such technology and plant and machinery which contribute to reduction of greenhouse gases. That apart, carbon credits are also meant to promote environmentally sound investments which are admittedly capital in nature. Therefore, Tribunal held that carbon credit is a capital receipt. 55. Against the aforesaid decision of the Tribunal, revenue preferred appeal before the High Court of Chhattisgarh under Section 260A of the Act. From a reading of the High Court dated 15.11.2016, we fi nd that the only issue raised by the revenue before the High Court was relating to disallowance of deduction by the assessing offi cer under Section 80-IA (4) (iv) of the Act. Question of carbon credit being capital receipt or not was not raised. In other words, revenue had accepted the decision of the Tribunal as regards carbon credit and did not challenge the said decision before the High Court.In fact, in the proceedings dated 11.09.2009 it was agreed by both the sides (including the revenue) that the only question which arose for consideration of this Court was as regards interpretation of Section 80- IA of the Act. Therefore, the issue relating to carbon credit was not raised or urged by the revenue.If that be the position, revenue would be estopped 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. from raising the said issue before this Court at the stage of fi nal hearing. That apart, there is no decision of the High Court on this issue against which the revenue can be said to be aggrieved and which can be assailed. In the circumstances, we decline to answer this question raised by the revenue and leave the question open to be decided in an appropriate proceeding.