54. In Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay & Ors. v. Podar Cement Pvt. Ltd. & Ors.14, a Bench of three learned Judges had occasion to revisit the issue in the following set of facts. The matter arose by way of reference under Section 257 of the Act to the Supreme Court in view C of the conflicting of the High Courts. The assessee in one of the cases claimed that the rental income was assessable as income from other sources in as much as the assessee company was not the legal owner of the flats. This was for the reason that the title of the property had not been conveyed to the cooperative society which was formed by the purchaser of the flats. In one of the appeals, the assessee claimed D that the income must be assessed under Section 22. The claim was rejected on the ground that assessee was only a lessee and had only tenancy rights. The common question which arose in all the cases was the scope of Section 22 of the Act vis-à-vis Section 56 of the Act. Section 22 of the Act brings to tax income from house property and the E section expressly declares that the assessee must be the owner of the building or lands. Section 27 purports to define the expression owner of house property, inter alia, for the purpose of Sections 22 to 26. It includes a person who is allowed to take or retain possession of any building or part thereof, in part performance of a contract of the nature referred to in Section 53(A) of the Transfer of Property Act. The Court distinguished F Jodha Mal (supra).This Court further referred to in great detail the of the Patna High Court in Additional Commissioner of Income Tax, Bihar v. M/s. Sahay Properties and Investment Co.(P) Ltd.15. Since this Court has approved the reasoning adopted by the Patna High Court, it is deemed appropriate to refer to the same: G “32. The learned Judges observed at page 361: “The emphasis, therefore, in this statutory provision is that the tax under the section is in respect of ownership. But this matter is 14 (1997) 5 SCC 482 H 15 1983 (144) ITR 357 M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 569 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] not as simple as it looks. This leaves us to a more vexed question A as to what is ownership. Should the assessment be made at the hands of the person who has the bare husk of the legal title or at the hands of the person who has the rights of an owner of a property in a practical sense? Enjoyment as an owner only in a practical sense can be attributed to the term ‘owner’ in the context B of this section — a person who can exercise the rights of the owner and is entitled to the income from the property for his own benefit. It is well settled, and learned counsel for either side were not at loggerheads, that the section cannot be so construed as to make it an instrument of oppression, to use the language of Hegde, C J., in the case of Jodha Mal [(1971) 3 SCC 369 : (1971) 82 ITR 570] .