Electricity Act, 2003 – s.125 – Appeals arising from concurrent findings of fact arrived at by two statutory bodies having expertise E in the field – Held: CERC, SERCs and APTEL are bodies consisting of experts in the field – This Court should be slow in interfering with the concurrent findings of fact unless they are found to be perverse, arbitrary and either in ignorance of or contrary to the statutory provisions – Appeal to this Court u/s.125 is only permissible on any of the grounds as specified in s.100 of the Code of Civil F Procedure, 1908 – As such, the appeal to this Court would be permissible only on substantial questions of law – However, even in cases where well-reasoned concurrent s are passed by the ERC and APTEL, the same are challenged by the DISCOMS as well as the Generators – On account of pendency of litigation, which in G some of the cases in this batch has been more than 5 years, non- payment of dues would entail paying of heavy carrying cost to the Generators by the DISCOMS, which, in turn, will be passed over to the end consumer – As a result, it will be the end consumer who would be at sufferance – Therefore, such unnecessary and unwarranted litigation needs to be curbed – Union of India, through H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 185 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) Ministry of Power, may evolve a mechanism to ensure timely payment A by the DISCOMS to the Generating Companies, which would avoid huge carrying cost to be passed over to the end consumers – A mechanism may also be evolved to avoid unnecessary and unwarranted litigation, the cost of which is also passed on to the ultimate consumer – Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – s.100. B Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. The term “Law”, has been defined in the PPAs. Perusal of the definition of the term “Law” itself would clearly show that the term “Law” would mean all laws including Electricity Laws in force in India and any statute, ordinance, regulation, C Notification or code, rule, or any interpretation of any of them by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality and having force of law. It would further reveal that the term “Law” shall also include all applicable rules, regulations, s, Notifications by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality and shall also include all rules, D regulations, decisions and s of the CERC and the MERC. CIL is an instrumentality of the Government of India and its s, insofar as price of fuel are concerned, are binding on all its subsidiaries. Price of coal includes the sum of base price, other charges and statutory charges as applicable at the time of delivery of coal. As discussed, the term ‘Law’ would also include all E applicable rules, regulations, s, Notifications issued by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality. It would thus be clear that all such additional charges which are payable on account of s, directions, Notifications, Regulations, etc., issued by the instrumentalities of the State, after the cut-off date, will have to F be considered to be ‘Change in Law’ events.