16.2. In regard to the submissions made on behalf of the State that the aforesaid existing Regulation 52 had neither been challenged nor declared invalid, it has been suggested on behalf of the respondents that when the employees had regularly been raising the demand for E pension by way of representations and had taken up litigation too, challenge to the contrary provisions is inherent in their demands/prayers. These submissions have only been noted to be rejected for more than one reason. First, that merely making a prayer contrary to the existing provision in the statute does not carry in itself a challenge to the provision. F Secondly, for challenging a particular provision, specific case is required to be made out of either want of statutory powers or of violation of any constitutional mandate. Neither any such ground of challenge had been urged nor could be assumed. Thirdly, it is ex facie evident that all through the prayer had been for amendment of Regulation 52 and not of declaring the same in its existing frame as being invalid. A prayer for amendment G of the Regulation cannot be equated with a prayer to declare the same as invalid. As noticed hereinbefore, the State Government’s denial of the proposed alteration was essentially based on its disagreement to alter the service conditions with effect from 01.04.1976. Viewed from any angle, invocation of the principles forbidding hostile discrimination H 1078 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A remains baseless and the contentions urged on that basis are required to be rejected. 17. On behalf of respondents, strong reliance has also been placed on the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Gujarat State Khadi Gramodyog Board (supra), while pointing out that this Court did B not interfere with the same and rejected the petition seeking leave to appeal. It has been argued on the basis of this decision that the pension rights having been allowed to the employees of the similar Board in the State of Gujarat, there is every reason to endorse the same treatment for the employees of the respondent Board. The submissions do not take the case of the employees of the respondent Board any further. C This is for the simple but pertinent reason flowing from a marked difference of the service conditions. The High Court noticed in paragraph 14 of the referred that pension scheme in relation to employees of that Board was made applicable with effect from 12.11.1973; and those who were members of the contributory provident fund were also D made eligible for the pension scheme. In paragraph 14, the High Court noticed, inter alia, as under: - “14. For all practical purposes, respondent no. 1-Board is an instrumentality of the State and, therefore, it is covered under Article 12 and undoubtedly amenable to the writ jurisdiction of E this Court. Since 1973 in the set-up of respondent no. 1, pension scheme was introduced and was made applicable from 12.11.1973, and who were the members of the Contributory Provident Fund (CPF), they were made eligible for the pension scheme.