183/02 under Section 420, 467, 468, 471 IPC was registered against you in P.S. Mandor, District -Jodhpur.” 15. Five witnesses were examined in the departmental enquiry, namely, PW-1 Jagdish Chand, Principal in Government Secondary School, Village Tiloniya, PW-2 Bhawani Singh (constable who was tasked to bring the school records), PW-3 Karan Sharma, who was Circle Offi cer and had recorded the statement of Shravan Lal; PW-4 Shravan Lal and PW-5 Raj Singh who conducted the investigation of the criminal case. 16. The evidence of PW-5/Raj Singh, as set out in the enquiry report taken as it is, is signifi cant since he clearly disproved the charge. He stated the following in the cross-examination before the enquiry offi cer: “Raj Singh you conducted investigation of Crime No. 102 and sent the copy to Commandant, 9th Battalion, RAC, Tonk, what documents you sent alongwith the same - The documents which were sent by me were copy of FIR, copy of chargesheet which was submitted in the Court and statements of witnesses recorded during the investigation and documents; whose photocopies were also given to the accused. Whether you had sent the copies of statements recorded in the aforesaid case to RAM LAL V. STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. 815 the Commandant - I did not send the copies to Commandant Sahab. Which officer had submitted the chargesheet, of result in the Court – the then SHO of P.S. Mandor, District - Jodhpur City namely Sh. Ram Pratap submitted result of investigation, and chargesheet against the accused, in the Court.” During the investigation, you had recorded statements of Dharmendra Kumar Jatav and Jairam Gurjar, did you record more statements and whether you would identify the copies of those statements - Yes, I recorded the statement of witnesses as it is. And I am producing herewith the statements of both the aforesaid witnesses. Whether those have been written by yourself - Yes, those statements have been written by me, which are Exh. D-1 and Exh. D-2. In Exh. D-1, I recorded statement of Teacher namely Rakishan Dev Murari on A to B part and I filled the marksheet of Ramlal, wherein, date of birth of Ramlal is mentioned as 21.04.1972 in C to D part, which has been written as per the dictation of Checking Teacher Ramkishan Dev Murari. Date of birth of 21.07.1972 mentioned on E to F part, was not mentioned in deliberate manner, in fact, same has been written due to the human error, whether you are agree with this statement - This statement is correct, whereas, at the time of filling up form for recruitment in Police RAC, Ramlal could enclose T.C. of 9th Pass, and he was studying in 10th class.” Thereafter, referring to the Exh. D-2 [Statement of Jairam Gurjar], he deposed as under:- “Similarly, in Exh. D-2, on A to· B part, you have shown me the photocopy of 8th class marksheet of Ramlal S/o Sh. Tejuram Chaudhary, R/o Tiloniya, on which, signatures of it’s issuer i.e. Teacher namely Sh.