categories submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court erred in setting aside and quashing the Select List published by the respondent board on 8th September, 2009, thereby G quashing all the appointments made pursuant thereto. That the selection list was correct as the same was published by the Board after following lawful procedure and that the selection list has attained finality by efflux of time. 8.1. It was further submitted that denial of opportunity of being heard before the Writ Court and the cancellation of their appointments, H 742 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A on the ground of non-joinder of parties, warrants setting aside of the impugned . That the High Court was not justified in quashing the whole selection list and appointments thereof as no such prayer qua the appellants in Diary No. 1194 of 2022 was maintainable as there was no grievance against such persons. That such appellants’ selection/ appointment was at no point of time ever challenged by the respondents/ B unsuccessful candidates and they did not figure as parties in any of the Writ Petitions, thus, violating the principles of natural justice and the Writ Petitions were hit by non-joinder of necessary parties. 8.2. It was next submitted that there was no candidate from among the non-selectees, who could have challenged the selection of these C petitioners, because they belong to the Scheduled Tribe, Scheduled Caste and residents of Actual Line of Control (A.L.C.) category and vide the Advertisement Notice dated 5th May, 2008, seven posts of Scheduled Tribe category, six posts of Scheduled Caste category and two posts of candidates belonging to and residing within or near the A.L.C. were D advertised and there were fewer candidates available than the number of posts advertised under Scheduled Tribe and Scheduled Caste category. In so far as the A.L.C. category posts are concerned, it was submitted that only three candidates applied against the two posts and the one unsuccessful candidate under ALC never challenged the selection of the petitioners belonging to ALC and this factum was evident from the E Select List issued by the Board while recommending the sixty-four candidates for appointment as drug inspectors. Four posts out of seven posts belonging to Scheduled Tribe, and three posts out of six posts belonging to Scheduled Caste remained vacant due to the non-availability of candidates. F 8.3. It was contended that the fact that such appellants were never made parties and yet the entire selection was set aside, was itself a stand alone reason and ground for setting aside the impugned , qua the appellants in Diary No. 1194 of 2022. That the impugned decided the fate of such appellants despite non-joinder as necessary G parties. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that the present appeals be allowed and the impugned of the High Court dated 29th October, 2021 and the of the learned Single Judge dated 18th December 2015 be set aside. H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 743 AND KASHMIR & ORS.