Such a consequence, in the opinion of this Court, was never intended by Parliament; furthermore, the restitutionary principle requires that the advantage gained by the litigant should be suitably offset, in F favour of the other party. 339. In Krishnaswamy S. Pd. v. Union of India [Krishnaswamy S. Pd. v. Union of India, (2006) 3 SCC 286], it was observed that an unintentional mistake of the Court, which may prejudice the cause of any party, must and alone could be rectified. Thus, in our G opinion, the period for which the interim has operated under Section 24 has to be excluded for counting the period of 5 years under Section 24(2) for the various reasons mentioned above.” 5.2 As per the settled position of law, the act of the Court shall prejudice no one and in such a fact situation, the Court is under an H 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A obligation to undo the wrong done to a party by the act of the Court. The maxim actus curiae neminem gravabit shall be applicable. As per the settled law, any undeserved or unfair advantage gained by a party invoking the jurisdiction of the court must be neutralized, as the institution of litigation cannot be permitted to confer any advantage on a suitor by the act of the Court. B 6. Applying the principle of restitution and the law-laid down by this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra) on the principle of restitution to the facts of the case on hand, we are of the opinion that this is a fit case to apply the principle of actus curiae neminem gravabit and the principle of restitution and to direct Shri C Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira to return the amount and deposit the same with this Court with 9% interest from the date on which the payment is received by them. However, with the liberty in their favour to move appropriate application(s) or appropriate proceedings before this Court for adjudication of their rights to receive any amount D from the sale proceeds of the land sold to M/s Devas Global LLP. 7. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira are hereby directed to return and deposit the amount paid to them (i.e., Rs. 56.11 crores paid to Shri Naresh Kempanna and Rs. 41.96 crores paid to Col. Mohinder E Khaira), paid pursuant to the earlier (s) passed by this Court, with 9% interest from the date on which the amount is received, to be deposited with the Registry of this Court within four weeks from today. However, it will be open for either of them to move appropriate application(s) or appropriate proceedings for adjudication of their rights to receive any amount from the sale proceeds of the land sold to M/s Devas Global F LLP and as and when such application(s) is/are made, the same be considered in accordance with law and on its own merits.