B 366.8. The provisions of Section 24(2) providing for a deemed lapse of proceedings are applicable in case authorities have failed due to their inaction to take possession and pay compensation for five years or more before the 2013 Act came into force, in a proceeding for land acquisition pending with the authority concerned as on 1-1-2014. The period of subsistence of C interim s passed by court has to be excluded in the computation of five years. 366.9. Section 24(2) of the 2013 Act does not give rise to new cause of action to question the legality of concluded proceedings of land acquisition. Section 24 applies to a proceeding D pending on the date of enforcement of the 2013 Act i.e. 1-1-2014. It does not revive stale and time-barred claims and does not reopen concluded proceedings nor allow landowners to question the legality of mode of taking possession to reopen proceedings or mode of deposit of compensation in the treasury instead of court E to invalidate acquisition.” 4. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra) to the facts of the case on hand, the High Court has materially erred in declaring that the acquisition proceedings with respect to the entire land i.e., 15 bigha 18 biswa are deemed to have lapsed is unsustainable. F 5. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above and applying the law laid down by this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra), the impugned and passed by the High Court is hereby quashed and set aside. There shall be no deemed lapse with respect to the acquisition proceedings of the G lands in question under Section 24(2) of the Act, 2013. Consequently, the writ petition preferred by the original writ petitioner(s) before the High Court stands dismissed. However, while allowing the present appeal, it is observed that if the original land owners/recorded owners or the person(s) interested are not paid the compensation, they may be paid H the compensation with respect to the lands in question in accordance LAND ACQUISITION COLLECTOR v. JAI PRAKASH TYAGI 17 & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] with the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 and their prayer(s) A be considered in accordance with law and on their own merits. Present appeal is accordingly allowed. No costs. Pending applications, if any, also stand disposed of. B Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh and Roopanshi Virang, LCRAs) C D E F G H