In other words, the purpose for which the provision was made, as also the imperative need E to make such a law, has been eloquently articulated in the views of the Members of the Constituent Assembly. The appointment of Judges of the Superior Judiciary under the Government of India Act, which preceded the Constitution, was being made in the absolute discretion of the Crown. This Court took note of the fact that if left to the absolute discretion of the Executive, as the appointing Authority, it may lead to F political considerations in making the appointment. Article 124(2) dealing with appointments to the Supreme Court and Article 217(1) which deals with appointments to the High Courts, was to be made based on what was described as ‘consultations’ in these Articles. It will be again noticed that Article 324(2), does not provide for consultation with any one and it G appears to place the power to make appointments, exclusively with the Executive as the President is bound by the advice of the Prime Minister. However, it is precisely to guard against the abuse by the exclusive power being vested with the Executive that instead of a consultative process being provided, Parliament was to make a law. This clearly was the contemplation of the Founding Fathers. This Court proceeded to lay H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 167 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] down norms in the absence of any specific guidelines. We may, in this A regard, notice paragraph-477: “477. The absence of specific guidelines in the enacted provisions appears to be deliberate, since the power is vested in high constitutional functionaries and it was expected of them to develop requisite norms by convention in actual working as envisaged in B the concluding speech of the President of the Constituent Assembly. The hereinafter mentioned norms emerging from the actual practice and crystallized into conventions — not exhaustive — are expected to be observed by the functionaries to regulate the exercise of their discretionary power in the matters of C appointments and transfers.” 204. We may also indicate that this provides a situation where this Court has laid down norms, even in the constitutional realm. 205. It is further of the greatest moment that this Court noted that it was realised that independence of the Judiciary had to be protected D not merely after appointment but by the process of appointment. The Chief Election Commissioner can also be removed only in the same fashion as a Judge of the Supreme Court. His conditions of service cannot be varied to his disadvantage. But unlike the Comptroller and Auditor General, who also enjoys protection after appointment, the E Founding Fathers clearly intended to also provide for an independent Election Commission regulating by law, the appointment itself. This is in place of consultation provided for Judges. 206. In Vishaka and others v. State of Rajasthan and others72, a Writ Petition was filed for enforcement of Fundamental Rights of working women under Articles 14, 19 and 21.