52. On an overall consideration of the record, we fi nd that the case set up by the accused is thoroughly riddled with contradictions. It is apparent on the face of the record that there is not the slightest of credibility perceivable in the defense set up by the accused. 806 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 53. In his 313 statements, he admits of having taken a loan of Rs 20 lakh and having repaid some interest but in the cross examination of the complainant, a suggestion is made that the accused had no fi nancial dealings with the complainant. Whereas in his 313 statement, the accused states that his cheque book and passbook is kept in his sister in law’s house, yet, in the cross examination of Gita Sunar, the accused’s sister-in-law, no suggestion is made to that eff ect. In fact, she has plainly denied that any blank cheque was given to her by her brother-in-law. We fi nd it highly unnatural to presume that the accused would leave his signed cheque leaves and passbook in his sister-in law’s house. Even if he did, there is no reason(s) or motive attributed on part of his sister-in- law, for her to collude along with the complainant. The accused has also not explained as to why he has not set up his defense at the earliest point, that is, at the stage of receiving the demand notice, even though he admits having received the demand notice in his 313 statement, yet he makes a suggestion to the complainant in his cross examination that no legal notice had been issued. The theory of ‘blank cheque’ being misused has been suggested, only to be denied by both, the complainant and Gita Sunar-CW-3. No action has been taken by way of registering a police complaint in to prosecute the alleged illegal conduct of his blank cheque having been misused by CW-3. 54. Nothing signifi cant has been elicited in the cross-examination of complainant to raise any suspicion in the case set up by the complainant. Other than some minor inconsistencies, the case of the complainant has been consistent throughout as can be noticed from a perusal of the complainant, demand notice and affi davit evidence. In fact, the signature on the cheque having not been disputed, and the presumption under Section 118 and 139 having taken eff ect, the complainant’s case stood satisfi ed every ingredient necessary for sustaining a conviction under Section 138. The case of the defense was limited only to the issue as to whether the cheque had been issued in discharge of a debt/liability. The accused having miserably failed to discharge his evidential burden, that fact will have to be taken to be proved by force of the presumption, without requiring anything more from the complainant. 55. As rightly contended by the appellant, there is a fundamental fl aw in the way both the Courts below have proceeded to appreciate the evidence RAJESH JAIN v. AJAY SINGH 807 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.]