Section 192(1)(c) of the Punjab Tenancy Act, 1911 was clearly in the nature of C acquisition.The rights of the person were extinguished effectively.The provision vested power or a discretion to acquire land either on payment of compensation or otherwise. As already noticed, this was done at a time when Article 19(1)(f) and Article 31 of the Constitution, both being Fundamental Rights, continued to hold the field. No doubt, the decision D is rested ultimately on the impugned provision being found to be contrary to Article 14. What is pertinent, however, is that, in the case of the Rule/ Regulation impugned, as we have already found, is not a case of exercise of power of eminent domain, and it is not a case of acquisition by means of compulsory exaction of the property. What is involved in these cases, is a different factual matrix.A person or a group of persons, owning an E extent of land, which is in excess of 10,000 square metres in a fast- growing urban metropolis, wish to develop the land. It is, apparently,a commercial venture. They put-up, what is called, special buildings or group development. This involves making optimum use of the land by putting up vertical constructions. In other words, ordinarily, large number F of persons would come to occupy the area with a layout of more than 10,000 square metres. The Law Giver has contemplated provision of roads within the layout of roads. In fact, the roads are themselves to become public.Interestingly, even in the challenge made by the Writ Petitioner in Writ Petition No. 651 of 2015,viz., the petitioner has specifically limited the challenge to the regulation to the requirement of G gifting the area comprised in the land for communal and recreational purposes. The Regulations, as did the Rules, provide for the roads to become publicand become open to the members of the public.A gift, in this regard, is not ironically objected to. H 1146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 151. We have noticed from the pleadings that the appellants and the petitioner substantially do not challenge the setting apart of land for the purpose of communal or recreational purpose. The objections appear to be as follows. The word ‘communal’ must be contextually interpreted to confine the benefit of reservation for the occupants of the buildings and it must not be made available to the members of the public. In the B case of Vasanth Apartments, they object to the land set apart under the gift deed, being used to cater to the members of the public in general, by converting it into a public road. In fact, it must be remembered that in the case of Vasanth Apartments, as rightly pointed out by Shri Jayant MuthRaj, learned Senior Counsel, the gift was not executed by the C members of the Association. The property was gifted by the developer as a condition for developing the land. The developer, in other words, who put together the project or developed the project, is the person who would have a right to have the property revested.He accepts the gift.