Bearing in mind such stark reality, sub-rule (5) of rule 9 cannot but be interpreted pragmatically to serve twin purposes — first, to facilitate due enforcement of security interest by the secured creditor F (one of the objects of the SARFAESI Act); and second, to prohibit wrong doers from being benefitted by a liberal construction thereof. 20. In terms of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (for brevity “Contract Act”, hereafter), a person can withdraw his offer before acceptance. However, once a party expresses willingness to enter into a contractual G relationship subject to terms and conditions and makes an offer which is accepted but thereafter commits a breach of contract, he does so at his own risk and peril and naturally has to suffer the consequences. We are not oblivious of the terms of section 73 and section 74 of the Contract Act, being part of Chapter VI thereof titled “Of the Consequence of Breach of Contract”. These sections, providing for compensation for H AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1083 C. NATARAJAN & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] breach of contract and for liquidated damages, have remained on the A statute book for generations and permit the party suffering the breach to recover such quantum of loss or damage from the party in breach. However, with changing times, the minds of people are also changing. The judiciary, keeping itself abreast of the changes that are bound to occur in an evolving society, must interpret new laws that are brought in B operation to suit the situation appropriately. In the current era of globalization, the entire philosophy of society, mainly on the economic front is making rapid strides towards changes. Unscrupulous people have been inventing newer modes and mechanisms for defrauding and looting the nation. It is in such a scenario that provisions of enactments, particularly those provisions which have a direct bearing on the economy C of the nation, must receive such interpretation so that it not only fosters economic growth but is also in tune with the intention of the law-makers in introducing a provision such as sub-rule (5) of rule 9, which though harsh in its operation, is intended to suppress the mischief and advance the remedy. If indeed section 73 and section 74, which are part of the D general law of contract, were sufficient to cater to the remedy, the need to make sub-rule (5) of rule 9 as part of the Rules might not have arisen. Additionally, insertion of sub-rule (5) with such specificity regarding forfeiture must not have been thought of only for reiterating what is already there. It was visualized by the law makers that there was a need to arrest cases of deceptive manipulation of prices at the instance of E unscrupulous borrowers by thwarting sale processes and this was the trigger for insertion of such a provision with wide words conferring extensive powers of forfeiture. The purpose of such insertion must have also been aimed at instilling a sense of discipline in the intending purchasers while they proceed to participate in the auction-sale process.