7. The High Court of Kerala in the case of The Commissioner of Income Tax, Cochin v. M/s. Muthoot Leasing & Finance Limited4 by the impugned dated 10th March 2008 set aside and reversed E the finding of the ITAT, observing that the hire- purchase instalment includes “finance charges”, which is nothing but interest, and therefore, interest tax is leviable on the interest component. The transaction, though styled as a hire-purchase agreement, the High Court held, is in fact a finance agreement for purchase of a vehicle. The hirer, as a borrower, had been charged a flat rate of interest. The hirer, on payment of F instalments, had the option to purchase the vehicle for one rupee, which was an empty formality, because the vehicle was already registered in his name. As per Section 51 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 19885, the registering authority is required to enter the details of the hire-purchase agreement in the certificate of registration. The respondent – assessee G therein had the license to repossess the vehicle on default, but to get ownership they had to apply for change in name under the provisions of 3 For short, ‘CBDT’. 4ITA No. 269 of 2002. 5For short, the ‘MV Act’. H 326 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the MV Act. Reliance placed by the appellant – assessee on Circular No. 760 dated 13th January 1998 issued by the CBDT was rejected, observing that the CBDT had earlier issued Circular No. 738 dated 25th March 1996 clarifying that the interest recovered under the hire-purchase agreement falls under Section 2(7) of the Act. For arriving at the conclusion, reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Sundaram B Finance Limited v. State of Kerala and Another6, a decision which we will subsequently examine. 8. The High Court of Delhi in Commissioner of Interest Tax v. M/s G.E. Capital Transportation7, decided on 1st September 2006, has taken a different view, observing that the assessees therein having not C earned any interest on loan or advance, no component of the hire- purchase instalment paid by the customer/hirer towards the hire is chargeable to interest tax under the Act. At this stage, it may be relevant to state that the special leave petition preferred by the Commissioner of Income Tax, New Delhi against the decision of the Delhi High Court in D a connected matter, in the case of Commissioner of income Tax, New Delhi v. M/s G.E. Capital Services India8, was dismissed by this Court on 16th May 2008. The dismissal being in limine and at the admission stage, would not constitute a binding precedent under Article 141 of the Constitution of India. E 9. Section 2(7) of the Act, post amendment with effect from 1st October 1991, reads as under: “(7) “interest” means interest on loans and advances made in India and includes— F (a) commitment charges on unutilised portion of any credit sanctioned for being availed of in India; and (b) discount on promissory notes and bills of exchange drawn or made in India, but does not include— G (i) interest referred to in sub-section (1-B) of Section 42 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934); 6AIR 1966 SC 1178.