Yet we would make a useful reference to the decision in Vinay Tyagi vs. Irshad Ali alias Deepak6. 27. Vinay Tyagi (supra) arose out of certain peculiar facts. The Special Cell of Delhi Police registered a First Information Report against G two persons under some provisions of the Explosive Substances Act, 1908, a few provisions of the IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act. The accused filed a petition in the High Court of Delhi seeking a transfer of investigation to CBI on the ground that they were working as Informers 6 (2013) 5 SCC 762 H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1057 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] for the Intelligence Agencies and that they have been falsely implicated. A Though the High Court entertained the petition, no stay was granted. Therefore, the Special Cell of Delhi Police proceeded with the investigation and filed a charge-sheet. Thereafter, the High Court passed an directing the CBI to undertake an inquiry and submit a report to the Court. Accordingly, CBI undertook an inquiry and filed a report stating B that the investigation carried out by Delhi Police did not inspire confidence and that further investigation was needed. Thereafter, CBI filed a closure report. On the basis of the same, the accused sought discharge. Since discharge was not ed, they approached the High Court, but the High Court remanded the matter back to the Sessions Court. It is the said of remand that was challenged by the Investigating Officer C before this Court. This Court framed two questions as arising for consideration in Vinay Tyagi. They read as follows:- “Question 1 1.1. Whether in exercise of its powers under Section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short “the Code”), the D trial court has the jurisdiction to ignore any one of the reports, where there are two reports by the same or different investigating agencies in furtherance of the s of a court? If so, to what effect? Question 2 E 1.2. Whether the Central Bureau of Investigation (for short “CBI”) is empowered to conduct “fresh”/ “reinvestigation” when the cognizance has already been taken by the court of competent jurisdiction on the basis of a police report under Section 173 of the Code?” 28. While dealing with the First Question, this Court pointed out F that investigation can be of three kinds namely, (i) initial investigation; (ii) further investigation; and (iii) fresh or de novo or reinvestigation. After exploring the meaning of “initial investigation” in paragraph 21 and the meaning of “further investigation” in paragraph 22, this Court recorded in paragraph 23, what a fresh investigation/reinvestigation/de G novo investigation is and the circumstances under which the same can be ed. Paragraph 23 of the decision reads as follows:- “23. However, in the case of a “fresh investigation”, “reinvestigation” or “de novo investigation” there has to be a definite of the court. The of the court unambiguously should state as to whether the previous investigation, for reasons H 1058 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.