Apart from that, another question that requires consideration is, as to whether various taxes/charges imposed by various State Governments would also fall under ‘Change in Law’ events or not. B The other question that requires considerations is, as to whether at what rate the Generators would be entitled to ‘carrying cost’. IV. CONSIDERATION 93. For appreciating the rival submissions, we will have to construe C the term “Law”, which has been defined in the PPAs, which reads thus: “”Law” means, in relation to this Agreement, all laws including Electricity Laws in force in India and any statute, ordinance, regulation, Notification or code, rule, or any interpretation of any of them by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality and having D force of law and shall further include all applicable rules, regulations, s, Notifications by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality pursuant to or under any of them and shall include all rules, regulations, decisions and s of the CERC and the MERC.” E 94. Perusal of the definition of the term “Law” itself would clearly show that the term “Law” would mean all laws including Electricity Laws in force in India and any statute, ordinance, regulation, Notification or code, rule, or any interpretation of any of them by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality and having force of law. It would further reveal that the term “Law” shall also include all applicable rules, F regulations, s, Notifications by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality and shall also include all rules, regulations, decisions and s of the CERC and the MERC. 95. In any case, the issue as to what would amount to “Law” is no more res integra. This Court, in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra), G has observed thus: “57. Both the letter dated 31-7-2013 and the revised Tariff Policy are statutory documents being issued under Section 3 of the Act and have the force of law. This being so, it is clear that so far as the procurement of Indian coal is concerned, to the extent that H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 219 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the supply from Coal India and other Indian sources is cut down, A the PPA read with these documents provides in Clause 13.2 that while determining the consequences of change in law, parties shall have due regard to the principle that the purpose of compensating the party affected by such change in law is to restore, through monthly tariff payments, the affected party to the economic position B as if such change in law has not occurred. Further, for the operation period of the PPA, compensation for any increase/decrease in cost to the seller shall be determined and be effective from such date as decided by the Central Electricity Regulation Commission. This being the case, we are of the view that though change in Indonesian law would not qualify as a change in law under the C guidelines read with the PPA, change in Indian law certainly would.” 96. The aforesaid view of this Court taken in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra) has been approved by a Bench of three learned Judges of this Court in Adani Rajasthan case (supra) and also followed by this D Court when the two linked matters out of this batch of appeals were decided by this Court in the case of MSEDCL v. APML & Ors.(supra).