6.8 It is further submitted that the words used in Rule 2A ‘subject to Section 67’ conveys the clear idea that the valuation done under Section 67 is supreme and the rules are subject to the Act. 6.9 It is submitted that therefore the composition rules are D completely optional for the assessee to exercise the assessee can opt for Section 67. 6.10 It is submitted that taking CENVAT duty on inputs is barred only if one opts for Composition Rules and not if tax is paid at normal prevailing rates on full gross value of contract under Section 67. E 6.11 It is further prayed on behalf of the respondent that in case the appeal be allowed on merits, the Tribunal has not rendered any finding on extended period of limitation and/or other issues and therefore the matters may be remanded back to the Tribunal. F 7. Heard learned counsel for the respective parties at length. 8. The short question which is posed for consideration before this Court is as to whether an assessee who is liable to pay service tax under works contract service has the legal right not to follow Rule 2A of the Service Tax (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006 nor the G CompositionScheme on the ground that in terms of Section 67 of the Finance Act, 1994 an assessee is entitled to take the total contract value which includes both goods and services and remit service tax on the entire value as works contract service and in the process also entitled to avail the CENVAT Credit? H CC AND CE AND ST, NOIDA v. M/S INTERARCH BUILDING 999 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 8.1 At the outset, it is required to be noted that as such services A rendered by the respondent – assessee can be said to be ‘works contract service’ as per the Finance Act, 1994 w.e.f. 01.06.2007 as per Section 64(54) read with Section 65(105)(zzzza). 8.2 As per the law laid down by this Court in the case of Larsen and Toubro (supra) and Gannon Dunkerly and Co. (supra) and the B subsequent decision in the case of Total Environment Building Systems Pvt. Ltd. (supra) with respect to the works contract an assessee is liable to sales tax on the goods element and the service tax on the availment of service/value of service rendered. 8.3 In the case of Gannon Dunkerly and Co. (supra) while C dealing with measure of tax in para 47 this Court had provided a list of exclusions from the cost of valuation of goods and as to what would constitute the service elements. As per the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decision the following are to be excluded from the cost of valuation of the goods. D “47. ….. The value of the goods involved in the execution of a works contract will, therefore, have to be determined by taking into account the value of the entire works contract and deducting therefrom the charges towards labour and services which would cover— E (a) Labour charges for execution of the works; (b) amount paid to a sub-contractor for labour and services; (c) charges for planning, designing and architect’s fees; (d) charges for obtaining on hire or otherwise machinery and tools F used for the execution of the works contract; (e) cost of consumables such as water, electricity, fuel, etc.