On the basis of the most favoured nation clause between Switzerland and India, Colombia’s accession to the OECD has the eff ect of retroactively (from 28 April 2020) reducing the residual tax rate in the source Start: for dividends from 10% to 5% (dividends arising from qualifi ed interests and portfolio dividends) applicable to the relationship between India and Switzerland. Thus, under the provisions of DTC IN-CH, Indian tax residents receiving dividends from Swiss source as of 5 July 2018, or 28 April 2020 can claim, subject to the conditions laid down in DTC IN·CH, a refund of the (additional) withholding tax in accordance with the established procedures. The legal time limit set out in Article 32 of the Federal Act on withholding tax applies..” 68. The decree issued by the Republic of France, inter alia, after narrating and reciting the India-France DTAA, the amending Protocols, the date on which India-Germany DTAA was entered into, and the date on which the Protocol, amending India-France DTAA on the basis of the Indo-German DTAA, provided as follows: “I. Withholding tax rate on dividends and interest under the most- favoured-nation clause ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1193 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] A. Dividends referred to in Article 11 The rate of 15 % provided for in paragraph 2 of Article 11 of the Franco-Indian convention shall be replaced by that of 10% provided for in the tax treaty concluded by India with Germany. This rate shall be replaced by the rate of 5 % of the gross amount of dividends provided for in the tax treaty concluded between India and Slovenia if the ‘benefi cial owner is a company which directly holds at least 10 % of the capital of the company paying those dividends. B. Interest referred to in Article 2, Paragraph 12 (a) The rate of 10 per cent provided for in paragraph 2 {a) of Article 12 of the Franco-Indian Convention applies to interest paid on loans granted by insurance companies as a result of India’s tax treaty with the United States. (b) The rate of 15 % provided for in paragraph 2 (b) of Article 12 shall be replaced by that of 10 % following the tax treaty concluded by India with Germany.” 69. The context of these executive s or decrees is to be understood in relation to each country’s manner of assimilation of treaties, in municipal or national law. The Federal Council headed by the President and the Federal Chancellor exercise the executive authority, in Switzerland. The Federal Council has the authority to negotiate and sign treaties and conventions. The treaty after its signature is ratifi ed in four diff erent ways: (a) In certain cases, Parliament authorizes the Federal Council in advance to sign the treaty and bring it into force as well; (b) Some treaties require prior approval of the Parliament to be enforceable; (c) In some cases, the treaty is subjected to optional referendum provided under Article 89 (3) of the Constitution; (d) In some cases, the international agreement needs sanction through compulsory referendum in terms of Article 89 (5) of the Constitution44.