It is made clear that we have not dealt with the validity of appointment made of the President of State Commission, Maharashtra State; ix. No s as to costs.” 2.7 The impugned common and passed by the C High Court is the subject matter of present appeals. 3. Shri R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General for India has submitted that after the matters were heard by this Court on 17.11.2022 and 18.11.2022, where this Court was of the prima facie view that Rule 6(9), which deals with the procedure of appointment, left too much D discretion in the hands of the selection committee, and that there ought to have been some objective criteria on the basis of which the fitness and suitability of candidates be tested, such as a written examination. It is pointed out that based on the observations that fell from this Court on the previous dates of hearing, the matter was considered by the Government and pursuant thereto, a meeting was called between the E Union of India and all the State governments to consider the desirability and feasibility of conducting a written examination for appointment to the State and District Commissions, or in the alternate, to consider as to whether rules or guidelines can be made which would reduce the discretion available to the Search-cum-Selection Committees while F carrying out appointments. It is submitted that in the course of discussions between the States, it was observed that most states were not in favour of conducting written tests. It is submitted that based on the discussion in the said meeting, it was observed that a written examination for appointments of members of tribunals as a uniform policy would be neither feasible nor desirable, due to, inter alia, the following reasons: G (i) The number of vacancies to tribunals per year is very low, and in some tribunals only in single digits. It would not be economically or practically feasible to conduct an examination for five or six posts., H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 303 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] (ii) Most tribunals require appointment of members with A expertise in varied relevant fields, such as consumer affairs, economics, law, securities, finance, telecom, electricity, and so on. A single written examination with a common syllabus would not be possible and one may have to conduct a different examination for each different area of expertise, B which would make the whole process arbitrary and unwieldy. (iii) Competent, eminent, and successful persons aged over thirty five or forty or even fifty may not be willing to write a written examination and then have their marks published openly, which would dissuade a large number of people who C may be desirable from applying. (iv) Persons with experience of fifteen or twenty years may no longer have the requisite examination giving skills, and a written examination may unduly favour academics or researchers as opposed to people who are in the field D practically or in a corporate environment or in some other non academic field.