(3) A bench consisting of not less than three Members of the F Lokayukta shall consider every report received under sub-section (2) from the Inquiry Wing or any agency and after giving an opportunity of being heard to the public servant, decide as to whether there exists a prima facie case, and make recommendations to proceed with one or more of the following G actions, namely: — (a) investigation by any agency (including any special investigation agency); H 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (b) initiation of the departmental proceedings or any other appropriate action against the concerned public servant by the competent authority; (c) closure of the proceedings against the public servant and take action to proceed against the complainant under section B 46. (4) The promotion and other service benefits of a public servant mentioned in clauses (e) to (h) of sub-section (1) of section 14 shall not be affected until the public servant is put under suspension on recommendation of the Lokayukta under section 32 or charge C sheet is filed after completion of investigation under clause (a) of sub-section (3) or a charge memo is issued against the said public servant in a disciplinary proceeding initiated on the recommendation of the Lokayukta under clause (b) of sub-section (3). (5) Every preliminary inquiry referred to in sub-section (1) shall ordinarily be completed within a period of ninety days and for D reasons to be recorded in writing, within a further period of ninety days from the date of receipt of the complaint. (6) In case the Lokayukta decides to proceed to investigate into the complaint, it shall, by in writing, direct any investigating agency (including any special agency) to carry out the investigation E as expeditiously as possible and complete the investigation within a period of six months from the date of its : Provided that the Lokayukta, for the reasons to be recorded in writing, may extend the said period by a further period not exceeding six months at a time and for the maximum period of two years. F (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 173 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, any investigating agency (including any special agency) shall, in respect of cases referred to it by the Lokayukta, submit the investigation report to the Lokayukta. G (8) A bench consisting of not less than three Members of the Lokayukta shall consider every report received by it under sub-section (7) from any investigating agency (including any special agency) and may, decide as to— (a) filing of charge-sheet or closure report before the Special H Court against the public servant; OFFICE OF THE ODISHA LOKAYUKTA v. DR. PRADEEP 571 KUMAR PANIGRAHI [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] (b) initiating the departmental proceedings or any other A appropriate action against the concerned public servant by the competent authority. (9) The Lokayukta may, after taking a decision under sub-section (8) on the filing of the charge sheet, direct its Prosecution Wing to initiate prosecution in a Special Court in respect of cases B investigated by any investigating agency (including any special agency).