The nature of the ceremony may vary depending upon the circumstances of each case. But a ceremony there shall be, and giving and taking shall be part of it. The exigencies of the situation arising out of diverse circumstances necessitated the introduction of the doctrine of delegation; and, therefore, the parents, after exercising their volition to give and take the boy in adoption, may both or either of them delegate the physical act of handing over the boy or receiving him, as the case may be, to a third party.’ 44. In M. Vanaja vs. M. Sarla Devi (Dead)22, this Court took note of the relevant provisions of the Act of 1956 and held that a plain reading of the said provisions made it clear that compliance with the conditions in 20 (1998) 8 SCC 701 21 AIR 1961 SC 1378 22 (2020) 5 SCC 307 MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 667 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] Chapter 1 of the Act of 1956 is mandatory for an adoption to be treated as valid and that the two important conditions mentioned in Sections 7 and 11 of the Act of 1956 are the consent of the wife before a male Hindu adopts a child and the proof of the ceremony of actual giving and taking in adoption. 45. In Dhanno wd/o Balbir Singh vs. Tuhi Ram (Died) represented by his LRs.23, a learned Judge of the Punjab & Haryana High Court, faced with the argument that Section 16 of the Act of 1956 required a registered adoption deed to be believed, held that the presumption thereunder, if any, is rebuttable and by merely placing the document on record without proving the ceremony of due adoption, it could not be said that there was a valid adoption. The learned Judge rightly noted that the factum of adoption must be proved in the same way as any other fact and such evidence in support of the adoption must be suffi cient to satisfy the heavy burden that rests upon any person who seeks to displace the natural succession by alleging an adoption. 46. Viewed in the backdrop of the above legal principles, as Ex. A9 Adoption Deed was registered, the presumption under Section 16 of the Act of 1956 attached to it and it was for Kaliprasad to rebut that presumption. We fi nd that he did so more than suffi ciently. Mere registration of Ex. A9 Adoption Deed did not absolve the person asserting such adoption from proving that fact by cogent evidence and the person contesting it from adducing evidence to the contrary. It is in this respect that various suspicious circumstances attached to the adoption ceremony of 18.04.1982 assume signifi cance. It is an admitted fact that Venkubayamma was residing ordinarily at Srikakulam, which is at a distance (98 miles/150 kms) from Berhampur. While so, PW 2, himself, stated that she did not invite any of her relations from Srikakulam to attend the adoption ceremony at Berhampur.