D v) Another penetrating injury on left side of abdomen, horizontally placed, located at 4.5 cms left to umbilicus and 21 cms below left nipple, size 9 cms x 3.5 cms x cavity deep. vi) One incised wound on sternum, .5 cms right to injury No.1, E size 0.3 cms x 0.2 cms x skin deep. vii) Another incised wound on abdomen 10 cms below injury No.4, size 1.6 cms x .8 cms x skin deep. viii) Another incised wound on abdomen 2.4 cms medial to injury 0.3, size 0.7 cms x 0.4 cms x skin deep. F 68. A glance at those injuries would reflect that five of them were perforating or penetrating wounds cavity deep. Out of those, two were on chest and three on abdomen. Such injuries are clearly homicidal therefore, masking this homicidal event as a suicide does not appeal to logic. Further, the injuries are not of same dimension. In these G circumstances, a question would arise as to why would Neeraj who has no proven connection with the deceased or the co-accused Santosh, or for that matter the apartment where the dead body was found, make a futile effort to mask the event of murder and thereby leave a trace of his own culpability. To answer that, the prosecution has led no admissible H 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A evidence. Thus, even if we assume that a suicide letter was found, at what stage it was written — prior to, or post the murder, or in connection with some other event which the deceased contemplated — is anybody’s guess. 69. In light of the discussion above, taking into account that Neeraj B has denied the incriminating circumstance of writing the suicide letter and no internal or external evidence, save the expert report, supports the writing of suicide letter by Neeraj, we are of the considered view that though the expert evidence was admissible as an opinion on the writing in the suicide letter but, on overall assessment of the evidence led by the prosecution, solely on its basis, it would be extremely unsafe to hold that C the suicide letter retrieved from the trouser of the deceased was written by Neeraj. Circumstance (e) — Re: The two accused were not traceable from 12.09.2000 till 23.09.2000 70. The fact that the two accused could be apprehended on D 23.09.2000 when they had appeared to surrender in connection with the case is proved by the police witnesses and there is no good reason to doubt their testimony. Moreover, the accused neither led evidence nor tendered explanation in respect of any other date or time or place of their arrest or surrender. In his statement, under Section 313 of the Code, E Santosh had disclosed that he was informed about some occurrence in Delhi, therefore, to ascertain the same, he came to Delhi. Insofar as Neeraj is concerned, the circumstance that he was arrested on 23.09.2000 has not even been put to him while recording his statement under Section 313 of the Code.