Its indirect application is also impermissible. In this context, the decision of this Court in Hatti Singh’s case (supra) also has relevance. In that case it was held that unless the time gap between the deceased having been seen lastly in the company of the accused persons and the murder, is proximate it would be diffi cult to prove the guilt of the accused only on that basis. Furthermore, it was held that the last seen theory would come into play where the time gap between the point of time when the accused and the deceased were last seen alive and the deceased was found dead is so small that a possibility of any person other than the accused being the author of the crime would become impossible. Above all, it was held that even in such a case Court should look for some corroboration. The same view was reiterated by this Court in the decision in Chattar Singh & Anr. v. State of Haryana6. 22. We will now refer to the other circumstances relied on by the Courts, virtually, to presume the presence of the deceased and accused at the same point of time in the fodder room near Katvawala passage in 6 AIR 2009 SC 378/ (2008) 14 SCC 667 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the evening of 25.06.1999. We may hasten to add that the High Court had not discussed the correctness or otherwise of the said presumption drawn by the trial Court and even without such an exercise, relied on the other circumstances to confi rm the conviction. Firstly, the trial Court relied on the oral testimony of PW-10. PW-10 Mukesh deposed that he was a friend of deceased Devinder and that on 25.06.1999 at about 2.00 pm when he along with Devinder and one Sarwan were indulged in gossiping at the house(ghar) of Sukhbir Singh (father of Devinder), Devinder divulged his love aff air with Poonam and also about her promise to meet him in the evening on that day at the fodder room near Katvawala passage. He also deposed that at about 08.30 pm when he was returning home from fi eld in his tractor, he saw both the appellants viz., Joginder Singh and Krishan Kumar going towards the fodder room. We may hasten to note here that a scanning of the deposition of PW-10 would, however, reveal that after confronting him with Ext.DD (his previous statement) contradictions/omissions that militate against the core of the prosecution case were brought out. As relates the place towards which the appellants were seen going at about 08.30 pm on 25.06.1999 he stated during chief-examination that while returning from the fi eld by about 08.30 pm he saw the appellants going towards the fodder room near to Katvawala passage. However, while being confronted with Ext.DD during his cross-examination it was brought out that the location of his seeing the appellants at about 08.30 pm on 25.06.1999 as ‘fodder room near to Katvawala passage’ was not stated to the police.