70. The vociferous submission on the part of the learned counsel appearing for the respondent, that this Court while considering an application under Section 11(6) of the Act 1996 for the appointment of arbitrator should not test the validity or reasonableness of the conditions stipulated in the LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 985 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] arbitration clause on the touchstone or anvil of Article 14 of the Constitution, is without any merit or substance. 71. It would be too much for the respondent to say that it is only the writ court in a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution that can consider whether a particular condition in the arbitration clause is arbitrary. 72. It is not for the fi rst time that this Court is looking into the arbitration clause falling foul of Article 14 of the Constitution while deciding Section 11(6) application. 73. In the case of TRF Limited v. Energo Engineering Projects Limited reported in (2017) 8 SCC 377, this Court observed as under: - “In this batch of appeals, by special leave, the seminal issues that emanate for consideration are; whether the High Court [TRF Ltd. v. Energo Engg. Projects Ltd., 2016 SCC OnLine Del 2532] , while dealing with the applications under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (for brevity, “the Act”), is justifi ed to repel the submissions of the appellants that once the person who was required to arbitrate upon the disputes arisen under the terms and conditions of the contract becomes ineligible by operation of law, he would not be eligible to nominate a person as an arbitrator, and second, a plea that pertains to statutory disqualifi cation of the nominated arbitrator can be raised before the court in application preferred under Section 11(6) of the Act, for such an application is not incompetent. For the sake of clarity, convenience and apposite appreciation, we shall state the facts from Civil Appeal No. 5306 of 2017.” xxx xxx xxx 54. In such a context, the fulcrum of the controversy would be, can an ineligible arbitrator, like the Managing Director, nominate an arbitrator, who may be otherwise eligible and a respectable person. As stated earlier, we are neither concerned with the objectivity nor the individual respectability. We are only concerned with the authority or the power of the Managing Director. By our analysis, we are obligated to arrive at the conclusion that once the arbitrator has become ineligible by operation of law, he cannot nominate another as an arbitrator. The arbitrator becomes ineligible as per prescription 986 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. contained in Section 12(5) of the Act. It is inconceivable in law that person who is statutorily ineligible can nominate a person. Needless to say, once the infrastructure collapses, the superstructure is bound to collapse. One cannot have a building without the plinth. Or to put it diff erently, once the identity of the Managing Director as the sole arbitrator is lost, the power to nominate someone else as an arbitrator is obliterated.