Put to notice, it was inter alia argued on behalf of the appellant before the Assessing Authority that the Haryana Tax Tribunal (hereafter ‘the Tribunal’, for short), constituted D under section 57 of the VAT Act, by its dated 21st November, 2001 had the occasion to dismiss a petition filed by the department seeking review of an earlier dated 22nd March, 2000. The Assessing Authority extracted the relevant part of the 21st November, 2001 of the Tribunal passed on the review petition in its dated 28th March, E 2008, reading as follows: “The only limited question to be addressed is whether the ratio of the of the Hon’ble Apex Court delivered in the above mentioned case of M/s Sonic Electrochem and others is applicable in the present case? This of the Hon’ble Supreme Court F is clearly distinguishable from the facts of the present case as the said was delivered in special circumstances were there was specific an entry 129 dealing with mosquito repellants and hence the Court held that would be covered under entry 129. However, there is no such corresponding entry in the Haryana General Sales Tax Act and therefore the issue would be whether G mosquito repellant would fall within the entry dealing with insecticide etc. or not? The Hon’ble Madras High Court, the Tribunal in the case of Transelektra Domestic Products Pvt. Ltd., and others vs. Commercial Tax Officer, Porur Assessment Circle Madras and others has clearly held that mosquito repellants H 886 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A containing 4% Alethrin’ was an insecticide and relying on the of the Hon’ble Madras High Court, the Tribunal in the case of M/s Balsara Hygiene Products Ltd. Kundli (Sonepat) vs State of Haryana has also held that Mosquito Repellants is an insecticide and hence liable to concessional rate of tax. The same view has been taken by the Hon’ble Tribunal in the impugned B and I do not find any infirmity in this . It has not been contested that Jet Mats does contain ‘Allethrin’ which is an insecticide. Hence, in these circumstances, the present review petition is dismissed.” Being bound by the decision of the Tribunal, the Assessing Authority C formed an opinion and returned a finding that he had no other alternative but to vacate the notice issued by him proposing to levy tax @ 10% instead of 4% and proceeded to do so. 21. Appearing in support of the appeal, Mr. V. Lakshmikumaran, learned counsel, contended that the Assessing Authority having passed D the dated 28th March, 2008 taking into consideration the decision of the Tribunal, which in turn distinguished the decision in Sonic Electrochem (supra), and such decision having attained finality, the Revisional Authority could not have assumed a jurisdiction to suo motu issue the impugned show-cause notices as well as the final revisional E s under section 34 of the VAT Act holding that mosquito repellent mats being unscheduled goods, are taxable at the general rate of tax. According to him, the Revisional Authority was as much bound by the of the Tribunal as the Assessing Authority was having regard to the similarity of issues involved and it was not open to such authority to take a view different from the one expressed by the Tribunal.