…Where criminal proceedings are initiated based on illicit material collected on search and arrest which are per B se illegal and vitiate not only a conviction and sentence based on such material but also the trial itself, the proceedings cannot be allowed to go on as it cannot but amount to abuse of the process of the court; in such a case not quashing the proceedings would perpetuate abuse of the process of the C court resulting in great hardship and injustice to the accused. In our opinion, exercise of power under section 482 Cr.P.C. to quash proceedings in a case like the one on hand, would indeed secure the ends of justice.” 18. It is seen from the above averment of Devasagayam, that he D was virtually pleading the case of the accused and seeking de novo investigation. But alas, Devasagayam was not the only one to be blamed. He had a silent partner in the prosecution which we shall see now. If Devasagayam leapfrogged several miles to protect the actual culprits, the High Court seems to have gone one step further by ing de novo investigation on a point not canvassed in the E petition filed by Devasagayam. In fact, in the main paragraph 21 of the impugned of the High Court dated 31.10.2022, the High Court has discussed elaborately the contentions advanced on behalf of Devasagayam in support of his plea for de novo investigation. These contentions were in sync with the averments contained in his petition in F Criminal O.P. No.15122 of 2021. 19. Though the original petition and the arguments recorded in paragraph 21 of the impugned do not reflect one particular ground, the operative portion of the impugned allows de novo investigation on a ground not raised in the petition. In paragraph 55 of the impugned G , it was recorded by the High Court that as per the affidavit filed by the Investigating Officer, the investigating agency had seized the register used for entering interview marks and sent the same to the Forensic Department for analysis to find out the manipulations and that the Final Report under Section 173(8) of the Code was filed even before the receipt of the report of the Forensic Department. It is on this contention H 1054 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A that the High Court thought fit to de novo investigation not only in the case in which Devasagayam sought de novo investigation but also in all the criminal cases. What is interesting is that the directing de novo investigation in all the three cases, has actually inured to the benefit of the accused, but the High Court put it on the ground that the credibility of the investigation should not be eroded. In fact, B the accused did not seek de novo investigation on the ground of slackness on the part of the Investigating Officer, but it was Devasagayam who sought it, with the able assistance of the Investigating Officer. 20. The fact that Devasagayam’s petition was intended to help C the accused is also borne out by one more fact.