That only a limited number of OCIs take the exam and out of them only a minuscule number clear the same and become eligible E for admission. Hence no grave prejudice was being caused if the OCIs were allowed to seek admission to all seats based on merit and withdrawal of the same is therefore arbitrary and unreasonable. 9. The summary of the contention on behalf of the respondents as F put forth by the learned Additional Solicitor General is as follows; The present case essentially raises a singular issue with regard to the classification made between Indian citizens and Overseas Citizens of India cardholders and the same being statutory, whether it is sustainable. It is contended that the classification made by the impugned notification G is supported by statutory provisions which legitimizes the State’s interest and ensures that the limited number of seats in educational institutions are available to Indian citizens and not taken away by foreigners. It is contended that for any sovereign country, the rights and privileges that are extended to the non-citizens are in exercise of inviolable sovereign powers and are essentially unfettered and unqualified. The courts have H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 259 ORS. consistently declined to interfere in visa, immigration or such issues relating A to foreigners. The power of exclusion of foreigners being an incident of sovereignty is that of the Government to be exercised. The OCI regime is a privilege extended by the Parliament and the Executive, falling squarely in the domain of the sovereign policy of the country. The Citizenship is regulated in Part II (Articles 5 to 11) of the Constitution of B India pursuant to which the Citizenship Act is enacted to regulate the same. Section 2(ee) of the Citizenship Act defines OCI cardholders to mean a person registered as an Overseas Citizens of India cardholder by the Central Government under Section 7A of the Act. The learned Additional Solicitor General on referring to the said constitutional provisions and the Citizenship Act would point out that the privilege of securing C education in India was pursuant to the conferment of the same in terms of Section 7(B) of the Act by the issue of notification. 10. The Notification dated 04.03.2021 which is impugned in these petitions is issued by the Ministry in continuation of the policy of the Union of India in conformity with the constitutional principles. With D reference to the Notification, it is contended that it is very evident and clear that the intention was not to give the OCI cardholders parity with Indian citizens at any stage with regard to admission but the parity was always with NRIs. The policy was consistent from 2004 when the OCI cardholders’ mechanism was started, to treat them at par with the NRIs. E However, there was some dichotomy in the interpretation of the earlier Notifications and the benefit which was available to the NRIs for the seats along with Indian citizen students was also being extended.