The claim was accepted G against the offending vehicle. However, the vehicle being not insured, the award was passed only against the owner of the vehicle, which remained unexecuted. An affidavit dated 01.05.2023 has been filed in this Court stating that the award could not be executed till date. No claim was made against the respondents. After the aforesaid award H 98 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A was passed by the Tribunal, as advised, the appellants filed a claim petition before the Commissioner on 02.08.2004. The same was rejected on account of delay as well as on merits. The delay in filing the application before the Commissioner was not deliberate. Infact, the family of the deceased was left high and dry after the death of a young bread earner in the family. The High Court should have exercised jurisdiction vested B in it to condone the delay and grant relief to the appellants. The deceased was working with the respondent no.1 on a monthly salary of 2000/- .The compensation which the appellants would be entitled to has to be calculated in terms of the formula laid down under the 1923 Act. 5. No one has appeared for respondent no.1/ the employer despite C service. 6. The learned counsel for the Insurance Company submitted that it is a case in which there was no relationship of employer and employee between the deceased and the respondent no.1. They were both related to each other. It was even admitted by the claimant that no record was D produced to show his employment. It was only created to claim compensation. 7. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record/ relevant documents. E 8. From the facts on record, it is evident that Machindra Ananda Jagtap died in a road accident on 17.08.1993.Immediately thereafter, his legal heirs filed a claim petition under Section 166 of the 1988 Act before the MACT, Hukkeri in 1993 bearing MACP No. 1458 of 1993. Same was adjudicated upon by the Tribunal vide Award dated 7.3.2003 awarded compensation of 81,600/- was assessed to be payable to the appellants. F The award of the Tribunal attained finality as nothing was pointed out at the time of hearing that it was challenged any further. Thereafter, the appellants filed application before the Commissioner seeking compensation under the provisions of the 1923 Act. However, a perusal of the passed by the Commissioner shows that the claim petition G was dismissed as the appellants had exercised the option for claiming the compensation under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 and hence they could not claim benefit under the 1923 Act. However, the fact remains that the aforesaid findings recorded by the Commissioner were set aside by the High Court and the application was held to be maintainable against which no appeal has been filed by the aggrieved party. The Commissioner H SHANTABAI ANANDA JAGTAP & ANR. v. JAYRAM GANPATI 99 JAGTAP & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] had dismissed the application on the ground of delay also.