17. Again in Dr. Dhruvaram Murlidhar Sonar Vs. State of Maharashtra and others (supra), this Court interpreting the Section 90 and the Clause – Secondly in Section 375 of IPC, observed as under: - B “23. Thus, there is a clear distinction between rape and consensual sex. The court, in such cases, must very carefully examine whether the complainant had actually wanted to marry the victim or had mala fide motives and had made a false promise to this effect only to satisfy his lust, as the latter falls within the ambit of cheating or deception. There is also a distinction between mere breach of C a promise and not fulfilling a false promise. If the accused has not made the promise with the sole intention to seduce the prosecutrix to indulge in sexual acts, such an act would not amount to rape. There may be a case where the prosecutrix agrees to have sexual intercourse on account of her love and passion for the accused D and not solely on account of the misconception created by accused, or where an accused, on account of circumstances which he could not have foreseen or which were beyond his control, was unable to marry her despite having every intention to do. Such cases must be treated differently. If the complainant had any mala fide intention and if he had clandestine motives, it is a clear case of E rape. The acknowledged consensual physical relationship between the parties would not constitute an offence under Section 376 IPC.” 18. Now, in the instant case, having regard to the statutory provisions and their interpretations by this Court in various judgements, one may be F tempted to hold the appellant-accused guilty of the offence under Section 376 IPC as has been done by the Sessions Court and the High Court, however, on the closer scrutiny of the evidence on record, we find that it was fallacy on the part of the courts below to hold the appellant guilty under Section 376 IPC. G 19. After duly examining the record in the light of the submissions made by the learned counsels for the parties, following facts have emerged: - (i) Prosecutrix was a married woman having three children. (ii) Accused was staying in a tenanted premises situated in front of the house of the prosecutrix. H NAIM AHAMED v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 1075 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (iii) Though initially hesitant, the prosecutrix developed liking A for the accused, and both started having sexual relationship with each other. (iv) The prosecutrix delivered a male child on 28/10/2011 from the loin of the accused. (v) The prosecutrix went to the native place of the accused in B 2012 and came to know that he was a married man having children. (vi) The prosecutrix still continued to live with the accused in separate premises. (vii) The prosecutrix and her husband took divorce by mutual C consent in 2014 and thereafter prosecutrix permanently left her three children with her husband.