496 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 8E PSO.CR.RT.S 496 [2023] 8 S.C.R. A ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. (Criminal Appeal No. 889 of 2007) B MARCH 24, 2023 [M. R. SHAH, C. T. RAVIKUMAR AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 – ss.10(a)(i), 3 and 4 – s.10(a)(i) provides that where an association is declared unlawful C by a notification issued u/s.3 which has become effective under sub-section 3 of that Section, a person who is and continues to be a member of such association shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2 years and shall also be liable to fine – Whether “active membership” is required to be proven over D and above the membership of a banned organization under the UAPA, 1967 – Held: The object and purpose of the enactment of UAPA is to provide for more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities – s.10(a)(i) can be said to be absolutely in consonance with Arts. 19(1), (2) & (4) of the Constitution and can be said to be in furtherance of the object and purpose for which the UAPA has E been enacted – Before any organization is declared unlawful, a detailed procedure is required to be followed including wide publicity and even the right to representation before tribunal – s.10(a)(i) does not suffer from any vagueness and/or on the ground of being unreasonable and/or disproportionate – As per s.10(a)(i), a person F cannot be punished merely because he was the member of such unlawful association – If a person has been a member but does not continue to be a member after declaration, that does not attract mischief of s.10 – However, once an association is declared unlawful of whom the concerned person was the member and he wishes to continue as a member despite the fact that he is well aware of the G fact that such an association is declared unlawful it shows a conscious decision on his part and therefore he is liable to be penalized for such an act of continuation of his membership with such unlawful association – Therefore, thereafter he cannot be permitted to make grievance of chilling effect – Doctrines / H Principles – Chilling effect doctrine. 496 ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 497 Constitution of India – Arts.19(1)(c) and 19(4) – Right to A freedom of speech – Value of Foreign decisions – Whether American decisions concerning freedom of speech could be relied upon while considering the right to freedom of speech available under the Constitution of India more particularly Art.19(1)(c) and 19(4) – Held: Under the Constitution of India, the right to freedom of speech B is subject to reasonable restrictions and is not an absolute right – The Constitution permits the Parliament to frame the laws taking into consideration the public and/or the sovereignty of India – Without noticing the differences in American Laws and the Indian laws, the Supreme Court in the cases of Arup Bhuyan (two Judge Bench decision) and Raneef erred in straightway and directly C following the US Supreme Court decisions – Before following the American decisions, the Indian Courts are required to consider the difference in the nature of the laws applicable in the respective countries – / .