The division thus marks off ordinary cases from serious ones to determine the mode of trials. The procedure for the trial of summons cases is provided by Chapter XX, Cr.PC, whereas that of warrant cases are dealt with in Chapter XIX, Cr.PC, a trial before a Court of Session is provided under Chapter XVIII, Cr. PC. Indubitably, the procedures provided thereunder are diff erent and distinct. There can be no doubt that an accused, unless relieved from facing the trial in accordance with the provisions of Cr. PC, has to face the trial. 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 20. Certainly, standing the trial is said to be an ordeal. Hence, in the light of the provision under Section 300 (1), Cr. PC, we have no hesitation to hold that an accused is having a right to claim to be tried (if he were to be tried) before a Court of competent jurisdiction because acquittal or conviction by a Court lacking competence would not be a bar for a second trial. When that be the consequence of conduct of a trial before a Court lacking competence to try any particular off ence, the accused concerned while facing the trial in relation to such an off ence must have the right to raise the question of competence of the Court to try him for that off ence and once such a question is raised it must obtain a due and expeditious consideration in accordance with law. 21. In the contextual situation, it is only befi tting to have a survey through the First Schedule to Cr. PC, carrying enumeration of Courts by which diff erent off ences can be tried. Such a survey would enable the Court to identify the Court of competence in the hierarchy of Courts empowered to try a particular off ence where imprisonment for life or imprisonment for 10 years and fi ne is prescribed as is imposable on off ender(s). Such a survey would reveal that barring very few off ences including Section 409, IPC, in all cases, where the off ence concerned is punishable with imprisonment for life or imprisonment for 10 years and fi ne the First Schedule to Cr. PC provides the Court competent to try such off ences as “Court of Session”. It is apposite to state that though such exceptions are exponible we could not fi nd explicans anywhere. 22. Be that as it may, for an easy reference, we will refer to the outcome of such survey in the following tabulated form: - Off ences Sentence awardable on conviction Triable in terms of punishable the First Schedule under IPC of Cr. PC Section 121 Punishable with death or imprisonment for By Court of Session life and fi ne. Section 121A Imprisonment for life or imprisonment for By Court of Session 10 years and fi ne. Section 122 Imprisonment for life or imprisonment for By Court of Session 10 years and fi ne AMANDEEP SINGH SARAN v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 449 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.]