The High Court opined that if PW-2 was aware of the last seen circumstance and F had made such a disclosure, there was no reason for the police not to act against the accused till 25.12.1998. Therefore, the statement of PW- 2 in respect of imparting knowledge of the last seen circumstance appeared doubtful and it appeared that the witness was set up to create link evidence. The High Court also noticed that the alleged date and time when the deceased was last seen alive was at quite a distance G from the date and time when the deceased was found dead. Indisputably the deceased was found dead in his own house where the accused did not reside. The deceased was allegedly last seen alive in the company of the accused in the evening at around 7 pm of 10.12.1998 whereas the body of the deceased was found 2 days later, on 12.12.1998. Autopsy H 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A report, based on autopsy conducted at around 4.15 pm on 12.12.1998, noted occurance of rigor mortis in the lower limbs, which gives rise to a possibility of death being within 30 hours of the autopsy, meaning thereby that death might have occurred much after 7 pm of 10.12.1998. In such circumstances, bearing in mind that the deceased was found dead in his own house, where the accused did not reside, and there was no evidence B as to when the accused left the house and that no one else could have entered the house in the interregnum, other intervening circumstances including hand of some third person in the crime was not ruled out by the prosecution evidence. For the reasons above, we are of the considered view that the High Court was justified in doubting the testimony of PW- C 2 and finding the last seen circumstance inconclusive in pointing towards the guilt of the accused by excluding other hypotheses consistent with his innocence. 19. As regards recovery of the Khanjar (knife) is concerned, the same was denied by the accused and there was no serologist report to D connect it with the crime. Therefore, it had very little incriminating value to sustain conviction on its own basis. Moreover, the High Court, on strength of the circumstances appearing in the evidence, doubted the date of arrest and, upon consideration of the circumstances, accepted the possibility of the arrest of the accused being much earlier in point of E time, as claimed by the accused, than what was set up by the prosecution. In such circumstances, the recovery, which was made on 25.12.1998, allegedly on disclosure made by the accused on 25.12.1998, becomes doubtful. The view of the High Court in this regard cannot be termed perverse as to warrant interference by this Court. F 20. Insofar as the evidence of extra judicial confession made by the accused is concerned, the same was provided by PW-3, a member of the Panchayat wherein the deceased resided. Ordinarily a person makes a confession either to absolve oneself of the burden of guilt or to seek protection under the hope that the person to whom confession is made would protect him.