20. The explanation in the present case could have been invoked only if the plaintiff , after adducing his evidence or substantial evidence, failed to appear, the Court could have recorded his presence while 148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. disposing of the suit. But once the defendant had not led any evidence at all, the explanation could not be invoked as against the defendant/appellant. The High Court committed an error in applying the explanation to XVII Rule 2 CPC and based upon it holding that an application under IX Rule 13 CPC would not be maintainable as the presence of the defendant would be deemed to be recorded at the time of disposal of the suit. 21. As a matter of fact, once the counsel had withdrawn his Vakalatnama, in normal course, the Trial Court ought to have issued notice to the defendants to engage another counsel, which it did not do and proceeded ex parte. The Trial Court committed an error in doing so. Further, the Trial Court, in its wisdom and discretion having allowed the application under IX Rule 13 CPC, the High Court ought to have refrained itself from interfering with an which advanced the cause of justice by aff ording opportunities to both the parties so that the suit could be decided on merits. 22. For all the reasons recorded above, we are unable to uphold the impugned of the High Court. The appeal is allowed. The impugned of the High Court is set aside. The Trial Court will proceed to decide the Special Civil Suit on its own merits, after giving due opportunities to the parties and strictly proceed in accordance with law. 23. Once the ex parte decree has been set aside, the amount of 50% deposited by the appellant needs to be suitably accounted for. It is true that under IX Rule 13 CPC, the Court,while allowing the application, could impose such terms and conditions as it deems fi t and this being a money decree, the Trial Court could have required the appellant to deposit some amount. The appellant is one of the fi ve Directors of the defendant no.1. Although the relief claimed was for joint and several liability of each of the Directors, in our view the deposit of 50% at the hands of appellant above would be too excessive. We accordingly provide that the amount deposited by the appellant under the of this Court, which is lying in the Trial Court, may be adjusted as follows: (i) 20% of the suit claim, along with interest accrued thereon, may be retained by the Trial Court and may continue to deposit the same in the Fixed Deposit initially for a period of six months, Y. P. LELE v. MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY 149 DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] renewable on an automatic basis, till further s are passed in that regard, depending upon the outcome of the suit; (ii). Whereas 30%, along with accrued interest thereon, may be returned to the appellant within four weeks of the date of fi ling of this before the Trial Court along with an application for return of amount as directed above.