By no logic and by no measure of assessment, the appellant, who is found to have carried all the aforesaid misdeeds, could be said to be a person of unsound mind. 27. Thus, we are clearly of the view that the appellant was neither suffering from any medically determined mental illness nor could be said F to be a person under a legal disability of unsound mind. Hence, neither Section 84 IPC applies to the present case nor Section 329 CrPC would come to the rescue of the appellant. 28. The suggestions about treatment of the appellant for his abnormal behaviour in jail also does not take his case any further. As G noticed, there is nothing on record to find that the appellant was a person of unsound mind at the time of commission of crime or was a person of unsound mind when tried in this case. Post-conviction behaviour is hardly of any relevance so far as present appeal is concerned. In fact, his post- conviction abnormalities, as dealt with in year 2013 i.e., nearly two years after the impugned of the Trial Court, cannot even remotely be H 860 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A correlated with the relevant questions arising for the purpose of present appeal. Even in that regard, the report of the Medical Officer (I/C) Central Jail No. 5, Tihar New Delhi dated 22.07.2013 states that the appellant was admitted to psychiatry ward from 07.01.2013 to 04.03.2013 for complaints of abnormal behaviour but, he improved following treatment and at time of issuance of certificate, his general condition was B satisfactory; and his mental status examination did not reveal any gross psychopathology. 29. Hence, viewed from any angle, the contention urged on behalf of appellant, as to be given the benefit of the provisions meant for a person of unsound mind, cannot be accepted. The said provisions do not C enure to the benefit of the appellant from any standpoint. 30. We may in the passing also observe that in the given set of facts and circumstances, even when the appellant was shown to be a person taken to excessive consumption of alcohol, there is nothing on record to show if he did the offending acts in a state of intoxication so as D to give rise to a doubt about intention with reference to the principles underlying Section 86 IPC. We need not elaborate on this aspect for the same having not been projected in evidence at all. In other words, the present one is not a case where intent could be ruled out so as to reduce the offence of murder to that of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The suggestions about altering the conviction to Section 304 E IPC are also required to be rejected. Conclusion 31. For what has been discussed hereinabove, we are satisfied that there is no infirmity in the findings concurrently recorded by the Trial Court and the High Court that the prosecution case is amply F established by cogent and convincing chain of circumstances, pointing only to the guilt of the appellant, who caused the death of victim children, his sons, by strangulation and also caused the evidence of offence to disappear by throwing the dead bodies into the canal.