(D) No. 1127, on the ground of cruel and brutal nature of the offence, be considered erroneous and needs to be interfered with by this Court. D SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT-STATE: 9. Learned counsel for the sole Respondent-State opposing the prayers forcefully urged that the act(s) committed by the Appellant was cruel and brutal as young children were administered poison and put to E death and rightly, the premature release of the Appellant had been refused by the State. On merits, it was submitted that both the Trial Court and the High Court had carefully considered all aspects of the matter, and not finding any merit, the High Court had upheld the conviction under Section 302 of the IPC. F ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 10. Having considered the matter in detail, this Court finds that the circumstances in which the Appellant is said to have administered poison to her two sons is clearly reflective of her being under a state of tremendous mental stress. However, despite the best efforts of learned G senior counsel for the Appellant, it is difficult to grant the benefit of bringing the case under the ambit ofpable homicide not amounting to murder. 11. It would be useful to reproduce Sections 299, 300, 302 and 304 of the IPC, which read as under, be- fore proceeding further: H NAGARATHINAM v. STATE THROUGH THE INSPECTOR OF 1129 POLICE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] “299. Culpable homicide- Whoever causes death by doing an A act with the intention of causing death, or with the intention of caus- ing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or with the knowledge that he is likely by such act to cause death, commits the of- fence of culpable homicide. Illustrations B (a) A lays sticks and turf over a pit, with the intention of thereby causing death, or with the knowledge that death is likely to be thereby caused. Z believing the ground to be firm, treads on it, falls in and is killed. A has committed the offence of culpable hom- icide. C (b) A knows Z to be behind a bush. B does not know it. A, intending to cause, or knowing it to be likely to cause Z’s death induces B to fire at the bush. B fires and kills Z. Here B may be guilty of no offence; but A has com- mitted the offence of culpable homicide. D (c) A, by shooting at a fowl with intent to kill and steal it, kills B, who is behind a bush; A not knowing that he was there. Here, although A was doing an unlawful act, he was not guilty of culpable homicide, as he did not intend to kill B, or to cause death by doing an act that he knew was likely to E cause death. Explanation 1.—A person who causes bodily injury, to another who is labouring under a dis, disease or bodily infirmity, and thereby accelerates the death of that other, shall be deemed to have caused his death.