Appointment either to a civil post or in the civil services of the Union or the State, is one of a status. It is not an employment governed strictly by a F contract of service or solely by labour welfare legislations, but by statute or statutory rules issued under Article 309 or its proviso. In fact, the history of civil service in India is more than a century old and there were Rules in force, such as the Fundamental Rules and the Supplementary Rules (FRSR) issued way back in the year 1922, with effect from 1.1.1922. Article 313 of the Constitution G declares that until other provision is made under the Constitution, all the laws in force immediately before the commencement of the Constitution and applicable to any public service or post, shall continue in force. This is why the Fundamental Rules of the year 1922 continue to apply even now, to the holders of civil posts and H SECURITY PRINTING AND MINTING CORPORATION OF 249 INDIA LTD. v. VIJAY D. KASBE those in the civil services of the Union or the State. [Paras 20- A 22][258-E-H; 259-A-B] 1.3 Unlike those employed in factories and industrial establishments, persons in public service who are holders of civil posts or in the civil services of the Union or the State are required to place themselves at the disposal of the Government all the B time. In the light of the above Rule, there was actually no scope for the respondents to seek payment of Double Over Time Allowance. No benefit can be claimed by anyone dehors the statutory rules. Unfortunately, the Central Administrative Tribunal completely lost sight of those Rules, and the distinction between C employment in a factory and employment in Government service. [Paras 24, 25][259-E, G-H; 260-A] 1.4 Persons who are not holders of civil posts nor in the civil services of the State but who are governed only by the 1948 Act, may be made to work for six days in a week with certain D limitations as to weekly hours under Section 51, weekly holidays under Section 52, daily hours under Section 54, etc. Workers covered by Factories Act do not enjoy the benefit of automatic wage revision through periodic Pay Commissions like those in Government service. Persons holding civil posts or in the civil services of the State enjoy certain privileges and hence, the claim E made by the respondents ought to have been tested by the Tribunal and the High Court, in the proper perspective to see whether it is an attempt to get the best of both the worlds. Admittedly, the State Government is conferred with the power under Section 64(1) to make exempting Rules. In exercise of F the power so conferred, the State of Maharashtra has framed Rule 100. Apparently, the post of Supervisor is included in Rule 100, as a post exempted from the application of the provisions of Chapter VI. The chart of duties indicated in the ACRs does not show that the respondents are required to perform manual labour or clerical work as a regular part of their duties.