impeccable character, integrity and clean antecedents; that mere acquittal in the criminal case did not entitle the respondent for appointment in police service; that it is always open to an employer to consider the antecedents of a candidate and examine as to whether he would be suitable for appointment and such a discretion exercised by the Competent Authority ought not to be interfered with unless the decision is arbitrary or mala fi de. Lastly, learned counsel submitted that even though a compromise was entered into between the respondent and the complainant in the criminal case3 and he was acquitted on being extended benefi t of doubt, it still lies within the domain of the employer to decide as to whether the respondent would be a suitable candidate for appointment to the post, considering the fact that the off ence for which he was charged involved moral turpitude. In support of the aforesaid submission, learned counsel has cited Commissioner of Police, New Delhi and Another v. Mehar Singh8; Avatar Singh v. Union of India and Others 9; Union Territory, Chandigarh Administration and Others v. Pradeep Kumar and Others10 and Pawan Kumar v. Union of India and Another11. 5. Per contra, Ms. Savitri Pandey, learned counsel for the respondent, submitted that the learned Single Judge of the High Court has committed an error in dismissing the writ petition2 fi led by the respondent in view of the fact that while fi lling up the verifi cation form, he had furnished all the requisite information and duly disclosed the criminal case3 in which he was involved and its fi nal outcome. Although, the respondent was acquitted of all the charges levelled against him, the learned Single Judge had dismissed the writ petition2 which was rightly overturned by the Division Bench of the High Court. Referring to the dated 26th October, 2015, passed by the learned Sessions Judge, learned counsel for the respondent described it as a case of clean acquittal and argued that the appellant No. 3 ought not to have declared the respondent unfi t for being recruited as a Constable. 6. We have heard the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties, perused the records and the relevant judgements cited before us. 8 (2013) 7 SCC 685 9 (2016 8 SCC 471 10 (2018) 1 SCC 797 11 2022 SCC Online SC 532 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS v. 445 BHUPENDRA YADAV [HIMA KOHLI, J.] The question that is required to be answered is whether the appellants have erred in rejecting the candidature of the respondent to the post of Constable, despite the latter having truthfully disclosed in his affi davit the fact that he had faced trial in a criminal case3 which had resulted in his acquittal. 7. It is not in dispute that in the verifi cation form required to be fi lled up by the respondent, he had made a disclosure of the case registered against him in the year 2015 and the fact that he had faced a trial in the said case that ended in his acquittal vide judgement dated 26th October, 2015.