If the body or authority exercises the statutory power or performs the statutory duty acting at the behest, or on the dictate, of any other body or person, then this is regarded as an abdication of the statutory mandate and any decision taken on such basis is contrary to law and liable to be quashed. It is important to keep in mind that, in law, it matters not that the extraneous element is introduced (i.e., the advice, recommendation, approval, etc. of the person not empowered by the statute is obtained or given) in good faith or for the advancement of any goal or DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 427 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] objection howsoever laudable or desirable. The rule of law requires that a statutory power vests in the body or authority where the statute so provides, and likewise, the discharge of the statutory duty is the responsibility of the body or authority to which it is entrusted. That body or authority cannot merely rubberstamp an action taken elsewhere or simply endorse or ratify the decision of someone else. 72. The concept of discretionary power and the mode of its exercise by statutory functionaries was an issue considered by this Court in Union of India v. Kuldeep Singh reported in (2004) 2 SCC 590, where in paragraphs 20, 21 and 22, it was held thus; “20. When anything is left to any person, judge or Magistrate to be done according to his discretion, the law intends it must be done with sound discretion, and according to law. (See Tomlin’s Law Dictionary). In its ordinary meaning, the word “discretion” signifi es unrestrained exercise of choice or will; freedom to act according to one’s own ; unrestrained exercise of will; the liberty or power of acting without control other than one’s own . But, when applied to public functionaries, it means a power or right conferred upon them by law, of acting offi cially in certain circumstances according to the dictates of their own and conscience, uncontrolled by the or conscience of others. Discretion is to discern between right and wrong; and therefore, whoever hath power to act at discretion, is bound by the rule of reason and law. (See Tomlin’s Law Dictionary.) 21. Discretion, in general, is the discernment of what is right and proper. It denotes knowledge and prudence, that discernment which enables a person to judge critically of what is correct and proper united with caution; nice discernment, and directed by circumspection; deliberate ; soundness of ; a science or understanding to discern between falsity and truth, between wrong and right, between shadow and substance, between equity and colourable glosses and pretences, and not to do according to the will and private aff ections of persons. When it is said that something is to be done within the discretion of the authorities, that something is to be done according to the rules of reason and justice, not according to private opinion; according to law and not humour.