Recognizing the importance of accountability as a measure of administrative law, this Court in Vijay Rajmohan v. CBI,3 held as follows: “34. Accountability in itself is an essential principle of administrative law. Judicial review of administrative action will be eff ective and meaningful by ensuring accountability of the offi cer or authority in charge. 35. The principle of accountability is considered as a cornerstone of the human rights framework. It is a crucial feature that must govern the relationship between “duty bearers” in authority and “right holders” aff ected by their actions. Accountability of institutions is also one of the development goals adopted by the United Nations in 2015 and is also recognized as one of the six principles of the Citizens Charter Movement. 36. Accountability has three essential constituent dimensions : (i) responsibility, (ii) answerability, and (iii) enforceability. Responsibility requires the identifi cation of duties and performance obligations of individuals in authority and with authorities. Answerability requires reasoned decision-making so that those aff ected by their decisions, including the public, are aware of the same. Enforceability requires appropriate corrective and remedial action against lack of responsibility and accountability to be taken. Accountability has a corrective function, making it possible to address individual or collective grievances. It enables action against offi cials or institutions for dereliction of duty. It also has a preventive function that helps to identify the procedure or policy which has become non-functional and to improve upon it.” 3 (2023) 1 SCC 329 KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 213 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] 23. In Government (NCT of Delhi) v. Union of India4 referring to the direct relationship between principles of collective responsibility and Government accountability, this Court held:- “325. There is a direct relationship between the principle of collective responsibility and Government accountability. This relationship is conceptualised in The Oxford Companion to Politics in India: Accountability can be defi ned in terms of outcomes rather than processes of Government….. It also includes the criterion of responsiveness to changes in circumstances that alter citizen needs and abilities… In other words, accountability refers to the extent to which actual policies and their implementation coincide with a normative ideal in terms of what they ought to be… In this broad sense, accountability amounts to evaluating the nature of governance itself, in outcome-oriented terms.” 24. Apart from the obligation of monitoring and reporting, the Central and State Information Commissioners are also given the power to recommend steps which the public authority ought to take in implementing the Act. Sub-Section (5) of Section 25 is in the following terms: “(5) If it appears to the Central Information Commission or State Information Commission, as the case may be, that the practice of a public authority in relation to the exercise of its functions under this Act does not conform with the provisions or spirit of this Act, it may give to the authority a recommendation specifying the steps which ought in its opinion to be taken for promoting such conformity.” 25.