Hence, the following requests to Hon’ble the Chief Justices of the High Courts are made and directions are issued to the trial courts to ensure ‘speedy justice’ is delivered. YASHPAL JAIN v. SUSHILA DEVI & OTHERS 981 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] RE: POINT NO.3 For the reasons aforestated, we proceed to pass the following 1. Civil Appeal is allowed and the dated 28.11.2019 passed in Writ Petition (M/S) No.144 of 2013 by High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital is set aside and the dated 09.05.2012 passed by the Trial Court as affi rmed in Civil Revision No.4 of 2012 dated 13.12.2012 stands affi rmed. 2. The following directions are issued: i. All courts at district and taluka levels shall ensure proper execution of the summons and in a time bound manner as prescribed under V Rule (2) of CPC and same shall be monitored by Principal District Judges and after collating the statistics they shall forward the same to be placed before the committee constituted by the High Court for its consideration and monitoring. ii. All courts at District and Taluka level shall ensure that written statement is fi led within the prescribed limit namely as prescribed under VIII Rule 1 and preferably within 30 days and to assign reasons in writing as to why the time limit is being extended beyond 30 days as indicated under proviso to sub-Rule (1) of VIII of CPC. iii. All courts at Districts and Talukas shall ensure after the pleadings are complete, the parties should be called upon to appear on the day fi xed as indicated in X and record the admissions and denials and the court shall direct the parties to the suit to opt for either mode of the settlement outside the court as specifi ed in sub-Section (1) of Section 89 and at the option of the parties shall fi x the date of appearance before such forum or authority and in the event of the parties opting to any one of the modes of settlement directions be issued to appear on the date, time and venue fi xed and the parties shall so appear before such authority/forum without any further notice at such designated place and time and it shall also be made clear in the reference 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. that trial is fi xed beyond the period of two months making it clear that in the event of ADR not being fruitful, the trial would commence on the next day so fi xed and would proceed on day- to-day basis. iv. In the event of the party’s failure to opt for ADR namely resolution of dispute as prescribed under Section 89(1) the court should frame the issues for its determination within one week preferably, in the open court. v. Fixing of the date of trial shall be in consultation with the learned advocates appearing for the parties to enable them to adjust their calendar. Once the date of trial is fi xed, the trial should proceed accordingly to the extent possible, on day-to- day basis.