the charging provision, The higher of the two fares is to be i.e. Section 3(1) and the adopted in every case. Explanation thereto, in ii. Schedule I to the Amendment and the absence of Validation Act prescribes the fare NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 47 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] defi nitions in the Act and freight for diff erent categories of of 1955. motor vehicles, for diff erent roads. iii. Section (2gc) defining the term ‘road’ has been introduced. 16.3. It is evident from the table presented hereinabove that the defects identifi ed by the Division Bench of the High Court in the dated 27 March, 1997, forming the basis for its decision to the eff ect that the provisions of the Act would not be applicable to the assessees-appellants herein, have been cured by the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997. The manner in which the defects have been cured, may be explained as follows: i. The High Court had observed that for charging tax, by invoking the Explanation to Section 3(1) of the Act of 1955, the ‘normal rate’ and ‘routes’ were required to be prescribed, but since no normal rate or routes had been prescribed, the Explanation could not come to the rescue of the respondent Authorities. This defect has been cured by introducing Section 3(1A) by way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 and omitting the Explanation to Section 3(1). Section 3(1A) seeks to bring non- fare paying passengers at par with fare paying passengers, by prescribing two alternate methods to notionally determine fares or freights, when the same has not been charged, i.e. by taking into account: (a) fares or freights fi xed by the competent authority, under the MV Act, or (b) fares and freights specifi ed in Schedule I to the Act for diff erent classes of roads and motor vehicles, the higher of the two fares has to be taken into account in every case. Further, Schedule I introduced by way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 stipulates the freights and fares which would be applicable for diff erent classes of roads and motor vehicles. Section (2gc) defi ning the term ‘road’ has also been introduced. Therefore, the vacuum identifi ed by the High Court, which was making the charging provision inoperative qua the appellants, has been removed. ii. Another reason given by the Division Bench in the dated 27 March, 1997 for holding that employees of the appellants and 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. their children were not covered by the Explanation (now deleted by way of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997) was in relation to the defi nition of ‘business’. ‘The term ‘business’ was defi ned in a narrow manner in the Act of 1955 and meant the business of carriage of passengers and goods. Therefore, when the defi nitions of the terms ‘motor vehicle’ and ‘business’ were read into the charging provision, the inference would be that those who were not in the business of carrying passengers and goods, would not be covered by the charging provision.