474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (ii) NCT of Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Lakshdweep, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar haveli Civil and Police Services (DANICS and DANIPS); (iii) Pondicherry Civil and Police Services.” 12. The submissions which were urged by the Solicitor General have been supplemented by Mr Sanjay Jain, senior counsel. Mr. Jain submitted that: a. The decision of this Court in the 2023 Constitution Bench makes it clear that the executive role of the NCTD does not extend to services related to public , police and land keeping in view that Entries 1, 2 and 18 stand excluded from the legislative power of NCTD; b. The Chief Secretary indivisibly performs functions relating to Entries 1, 2 and 18; c. Consequently, in the appointment of the Chief Secretary, as well as in the appointment of the Secretary (Home), Secretary (Land) and Commissioner of Police, the elected Government of NCTD would not have any control; d. After the insertion of Article 239AA, a proposal for the appointment of offi cers to these four posts was invariably moved by the Lieutenant Government to the Central Government in the Ministry of Home Aff airs in terms of Rule 55(2)(b) of the Transaction of Business Rules; e. In terms of Rule 56, whenever a proposal is received under Rule 55(2)(b) from the Lieutenant Governor, the Central Government would have to take the appropriate decision; and f. Section 41 of the GNCTD Act deals with matters in which the Lieutenant Governor may act in his sole discretion and even prior to the amendment, it was permissible for him to act without aid and advice in all matters falling outside the purview of the Legislative Assembly, namely Entries 1, 2 and 18 of the State List. GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 475 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 13. At this stage, it must be noted that the reference before the Constitution bench is pending and there is no stay on the operation of the amendment Act. Thus, only a prima facie view is formed on the merits of the rival submissions. 14. In its decision in 2023 Constitution Bench, this Court held that : a. The subject of ‘services’ falls within the ambit of the legislative and executive competence of NCTD under Entry 41 of the State List of the Seventh Schedule; b. However, the legislative and executive power of NCTD over Entry 41 does not extend over services related to the excluded subjects of public , police and land; c. In the absence of a law conferring upon it executive power relating to any subject in the State List, the executive power of the Union Government covers only matters relating to the three entries which are excluded from the legislative domain of NCTD; d. If Parliament enacts a law granting executive power on any subject which is within the domain of NCTD, the executive power of the Lieutenant Governor shall be modifi ed to that extent as provided in the law; e. The Lieutenant Governor is bound by the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers of NCTD in relation to matters which fall within the legislative domain of NCTD; and f. NCTD has legislative power over services excluding public , police and land.