On the enactment of the legislation, Section 5, while stipulating the conditions of a valid marriage came to provide that a marriage may be solemnized between any two Hindus if the conditions mentioned in the Section are fulfi lled, one of them being that neither party has a spouse living at the time of the marriage. 48 (1965) 2 SCR 837 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Section 17 stipulates that any marriage between two Hindus solemnized after the commencement of the Act is void if at the date of such marriage, either party has a husband or wife living. As a result, the provisions of Sections 494 and 495 of the Penal Code dealing with the off ence of bigamy are to apply. In the absence of a protective provision such as Section 16, upon the enactment of the HMA 1955, the personal law governing Hindus would be overridden to that extent by the statutory prohibition on contracting a second marriage during the subsistence of an earlier marriage. Section 4 conferred overriding force and eff ect on the provisions of the legislation. As a result of the statutory prohibition on bigamy, and the nullity of such marriages in the eyes of the law, a child born to parents in a void marriage was deprived of the legitimacy that they enjoyed under the traditional Hindu law. Noticing this consequence, Section 16 was enacted by Parliament and its ambit was widened by the Amending Act of 1976. While conferring legitimacy, Parliament was nonetheless cognizant of the consequence of the conferment of legitimacy. If legitimacy were not to be conferred, this would aff ect, on the one hand, the rights of children born from void or voidable marriages: though the relationship of the parents may not be sanctioned by law, the child born from such marriage would have been stigmatized as “illegitimate”. Parliament stepped in to obviate such a consequence by enacting Section 16. At the same time, Parliament was cognizant of the fact that protecting a child born from a void or voidable marriage from the consequence of ‘illegitimacy’ and conferring legitimacy on such a child, would have consequences on the right to property of parents and persons other than the parents. Section 16(3) represents a balancing act by the legislature when it stipulates that a child who is legitimate in terms of sub- sections (1) or (2) of Section 16 would have rights in or to the property only of the parents and not of any other person. The conferment of the status of legitimacy would, therefore, not aff ect the rights in or to the property of any other person other than the property of the parents. While enacting these provisions in the HMA 1955, Parliament was cognizant of the settled principles and concepts governing Joint Hindu families governed by Mitakshara law, the coparcenary and coparcenary property. While enacting the HSA 1956, the legislature did not intend to destroy these institutions which had an identifi ed connotation. Parliament, it is true, regulated the devolution of interest in coparcenary property and provided, among other REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR.