10. However, the contentions so raised, need not detain us for too long. Quite apart from the appeal raising the question as to whether a claim on account of loss of profi t is liable to succeed merely on the ground that there has been delay in the execution of the construction contract, attributable to the employer, the question that fi rst needs to be answered on facts and in the circumstances is whether the Second Award is in confl ict with the public policy of India (as held by the learned Single Judge, since affi rmed by the Division Bench) . 11.What would constitute “public policy of India” has been lucidly explained by this Court in ONGC Ltd. vs. Saw Pipes Ltd6: “31…, the phrase ‘public policy of India’ used in Section 34 in context is required to be given a wider meaning. It can be stated that the concept of public policy connotes some matter which concerns public good and the public interest. What is for public good or in public interest or what would be injurious or harmful to the public good or public interest has varied from time to time. However, the award which is, on the face of it, patently in violation of statutory provisions cannot be said to be in public interest. Such award//decision is likely to adversely aff ect the administration of justice.” 12. Subsequent decisions of this Court have interpreted “public policy of India” to include, among others, compliance with fundamental policy of Indian law, statutes and judicial precedents, need for judicial approach, compliance with natural justice, Wednesbury unreasonableness and patent illegality. We may refer to the decision in Associated Builders (supra) in this behalf. 13. Having read the Second Award, we have no hesitation to hold that it fares no better than the First Award, for, it is equally in confl ict with the public 6 (2003) 5 SCC 705 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. policy of India. We have noticed from the dated 20th May, 2002 of the learned Single Judge that while remitting Claim No.12 for re-consideration, the Arbitrator was warned not to be infl uenced by the factors that weighed in his mind while making the First Award. The Arbitrator was also required to proceed only on the basis of the evidence on record. Yet, regrettably, what we fi nd is that the Arbitrator went on to ignore the judicial decision of the High Court with impunity. He once again emphasized on delay caused by the respondent in completion of the works entrusted to the appellant by not providing complete site and drawings within the stipulated contract period and that non-handing over of site certainly constituted fundamental breach of contract vitiating the entire contract. He then referred to Hudson’s espousal of fundamental breach of contract which, according to him, was the standard text in all engineering and building contracts. It is, therefore, apparent that the factors which weighed in the Arbitrator’s mind in the fi rst round and the second round are one and the same.