with similar contingency in some detail. This Court held that the jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India can be invoked in favour of the party even suo moto when the Court is satisfi ed that compelling ground for its exercise exists. However, such suo moto power should be used very sparingly with caution and circumspection. The Court held that the power must be exercised in the rarest of the rare cases. 17. Accused nos. 1,5 and 13 were convicted only on the basis of the testimony of PW-25 and PW-26. They were acquitted by holding that the testimony of both witnesses was unreliable and deserved to be discarded. If the same relief is not extended to accused nos. 3 and 4 by reason of parity, it will amount to violation of fundamental rights guaranteed to accused nos. 3 and 4 by Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Therefore, we have no manner of doubt that the benefi t which is granted to accused nos. 1,5 and 13 deserves to be extended to accused nos.3 and 4, who did not challenge the of the High Court. In this case, the suo motu exercise of powers under Article 136 is warranted as it is a question of the liberty of the said two accused guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution. 18. Now, we come to the case of accused no.2. By the dated 11th May 2018, a special leave petition fi led by accused no.2 was summarily dismissed without recording any reasons. The law is well-settled. An refusing special leave to appeal by a non-speaking does not attract the doctrine of merger. At this stage, we may refer to a three-judge Bench decision of this Court in the case of Harbans Singh v. State of U.P. & Ors.4. In paragraph 18, this Court held thus: “18.To my mind, it will be a sheer travesty of justice and the course of justice will be perverted, if for the very same off ence, the petitioner has to swing and pay the extreme penalty of death whereas the death sentence imposed on his co-accused for the very same off ence is commuted to one of life imprisonment and the life of the co-accused is shared (sic spared). The case of the petitioner Harbans Singh appears, indeed, to be unfortunate, as neither in his special leave petition and the review petition in this Court nor in his mercy petition to the President of India, this all important and 4 (1982) 2 SCC 101 JAVED SHAUKAT ALI QURESHI v. STATE OF GUJARAT 233 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] signifi cant fact that the life sentence imposed on his co-accused in respect of the very same off ence has been commuted to one of life imprisonment has been mentioned. Had this fact been brought to the notice of this Court at the time when the Court dealt with the special leave petition of the petitioner or even his review petition, I have no doubt in my mind that this Court would have commuted his death sentence to one of life imprisonment.