20. The assessee came to be visited with a show cause notice dated 09.07.2007 stating thereunder that the assessee had been manufacturing and clearing the product manufactured by it as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ under the guise of ‘chewing tobacco.’ During the visit to the assessee’s factory by the Department’s offi cers, they noticed the process of manufacturing ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco.’ The statement of the production manager and also the statement of the factory in charge came to be recorded, based on which the Department concluded that there was a deliberate intention to evade payment of duty by misclassifi cation and wilful misstatement of their product to enable them to pay lesser duty. Accordingly, by invoking the extended period of limitation as provided under proviso to Section 11A(1) CE Act, the Department called upon the assessee to show cause as to why the product which had been classifi ed as ‘chewing tobacco’ should not be classifi ed as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ and why the said product should not be accordingly assessed to duty as per Section 4 of the CE Act, for the period 01.03.2006 to 10.07.2006. Further, the assessee was required to show cause as to why the penalty as a consequence of wilful misclassifi cation should not be recovered. The said show cause notice came to be adjudicated and the show cause notice including the demand made 590 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. thereunder, was upheld in OIO dated 28.01.2008. This OIO was challenged and an appeal came to be fi led before the CESTAT which came to be allowed and the stand taken by the assessee was upheld by opining as under: “21. On the other hand, the department has not produced any evidence to show that the product is Tobacco Scented with Zarda. In fact, the learned SDR relied upon the process of manufacture in adjudication . However, the process of manufacture given in the adjudication in Para 2 is the manufacturing process as noticed by the offi cers when they visited the factory premises. This is a fl owchart prepared by the offi cers after their visit. However, when we have a look at the statement of the Production Manager Shri Ramesh Narsinghbhai Patel in the fl ow chart, the Zarda Scented Tobacco in the process of manufacture is missing. Zarda Scented Tobacco fi gures in the manufacturing fl ow chart given by Shri Dipak Suryakant Shah only. Further, it was also brought to our notice that during the period from 19.01.05 to 20.08.05, the appellants had described the product in the classifi cation list as Chewing Tobacco and from 1.3.05, to 31.3.06, it was classifi ed as Zarda Scented Tobacco and from 1.4.06 onwards, the classifi cation description was Chewing Tobacco which continues till today. In the invoice/bills prepared by the appellant, the item was described as Zafrani Zarda and from 1.4.06, it is being called as Baghban Flavoured Chewing Tobacco. It is not the case of the department or the party that there was change in the label or manufacturing process.