272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. The question, however, is of election, or of choice, and not of which party had approached the court fi rst. More importantly it would be the nature of the dispute, which would determine the forum for its redressal. The law gives this choice to the consumer to either avail a remedy under the Consumer Protection Act, by fi ling a complaint before the Judicial Authority, or go for arbitration. This option is not available to the builder, as they are not ‘Consumers’, under the 2019 Act. It is the respondent here Smt. B. Udayasri who has to make a “choice” between submitting before the private fora i.e., the Arbitration Tribunal or to make a complaint before the Consumer Forum, which is a public fora. She has chosen to go to the latter. Her reply before the Telangana High Court on the Section 11 application of the builder is not her submission to the arbitration process. In her reply, she informs the High Court of the complaint made by her as a consumer before the District Consumer Forum, which is a ‘Judicial Authority’ and hence Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 would come into play and not an application under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. Now merely because the builder had approached a Court fi rst (under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996) will itself not oust the jurisdiction of the Consumer Courts. The jurisdiction of a Court is not determined by the fastest fi nger fi rst, but the nature of the dispute, the public policy in the matter, the will of the legislature, the election or choice of the consumer amongst various factors. 11. Any doubt which so far may have existed for a consumer pursuing his remedy before Consumer Forums as against his going for ‘arbitration’, though being a party to an arbitration agreement, have now been set to rest by a recent Supreme Court decision in Emaar III (supra). This decision is signifi cant for the reason that it has re-examined the whole issue afresh in the light of the insertion of sub-section 6A to Section 11 and sub-section 1 to Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. A short background to this case should be in as this Court while determining the present dispute has relied heavily on the above decision. We must also refer here to the well elaborated of a larger bench of National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC), dated 13.07.2017 in Aftab Singh v. Emaar MGF Land Ltd and Anr.,2017 SCC OnLine NCDRC 1614 (“Emaar I”) which had set the background to the decision of this Court in Emaar III (supra). SMT. M. HEMALATHA DEVI & ORS. v. B. UDAYASRI 273 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] By Act No.3 of 2016, an amendment was incorporated, inter alia, in Sections 8 & 11 of the Arbitration Act, 1996. The amendment was incorporated by Act No. 3 of 2016 was w.e.f. 23.10.2015. These are as follows: Pre-Amendment Post Amendment Section 8: Section 8: 8.