4.5 It is further submitted that to cull out the meaning of management and control under the old Section 6(3) pre-amendment 2017, C which shall be applicable in the present case, section 6(3) post 1st April, 2017 is also required to be considered. That the test under the new law post 1st April, 2017 is “Key management and commercial decisions necessary for the conduct of the business as a whole or in substance.” It is submitted that the place of effective management (POEM) is the new D standard prescribed by the Parliament, w.e.f. 1st April, 2017, in alignment with the global needs and business practices. 4.6 Taking us to the findings recorded by the AO, CIT(A) and the High Court which are on appreciation of evidence/material on record, it is vehemently submitted by Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG that it E was rightly concluded that the control and management of the companies was in Delhi and that it was a clear design on the part of the respective assessees to treat the income as arising from Sikkim to avoid the payment of tax under the Act, 1961. It is submitted that the control and management of the companies was being done by Rattan Gupta from his Delhi office. Therefore, the assessees can be said to be residence in India and therefore F liable to pay tax under the Income Tax Act, 1961. 4.7 Insofar as the submission on behalf of the appellants that in the absence of any original assessment, there shall not be any re- assessment under sections 147/148 of the Act, Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the G case of Commissioner of Income Tax v. Sun Engineering Works P. Ltd. (1992) 4 SCC 363 (paragraph 14). It is submitted that in the said decision, it is observed and held by this Court that under section 147, the AO has been vested with the power to ‘assess or reassess’ the escaped income of an assessee. That the term ‘escaped assessment’ includes both “non-assessment” as well as “under assessment.” H 474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 4.8 Insofar as the submission on behalf of the appellants on service of notice is concerned, it is submitted that the principal place of business is the seat of control and therefore notice sent to Delhi is sufficient. On the service of notice at Delhi, Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG has heavily relied upon the observations/findings recorded by the High Court in the impugned and in paragraphs 78 to 83. Thereafter, B relying upon the decision of the Calcutta High Courtin the case of India Glycols Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, 2004 SCC OnLine Cal. 736, it is submitted that notices sent/served at Delhi can be said to be valid notice/service. 4.9 As regards levy of interest under Section 234A of the Act is C concerned, it is urged by Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG that interest levied under Section 234A is mandatory and there is no discretion with the AO and therefore there is no question of non-compliance of principles of natural justice.