G 40. It is noteworthy that the Bank Guarantees expired on 19.11.2019 and 16.12.2019, despite the specific direction by the High Court to SPML to keep its Bank Guarantees alive. However, in compliance with its express undertaking in the Settlement Agreement, NTPC did not file any contempt proceedings against SPML. H NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. 867 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] 41. Following the release of the Bank Guarantees as per the A Settlement Agreement, SPML withdrew the Writ Petition, as recorded by the High Court in its dated 21.09.2020. 42. One month later, on 10.10.2020, SPML filed the Arbitration Petition under Section 11(6) of the Act alleging coercion and economic duress in the execution of the Settlement Agreement. It was also alleged B that the Settlement Agreement was repudiated on 22.07.2020 through SPML’s letter to NTPC, disputing the Settlement Agreement. 43. In its reply to the Arbitration Petition, NTPC specifically pointed out that SPML never raised any claims with respect to the dues amounting C to Rs. 72,01,53,899/- during the pendency of the contract, and that the allegations of coercion and economic duress are completely false. NTPC alleged that the Arbitration Petition lacked bona fide. 44. A simple narration of the bare facts, as indicated above, leads us to conclude that the allegations of coercion and economic duress are D not bona fide, and that there were no pending claims between the parties for submission to arbitration. The Respondent’s claim fits in the description of an attempt to initiate “ex facie meritless, frivolous and dishonest litigation”34. We will endeavor to give reasons for our conclusion. 45. The whole dispute revolves around the solitary act of the E Appellant, NTPC, in not returning the Bank Guarantees despite the successful completion of work. This continued even after SPML issued the No-Demand Certificate and NTPC released the final payment. These undisputed facts led to the institution of the Writ Petition before the Delhi High Court. There were no allegations of coercion or economic duress compelling SPML to withdraw any pending claims under the F subject contract as a condition for the return of the Bank Guarantees. On the contrary, the only allegation by SPML was with respect to NTPC’s “illegal” action of interlinking the release of the Bank Guarantees with some other contracts. This was precisely the argument before the High Court, and, in fact, this submission is recorded by the High Court while G issuing notice and injuncting NTPC. This fact clearly indicates that the plea of coercion and economic duress leading to the Settlement Agreement is an afterthought. 34Vidya Drolia supra note 7, para147.11. H 868 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 46. We will now examine whether the allegations of coercion and economic duress in the execution of the Settlement Agreement are bona fide or not. This inquiry has a direct bearing on the arbitrability of the dispute. It was during the subsistence of the Writ Petition and the High Court’s interim , when SPML had complete protection of the Court, that the parties entered into the Settlement Agreement.