If all amenities are available, he would offer a higher amount. If there are no amenities, or if the site suffers from any disadvantages, he would offer a C lesser amount, or may not participate in the auction. Once with open eyes, a person participates in an auction, he cannot thereafter be heard to say that he would not pay the balance of the price/ premium or the stipulated interest on the delayed payment, or the ground rent, on the ground that the site suffers from certain disadvantages or on the ground that amenities are not provided.” D 19.1. The aforesaid case of UT Chandigarh Administration, relating to the complaints of want of basic amenities in the property sold in auction on “as is where is” basis has no relevance whatsoever to the facts of the present case. E 20. In the case of Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority (supra), the bone of contention was the levy of interest, penal interest, and penalty on account of delayed payment of instalments after accepting allotment of commercial plots by way of auction. The Court held that purchasers would be liable to pay such interest having accepted the commercial plots subject to the conditions of the auction notice and F allotment letter while observing, inter alia, as under: - “17…..We may reiterate that after having accepted the offer of the commercial plots in a public auction with a superimposed condition i.e. on “as-is-where-is” basis and after having accepted the terms and conditions of the allotment letter, including instalment G facility for payment, the respondents cannot say that they are not bound by the terms and conditions of the auction notice, as well as that of the allotment letter. On facts also, we have found that there was no inordinate delay on the part of PUDA in providing those facilities.” H 1112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 20.1. Again, the aforesaid case of Punjab Urban Planning and Development Authority wherein, the bone of contention was levy of penal interest and penalty on account of delayed payment of instalments, has no relevance whatsoever to the facts of the present case. 21. The decision of this Court in Ahmedabad Municipal B Corporation (supra) has been relied upon by the contesting respondents as also by the supporting respondent. Therein, after insolvency proceedings commenced in 1949, the property in question was auctioned and purchased by the respondent-purchaser in 1954. It was attached by the Municipal Corporation owing to the fact that the municipal taxes in arrear for 1949-50 to 1953-1955 had not been paid, leading the respondent- C purchaser to file a suit for declaration. The Division Bench of Gujarat High Court held that the respondent was the owner of the property and that the charge for arrears was not enforceable, which was challenged by the Corporation before this Court. With reference to Section 100 of the Act of 1882, it was held that no charge would be enforceable against D any property in the hands of transferee for consideration without notice of charge, apart from where otherwise provided for by law.