C (emphasis supplied) 28. In the present case, the application for a certified copy was sent from Delhi to Chennai on 2 September 2022, which was received on 5 September 2022, within the period of limitation of 30 days specified in Section 61(2). This aspect lies in contrast to the facts as they obtained D before this Court in the in V Nagarajan (supra) where even the application for obtaining the certified copy was not filed. In the present case, the appellant exercised due diligence and applied for a certified copy upon pronouncement of the in terms of Rule 22(2) of the NLCAT Rules 2016. The certified copy was provided to the appellant E on 15 September 2022. Hence, the period of 10 days between 5 September 2022 and 15 September 2022 taken by the court to provide a certified copy of the ought to be excluded when determining the period of limitation under Section 61(2) of the IBC. 29. In view of the above discussion, we have come to the conclusion F that the NCLAT was in error in dismissing the appeal on the ground of limitation. The explanation which was advanced by the appellant for condoning the period of 5 days (beyond the period of 30 days stipulated for the filing of an appeal) was, in our view, sufficient and the delay should have been condoned within the four corners of the statute. G 30. Before concluding, we cannot but fail to notice the flip-flops on the part of the NCLAT in providing administrative guidance on whether limitation would commence from the date of e-filing or from the presentation of the appeal at the filing counter. With technological advances, the country’s judiciary and tribunals must move towards e- filing. This process has already commenced and is irreversible. The Union H 1176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Government must have a fresh look at the rules to encourage e-filing across tribunals. Perhaps one way forward would be to constitute a Working Group to make a comprehensive assessment of the position across tribunals and suggest regulatory changes. Moreover, it is utterly incomprehensible why NCLAT should insist on physical filing in addition to e-filing. This unnecessarily burdens litigants and the Bar and is a B disincentive for e-filing. A lawyer or litigant who is compelled to file physical copies in addition to e-filed documents will have no cogent reason to resort to e-filing. This duplication of effort is time consuming. It adds to expense. It leaves behind a carbon footprint which is difficult to efface. The judicial process has traditionally been guzzling paper. This model is C not environmentally sustainable. If some judges are uncomfortable with e-files, the answer is to provide training to them and not to continue with old and outmoded ways of working. The judiciary has to modernize and adapt to technology. The tribunals can be no exception. This can no longer be a matter of choice. The IBC is a significant prong in economic reforms.