It was observed by this Court that the decision in Prem Nath Motors did not apply to the controversy in Mohd. Ekram Khan. 16. It was further observed in Mohd. Ekram Khan that in a case where manufacturer may have purchased from the open market H 1320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A parts for the purpose of replacement of the defective parts, the manufacturer would have to pay taxes. In such a situation, the dealer would have supplied the parts and not received any price either from the customer or from the manufacturer. The dealer (assessee) would have not received the payment of the price for the parts supplied to customers received from the manufacturer. Therefore, the transaction B is not subject to levy of tax. What is significant to note is that when there is a warranty clause appended to the sale of a motor vehicle for the replacement of a defective part on the part of the manufacturer and if the manufacturer purchases the said part from the open market, it would have paid the tax. In such a case the dealer (assessee) would C have supplied the part to the customer but not received the payment of the price from the manufacturer. In such a case, the transaction between the dealer and the manufacturer is not one of sale. But what is the nature of transaction when a dealer receives a credit note from the manufacturer while discharging his obligation under a warranty clause and uses a spare part from his own stock to replace a defective D part was a question which was also considered. 17. In Prem Motors, it was observed that when a dealer sells an automobile, he sells it with all parts in a salable condition. The warranty from the manufacturer is that if, during the warranty period, any part is found to be defective and is to be replaced, the responsibility of E replacement is that of the manufacturer. For the convenience of the customer, there is an arrangement between the manufacturer and the dealer so that the customer may get replacement done from the dealer which in due course is again made good by the manufacturer. The dealer/ assessee replaces parts to the customers and gets it reimbursed, it is F neither sale of these parts by the dealer to the customer or by the manufacturer. What he does only is to pass on the parts from the manufacturer to the customer but in to avoid delay and inconvenience of the customer he replaces the parts first (from his own stock) and gets a recompense from the manufacturer later which is not a sale as per the definition of sale of goods. G 18. Similarly, in Geo Motors, it was observed that when the replacement of the spare part is done during the warranty period free of charge, the same cannot be treated as a sale and included in the taxable turnover, even if the purchase of such spares was effected from outside the State by issuance of ‘C’ forms.