meters of Survey No.63, the Appellant is willing to keep aside other lands in his possession, for the benefi t of the Complainants. A further affi davit was fi led on 09.01.2019, wherein the Appellants had off ered valuable lands, at Khatodara, with an assurance not to transfer or alienate such lands till the writ petition is decided. It is well settled that a sale pendente lite or even in alleged breach of an injunction is not per se void, and the Court has a liberty to balance the equities in a case. The of the High Court is harsh. The plot owners are bona fi de purchasers of the plots for consideration without notice. The sale in favour of the plot owners have been set aside without any notice to them or hearing them. The High Court could have balanced the equities rather than setting aside the sale deeds already executed bona fi de by the Appellant. This Court in T. Ravi and Another v. B. Chinna Narasimha and Others reported in (2017) 7 SCC 342, has held that the transfer of the suit property pendente lite is not void ab initio and the purchaser of any such property take the bargain, subject to the rights of the Plaintiff in the pending suit. The Court further held that the same principle would apply to a case involving a breach of an injunction issued by a competent court, and such breach would not render the transfer by way of an absolute sale void or ineff ective. 1090 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 29. In support of the aforesaid submissions, the learned Senior Counsel placed reliance on the following case law: (i) Sevakram Prabhudas v. H.S. Patel and Others, 2000 (1) vol. 41 GLR 715; (ii) Mrityunjoy Das and Another v. Sayed Hasibur Rahaman and Others, (2001) 3 SCC 739; and (iii) Supreme Court Bar Association v. Union of India and Another, (1998) 4 SCC 409. 30. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeal, the same be allowed and the impugned and be set aside. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS 31. On the other hand, the learned counsel appearing for the respondents herein vehemently submitted that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned and .. 32. The learned counsel appearing for the respondents made the following submissions: (a) The assurance given by the learned senior advocate to the court as recorded in dated 14.10.2015 by the High Court is a clear undertaking as per Sections 12 and 13 respectively of the Act 1971. It should be seen as a clear-cut undertaking given to the court and it is supposed to be binding to the parties concerned. Had this undertaking not been given the respondents herein who were the appellants in LPA (Stamp) No. 1196 of 2015 would not have withdrawn the appeal as not pressed.