31. The submission on behalf of the appellants based on the decision in S. Thirunavukkarasu (supra) that the scheme of byelaws does not envisage the requisitionists to convene the General Council meeting; and if the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator jointly fail to convene G the meeting, the only option is to seek intervention of the Court has its own shortcomings. As rightly noticed by the Division Bench in the impugned, in the said case, an expelled member of the party called for a General Council meeting, parallel to the meeting called by the then General Secretary. In the given fact situation, the Court granted interim injunction H in favour of the General Secretary against convening of the parallel THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1195 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] meeting. In the present matter, no parallel meeting of General Council A has been called for or requisitioned by any of the Members. The Division Bench of the High Court has rightly observed that as a general rule, it cannot be laid down that the requisitionists have no option but only to go to the Court if the meeting is not convened. It has also been pointed out that in the past, when the interim General Secretary could not act in the B year 2017, the Office Bearers stepped in and convened the meeting based on a requisition received. The present situation too, where the position as occupied earlier by the General Secretary was assigned to the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator in their jointness and it remains beyond a shadow of doubt that Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator C do not stand in jointness and cannot act jointly, is akin to the situation when the apex position holder was not in a position to act. Obviously, a workable solution was to be found; and when the solution as found and applied, does not otherwise appear offending the spirit of byelaws as also the norms of functioning of an association or a party, it cannot be D said that declaration of the Presidium Chairman for the meeting of the General Council on 11.07.2022 and the follow-up notice by the Office Bearers at Party Headquarters had been wholly unauthorised. 32. Apart from the foregoing, the other considerations in the impugned dated 17.08.2022 which had prevailed with the learned E Single Judge make it clear that the learned Single Judge has proceededcontrary to the sound and applicable judicial principles. It remains undeniable that law does not envisage performance of any impossibility nor any mandate could be issued by the Court for performance of a practical impossibility. The learned Single Judge F expressed the view that when OPS and EPS had successfully functioned jointly as Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator how the party, with more than 1.5 crore cadre strength, suddenly decided to change the existing dispensation. With respect, in our view, such a question was not even germane to the points for determination arising before the Court. As to G how any compact, be it an association or be it a political party, would manage its affairs and what alterations its governing body would consider appropriate in its rules, regulations or byelaws, are all the matters squarely within the domain of that compact and its governing body.