We must remain mindful of the conspectus of facts that led to the establishment of the fi rst respondent. It was set up consequent to the failure of M/s Enron International, and M/s Dabhol Power Company to meet the energy needs of the State of Maharashtra. The tariff requirements have been determined based on the need to preserve the viability of the unit. MSEDCL. v. RATNAGIRI GAS AND POWER PVT. LTD. 775 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 31. The fi rst respondent was compelled to make alternate arrangements in view of the country-wide shortage of domestic gas, making RLNG a viable and contractually permissible alternative. Notably, the appellant has not disputed the circumstances in which this need arose. 32. In the present case, CERC and APTEL have correctly held that the GSA/GTA with GAIL is permissible by the terms of the contract and the consent or approval of the appellant is irrelevant. Clause 5.9 and Clause 4.3 operate in diff erent spheres and the requirements of the former cannot be foisted on an arrangement permissible by the latter. 33. Capacity charges mandated under Clause 5.2 hinge on the declared capacity that the Station is capable of delivering to its benefi ciaries. Energy Charges, on the other hand, are payable only against the actual energy delivered. The appellant’s liability for the former is actual delivery agnostic. It arises as long as the declared capacity is made in terms of the PPA i.e. Clause 4.3. 34. Clause 2.2.2 of the PPA prescribes that even in case MSEDCL is unable to utilize the entire allocated capacity of RGPPL, or in case MSEDCL fails to comply with the payment obligations in accordance with the PPA, RGPPL shall be entitled to sell power to other parties, without prejudice to its claim for recovery of capacity charges from MSEDCL subject to the provisions of Clause 2.2.2. Clause 2.2.2 indicates the intention of the parties to the PPA to put the capacity charges beyond the realm of actual energy supplied. The appellant’s reading implies that such a fi xed charge can be avoided and made subject to the consent of the appellant. Such a reading goes against the apparent intention of the parties to treat capacity charges as fi xed charges under the PPA. 35. A commercial document cannot be interpreted in a manner that is at odds with the original purpose and intendment of the parties to the document. A deviation from the plain terms of the contract is warranted only when it serves business effi cacy better. The appellant’s arguments would entail reading in implied terms contrary to the contractual provisions which are otherwise clear. Such a reading of implied conditions is permissible only in a narrow set of circumstances. This Court in Transmission Corporation 776 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of Andhra Pradesh Ltd v. GMR Vemagiri Power Generation Limited14 held as follows: “26. A commercial document cannot be interpreted in a manner to arrive at a complete variance with what may originally have been the intendment of the parties.