31(a) of these conditions dies, or transfers, assigns or otherwise dispenses of the undertaking or the premises to which energy F was being supplied to the consumer, any person claiming to be heir, legal representative, transferee, assignee or successor of the defaulting consumer with or without consideration in any manner shall be deemed to be liable to pay the arrears of electricity charges, security deposit or compensation due payable G by the consumer and it shall be lawful for the Board to refuse to supply or reconnect the supply or to give a new connection to such personclaiming to be the heir, legal representative, transferee, assignee or successor of the defaulting consumer of such premises, 81 (2012) 13 SCC 479 H 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A unless the amount of such charges due and / or the compensation demanded from the defaulting consumer, is as the case may be duly paid to or deposited with the Board.” (emphasis supplied) 186. In terms of Condition 23(a), a consumer is not entitled to B transfer the benefit under their agreement with the Electricity Board without the previous consent of the Board. In terms of Condition 23(b), if the consumer commits breach of Condition 23(a) and neglects to pay the Board any charges for energy and consequently, the electricity supply of such consumer is disconnected, then the third party upon whom such C a transfer was effected is liable to pay arrears of electricity which the defaulting consumer has not paid. Liability of a third party to pay dues of the erstwhile consumer is attached when the conditions specified in Condition 23(a) and Condition 23(b) are satisfied. 187. The rule of “ejusdem generis” is a principle of construction. The rule is that when general words follow particular and specific words D of the same nature, the general words must be confined to the things of the same kind as those specified. It applies when the following ingredients are present: (i) the statute contains an enumeration of specific words; (ii) the subjects of enumeration constitute a class or category; (iii) that category is not exhausted by the enumeration; (iv) a general term follows E the enumeration; and (v) there is no indication of a different legislative intent.82 188. For the application of the ejusdem generis rule, it is essential that enumerated things before the general words must constitute a distinct category or a genus or a family which admits of a number of members.83 F In Adoni Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Andhra Pradesh State Electricity Board,84 this Court had to interpret Section 49(3) of the 1948 Act, which empowered the Electricity Board to fix different tariffs for the supply of electricity to any person having regard to the geographical position of any area, the nature of supply and purpose for which the supply is required and any other relevant factors. This Court refused to limit the generality G 82 Amar Chandra v. Collector of Excise, Tripura, (1972) 2 SCC 442; Grasim Industries Ltd. v. Collector of Customs, (2002) 4 SCC 297 83 Lokmat Newspapers (P) Ltd. v. Shankarprasad, (1999) 6 SCC 275; Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. v. Tehri Hydro Development Cor pn.