Ultimately, penalty was imposed in the reassessment proceedings. In the meanwhile G the State had questioned the observations of the Tribunal with respect to the interpretation of the notification. The Tribunal had concluded that there was no logic in the stand of the revenue that the period of exemption from sales tax on purchase of raw materials should be commuted prior to the setting of the unit. The assessing authority had commuted the period of five years from 16.12.1993. The Revision to the High Court H STATE OF KERALA v. M/S AKAY FLAVOURS AND 341 AROMATICS LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] was time barred. The High Court refused to condone the delay. A Consequently the Revenue is in appeals and the appeal arising out of SLP(C) No.36394 of 2011 is filed by the assessee. The Division Bench had remitted the matter for fresh consideration, even though the single Judge had granted some measure of relief by reducing the penalty. 6. It is contended on behalf of the Revenue by relying on the terms of the notification that in the present case, the Central Government B had in fact, granted its approval when the permission letter was issued on 16.12.1993 to the assessees which enabled it to proceed further to import capital goods and start exporting the finished product. It was also highlighted that the assessee appears to have even purchased raw materials as well as plant and machinery after December, 1993 and in this circumstance to allow it the benefit of such exemption for the period C before 1995 would be contradictory. Therefore, it was submitted by Mr. Pallav Sisodia, learned Senior Advocate that the date of commencement is an irrelevant factor in the present case. Mr. Joseph Markas, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of respondent-assessee urged that the letter dated 16.12.1993 is only one of permission and was in fact, a letter of intent. Final approval had not been granted by the Central D Government as is evident in its terms. Learned counsel in fact relied upon a copy of the “Green Card” dated 27.10.1994 which expressly states that the unit was approved under the special Scheme of the Govt. of India for export oriented unit. He submitted that given that this document was issued in 1994 the assessee took some time to put up its plant after which it commenced production on 01.10.1995 and that the E last date is determinative for the commencement of exemption. 7. The key to deciding the controversy in this case is the meaning to be attached to the term approved by the central government which occurs in SRO 1727 of 1993. The relevant part of the exemption notification, which relieves the assessee from paying tax on raw material, F plant and machinery including component parts, tools, etc. of item 97 of the First Schedule of the Kerala General Sales Tax Act in relation to 100% EO used for manufacture of goods reads as follows: “Exemption shall be for a period of five years on the date of approval of such units by the Central Government.” 8.In this case, letter dated 16.12.1993 on a plain reading appears G to be a mere permission.