As such, prior to the IPT being permitted, AP(M)L was bound to utilize the linkage coal from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher, only for the purpose of its original power plant, i.e., AP(M)L. Only on account of the IPT would it be in a position to D utilize the coal from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher either for its plant in Maharashtra or in Rajasthan. Similarly, it will be entitled to utilize the coal linkages for its plant in Maharashtra or in Rajasthan for production of energy in its other power plants. As such, there is bound to be a variance in the cost of transportation by railways. For example, if the E coal is to be transported from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to AP(M)L, the cost of railway transportation would be higher as compared to the cost of railway transportation from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to Tiroda TPS. We are only giving this example as an illustration. We find that the savings made in the cost of transportation, i.e., the cost which would have been incurred for transporting the coal from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to ‘X’ F plant minus the actual cost of transportation has to be passed on to the DISCOMS, which, in turn, has to be passed on to the end consumers. For example, if the cost of transportation per ton from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to AP(M)L is Rs.100/- and from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to Tiroda TPS is Rs.50/- per ton, the benefit of Rs.50/- per ton will have to G be passed on. 33. We, however, find that the changes occurring on account of permitting IPT would affect AP(M)L as well as the appellants and two other DISCOMS, i.e., MSEDCL and Rajasthan DISCOMS. This was also observed by the CERC in its dated 8thJuly 2019. We do not H 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A possess any expertise for working out as to what benefit any of the parties would be entitled to on account of the said ‘Change in Law’. However, we are of the considered view that cost of saving in the railway transportation on account of ‘Change in Law’ in the light of our observation in the aforesaid paragraph needs to be worked out and passed on to the appropriate DISCOMS, which can further be passed on to the B consumers. CERC, which is a body of experts, is best suited to do so. 34. We, therefore, find that the present appeal deserves to be partly allowed. Though the issue with regard to allowing ‘Change in Law’ compensation on the basis of ACQ – actual supply deserves to be upheld, the issue with regard to IPT not being ‘Change in Law’ deserves C to be set aside. 35. In the result, we partly allow the appeal and pass the following : (i) The finding of the APTEL to the effect that the communication dated 19thJune 2013 providing for IPT does D not amount to ‘Change in Law’ is set aside; (ii) We hold that IPT amounts to ‘Change in Law’.