Taking into consideration this aspect of the matter, coupled with the non-explanation of the injuries 2 1991 Supp (2) SCC 396 3 (2003) 9 SCC 426 4(2006) 9 SCC 57 H 5 (2005) 10 SCC 498 NAND LAL AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 289 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] sustained by accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar, we are of the considered A view that accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar is entitled to benefit of doubt. 30. That leaves us with the appeal of the other 3 accused, namely accused No. 8 Nandlal, accused No. 9 Bhagwat and accused No. 10 Ramdular. For considering their case we will have to take into consideration the delay in lodging the FIR. No doubt that in each and B every case, delay in lodging the FIR would not be fatal to the prosecution case. It will depend upon facts and circumstances of each case. In the present case, as already discussed hereinabove, assuming that the incident had taken place at 08.30 PM and the injured persons were at Baloda Bazar between 10-11 PM, and taking into consideration that the distance C between Baloda Bazar to Suhela Police Station is 15 Kms., a delay of four hours in lodging the FIR would cast a serious doubt on the genuineness of the prosecution case. It becomes more glaring since accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar had, in any case, informed the police about the incident prior to 11.45 PM. The suppression of the FIR lodged by him with respect to the attack on him by Atmaram (PW-1), so also D the suppression of the FIR lodged by Atmaram (PW-1) against accused No. 11 Naresh Kumar, adds to the doubt. 31. We may gainfully refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Ramesh Baburao Devaskar and Others v. State of Maharashtra6: E “19. In a case of this nature, enmity between two groups is accepted. In a situation of this nature, whether the first information report was ante- timed or not also requires serious consideration. First information report, in a case of this nature, provides for a valuable piece of evidence although it may not be a substantial F evidence. The reason for insisting on lodging of first information report without undue delay is to obtain the earlier information in regard to the circumstances in which the crime had been committed, the name of the accused, the parts played by them, the weapons which had been used as also the names of G eyewitnesses. Where the parties are at loggerheads and there had been instances which resulted in death of one or the other, lodging of a first information report is always considered to be vital.” 6 (2007) 13 SCC 501 H 290 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A As held by this Court, the FIR is a valuable piece of evidence, although it may not be substantial evidence. The immediate lodging of an FIR removes suspicion with regard to over implication of number of persons, particularly when the case involved a fight between two groups.