and another v. Union of India66: G “310. A little personal research resulted in the revelation of the concept of the “legitimate power of reciprocity” debated by Bertram Raven in his article — “The Bases of Power and the Power/Interaction Model of Interpersonal Influence” (this 66 (2016) 5 SCC 1 H 152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A article appeared in Analyses of Social Issues and Public Policy, Vol. 8, No. 1, 2008, pp. 1-22). In addition to having dealt with various psychological reasons which influenced the personality of an individual, reference was also made to the “legitimate power of reciprocity”. It was pointed out that the reciprocity norm envisaged that if someone does something beneficial for another, B the recipient would feel an obligation to reciprocate (“I helped you when you needed it, so you should feel obliged to do this for me.” — Goranson and Berkowitz, 1966; Gouldner, 1960). In the view expressed by the author, the inherent need of power is universally available in the subconscious of the individual. On the C satisfaction and achievement of the desired power, there is a similar unconscious desire to reciprocate the favour.” It is important that the appointment must not be overshadowed by even a perception, that a ‘yes man’ will decide the fate of democracy and all that it promises. Certainty, the darkest apprehensions of the D founding fathers as buttressed by the reports and other materials, unerringly point to the imperative need to act. AA. THE APPOINTMENT OF SHRI ARUN GOEL: A TRIGGER OR A MERE ASIDE? 187. An application was filed by the petitioner in W.P. No. 569 of E 2021 to seek interim relief to provide for appointment to fill a vacancy of Election Commissioner which had arisen on 15.05.2022 by a Committee. The Bench commenced hearing of these cases on 17.11.2022. The matter stood posted to 22.11.2022.It would appear that on 18.11.2022, the vacancy of Election Commissioner came to be filled up by the appointment of one Shri Arun Goel. This appointment was attacked by F Shri Prashant Bhushan, learned Counsel appearing for the petitioner, by contending that when the petitioner had moved an application, seeking interim relief relating to appointment, it was not open to the respondent- Union to make the appointment. This Court thereupon called upon the respondent to produce the files relating to the appointment. We perused G the note as also the file. It is therein, inter alia, stated that a vacancy in the post of Election Commissioner arose upon the appointment of Shri Rajiv Kumar as the Chief Election Commissioner w.e.f. 15.05.2022. No specific law has been made under Article 324. A convention is put forward, which consisted of appointing senior Members of the Civil Services, other serving or retired Officers of the rank of Secretary to H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 153 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the Government of India/Chief Secretary of State Government. The A convention further comprised of the appointment of the senior-most Election Commissioner as the Chief Election Commissioner so far.