Secondly, it is most ambiguous. If the petitioner is making a claim which is then and there disputed by the respondent, why should the petitioner, being the claimant be asked to deposit the disputed amount? When the petitioner is making a claim against the respondent, it is unable, at that point of time, to know whether the whole claim or part of it would be admitted, or the whole of it denied by the latter. Hence, it is unable to gauge the disputed amount. Even if it were possible for the respondent to notify the disputed amount immediately, the clause would only be operative if the respondent was simultaneously making a counter claim more than the petitioner’s claim which was being denied by the petitioner, by seeking reference of the dispute to arbitration. If 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the respondent was fi rst making the claim which was disputed by the petitioner, still the matter could not be referred to the Committee in as much as the clause suggests an application for dispute resolution by the petitioner only. For all these reasons, this clause itself is vague for uncertainty and invalid.” (Emphasis supplied) 60. In the aforesaid decision of the Calcutta High Court, ICOMM Tele Limited (supra) and Perkins Eastman (supra) were relied upon and ultimately, it was held that Clause 33 of the agreement therein between the parties providing for constitution of a “Dispute Resolution Committee” with a stipulation that before availing of dispute resolution clause, the disputed amount has to be deposited, was held to be invalid and contrary to law. 61. We are of the view that as such there is no confl ict between S.K. Jain (supra) and ICOMM Tele Limited (supra), as the relevant arbitration clauses that fell for the consideration of this Court in both the cases stood completely on a diff erent footing. What is relevant to note are the points of law on which S.K. Jain (supra) was distinguished and explained in ICOMM Tele Limited (supra). 62. The Court while distinguishing S.K. Jain (supra) in ICOMM Tele Limited (supra) made some relevant observations in para 14 of the . Para 14 reads thus: “14. It will be noticed that in this there was no plea that the aforesaid condition contained in an arbitration clause was violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India as such clause is arbitrary. The only pleas taken were that the ratio of Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. [Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. Ltd. v. Brojo Nath Ganguly, (1986) 3 SCC 156 : 1986 SCC (L&S) 429] would apply and that there should be a cap in the quantum payable by way of security deposit, both of which pleas were turned down by this Court. Also, the security deposit made would, on the termination of the arbitration proceedings, fi rst be adjusted against costs if any awarded by the arbitrator against the claimant party, and the balance remaining after such adjustment then be refunded to the party making the deposit.