However, such power is subject to Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of the Union List, as laid down in Entry 25 of the Concurrent List. It is the responsibility of the F Central Government to determine the standards of higher education and the same should not be lowered at the hands of any particular State. xxx xxx xxx xxx 147. Another argument that has been put forth is that G the power to enact laws laying down process of admission in universities, etc. vests in both Central and State Governments under Entry 25 of the Concurrent List only. Under Entry 25 of the Concurrent List and erstwhile Entry 11 of the State List, the State Government has enacted various legislations that inter alia regulate H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 963 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] admission process in various institutions. For instance, A Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwavidyalaya Adhiniyam, Rajiv Gandhi Prodyogiki Vishwavidyalaya Adhiniyam, Rashtriya Vidhi Sansathan Vishwavidyalaya Adhiniyam, etc. were established by the State Government in exercise of power under Entry 25 of the Concurrent B List. Similarly, the Central Government has also enacted various legislations relating to higher education under Entry 25 of the Concurrent List pertaining to Centrally funded universities such as the Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University Act, 1994, the Maulana Azad National Urdu University Act, 1996, the Indira Gandhi C National Tribal University Act, 2007, etc. The Central Government may have the power to regulate the admission process for Centrally funded institutions like IITs, NIT, JIPMER, etc. but not in respect of other institutions running in the State. D 148. In view of the above discussion, it can be clearly laid down that power of the Union under Entry 66 of the Union List is limited to prescribing standards of higher education to bring about uniformity in the level of education imparted throughout the country. Thus, the E scope of Entry 66 must be construed limited to its actual sense of “determining the standards of higher education” and not of laying down admission process. In no case is the State denuded of its power to legislate under List III Entry 25. More so, pertaining to the admission process in universities imparting higher education. F 149. I have no hesitation in upholding the vires of the impugned legislation which empowers the State Government to regulate admission process in institutions imparting higher education within the State. In fact, the State being responsible for welfare and development of G the people of the State, ought to take necessary steps for welfare of its student community. The field of “higher education” being one such field which directly affects the growth and development of the State, it becomes prerogative of the State to take such steps which further H 964 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the welfare of the people and in particular pursuing higher education. In fact, the State Government should be the sole entity to lay down the procedure for admission and fee, etc.