9. Centre and the State Governments should also take measures to regain their respect and place in the society which once they enjoyed in our cultural and social life.” 326. In Union of India v. Association of Democratic Reforms280, proceedings under Article 136 were initiated against the of the High Court of Delhi which recognised the rights of citizens to receive information regarding criminal activities of a candidate to the legislative assembly. The High Court directed the Election Commission to inter alia secure information on whether the candidate is accused of any off ence and the assets possessed by a candidate. A three-Judge Bench of this Court dismissed the appeal and held that it is imperative that the electorate possesses suffi cient information to enable them to exercise their right to vote. The observations are extracted below: “34. From the afore quoted paragraph, it can be deduced that the members of a democratic society should be suffi ciently informed so that they may infl uence intelligently the decisions which may aff ect themselves and this would include their decision of casting votes in favour of a particular candidate. If there is a disclosure by a candidate as sought for then it would strengthen the voters in taking appropriate decision of casting their votes. 280 (2002) 5 SCC 294 140 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 45. Finally, in our view this Court would have ample power to direct the Commission to fi ll the void, in the absence of suitable legislation covering the fi eld and the voters are required to be well informed and educated about contesting candidates so that they can elect a proper candidate by their own assessment. It is the duty of the executive to fi ll the vacuum by executive s because its fi eld is coterminous with that of the legislature, and where there is inaction by the executive, for whatever reason, the judiciary must step in, in exercise of its constitutional obligations to provide a solution till such time the legislature acts to perform its role by enacting proper legislation to cover the fi eld. The adverse impact of lack of probity in public life leading to a high degree of corruption is manifold. Therefore, if the candidate is directed to declare his/her spouse’s and dependants’ assets —immovable, movable and valuable articles — it would have its own eff ect.” 327. While the precedents on the subject are not multiplied in the text of the , some of the s on this point are footnoted.281 In view of the discussion above, the observation of Justice Bhat that an overt action of the State is necessary for the court to direct the State to create enabling conditions has no jurisprudential basis. Neither the provisions of the Constitution nor the earlier decisions of this Court create such a distinction. In fact, as I have discussed in detail, Article 32 of the Constitution states that the Supreme Court shall have the power to issue directions for the enforcement of rights conferred by Part III without making any distinction between action and inaction by the State.