The Note fi xes the earliest point of time for the exercise of the power of suspension. The phrase as far as possible' cannot be construed as leaving a power with the appointing authority to suspend a Government servant at a point of time earlier than the earliest point of time fi xed by the Note.” 47. The reason for declaring the Respondent (Dinesh Singh) ineligible for selection as per Rule 9 was on the ground that ‘decision has been taken on fi le to charge sheet him under Rule 7’11. At no point has it been asserted by Dinesh Singh (Respondent no. 4) that disciplinary proceedings were not contemplated against him. His entire case from the very beginning has been that the cut-off date qua all eligibility conditions must be determined as on 01.11.2018 and since there was no decision/contemplation to initiate any disciplinary proceedings as of that date, he ought to have been recommended for appointment. In fact, in the Counter-Affi davit submitted on his behalf, there is an implicit admission that a decision to initiate disciplinary action against him (Dinesh Singh) was taken on 09.01.2019. 48. We have already noted above that the relevant cut-off date qua Rule 9 (1)(a)(iii) is 31.08.2019 and therefore, it was not necessary for us to decide anything further. However, we have surveyed the relevant authorities dealing 11 Rule 7 of Haryana Civil Services (Punishment and Appeal) Rules, 2016 STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS v. DINESH SINGH 1073 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] with the meaning of ‘contemplation’ only to satisfy ourselves that there was, in fact, a contemplation to initiate disciplinary proceedings as per law. 49. The main allegation against Respondent No.1 is that on 05.01.2019 and 06.01.2019, he was directed to act as Duty Magistrate during the Haryana Teacher’s Eligibility Test, 2018 and he remained absent from this duty and as such he was negligent in performing his offi cial duties. The Deputy Commissioner, Kurukshetra wrote a letter dated 9.01.2019 to the Additional Chief Secretary and Finance Commissioner, Government of Haryana, Department of Revenue and Disaster Management in this regard and recommended that formal inquiry be initiated against the Respondent. In view of this communication, a decision was taken on 05.02.2019 to charge- sheet Respondent No. 1. It is not relevant for us to consider what happened beyond the date of consideration, that is, 31.08.2019. However, it may be recorded here that subsequent to this date, there was a charge-sheet issued against the Respondent and ultimately, the entire proceedings came to be dropped on 11.12.2019. Since the eligibility conditions in Rule 9 (1)(a)(iii), the validity of which is not under challenge before us, requires us to limit our inquiry into the question of eligibility as on date of consideration, what happens after that becomes insignifi cant to the inquiry. 50. In the background of the above facts and position of law analysed hereinabove, it has to be concluded that as on the date of consideration, disciplinary action was contemplated against the writ petitioner Dinesh Singh, and therefore he was rightly held to be ineligible for selection of his name in Register A-1.