In to shed some light on the controversy in the present case, it would be appropriate to refer to the observations in paragraphs 109.5 and 113, which are as follows: “109.5 It has been admitted in the counter-affi davit that the confi dential reports, discipline and vigilance reports if any, and honours and awards as on the 5th or 10th years of service were considered in the case of the women offi cers. As a consequence of this, the qualifi cations, achievements and performance of women offi cers after the 5th or 10th year of service (as the case may be) have been ignored. At this stage, it is necessary to note that Para 13(b) of AO 18/1988 specifi cally contemplates the “last ACR before assessment for PC” being taken into reckoning for grant of PC. Similarly MoD’s Policy Letter dated 24-2-2012 specifi cally contemplates that in evaluating the overall performance of the NITISHA AND OTHERS v. UNION OF INDIA 517 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] offi cer, “the average will be worked out for each year as well as for the entire period of offi cers’ services”. Para 4(a) stipulates thus: “(a) QAP: Overall performance of the offi cer is evaluated by taking the average of figurative assessment of all reporting offi cers other than FTO and HTO. Average will be worked out for each year as well as for the entire period of offi cers service. The latter QAP will be converted into a proportion of 75 marks.” (emphasis supplied) In spite of the above clear stipulations, it is now an admitted position that the distinguished record of the WSSCOs beyond the 5th/10th year of service has been disregarded. The laurels achieved by them in the service of the nation after the 5th/10th year of service have been ignored. 113.Finally, the above analysis indicates that there has been a fl awed attempt to peg the achievements of the WSSCOs at the 5th/10th years of service thereby ignoring the mandate that the last ACR ought to be considered and the quantitative performance for the entire record of service must be assessed. Considering the ACRs as on the 5th or 10th year of service for grant of PC would have been appropriate, if the WSSCOs were being considered for PC at that point of time. However, the delayed implementation of the grant of PC to WSSCOs by the Army and considering of ACRs only till the 5th/10th year of service has led to a situation where, in eff ect, the Army has obliviated the years of service, hard work and honours received by WSSCOs beyond their 5th/10th year of service and relegated them back to a position they held, in some cases, more than 10 years ago. The lack of consideration given to the recent performance of WSSCOs for grant of PC is a disservice not just to these offi cers who have served the nation, but also to the Indian Army, which on one hand salutes these offi cers by awarding them honours and decorations, and on the other hand, fails to assess the true value of these honours when it matters the 518 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.