Respondent Nos. 2 and 3 got wiser only when the said proceedings commenced and the Inquiry Officer was appraised of the directions issued in Medha Kotwal’scase where it had been clarified by this Court that the Complaints C Committee contemplated in Vishaka’scase (supra), will be deemed to be an Inquiry Authority for the purposes of the CCS (Conduct) Rules and its report shall be deemed to be a Report under the CCS (CCA) Rules. 67. When the employer itself was oblivious to the remit of the Committee and the Committee remained under the very same impression D having described its proceedings as fact-finding in nature, it was all the more incumbent for the respondents to have paused on receiving the Report of the First Committee and verify the legal position before taking the next step. In all this back and forth, it was the procedure prescribed under Rule 14 for conducting an inquiry of sexual harassment at the E workplace that came to be sacrificed at the alter of expeditious disposal, which can neither be justified nor countenanced. 68. The intent and purpose of the proviso inserted in Rule 14(2) of CCS (CCA) Rules and Rule 3C of CCS (Conduct) Rules is that the procedure required to be adopted for conducting an inquiry into the F complaint of sexual harassment that can lead to imposition of a major penalty under the Rules, must be fair, impartial and in line with the Rules. Pertinently, the emphasis on adhering to the principles of natural justice during an inquiry conducted by a Complaints Committee finds specific mention in Rule 7(4) of the subsequently enacted Rules of 2013. But the spirit behind the due process could never be suppressed or ignored even G in the absence of the Statute or the Rules inasmuch as the principles of natural justice is the very essence of the decision-making process and must be read into every judicial or even a quasi-judicial proceeding. 69. This is not to say that the Committee even if described as an Inquiring authority, by virtue of the ruling in Medha Kotwal’s case (supra) H and required to follow the procedure prescribed under Rule 14, was AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 821 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] expected to conduct the inquiry as if it was a full-fledged trial. The A expression used in the proviso to Rule 14(2), ‘as far as practicable’ has to be read and understood in a pragmatic manner. In any such proceedings initiated by the Disciplinary Authority, a calibrated balance would have to be struck between the rights of a victim of sexual harassment and those of the delinquent employee. At the same time, B fairness in the procedure would have to be necessarily adopted in the interest of both sides. After all, what is sauce for the goose, is sauce for the gander. M. CONCLUSION 70. In the instant case, though the Committee appointed by the C Disciplinary Authority did not hold an inquiry strictly in terms of the step- by-step procedure laid down in Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules, nonetheless, we have seen that it did furnish copies of all the complaints, the depositions of the complainants and the relevant material to the appellant, called upon him to give his reply in defence and directed him to furnish the list of witnesses that he proposed to rely on.