17. In the preliminary paragraphs under the head “Area of operation”, while dealing with the relative instructions of the Bank, the following is set out: “ii) Where there are clusters of eligible units, whether SSI or Small business, situated outside the respective operational area, assistance could be rendered to them, provided the place is accessible throughout the year and is connected by the public transport. Even in such cases, STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY 661 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] the location of units should not be far beyond the operational area and the number of units should reasonably large. (sic.) Recommendations in this regard should be fi rst got approved from the controlling authority. iii) Lending to SSI and small business units could also be aff ected in adopted villages with the prior approval of the controlling authority. iv) Care, should however, be taken that the fl exible approach does not lead to scattered lending. Approach should preferably be fi nancing of clusters of units/growth centres.” Nowhere in the Enquiry Report or in the evidence had it been brought out that any of these above conditions in the excepted categories were breached. Charge regarding conduct of periodical inspections 18. However, we fi nd that the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench, which confi rmed the of the learned Single Judge, erred in recording the following fi nding with regard to the fi rst limb, namely, about the respondent not conducting the periodical inspections as required under the extant instructions:- “In so far as the fi rst component of the charge is concerned, it can safely be said that none of the witnesses examined by the Bank before the enquiry offi cer have spoken about the truth or otherwise of the allegations made in the charge memo. However, the enquiry offi cer in his lengthy report based on his personal knowledge about the instructions and guidelines issued by the Head Offi ce of the bank for conduct of inspection by Field Offi cers of the bank, observes that it is the duty of the Field Offi cer, to conduct periodical inspection and maintain proper records of those inspections. To arrive at the conclusion that the delinquent offi cer is guilty of this charge, he merely states in his report that Sri Krishna Murthy Urala - PW 4 has deposed that the charged offi cial has not conducted any periodical inspection. This conclusion of the enquiry offi cer is based on the mis- reading of the evidence of PW-4 by the enquiry offi cer. In fact, PW 4 in his lengthy deposition before the enquiry offi cer has stated that the periodical inspections of units were carried out by the petitioner sometimes independently and some time with the Branch Manager 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. and the relevant records were not available at the Branch. It has also come in the evidence that the Branch was shifted to new building some time in the year 1989 and during shifting, books used for recording of the inspection of units might have been misplaced and they are bit traceable.