It is observed that under our Constitution, this right - freedom of speech is not an absolute right but is subject to the restrictions. It is submitted that it is further observed that thus the position D under our Constitution is different. It is observed by this Court in the aforesaid decisions that fundamental right enshrined in the Constitution itself being made subject to reasonable restrictions, the laws so enacted to specify certain restrictions on the right to freedom of speech and expression have to be construed meaningfully and with the constitutional object in mind. It is submitted that it is further observed that thus there is E a marked distinction in the language of law, its possible interpretation and application under the Indian and the US Laws. 4.2 It is further submitted by the learned Solicitor General that on numerous occasions this Court declined to import the American doctrine of such subjects. Reliance is placed on the decisions of this Court in the F case of Joseph Kuruvilla Vellukunnel vs. Reserve Bank of India, 1962 Supp (3) SCR 632 (para 50 & 75); M.C. Mehta vs. Union of India (Shriram – Oleum Gas), (1987) 1 SCC 395 (para 29); Ashoka Kumar Thakur vs. Union of India (2008) 6 SCC 1 (para 188 to 190) and Pathumma vs. State of Kerala, (1978) 2 SCC 1 (para 23). G 4.3 Making above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is vehemently submitted by Shri Mehta, learned Solicitor General that therefore the American doctrine of “clear and present danger” [Schenck vs. United States, 249 U.S. 47 (1919)] and “imminent lawless action” [Brandenburg vs. Ohio, 395 U.S. 444 (1969)] are alien to Indian constitutional law. H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 523 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.5 Making above submissions, it is submitted that the observations A made by this Court in Raneef (supra) and Arup Bhuyan (supra) following and/or relying upon the American doctrines on freedom of speech may be overruled and the statutory position be reaffirmed. 5. Now so far as reading down Section 3(5) of Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987, which is pari materia to B Section 10(a)(i) of UAPA Act, 1967 and reading down the said provision to the extent by observing that mere membership of a banned organization will not make a person guilty unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence or creates public dis by violence or incitement to violence and that mere membership of a banned organization will not C incriminate a person is concerned, it is vehemently submitted by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General that as such in absence of challenge to the relevant provisions, more particularly Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967, such a reading down was not permissible. It is submitted that as such in the case of Raneef (supra), which has been subsequently followed in the cases of Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Indra Das v. State D of Assam, (2011) 3 SCC 380, this Court was considering the bail application and the constitutional validity of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act was not under challenge.