A 26. This Court, in a catena of s has held that the High Court, while exercising its inherent powers under 226 of the Constitution of India, cannot re-appreciate evidence and arrival of finding of facts, unless the authority which passed the original did so in excess of its jurisdiction, or if the findings were patently perverse. B 27. In the case of BK Muniraju Vs. State Of Karnataka3, this Court, while expounding on the powers of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, held that the same cannot be used to re- appreciate evidence unless an error of fact appraised by the lower court is manifest and such an error has caused grave injustice. C 28. Further, in the case of Krishnanand Vs. Director of Consolidation4, this Court, in a similar fact circumstance wherein concurrent findings of the lower courts were dismissed by the High Court while exercising its writ jurisdiction, held that re-appreciation of evidence under Article 226 can only be done in cases where the original D by the lower court was passed in excess of its jurisdiction or if the findings of the lower courts were patently perverse. 29. It is our opinion that as far as the present case is concerned, the concurrent findings of the lower courts are neither perverse, nor the said courts have over stepped their jurisdiction. In such a scenario, E wherein neither of the conditions were satisfied, the High Court could not have re-appreciated the evidence in writ jurisdiction and come to a different conclusion. 30. It must be noted that the introduction and admission of evidence at the trial stage goes through a rigorous process, wherein each piece of F evidence introduced is subject to very strict scrutiny, and every party is given the opportunity to test the veracity of the said evidence through procedure established by law. The legitimacy of the evidence, at every stage, is questioned, and the opposing party is given the right to question the said evidence by placing their doubts regarding the same in court. Such a mechanism in law of going through evidence, is not available to G the High Court while exercising its powers under writ jurisdiction, and therefore, evidence which has been confirmed by the lower courts, must only be reversed by the High Courts in the rarest of rare cases. 3 2008 4 SCC 451 H 4 2015 1 SCC 553 HARI PRAKASH SHUKLA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1009 PRADESH & ANR. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 31. In light of the abovementioned discussions, we hold Issue No. A II in favour of the Appellants herein. 32. In the present case at hand, both the issues framed by us has been answered in favour of the Appellants herein, that is to say, the remedy granted under the Banwasi Sewa (supra) is available to the appellants herein, and the reappreciation of evidence done by the B High Court while exercising its inherent powers under Article 226, in our opinion, is bad in law and is liable to be struck down.