26. A three-judge bench of this court in K.I. Pavunny Vs. Assistant Collector, (1997) 3 SCC 721 considered the question as to whether a retracted confessional statement would be inadmissible in evidence in the context of the Customs Act. After holding that a statement recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act is admissible in evidence, this court considered the next question as to whether such a statement can form the sole basis for conviction. The further question was whether a retracted confessional statement requires corroboration from any other evidence. After referring to various judicial pronouncements this court observed that there is no prohibition under the Evidence Act to rely upon a retracted confession to COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 197 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] prove the prosecution case or to make the same the basis for conviction of the accused. But practice and prudence would require that the court would seek assurance by getting corroboration from other evidence adduced by the prosecution. 27. Again, in Union of India Vs. Padam Narain Aggarwal, AIR 2009 SC 254, this court considered the provision of Section 108 of the Customs Act in great detail and thereafter observed that the said section obliges the person summoned to state the truth upon any subject in respect of which he is being examined. He is not absolved from speaking the truth on the ground that such a statement is admissible in evidence and could be used against him. The provision thus enables the custom offi cer to elicit the truth from the person examined. The underlying object of Section 108 is to ensure that the offi cer questioning the person gets all the truth concerning the incident. However, a person called upon to make a statement before the customs authorities is not an accused. The entire idea behind Section 108 is that the customs offi cer questioning the person must gather all the truth concerning the episode. If the statement so extracted is untrue, its utility for the offi cer gets lost. Therefore, statements recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act are distinct and diff erent from statements recorded by a police offi cer during the course of investigation under the Criminal Procedure Code. 28. Thus, what is deducible from an analysis of the relevant legal provisions and the corresponding judicial pronouncements is that a customs offi cer is not a police offi cer. Further, the person summoned and who makes a statement under Section 108 is not an accused. However, a statement made by a person under Section 108 of the Customs Act before the concerned customs offi cer is admissible in evidence and can be used against such a person. Object underlying Section 108 is to elicit the truth from the person who is being examined regarding the incident of customs infringement. Since the objective is to ascertain the truth, the customs offi cer must ensure the truthfulness of the statement so recorded.