Respondent No. 1 failed to apprise the appellant about the status of the litigation. In the year 2009, when the appellant came to know that respondent No. 1 was trying to create third party rights in the property by selling the same to some other person, immediately a suit for injunction was fi led against respondent No. 1. A second injunction suit was also fi led impleading Ms. Shreya Vidyarthi from creating any third-party rights qua the property in question. The apprehension was that the respondent no.1 along with Ms. Shreya Vidyarthi was trying to transfer the property to a third party. 6. The stand taken by respondent No. 1 in the written statement was that no third-party rights were being created. The suit was disposed of on 06.10.2010. As was the responsibility of respondent No. 1 to update the appellant about the progress of litigation amongst the family members of respondent No. 1, despite the fact that this Court had disposed of the litigation on 16.12.2015 in Shreya Vidyarthi’s case (supra), the appellant was not informed about the same. When this came to its notice, suit for specifi c performance was fi led in August 2017. Nothing was withheld from the Court. Filing of the earlier suit for injunction was specifi cally pleaded and so was the cause of action. 7. It was argued that when the earlier suit for injunction was fi led, the cause of action for claiming the relief of specifi c performance was not ripe as at that stage, the litigation between the family members of respondent No. 1, was still pending. It was merely a suit for injunction fi led to protect the rights of the appellant. As respondent No. 1 was trying to create third party rights in the property in question, regarding which MoU had been entered between the appellantand the sale deed was to be ELDECO HOUSING AND INDUSTRIES LIMITED v. ASHOK 877 VIDYARTHI AND OTHERS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] executed only after the dispute amongst the family members of respondent No. 1 was resolved. 8. On a plain reading of the plaint, by no stretch of imagination, it could be said that suit for specifi c performance fi led by the appellant was not maintainable under law, but still the application fi led by respondent No. 1 for rejection of the plaint was allowed by the High Court in the review application, even though earlier the same was rejected by the Trial Court and even the revision petition was also dismissed. It is settled position of law that no material except the plaint or the documents annexed with the plaint could be considered at the stage of consideration of application under VII Rule 11 C.P.C. None of the documents including the earlier suit for injunction or any communication or agreement was on record, hence the High Court had committed error in allowing the review application and consequently the application under VII Rule 11(d) CPC, rejecting the plaint. In support of the arguments, reliance was placed upon Gurbux Singh v. Bhooralal10, Sidramappa v. Rajashetty and others11, and Inbasegaran and another v. S. Natarajan (dead) through legal representatives12.