He did not bear any grudge towards them and had therefore no reason to implicate them falsely. Those who were in the constant company of Bahadur Singh after the assault, had also no reason to implicate the appellants falsely. They bore no ill-will or malice towards the appellants. We see no infi rmity attaching to the two dying declarations which would make it necessary to look out for corroboration.” 93. This Court in the case of Ram Bihari Yadav vs State of Bihar & Ors16, has discussed the law in paragraph 6 as follows: 16 (1998) 4 SCC 517 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “Para 6. The law relating to dying declaration - the relevancy, admissibility, and its probative value- is fairly settled. More often the expressions ‘relevancy and admissibility’ are used as synonyms but their legal implications are distinct and diff erent for more often than not facts which are relevant are not admissible; so also facts which are admissible may not be relevant, for example, questions permitted to be put in cross- examination to test the veracity or impeach the credit of witnesses, though not relevant are admissible. The probative value of the evidence is the weight to be given to it which has to be judged having regard to the facts and circumstances of each case. in this case, the thrust of the submission relates not to relevancy or admissibility but to the value to be given to Exh.2. A dying declaration made by a person who is dead as to cause of his death or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which cause of his death comes in question, is relevant under Section32 of the Evidence Act and is also admissible in evidence. Though dying declaration is indirect evidence being a specie of hearsay, yet it is an exception to the rule against admissibility of hearsay evidence. Indeed, it is substantive evidence and like any other substantive evidence requires no corroboration for forming basis of conviction of an accused. But then the question as to how much weight can be attached to a dying declaration is a question of fact and has to be determined on the facts of each case.” 94. We may usefully reproduce the relevant paragraphs of the judgement of this Court in the case of Suresh Chandra Jana vs. State of West Bengal and Ors., reported in (2017) 16 SCC 466, which reads as follows: “32.It would not be out of place to discuss the importance of dying declaration under Section 32 of the Evidence Act. The principle underlying Section 32 of the Evidence Act is ‘Nemo moriturus praesumitur mentire’ i.e., man will not meet his maker with a lie in his mouth. Dying declaration is one of the exceptions to the rule of hearsay. It is well settled that there is no absolute rule of law ‘that the dying declaration cannot form the sole basis of conviction unless it is corroborated’.