Thereafter, based on the pleadings, issues were framed. Obviously, the defendants did not adduce any evidence for the reasons best known to them. The suit came to be decreed thereafter. All the subsequent developments which G ultimately culminated in the impugned is discussed. Evidently the High Court observed that if the amendment of written statement was allowed at that stage, it would have necessitated framing of fresh issues and parties were to agitate their rights as if in a de novo trial. In the circumstances thus H 362 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A revealed from the materials on record and when such aspects and evidence were taken into account by the High Court to decline permission to amend the written statement, there is no reason or justification to interfere with it. [Para 14 & 15][377-A-E; 378- D-E; 379-B-E] B 1.3. In the wake of the admission by DW-1, the attempt to bring in new plea by amending the written statement that the second defendant (the deceased second appellant) had purchased the suit schedule property as per the sale deed dated 05.10.2000 has to be seen. Since admittedly and indisputably the suit from which the appeal arises was one based on possessory title, the C legality of the sale deed need not be gone into in this appeal and rightly has not been gone into by the High Court. Evidently, the High Court declined to act upon the same, in the light of the doctrine of lis pendens. Even if it is taken for granted that the provisions under Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act are D not applicable as such in the case on hand it cannot be disputed that the principle contained in the provision is applicable in the case on hand. It is a well-nigh settled position that wherever TP Act is not applicable, such principle in the said provision, which is based on justice, equity and good conscience is applicable in a given similar circumstance, like Court sale etc. Transfer of E possession pendente lite will also be transfer of property within the meaning of Section 52 and, therefore, the import of Section 52 is that if there is any transfer of right in immovable property during the pendency of a suit such transfer will be non est in the eye of law if it will adversely affect the interest of the other party F to the suit in the property concerned. The effect of Section 52 is that the right of the successful party in the litigation in regard to that property would not be affected by the alienation, but it does not mean that as against the transferor the transaction is invalid”. [Para 16][379-D-H; 380-A] G 1.4. The prohibition by application of the principles of the doctrine of lis pendens would take its effect with the institution of the suit. There is no hesitation to hold that the High Court was perfectly justified in the circumstances, to come to the conclusion, while considering the application for amendment of the written statement filed at the appellate stage, that granting the same H would have, in effect, necessitated framing of fresh issues and SHIVSHANKARA & ANR.