It is an Act to regulate the co-ordinated development of electricity. It is a special Act in regard to the subject of development of electricity, even as the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act is a special act in regard to the subject of conditions of service of workmen in industrial E establishments. If Section 79(c) of the Electricity Supply Act generally provides for the making of regulations providing for the conditions of service of the employees of the Board, it can only be regarded as a general provision which must yield to the special provisions of the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act in F respect of matters covered by the latter Act.” 286. Keeping the above principle in mind, it is necessary to examine the subject matter of SICA and the 2003 Act. Under SICA, the operating agency had to prepare a scheme with respect to a sick industrial company providing for financial reconstruction, proper management, amalgamation, and any other preventive, ameliorative, and remedial G measures. On the other hand, the 2003 Act is a consolidating law relating to generation, transmission, distribution, trading, and use of electricity. The 2003 Act relates specifically to supply of electricity to consumers, 105 (1978) 4 SCC 16 H 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A whereas SICA is silent on the aspects of the supply of electricity to consumers. The principal subject matter of SICA is to provide ameliorative measures for reconstruction of sick companies, while the purpose of the 2003 Act is development of the electricity industry. Thus, the purpose of the two enactments is entirely different. The 2003 Act is a later enactment, and Section 175 specifically provides that the provisions B of the Act are in addition and not in derogation of any other law for the time being in force, including the SICA. 287. In KSL & Industries Ltd v. Arihant Threads Ltd,106 a three-judge Bench of this Court was called upon to decide which enactment between the SICA and Recovery of Debts Due to Banks C and Financial Institutions Act, 1993107 would prevail over the other. The Court observed that although both the legislations are special laws in relation to their respective subject matters, SICA would prevail over the RDDB Act by virtue of the incorporation of a non-derogation clause in the latter. In the RDDB Act, Parliament had specifically provided that D the RDDB Act shall be in addition to and not in derogation of other laws mentioned therein including SICA: “49. The term “not in derogation” clearly expresses the intention of Parliament not to detract from or abrogate the provisions of SICA in any way. This, in effect must mean E that Parliament intended the proceedings under SICA for reconstruction of a sick company to go on and for that purpose further intended that all the other proceedings against the company and its properties should be stayed pending the process of reconstruction. While the term “proceedings” under Section 22 of SICA did not originally include F the RDDB Act, which was not there in existence Section 22 covers proceedings under the RDDB Act.” (emphasis supplied) 288.