visitor access to the Capitol Complex. The concern of A development on the North of Chandigarh and the peripheral areas around the Capitol Complex. 12. Redensification of pockets of Government Housing The concept of Redensification has not been recommended in the Master Plan. Instead pockets identified by the Expert B Heritage Committee have been recommended for Reutilisation if required. (see Chapter on Housing). 13. Prior Concept Approval for identified private and Government buildings with the principal objective to maintain a harmonious urban form of Chandigarh and in keeping with C its original concept, Prior Concept Approval of new buildings and/or additions-and- alterations in old ones of identified private and government properties has been recommended. Following are the parameters for imposing the regulation of prior concept approval:- D • Since many private buildings fall along important arteries, namely, V3s and V4s, constituting major part of Chandigarh’s urban imageability, there is an urgent needto regulate individualistic/idiosyncratic use of weird forms, senseless geometry, garish colours and E unaesthetic materials to preserve the original character of the city besides retaining sanity in architectural and urban designs. • The second criterion is the building’s architectural importance and the individual professional standing of the architects who constituted the foreign team of F architects. • The third parameter is the location of the building, which is crucial because an ill- designed structure can become an eyesore whereas a sensitive design that respects its architectural legacy would be a G landmark asset in many ways. • Similarly, the development/additions and alteration of green belts should be done sensitively and in the same spirit as that of the original plant. H 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A • Location of Mobile Towers is very important from the urban design point of view and as such, this too has been recommended for prior concept approval. 14. Constitution of the Chandigarh Heritage Conservation Committee. B 15. Restoration and preservation of building materials – Concrete & Brick buildings.” 75. Clause 19.11 of the CMP-2031 talks about the inclusion of Chandigarh in the UNESCO World Heritage List due to its outstanding universal value. It will be relevant to refer to the said recommendations, C which are thus: “19.11 INCLUSION OF CHANDIGARH IN THE UNESCO WORLD HERITAGE LIST DUE TO ITS OUTSTANDING UNIVERSAL VALUE RECOMMENDATION OF THE MASTER PLAN D COMMITTEE It has been perceived that Chandigarh’s inscription on World heritage list would bring many benefits as the city would join a select list of other modern movement cities/urban areas currently inscribed on the UNESCO’s heritage list. E A UNESCO heritage status shall bring about a boost to domestic and international tourism and related benefits to the city’s economy and build public awareness about the values of Chandigarh’s unique modern heritage. It will not only ensure protection of significant heritage F buildings and areas from neglect, willful destruction, defacement, inappropriate alterations but will also provide for preparation of a comprehensive urban development plan which respects international heritage conservation criteria, is environmentally sustainable and also handles the future developmental needs of the city.