02/2006 and the benefi t of the assessment in terms of Section 4A was no more available for the product ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ or in other words the manufacturers of ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ were required to be assessed under Section 4 of CE Act. On account of this there was a huge gap in the central excise duty leviable under Section 4 of the CE Act, which would obviously be the heartburn for the taxpayers which resulted in the above-noticed tug of war between the Revenue and the assessee, wherein the assessee contended the products manufactured by it though scented or fl avoured still continued to be ‘chewing tobacco’ 612 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. and it did not partake the character of the ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’. For fi nding an answer to this question, apart from the fi nding recorded in M/s Urmin Products Private Limited’s case, we deem it appropriate to note that the general rules for the interpretation of the goods are traceable to provisions of the CETA under the chapter heading “general rules for the interpretation this schedule”. Presuming for a moment that where goods are prima facie classifi able under two or more headings (by accepting the proposition of the assessee) it raises a serious doubt with regard to the classifi cation of the product. In such circumstances, section 2 of the CETA, 1985 provides that the rates at which duties of excise shall be leviable under the CE Act, are specifi ed in the fi rst and second schedules. The fi rst schedule contains a set of rules known as “general rules for the interpretation of this schedule”. These rules begin with a mandate that the classifi cation of goods in this schedule shall be governed by the following principles laid thereunder. This rule had received interpretation of this Court in the matter of Westinghouse Saxby Farmer Ltd. v. Commissioner of Central Excise, Calcutta, (2021) 5 SCC 586 whereunder it came to be held as follows: “26. Rule 1 of these Rules makes it clear that “the titles of Sections, Chapters and Sub-Chapters are provided for ease of reference only and that for legal purposes, classifi cation shall be determined according to the terms of the headings and any relative Section or Chapter Notes and provided such headings or Notes do not otherwise require, according to the provisions of the rules that follow”. 27. Rule 2 deals with (i) incomplete or unfi nished articles; and (ii) mixtures or combinations of material or substance. While Rule 2(a) deals with incomplete or unfi nished Articles, Rule 2(b) deals with mixtures or combinations of a material or substance. 28. Rule 3 deals with cases where goods are classifi able under two or more sub-headings. But Rule 3 begins with a reference to Rule 2(b). Therefore, it is necessary to extract Rule 2(b) and Rule 3 together. They read as follows: “2. (a)*** (b) Any reference in a heading to a material or substance shall be taken to include a reference to mixtures or combinations of that material or COMMR.