Those CDs cannot be admitted in evidence since the mandatory requirements of Section 65-B of the Evidence Act are not satisfi ed. It is clarifi ed that notwithstanding what we have stated herein in the preceding paragraphs on the secondary evidence of electronic record with reference to Sections 59, 65-A and 65-B of the Evidence Act, if an electronic record as such is used as primary evidence under Section 62 of the Evidence Act, the same is admissible in evidence, without compliance with the conditions in Section 65-B of the Evidence Act.” (Emphasis added) 9. The aforesaid issue was subsequently considered by this Court in Arjun Panditrao Khotkar’s case (supra). It was opined that there is a diff erence between the original information contained in a computer itself and the copies made therefrom. The former is primary evidence and the latter is secondary one. The certifi cate under Section 65-B of the Act is 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. unnecessary when the original document (i.e., primary evidence) itself is produced. Relevant paragraph ‘33’ thereof is extracted below: “33. The non obstante clause in sub-section (1) makes it clear that when it comes to information contained in an electronic record, admissibility and proof thereof must follow the drill of Section 65- B, which is a special provision in this behalf — Sections 62 to 65 being irrelevant for this purpose. However, Section 65-B(1) clearly diff erentiates between the “original” document — which would be the original “electronic record” contained in the “computer” in which the original information is fi rst stored — and the computer output containing such information, which then may be treated as evidence of the contents of the “original” document. All this necessarily shows that Section 65-B diff erentiates between the original information contained in the “computer” itself and copies made therefrom — the former being primary evidence, and the latter being secondary evidence.” (Emphasis added) 10. In State of Karnataka v. M.R. Hiremath, 2019(7) SCC 515, this Court after referring to the earlier in Anwar’a case (supra) held that the non-production of the Certifi cate under Section 65B of the Act is a curable defect. Relevant paragraph ‘16’ thereof is extracted below: “16. The same view has been reiterated by a two-Judge Bench of this Court in Union of India v. Ravindra V. Desai, (2018) 16 SCC 273. The Court emphasised that non-production of a certifi cate under Section 65-B on an earlier occasion is a curable defect. The Court relied upon the earlier decision in Sonu v. State of Haryana, (2017) 8 SCC 570 in which it was held: ‘32. … The crucial test, as affi rmed by this Court, is whether the defect could have been cured at the stage of marking the document. Applying this test to the present case, if an objection was taken to the CDRs being marked without a certifi cate, the court could have given the prosecution an opportunity to rectify the defi ciency.’ (Emphasis added) STATE OF KARNATAKA v. T. NASEER @ NASIR @ THANDIANTAVIDA 237 NASEER @ UMARHAZI @ HAZI [RAJESH BINDAL, J.]