Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 – s. 17A – Prior Approval of Investigation – Requirement of – The First Proviso to S. 17A D states that such approval is not necessary in cases involving arrest of the person on the spot on the charges of accepting undue advantage – Also, a prior approval or sanction to investigate such an officer in a trap case is likely to defeat the very purpose of trap and the investigation, which is not the underlying intention of the legislature. E Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 438 – Cancellation of Bail – Cancellation of bail must be done only for cogent and overwhelming reasons – All that to be ensured is that the High Court exercises its discretion judiciously, cautiously and strictly in conformity with the basic principles laid down by the Supreme Court F from time to time in series of decisions. Disposing of the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. The manner in which Respondent No. 1 forcefully evaded his arrest with the help of his colleagues and got the evidence destroyed, is a strong circumstance to indicate his G complicity at this stage though a clear picture would emerge only on completion of investigation. [Para 30][494-H; 495-A] 2. The nature and gravity of the alleged offence should have been kept in mind by the High Court. Corruption poses a serious H 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A threat to our society and must be dealt with iron hands. It not only leads to abysmal loss to the public exchequer but also tramples good governance. The common man stands deprived of the benefits percolating under social welfare schemes and is the worst hit. [Para 31][495-B-C] B 3. From the material placed on record, it seems that prima facie, the allegations against Respondent No. 1 cannot be brushed aside lightly at this stage. There appears to be a well-organised syndicate comprising officers and officials of the Income Tax Department, businessmen and Hawala traders, who are in tandem. Such a nexus needs to be unearthed through an unimpaired and C unobstructed investigation. [Para 32][495-C-D] 3. Section 17A merely contemplates that police officers shall not conduct any enquiry, inquiry or investigation into any offence alleged to have been committed by a public servant where the alleged offence is relatable to any recommendation made or D decision taken in discharge of official functions or duties, without the previous approval of the competent authority. The first proviso to the section states that such approval is not necessary in cases involving arrest of the person on the spot on the charges of accepting undue advantage. As may be seen, the first proviso to E Section 17A refers to cases wherein a public servant is charged with acceptance of an undue advantage or attempt thereof. A prior approval or sanction to investigate such an officer in a trap case is likely to defeat the very purpose of trap and the investigation, which is not the underlying intention of the legislature.