E 15. The Appellant’s contention about the valuation of the Corporate Debtor of 1600 crores is unsupported by any evidence. The fact remains that the Resolution Plan amount has arrived after following the procedure prescribed under the Code and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder (emphasis supplied) F 83. Thus, the Hon’ble NCLAT also has rendered a finding that the Resolution Plan amount has been arrived at after following the procedure prescribed under the Code and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder. G 84. Hence for reasoning stated supra, this Adjudicating Authority finds that there was no error committed by the IRP / RP in so far as appointing the registered valuers in relation to the Corporate Debtor, nor there was any error on the valuation being submitted by those Registered valuers and as a consequence thereof, the objections as raised by all the objectors in relation to the valuation H 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of the Corporate Debtor are overruled. Accordingly, MA/13/CHE/ 2021 stands dismissed.” 15.2. As regards the question of non-consideration of the proposal given under Section 12-A IBC by the promoter, the Adjudicating Authority referred to the proposition made by another erstwhile promoter of the B corporate debtor which was considered by CoC in its ninth meeting and it was found that even the original applicant of CIRP, i.e., TFIC was kept in dark about such a proposal. It was also noticed that even the proposal with the term sheet from Deutsche Bank came with a disclaimer. The Adjudicating Authority formed the opinion that such a proposal had only been of dilatory tactics and was mooted only at the eleventh hour to C stall the resolution plan. Thus, the allegations of promoter about non- consideration of Section 12-A application were found meritless and were rejected. The Adjudicating Authority observed and held in this regard as under: - “(II) ON NON-CONSIDERATION OF SEC.12A D APPLICATION: - 85. The Learned Senior Counsel Mr. P.S. Raman, appearing on behalf of the erstwhile Promoter I Director of the Corporate Debtor contended that the Resolution Professional and the CoC has not considered the proposal as given under Section 12A of IBC, 2016. E In this regard, it is pertinent to refer to certain communications that exchanged between the parties in relation to the same. In the 9th CoC meeting wherein the Resolution Plan was about to be put for vote, the erstwhile promoter of the Corporate Debtor Mr. Senni Malai, requested the RP to consider an application filed under section 12A of IBC, 2016. The record of the minutes as found in F the 9th CoC meeting is extracted hereunder; “ ....... As the Resolution Plan agenda was about to be put up for voting, Mr. Senni Malai, MD of the CD and Mr. Kaliannan representing the CD, requested the RP about a Sec 12 A, Application for withdrawal request letter, prepared by them G and circulated to the CoC about two hours before this meeting. RP Informed them, that discussions on that can’t be part of this agenda as that has not come from the Applicant and it was not part of the agenda for this meeting.