D E F G H 1060 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1061 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] A B C D 13. From the narration of the facts, in the aforesaid table, it is evident that the respondents including their predecessors-in-interest have E been sleeping over their rights for decades. The process for finalisation of record of rights must have been started much prior to 1962, as final publication of rights was made at that time. It was stated before the learned Single Bench, that the objections were filed before finalization of the record of rights. If those objections were not considered at the F time of final publication of record of rights in terms of Section 12-B of the 1958 Act, the appropriate remedy was to file an application before the Board of Revenue within one year of the final publication of record of rights under Section 12-B of the 1958 Act. 14. The record of rights was finalised way back in the year G 1962. It was admitted by the respondents that a part of the same plot number, regarding which issue has been raised with reference to its allotment to the Reserve Bank of India by the GAD, is in possession of the respondents. Meaning thereby that when the record of rights was prepared, the respondents had enough knowledge of the fact that there is some error in the same. The claim is that the status of the property H 1062 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A in possession of the respondents was stitiban property and their predecessors-in interest were in possession thereof. It was claimed that there was no reason for its transfer in the name of Forest Department. 15. Twenty-eight years after the finalisation of record of rights, B an appeal was filed before the Settlement Officer, which was not maintainable as that stage had been crossed. As the land was recorded in the name of Forest Department, notice was issued to the Forest Department. The Settlement Appeal was disposed of on 1.3.1990. It was noticed in the that the changed identity number of part of land was plot number 1506/1, a part of which had already been given to the C Reserve Bank of India for construction of staff quarters and the quarters had been constructed thereon. It was observed in the that in case the same is stitiban plot, the appellant before the Settlement Officer could raise a claim with the GAD. The prayer before the Settlement Officer to record their names against plot number 1506 was declined. D 16. Thereafter, the respondents slept over the matter for more than a decade. After 13 years, a civil suit was filed in the year 2003. Even at the time of filing of the civil suit i.e., 13 years after the disposal of the appeal by the Settlement Officer and more than four decades after the record of rights was finalised, the respondents did not challenge E the final record of rights.