However, a particular doctrine or legal standard ought not to be borrowed blindly. The fi rst and foremost authority is the Constitution or any law in India. An appropriate tool of interpretation must be used to discern the law as laid down by the Constitution or by any statute, rule, or regulation. This precept applies with equal force to the question of judicial review in India. Judicial review has to be conscious of our own social and cultural milieu and its diversity. 74. Parliament being sovereign in England, the courts of England do not have the power to strike down a statute as being contrary to its basic law. This status of aff airs cannot, of course, be superimposed on the relationship between our legislative bodies and courts. In Powers, Privileges and Immunities of State Legislatures, In re (supra), this Court held that the Constitution is supreme and sovereign in India and that legislative bodies in India are not sovereign in the same way as Parliament is in England. Hence, 129 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the limitations which apply to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom while it conducts judicial review do not apply to this Court. Similarly, the restrictions on judicial review in the United States of America cannot be imported without any regard to our Constitution. 75. The Union of India relied on various decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States of America including the decisions in Day-Brite Lighting Inc. v. Missouri74 and the dissenting opinion of Oliver Wendell Holmes, J. in Lochner v. New York75 for the proposition that this Court would be in danger of becoming a “super legislature” if it decided the issues which arise in the present proceedings. This argument misses the crux of the matter. The Supreme Court of the United States of America established its power of judicial review in Marbury v. Madison.76 The text of the US Constitution does not vest their courts with this power, unlike in India. The Constitution of India expressly authorises judicial review. While doing this the Constitution confers broad powers on this Court as discussed in the previous segment of this . This being the case, it is injudicious to borrow from the jurisprudence of the US on judicial review, its boundaries, legitimacy, and the type of cases which warrant deference to legislative bodies. In State of Madras v. V.G. Row,77 a Constitution Bench of this Court held: “20. …we think it right to point out, what is sometimes overlooked, that our Constitution contains express provisions for judicial review of legislation as to its conformity with the Constitution, unlike as in America where the Supreme Court has assumed extensive powers of reviewing legislative Acts … If, then, the courts in this country face up to such important and none too easy task, it is not out of any desire to tilt at legislative authority in a crusader’s spirit, but in discharge of a duty plainly laid upon them by the Constitution.” Similarly, in Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras,78 this Court held that there was no remedy in the US which was analogous to the one 74 342 US 421 (1952) 75 198 US 45 (1905) 76 5 US 137 (1803) 77 (1952) 1 SCC 410 78 1950 SCC 436 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.