Therefore, while dealing with Khumalo (supra), the Constitutional Court of South Africa applied the Final Constitution, F as it had come into force by then. What is relevant for our purpose is the opinion of the Constitutional Court in paragraph 33 which dealt with the enforcement of the rights against non-State actors. Paragraph 33 reads thus: “[33] In this case, the applicants are members of the media G who are expressly identified as bearers of constitutional rights to freedom of expression. There can be no doubt that the law of defamation does affect the right to freedom of expression. Given the intensity of the constitutional right in question, coupled with the potential invasion of that right which could H 60 (2002) ZACC 12 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 659 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] be occasioned by persons other than the state or organs of A state, it is clear that the right to freedom of expression is of direct horizontal application in this case as contemplated by section 8(2) of the Constitution. The first question we need then to determine is whether the common law of defamation unjustifiably limits that right. If it does, it will be necessary to B develop the common law in the manner contemplated by section 8(3) of the Constitution.” 65. The horizontal effect was taken to another extreme by the Constitutional Court of South Africa in Governing Body of the Juma Musjid Primary School & Others vs. Essay N.O. and Others61 wherein C it was held that an eviction obtained by the owner of a private land on which a public school was located, could not be enforced as it would impact the students’ right to basic education and the best interests of the child under the South African Constitution (Sections 28 and 29). The Court held that a private landowner and non-State actor has a Constitutional obligation not to impair the right to basic education under D Section 29 of the Constitution. The relevant portion reads thus: “[57] In to determine whether the right to a basic education in terms of section 29(1)(a) binds the Trust, section 8(2) requires that the nature of the right of the learners to a basic education and the duty imposed by that right be taken into account. From the E discussion in the previous paragraphs of the general nature of the right and the MEC’s obligation in relation to it, the form of the duty that the right to a basic education imposed on the Trustees emerges. It is clear that there is no primary positive obligation on the Trust to provide basic education to the learners. That primary F positive obligation rests on the MEC. There was also no obligation on the Trust to make its property available to the MEC for use as a public school. A private landowner may do so, however, in accordance with section 14(1) of the Act which provides that a public school may be provided on private property only in terms of an agreement between the MEC and the owner of the property.