4.1 It is submitted that before the High Court the Revenue heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra) which was subsequent to the decision of the Bombay High G Court in the case of Bajaj Auto Ltd (supra). It is submitted that therefore, the decision of this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra) was binding on the High Court. It is submitted that as such the impugned passed by the High Court is silent on the reasoning H 894 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A as to why the reliance placed by the Revenue on the decision of this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra) was misplaced. 4.2 It is submitted by Ms. Bhati, learned ASG that in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra), this Court has specifically observed and held that Sections 35E and 11A of the Central Excise Act operate in B different fields and are invoked for different purposes. It is submitted that it is observed that different time limits are, therefore, set out therein. It is submitted that in the said decision this Court has not accepted the submission on behalf of the assessee that the recovery of the excise duty cannot be made pursuant to an appeal filed after invoking the provisions of Section 35E if the time limit provided in Section 11A has C expired. It is observed to so read the provisions would be to render Section 35E virtually ineffective, which would be impermissible. It is submitted that therefore the present case as such is clearly covered by the decision of this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra). D 4.3 It is further submitted by Ms. Bhati, learned ASG that even otherwise from the Scheme of the Central Excise Act, 1944, it is quite apparent that where the proceedings under Section 35E are initiated and the appeal is filed against the sanctioning refund, there is no need to issue any notice under Section 11A. It is submitted that a notice under E Section 11A would be meaningless with a review under Section 35E, of the sanctioning the refund. It is submitted by the interpretation given by the Revenue affirmed by the High Court that without notice under Section 11A, amount becoming due to proceeding under Section 35E cannot be recovered, renders Section 35E ineffective and redundant. It is submitted that therefore, the correct position of law has been laid F down by this Court in the case of Asian Paints (India) Ltd. (supra) which has been subsequently followed by the Chennai Bench of the Tribunal in the case of CCE, Chennai vs. Sha Harakchand Samanthmal, 2004 (177) ELT 990 (T). 4.4 It is further submitted by Ms. Bhati, learned ASG that as such G the Tribunal has not at all considered the grounds on merits against the passed by the O-I-O that the assessee shall be entitled to refund or not.