(1) Subject to the provisions hereinbefore contained, no fi nding, sentence or passed by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be reversed or altered by a court of appeal, confi rmation or revision on account of any error, omission or irregularity in the complaint, summons, warrant, proclamation, , or other proceedings before or during trial or in any enquiry or other proceedings under this Code, or any error, or 2 (2001) 7 SCC 679 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. irregularity in any sanction for the prosecution, unless in the opinion of that court, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby.” 15. A reading of the section makes it clear that the error, omission or irregularity in the proceedings held before or during the trial or in any enquiry were reckoned by the legislature as possible occurrences in criminal courts. Yet the legislature disfavoured axing down the proceedings or to direct repetition of the whole proceedings afresh. Hence, the legislature imposed a prohibition that unless such error, omission or irregularity has occasioned “a failure of justice” the superior court shall not quash the proceedings merely on the ground of such error, omission or irregularity. 16. What is meant by “a failure of justice” occasioned on account of such error, omission or irregularity? This Court has observed in Shamnsaheb M. Multtani v. State of Karnataka [(2001) 2 SCC 577: 2001 SCC (Cri) 358] thus: (SCC p. 585, para 23) “23. We often hear about ‘failure of justice’ and quite often the submission in a criminal court is accentuated with the said expression. Perhaps it is too pliable or facile an expression which could be fi tted in any situation of a case. The expression ‘failure of justice’ would appear, sometimes, as an etymological chameleon (the simile is borrowed from Lord Diplock in Town Investments Ltd. v. Deptt. of the Environment [(1977) 1 All ER 813 : 1978 AC 359 : (1977) 2 WLR 450 (HL)] ). The criminal court, particularly the superior court should make a close examination to ascertain whether there was really a failure of justice or whether it is only a camoufl age.” 14. In the instant case, the Special Judge proceeded with the trial, on the second application for discharge fi led by the respondent having not been pressed for by him. The Special Judge, while dismissing the third application fi led by the respondent seeking discharge after examination of 17 witnesses by the prosecution, specifi cally held that the sanction accorded by the government which was a superior authority to the Karnataka Water Supply Board, of which the respondent was an employee, was proper and valid. Such fi ndings recorded by the Special Judge could not have been and should not have been reversed or altered by the High Court in the petition fi led by the respondent challenging the said of the Special Judge, in view of the specifi c bar contained in sub- section (3) of Section 19, and that too without recording any opinion as to how STATE OF KARNATAKA LOKAYUKTA POLICE v. 33 S. SUBBEGOWDA [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.]