46. The question as to whether a Manager of Nationalised Bank can claim benefi t of Section 197 of the CrPC is not resintegra. This Court in K. Ch. Prasad v. Smt. J. Vanalatha Devi and Others reported in (1987) 2 SCC 52, had the occasion to consider the very same question in reference to one who claimed to be a public servant working in a Nationalised Bank. The application fi led by the appellant therein questioned the maintainability of the prosecution for want of sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC, was A. SREENIVASA REDDY v. RAKESH SHARMA AND ANR. 951 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] rejected by the Metropolitan Magistrate and revision to the High Court also met the same fate. This Court, while dismissing the appeal held that though a person working in a Nationalised Bank is a public servant, the provisions of Section 197 are not attracted at all. In para 6 of the , following has been held : (SCC p. 54) “6. It is very clear from this provision that this section is attracted only in cases where the public servant is such who is not removable from his offi ce save by or with the sanction of the Government. It is not disputed that the appellant is not holding a post where he could not be removed from service except by or with the sanction of the government. In this view of the matter even if it is held that the appellant is a public servant still provisions of Section 197 are not attracted at all.” (Emphasis supplied) 47. The aforesaid decision of this Court in K. Ch. Prasad (supra) has been quoted with approval in a later decision in the case of S.K. Miglani (supra). In this case, the appellant was working as a Manager in the Bank of Baroda, Faridabad Branch. A complaint in writing was lodged by the Director, Housing against the appellant. On the strength of the said complaint, the Kotla Mubarakpur Police Station registered a First Information Report for the off ences under Sections 201, 409, 419, 420, 467, 468, 471 and 120-B respectively of the IPC. It was the case of the prosecution that the appellant therein and another co-accused in collusion with each other acted on a fake request of original allottee for cost reduction of a fl at from Rs. 10.66 lakh to Rs. 7.77 lakh with the approval of the competent authority. Many other allegations were levelled in the said FIR. Upon completion of the investigation, chargesheet was submitted. The appellant fi led an application before the ACMM, Saket Court, New Delhi in the FIR referred to above, stating that he being a public servant employed with the Nationlised Bank as a Manager, it was mandatory to seek sanction against him in terms of Section 197 of the CrPC. 48. It was argued before the Court that he may be discharged on account of non-compliance under Section 197 of the CrPC. The Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (South), Saket Court rejected the application fi led by the appellant therein, seeking discharge for want of sanction.