The other members of the cadre (appellants) had raised objections to this. 55. Then the case took a new turn. Without there being any amendment in the Rules, fi rstly the post of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) was declared ex-cadre on 20.04.2007 and secondly, the NPA granted to the respondent No. 4, though he was not practising as a doctor, which was withdrawn on 26.07.2017. Though the appellants had not got any relief either from the Tribunal or the High Court, but still there was a sword hanging on the head of the respondent No. 4 on account of getting undue benefi t. Firstly, the post of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) was re-designated as Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) vide dated 26.08.2013 and thereafter, Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) DR. P.N. SHUKLA AND OTHERS v. UNION OF INDIA AND 915 OTHERS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] Rules, 2014 were framed for a single post of Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) in CSTT. There is no document referred to from the record that the respondent No. 4 was ever appointed as a Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) in terms of the Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014, which provided only direct recruitment as a mode of recruitment. Even the stand taken by the Government in the Original Application fi led by the respondent No. 4 before the Tribunal challenging the withdrawal of NPA was that the post under the Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014 could be fi lled by way of direct recruitment only. It was the specifi c stand of the Government that Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014 are not applicable to respondent No. 4. It is so evident from the passed by the Tribunal. 56. If the Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014 are not applicable to the respondent No. 4, the post of the respondent No. 4 with the notifi cation of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014 goes in vacuum, as this subject is not mentioned in the Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine) Rules, 2014. As a result, he may be governed by the 1980 Rules. There was nothing pointed out or referred to at the time of the hearing regarding promotional avenues from the post of Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine). 57. From the facts, as have been noticed above, in our opinion, the authorities were hand in gloves with the respondent No. 4 to somehow grant him a higher pay scale and repeatedly action was taken in that direction. If governed by the same set of Rules, a single post of the same cadre could not have been isolated and granted a higher pay scale by merely considering the qualifi cations prescribed for the post. There was no challenge laid down by the respondent No. 4 to the Rules under which he was recruited. He had accepted his appointment letter under the 1980 Rules and had joined service accordingly.