1026 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P SO.RCT.RS. 1026 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA LTD. (Civil Appeal No. 375 of 2017) B MARCH 17, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND SUDHANSHU DHULIA, JJ.] Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 – ss.18, 19 – Approval of a scheme by the BIFR under the 1985 Act, unsecured creditor if has the option not to accept the scaled down C value of its dues – Held: No – Rehabilitation scheme u/s.18 shall bind all the creditors including the unsecured creditors and the unsecured creditors have to accept the scaled down value of its dues provided under the rehabilitation scheme – To make the company viable, the concerned persons including the unsecured D creditors have to sacrifice to some extent otherwise the revival efforts shall fail – Looking to the object and purpose of the SICA, 1985 and the provisions of ss.18 and 19, the word “creditors” shall have to be construed in a broad manner and is not required to be construed narrowly – Creditors include unsecured creditors – Thus, if the scheme binds the creditors, including other creditors like E financial institutions etc., who may have a better claim than the unsecured creditors, there is no reason to treat the unsecured creditors separately and not to treat them as creditors – Minority creditors and that too some unsecured creditors cannot be permitted to stall the rehabilitation of the sick company by not accepting the F scaled down value of its dues – View taken by the Delhi High Court in Continental Carbon India Ltd. case that on approval of a scheme by the BIFR, the unsecured creditor has an option not to accept the scaling down value of its dues and to wait till the rehabilitation scheme of the sick company has worked itself out with an option to recover the debt with interest post such rehabilitation, is erroneous G and contrary to the scheme of SICA, 1985 and is set aside. Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 – Scheme of the Act – Discussed – Constitution of India – Article 39. Constitution of India – Article 300A – Plea of the unsecured H creditors that to compel them to accept the scaled down value of its 1026 MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1027 LTD. dues would be violative of Article 300A – Held: Has no substance – A Scaling down the value of the dues is under the rehabilitation scheme prepared u/s.18 of the SICA, which has a binding effect on all the creditors – It cannot be said to be violative of Article 300A – Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985 – s.18. Disposing of the appeals, the Court B HELD: 1.1 The SICA, 1985 basically and predominantly is a remedial and ameliorative enactment, insofar as it empowers a quasi-judicial Body - BIFR to take appropriate measures for revival and rehabilitation of the potentially viable sick industrial companies as quickly as possible and also to salvage the C productive assets and realise the amounts due to the banks and financial institutions, to the extent possible, from the non-viable sick industrial companies through liquidation of those companies.