On the same day, the Governor G issued a communication to Mr. Shinde inviting him to take oath as the Chief Minister and requesting him to prove that he enjoyed the confidence of the Assembly within a period of seven days of taking over as the Chief Minister. H 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 19. The Governor administered the oath of office to Mr. Shinde and Mr. Fadnavis on 30 June 2022 and they assumed the roles of Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister of Maharashtra, respectively. On the same day, Mr. Thackeray issued a letter to Mr. Shinde stating that he had been removed from the post of ‘Shiv Sena Leader’ in the organisational structure of the party. Mr. Thackeray similarly removed B other MLAs of the Shiv Sena from their roles as office-bearers of the party. ii. The election of the Speaker 20. Later that week, the Principal Secretary of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly circulated the working for the session which C was scheduled to take place on 3 July 2022. The fifth item on the agenda reflected that the election for the post of the Speaker was to be conducted. An MLA belonging to the BJP nominated Mr. Rahul Narwekar of the BJP for this position while an MLA of the Shiv Sena (ostensibly from Mr.Thackeray’s faction) nominated Mr. Rajan Salvi of the Shiv Sena. D Further, a motion of confidence for the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister, Mr. Shinde, was scheduled to be moved in a session of the Assembly on 4 July 2022. 21. In view of the agenda for the sessions of the Assembly, Mr. Sunil Prabhu issued two whips on 2 July 2022. The first whip directed all E MLAs of the Shiv Sena to attend the session of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on 4 July 2022 and vote against the motion of confidence for the Council of Ministers headed by the Chief Minister, Mr. Shinde. The second whip directed all MLAs of the Shiv Sena to attend the session of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly on 3 July 2022 and vote for the Shiv Sena’s candidate, Mr. Rajan Salvi, in the F election for the post of the Speaker. 22. The election for the post of the Speaker was conducted as scheduled and Mr. Rahul Narwekar of the BJP emerged victorious, with a total of one hundred and sixty-four votes cast in his favour. Thirty-nine MLAs of the Shiv Sena (led by Mr. Shinde) voted in favour of Mr. G Rahul Narwekar’s candidature. Consequently, Mr. Sunil Prabhu instituted fresh disqualification proceedings against these MLAs under Paragraph 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution for violating the whip issued by him. H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 877 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 23. After assuming office as the Speaker of the House, Mr. Rahul A Narwekar cancelled the approval granted to Mr. Ajay Choudhari as the Leader of the SSLP and approved the appointment of Mr. Eknath Shinde in his place.