(2) Every notifi cation made under this section shall, as soon as may be after it is made, be laid before each House of the State Legislature, while it is in session, for a total period of not less than fourteen days, extending in its one session or more than one successive sessions; and shall, unless some later date is appointed, take eff ect from the 110 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. date of its publication in the Gazette subject to such modifi cations or annulments as the two Houses of the Legislature may during the said period agree to make, so, however, that any such modifi cation or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done thereunder except that any imposition, assessment, levy or collection of tax or penalty shall be subject to the said modifi cation or annulment. (3) Where the State Government has declared any point or rate at which the tax payable by a dealer under the Act be levied under clause (b), clause (c), clause (c-1), clause (d) or clause (e) of sub- section (1) as existed immediately before the commencement of the Uttar Pradesh Trade Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 2000 and such declaration in force on such commencement, such rate or point of tax shall continue to be in force after such commencement, until modifi ed or rescinded.” 14. A perusal of sub-section (1) of Section 3-A would indicate that the tax payable by the dealer under the Act shall be levied under clause (a) on the turnover in respect of “declared goods”, at the point of sale to the consumer at the maximum rate for the time being specifi ed in Section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, or where the State Government, by notifi cation, declares any other single point or a lesser rate, at such other point or at such lesser rate; under clause (b) on the turnover in respect of such goods, other than the goods referred to in clause (a), at such point and at such rate, not exceeding fi fty per cent, as the State Government may, by notifi cation, declare, and diff erent points and diff erent rates may be declared in respect of diff erent goods; under clause (c) on the turnover in respect of goods, other than those referred to in clause (a) or clause (b), at the point of sale by manufacturer or importer @10 percent. 15. The Notifi cation No. ST-2-5784/X-10(1)-80 dated 7/9/1981 issued in exercise of the power conferred under clause(d) of Sub-section (1) of Section 3A of the Act specifi es that under Entry No. 4 reads as under: “4. All goods and glass wares made of glass but not including plain glass panes optical lenses, hurricane lantern, chimneys bottles and phials, glass beads, clinical syringes, Therma Meters and scientifi c apparatus and instruments made of glass.” M/S TRIVENI GLASS LIMITED REP. BY ITS DEPUTY 1105 GENERAL MANAGER (SALES AND P.R.) SHRI R.K. SINHA v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, U.P.