18. The facts and circumstances of the present case may now be examined in the light of the principle discussed above. The trial court and also the High Court have recorded a clear fi nding and with which we are in complete agreement, that the accused had started making a demand of dowry soon after marriage. Even after his father-in-law had PARANAGOUDA AND ANOTHER v. THE STATE OF 941 KARNATAKA AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] given him a colour TV, a scooter and money for purchasing the fl at, he did not feel satisfi ed and continued to harass his wife. He used to frequently taunt her that some of the items given by way of gift at the time of marriage were of poor quality and were not of his standard. He had also assaulted his wife and even his seven-year-old daughter on several occasions. It was in such circumstances that Vimla took the extreme step of not only setting herself on fi re, but also her two daughters, one of whom was only one-year old. The letter written by Vimla just before taking such an extreme step speaks volumes about the treatment meted out to her by the accused. Therefore, the basic ingredients of the off ence under Section 306 IPC have been established by the prosecution. These features of the prosecution case were sought to be established by the prosecution in to substantiate the charge under Section 498-A IPC and also for showing that the accused had a motive to commit the crime of murder for which he was actually charged. The cross-examination of the witnesses shows that every eff ort was made to demolish the aforesaid aspect of the prosecution case, namely, that neither was any demand of dowry made nor were any gifts or presents or money received by the accused at a subsequent stage and that Vimla had not been subjected to any kind of harassment or ill-treatment. The next question to be seen is whether the accused was confronted with the aforesaid features of the prosecution case in his statement under Section 313 CrPC. His statement runs into six pages where every aspect of the prosecution case referred to above was put to him. He also gave a long written statement in accordance with Section 233(2) CrPC wherein he admitted that Vimla committed suicide. He also admitted that the scooter and colour TV were subsequently given to him by his in-laws but came out with a plea that he had paid money and purchased the same from his in-laws. There is no aspect of the prosecution which may not have been put to him. We are, therefore, of the opinion that in view of the material on record, the conviction under Section 306 IPC can safely be recorded and the same would not result in failure of justice in any manner. The record shows that the accused was taken into custody on 29-3-1991 and was released from jail after the decision of the High Court on 20-3-1997 and thus he has undergone nearly six years of imprisonment.