(ii)Whether a nominee of a holder of shares or securities on the basis of the nomination made under the provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 read with the Byel aws under the Depositories Act, 1996 is entitled to all rights in respect of the shares or securities subject matter of nomination to the exclusion of all other persons or whether he continues to hold the securities in trust and in a capacity as a benefi ciary for the legal representatives who are entitled to inherit securitie or shares under the law of inheritance? (iii) Whether a bequest made in a Will executed in accordance with the Inidan Succession Act, 1925 in respect of shares or securities of the deceased supersedes the nomination made under the provisiosn of Sections 109A and Bye Law No. 9.11 framed under the Depositories Act, 1996?” 11. To appreciate the precise ratio in Kokate (supra), the following two paragraphs of the Kokate were extracted by the Division Bench: “24. In the light of these s section 109A of the Companies Act is required to be interpreted with regard to the vesting of the shares of the holder of the shares in the nominee upon his death. The act sets out that the nomination has to be made during the life time of the holder as per procedure prescribed by law. If that procedure is followed, the nominee would become entitled to all the rights in the shares to the exclusion of all other persons. The nominee would be made benefi cial owner thereof. Upon such nomination, therefore, all SHAKTI YEZDANI & ANR. v. JAYANAND JAYANT 703 SALGAONKAR & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] the rights incidental to ownership would follow. This would include the right to transfer the shares, pledge the shares or hold the shares. The specifi c statutory provision making the nominee entitled to all the rights in the shares excluding all other persons would show expressly the legislative intent. Once all other persons are excluded and only the nominee becomes entitled under the statutory provision to have all the rights in the shares, none other can have it. Further, section 9.11 of the Depositories Act 1996 makes the nominee’s position superior to even a testamentary disposition. The non-obstante Clause in section 9.11.7 gives the nomination the eff ect of the Testamentary Disposition itself. Hence, any other disposition or nomination under any other law stands subject to the nomination made under the Depositories Act. Section 9.11.7 further shows that the last of the nominations would prevail. This shows the revocable nature of the nomination much like a Testamentary Disposition. A nomination can be cancelled by the holder and another nomination can be made. Such later nomination would be relied upon by the Depository Participant. That would be for conferring of all the rights in the shares to such last nominee. 25. A reading of section 109A of the Companies Act and bye-law 9.11 of the Depositories Act makes it abundantly clear that the intent of the nomination is to vest the property in the shares which includes the ownership rights thereunder in the nominee upon nomination validly made as per the procedure prescribed, as has been done in this case.