substance referred to in that sub-section with any liquor or intoxicating drug shall be on him” (Emphasis supplied) 43. This Court extensively dealt with Section 57(A)(1) of the Abkari Act in Chandran v. State of Kerala12 (2-Judge Bench). It is observed that the off ence under Section 57A is not limited to the holders of the license under the Act, but refers to anybody who mixes or permits to be mixed any noxious substance, likely to endanger human life with any liquor. The burden of proof on the accused person under sub-Section 5 of Section 57A stands constitutionality upheld of which has been upheld by this Court in P.N. Krishna Lal v. Govt. of Kerala13 (2-Judge Bench). 44. This Court in Chandran (supra) also dealt with the question of conspiracy and mens rea for a conviction under Section 57A of the Abkari Act. While confi rming the conviction of one of the co-accused persons along with the main accused, it was held that the conviction under Section 57(A) (1)(ii) of the Abkari Act is independently affi rmed, as he was not only part of the business of mixing methanol but had actively taken part in it. Such taking part was held to be suffi cient to infer the knowledge about the mixing of the spirit. We fi nd it pertinent to reiterate one of the observations therein, relevant to the case at hand: “117. There can be no question about the absence of conspiracy. The whole business itself was a conspiracy. It may not be the conspiracy to mix the noxious substance but the fact of the matter is that in to succeed in the business which itself was a conspiracy they mixed or allowed to be mixed methanol and used it so freely that ultimately 31 persons lost their lives. We are not at all impressed by the argument regarding knowledge.” (Emphasis supplied) 45. Therefore, the argument on behalf of the appellants that the off ence under Section 57(A)(1)(ii) of the Abkari Act is not attributable to them has to be rejected. 12 (2011) 5 SCC 161 13 1995 Supp (2) SCC 187 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 46. Keeping in view the above conspectus and position of law, in res gestae Section 6 and Section 8 of the Evidence Act applies, inasmuch as: (a) testimonies of the witnesses highlighted by the Amicus Curiae indicate the presence of the accused/convicts on the spot at least few days prior to the occurrence of the incident; (b) the accused/convicts being present on the spot in relation to the supply of the spirit; (c) the accused/convicts knowing that they were being in full knowledge of the substance supplied by them to be of poisonous/prohibited in nature and permitted the noxious substance to be mixed with liquor, likely to endanger human life (d) the convict A11 having forged the record concerning the supply of the poisonous/prohibited substance. 47. Lastly, the relevant portion of Section 55 of the Abkari Act reads: “55.