17. Having noted the scope and ambit of Chapter XXV of Cr.P.C., including the provisions incorporated by way of amendments in the year 2009, one has to take into account the fact that the Court has a larger C role to play while considering the case under Section 84 of the IPC. If a friendly approach is required to be followed during the trial, when adequate powers have been conferred upon the Court to even discharge an accused on the ground of an unsound mind, the same reasoning will have to be applied with much force when it comes to Section 84 of the D IPC. 18. We find adequate materials on the assessment and evaluation of legal and medical insanity, which are totally different from each other. We shall furnish the following relevant material on medical jurisprudence: Jaisingh P. Modi, A Textbook on Medical Jurisprudence E and Toxicology, 26th Edn. 2018, pg. 938 “Ascertainment of Mental Illness: Clinical assessment and Questions that would require to be addressed. -Forensic psychiatryattempts to help Courts determine the mental condition of the accused to determine whether the person could have F intended to commit the crime and whether he is in a fit state to stand the trial. Medical insanity and legal insanity are not necessarily congruent. A mental illness that requires institutional care or administration of therapeutic care for medical insanity may not still be sufficient insulate the person from consequences of a criminal act and punishment if s/he is not legally insane. The G assessment shall be to elicit such information as the law qualifies the general exception for proof of culpability under Section 84 of IPC. Is the accused mentally unsound? Is the mental unsoundness such that s/he is not capable of knowing (i) the nature of act; or (ii) the act is wrong, or (iii) contrary to law? These questions are H 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A directly related to testing the requirement of law. Is s/he capable of understanding the nature of proceedings in Court and stand trial? This shall be necessary to ensure that he has sufficient ability to consult with is counsel instruct him for a fair trial and defence. Every accused is bound to know the nature of proceedings against him/her. What was the mental condition of the accused, when the B crime took place? Is it likely that the accused is malingering mental illness? The answers will point out to fixing the criminal responsibility to the acts attributed to him/her. Post-trial care may issue questions like: What is prognosis for cure for the mental illness? Will s/he be dangerous not to be let at large? In many a C foreign jurisdiction, the questions may vary depending on the nature of proof of insanity and its intensity that is relevant under law to appraise criminal responsibility for the act: Could there have been an irresistible impulse to commit the act charged with? Was the mental condition so severe that s/he had no capacity to control his/her behaviour?