Article 323A empowers A Parliament to provide for the adjudication of certain disputes by admin- istrative tribunals. Disputes concerning the recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed to public services and posts in connec- tion with the affairs of the Union or of any State or local or other author- ity within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of B India or of any corporation owned or controlled by the Government, may be adjudicated by administrative tribunals. Article 323B empowers the legislatures of states to provide for the adjudication of certain dis- putes (enumerated in clause 2 of Article 323B) by tribunals. 4. In pursuance of the power conferred upon it by Article 323A(1), C Parliament enacted the Administrative Tribunals Act 1985.2 The State- ments of Objects and Reasons of this legislation records that it was enacted in to give effect to Article 323A, and also because: “a large number of cases relating to service matters are pending before the various courts. It is expected that the setting up of D such Administrative Tribunals to deal exclusively with service matters would go a long way in not only reducing the burden of the various courts and thereby giving them more time to deal with other cases expeditiously but would also provide to the persons covered by the Administrative Tribunals speedy relief in respect of their grievances.” E 5. Section 4(1) of the Administrative Tribunals Act provides that the Central Government shall establish an administrative tribunal known as the “Central Administrative Tribunal”3 to adjudicate disputes concerning the recruitment and conditions of service of persons in connection with posts under the Union or All-India Service,4 including disputes with respect F to remuneration, pension, tenure, leave, and disciplinary matters.5 In terms of Section 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act, the Central Government may establish an administrative tribunal for a particular state, upon receiving a request in this regard from the concerned State Government. Once created, the state administrative G tribunal6 is charged with exercising exclusive jurisdiction over disputes 2 “Administrative Tribunals Act” 3 “CAT” 4 Section 14 read with Section 3(q), Administrative Tribunals Act 5 Section 3(q), Administrative Tribunals Act 6 “SAT” H 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A concerning the recruitment and conditions of service of persons in connection with posts under the concerned state or any civil service of that state,7 including disputes with respect to remuneration, pension, tenure, leave, and disciplinary matters.8 6. The SAT is prohibited from exercising jurisdiction, authority, or B power over a matter which the CAT’s jurisdiction extends.9 While Section 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act governs the establishment of SATs, there is no corresponding provision which stipulates the procedure to be followed to discontinue or abolish them. In terms of Section 29 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, suits or other proceedings pending before courts or other authorities which would have been within the jurisdiction C of the SAT if the cause of action in such suit or proceeding had arisen after the establishment of the SAT, stand transferred to the SAT on the date of its establishment.