He would submit that the case falls within clause thirdly of Section 300 of the IPC. He submitted that exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC is attracted and therefore, the courts rightly B convicted the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 304 Part I of the IPC. ANALYSIS 17. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties C and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the conviction of the appellant herein for the offence punishable under Section 304 Part I of the IPC should be further altered to Section 304 Part II of the IPC. 18. We have given more than a fair idea as regards the genesis of the occurrence and the role attributed to the appellant herein. Dr. D Karthikeyan (PW-15) was examined by the prosecution in his capacity as the Medical Officer who performed the post mortem of the deceased. In the post mortem report, the doctor has noted three injuries, (i) cut injury over 4 x 2 cm on the left eye, (ii) cut injury 4 x 3 cm on the left forehead, and (iii) 4 x 2 cm contusion around the left eye. The cause of E death assigned in the post mortem report appears to be shock and haemorrhage due to head injury. 19. As the only argument canvassed before us is that the case does not travel beyond culpable homicide as the same falls within the third part of Section 299 of the IPC, the accused could only be said to F have knowledge that he is likely by his act to cause death and not the intention to kill the deceased, we must explain the fine distinction between the terms ‘intent’ and ‘knowledge’. INTENT AND KNOWLEDGE :- 20. The word “intent” is derived from the word archery or aim. G The “act” attempted to must be with “intention” of killing a man. 21. Intention, which is a state of mind, can never be precisely proved by direct evidence as a fact; it can only be deduced or inferred from other facts which are proved. The intention may be proved by res gestae, by acts or events previous or subsequent to the incident or H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1105 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] occurrence, on admission. Intention of a person cannot be proved by A direct evidence but is to be deduced from the facts and circumstances of a case. There are various relevant circumstances from which the intention can be gathered. Some relevant considerations are the following:- 1. The nature of the weapon used. B 2. The place where the injuries were inflicted. 3. The nature of the injuries caused. 4. The opportunity available which the accused gets. 22. In the case of Smt. Mathri v. State of Punjab, AIR 1964 SC 986, at page 990, Das Gupta J. has explained the concept of the word C ‘intent’. The relevant observations are made by referring to the observations made by Batty J. in the decision Bhagwant v. Kedari, I.L.R.