The High Court observed that although the election petitioner attested the election petition as “true copy of the original” and not as “true copy of the petition”, the same is in compliance with Section 81(3) of the Act. 5. The submission that in all cases involving allegations of corrupt practices, the election petitioner must mandatorily fi le an affi davit under Section 83(1) of the Act was rejected without much discussion. The High Court simply following the decision of this Court in Lok Prahari through its General Secretary v. Union of India & Ors.9, rejected the plea. Submissions: 6. Mr. Devadatt Kamat, learned senior counsel appearing for the Appellant initially argued the fi rst two grounds, namely that there is a non-disclosure of the cause of action and also that there is a complete non- compliance of the requirement under Section 81(3) of the Act with respect to the attestation of the election petition. However, as we expressed our disinclination to interfere on those grounds, he took up the alternative point and emphatically argued that the of the High Court is unsustainable as the election petition completely violated the ‘mandatory’ requirement of 83(1)(c) of the Act. He argued that the election petition must fail for not fi ling the additional affi davit in support of the allegation of corrupt practice. He elaborated this point by taking us through the Section, and in particular, the proviso which requires that in cases of corrupt practice, “the petition shall also be accompanied by an affi davit”. 6 AIR 1964 SC 1027 7 2016 SCC OnLine Mani 30 8 (2017) 2 SCC 487 9 (2018) 4 SCC 699 396 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 7. On the specifi c submission of Mr. Devadatt Kamat as to how the election petition alleging corrupt practice must fail for not fi lling the additional affi davit, Mr. Shadan Farasat, learned counsel for the election petitioner submitted that no such additional affi davit is fi led. Mr. Farasat, however, strengthened his case in the written submission by referring to the decisions of this Court in G.M. Siddeshwar v. Prasanna Kumar10, and A. Manju v. Prajwal Revanna11, where it was held that non-fi ling of a Form-25 affi davit is a curable defect. Issue for consideration: 8. The only issue for consideration is whether the election petition is liable to be dismissed by allowing the 7 Rule 11 application for non- compliance of Section 83(1)(c) of the Act. Analysis: 9. We may at the outset state that there is absolutely no consideration of this issue by the High Court. Neither the implications of Section 83(1)(c) of the Act, nor the interpretation of its proviso were taken up for consideration by the High Court. Further, surprisingly, the High Court simply referred to the decision of this Court in Lok Prahari (supra) and rejected the submission. Lok Prahari (supra) has no bearing on the issue. 10. We would refer to the statutory provisions and the s on the point for answering the question of law raised by the Appellant.