DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 583 (i) The IBC is an invasive in rem proceeding and is highly prejudicial against the respondent; (ii) Before initiating proceedings for insolvency under the IBC and the appointment of a resolution professional or, at the minimum, before the resolution professional takes any action, there must be a determination by a judicial body of the existence of a debt; (iii) The following ought not to take place automatically after the fi ling of an application under Section 95 without judicial adjudication/ intervention, namely: (a) An automatic interim moratorium; (b) The automatic appointment of a resolution professional subject to worthiness; (c) The resolution professional seeking information from the guarantor; and (d) The resolution professional examining the information received and submitting a report; (iv) None of the above steps, once performed, is reversible under Section 100 which is the fi rst stage at which two crucial steps take place (a) it is the fi rst time at which a judicial body adjudicates; and (b) it is the fi rst stage at which the guarantor is furnished with a hearing by the adjudicating authority; (v) The power to seek information not only from a guarantor but also from third parties which is made available to the resolution professional is untrammelled and is being routinely exercised; (vi) Common law consistently provides natural justice unless explicitly prohibited by statute. Any statutory exclusion is subject to review and may be invalidated, except in cases related to special reasons like national security; (vii) All that the petitioners seek is natural justice by a judicial body at the stage of Section 97(1) similar to the exercise of the adjudicating authority which discharges its functions under Section 7 or 9 of the IBC; and (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (viii) The IBC follows the same model as sought by the petitioners under Sections 7 and 9 and neither any reasonable distinction nor any qualifi cation exists for denying the right to adjudicatory hearing to a guarantor in the same statute when confronted with the application under Section 95. 25. Primarily, the submission which has been urged on behalf of the petitioners by Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi postulates that the fundamental aspect as to whether the jurisdiction to entertain an application under Chapter III of Part III exists must be determined at the threshold by giving the debtor or personal guarantor an opportunity to be heard. The submission is that logically the determination of the jurisdictional question has to take place fi rst before the appointment of the resolution professional under Section 97(5). Consequently, it has been submitted that the adjudicating authority must be required to determine at the threshold whether (a) a debt exists; and (b) whether the debt has been eff aced. 26. The submission has been sought to be advanced from two perspectives. Firstly, it postulates that a judicial aspect is involved even before the resolution professional begins the task outlined in Section 99, for determining the jurisdictional requirements for the existence and continuity of a debt.