In E the changing world and in an era where the concept of multinationals providing employment to Indian citizens had increased, the incident of birth of the children taking place in a country outside India had also increased. In that circumstance, successive governments had to bestow their attention to this aspect of the matter to provide better rights to such F persons, who, though in the technical sense where ‘foreigners’, not being citizens of this country, yet had a ‘connect’ with this country. These were cases where though the umbilical cord with the biological mother had snapped in a foreign country, the umbilical connections with the country continue to remain intact as the entire family including the grandparents would be in India and the parents were Indian citizens in G most cases. In that view, having considered all these aspects of the matter, despite such persons not having the benefit of citizenship as provided under Part II of the Constitution through Articles 5 to 8 thereof and there being no scope for dual citizenship, certain rights were created H 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A under Act, 1955 which had come into force based on the provision in Article 11 of the Constitution of India. 39. In that regard, in a concept where the ‘dual citizenship’ was not recognised, such persons as like that of the petitioners were considered as Overseas Citizens of India card holders as defined under Section B 2(ee) of Act, 1955. The Act, 1955 through the amendment Act 6 of 2004 brought certain rights and through substitution of Section 7A to 7D the manner of registration of Overseas Citizen of India card holder; renunciation of citizenship and cancellation of registration were provided for. In the cases, on hand, the fact that all the petitioners are registered as Overseas Citizens of India cardholders is not in dispute. The right to C which they are making a claim is conferred under Section 7B(1) to Act, 1955 which has been extracted and noted above. The right to education which was conferred under the notification dated 11.04.2005, in parity with the Non-Resident Indians is due to the fact that the Non-Resident Indians which is a separate class, had such right similar to that of the D Indian citizens in matters relating to education. It is based on such right being conferred as far back as in the year 2005, the OCI Cardholders were taking part in the process of selections conducted for undertaking educational courses in India. Such benefit was extended to appear for the All India Pre-Medical Test or such other tests to make them eligible for admission in pursuance of the provisions contained in the relevant E acts, through the notification dated 05.01.2009. The said benefit is being enjoyed by all the OCI Cardholders in the same manner as the Non- Resident Indians were enjoying along with the Indian citizens. In that circumstance, most of such OCI Cardholders have been pursuing their entire educational career in India.