Having held that Kallu had conspired with the other co-accused, the Trial Court convicted him of criminal conspiracy punishable under Section 120-B, IPC. 11. The aforesaid having been challenged by Manoj and Kallu, a learned Single Judge of the High Court was of the view that the fi ndings of the Trial Court did not warrant any interference and that the appeals were devoid of any merit; hence, the same were dismissed. In confi rming Manoj’s conviction and sentence, the High Court relied on the fi nding that most of the stolen articles were recovered from his possession and some of them were melted by him. Considering that the articles were duly identifi ed by the complainant, the High Court was of the view that Manoj, knowing that the articles were stolen property, dishonestly retained them. While affi rming the conviction and sentence of Kallu, the learned Judge referred to the fact that the complainant was known to Kallu and he was working as her driver and that Rs.3,000.00 was recovered from his house based on the disclosure statement. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 12. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of Manoj submitted that the courts below erred in recording the conviction under Section 411, IPC. The main submissions advanced by him to have the conviction reversed are as follows: a) All four independent witnesses (PW-5, PW-6, PW-11, and PW-16) who were shown to be present during the seizure/ recovery of the articles from Manoj’s house turned hostile and failed to support the prosecution’s case of seizure. MANOJ KUMAR SONI v. 253 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] Surprisingly, the courts below completely ignored this aspect of the matter. b) There were serious procedural lapses in conducting the identifi cation process in respect of the articles. The prescribed procedure in respect of seizure of a property was not followed, and a procedural fl aw is established from the testimonies of the complainant and PW 19. The recovery of the ornaments from the possession of Manoj does not establish them to be that of the complainant. Therefore, the presumption under Section 114, Evidence Act was erroneously drawn as the very identifi cation process suff ers from serious lapses. c) The Trial Court recorded the statement of Manoj under Section 313, Cr. PC in a very casual manner, as if it were completing a formality in law. It miserably failed to put any adverse circumstance appearing in the evidence against Manoj for eliciting his explanation. This is one other procedural lapse, and a grave one, which has rendered the trial vitiated qua Manoj. d) Manoj has been framed in the case due to the animosity between him and the police as the police used to “often harass [Manoj] for going here and there and getting the jewellery weighed, identifi cation etc.”. This statement of Manoj, given at the end of his examination under Section 313, Cr. PC was brushed aside by the courts below without assigning any reason, far less cogent reason.