to add that if the procedure followed by the Punjab and Haryana A High Court [Punjab SIDC Ltd. v. Sunil K. Kansal, 2012 SCC OnLine P&H 19641] is to be adhered to, the time- limit of one year would only be observed in most cases in the breach. We therefore overrule the said decision. We are constrained to observe that Fiza Developers [Fiza B Developers & Inter-Trade (P) Ltd. v. AMCI (India) (P) Ltd., (2009) 17 SCC 796 : (2011) 2 SCC (Civ) 637] was a step in the right direction as its ultimate ratio is that issues need not be struck at the stage of hearing a Section 34 application, which is a summary procedure. However, this must now be read in the light of the amendment made in Sections 34(5) C and 34(6). So read, we clarify the legal position by stating that an application for setting aside an arbitral award will not ordinarily require anything beyond the record that was before the arbitrator. However, if there are matters not contained in such record, and are relevant to the determination of issues D arising under Section 34(2)( a), they may be brought to the notice of the Court by way of affidavits filed by both parties. Cross-examination of persons swearing to the affidavits should not be allowed unless absolutely necessary, as the truth will emerge on a reading of the affidavits filed by both parties. We, therefore, set aside the [Girdhar Sondhi v. Emkay E Global Financial Services Ltd., 2017 SCC OnLine Del 12758] of the Delhi High Court and reinstate that of the learned Additional District Judge dated 22-9-2016. The appeal is accordingly allowed with no as to costs.” (iii) The decision of this Court in the case of Fiza F Developers(supra) again fell for consideration of this Court in the subsequent decision in the case of Canara Nidhi (supra). After taking note of the observations made in paragraph 21 in Emkay Global (supra), thereafter it is observed by this Court in the case of Canara Nidhi (supra) that the legal position is thus G clarified that section 34 application will not ordinarily require anything beyond the record that was before the arbitration and that cross-examination of persons swearing in to the affidavits should not be allowed unless absolutely necessary. 8. The ratio of the aforesaid three decisions on the scope and ambit of section 34(2)(a) pre-amendment would be that applications under H 1006 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A sections 34 of the Act are summary proceedings; an award can be set aside only on the grounds set out in section 34(2)(a) and section 34(2) (b); speedy resolution of the arbitral disputes has been the reason for enactment of 1996 Act and continues to be a reason for adding amendments to the said Act to strengthen the aforesaid object; therefore in the proceedings under section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the issues are B not required to be framed, otherwise if the issues are to be framed and oral evidence is taken in a summary proceedings, the said object will be defeated; an application for setting aside the arbitral award will not ordinarily require anything beyond the record that was before the arbitrator, however, if there are matters not containing such records and C the relevant determination to the issues arising under section 34(2)(a), they may be brought to the notice of the Court by way of affidavits filed by both the parties’ the cross-examination of the persons swearing in to the affidavits should not be allowed unless absolutely necessary as the truth will emerge on the reading of the affidavits filed by both the parties.