Thereafter, the matter was further argued on merits by the G learned counsel for both the parties, and was reserved. 8. When the abovementioned conflict between the two High Court s was brought to our notice, it was pointed out to us by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner that such conflict between the two High Court s, if left unnoticed, has the potential H YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 919 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] to cause great harm to accused persons charged under the Customs A Act, and deprive them of the power to invoke the remedy of settlement. ANALYSIS 9. The issue of settlement under the Customs Act, which will be discussed by us in detail below, essentially has the power to grant an B accused a remedy to obtain immunity from prosecution and penalty as provided under Section 127(H) of the Customs Act. Such a right, if it remains under a cloud of ambiguity, may not only cause damage to the fundamental rights accrued to accused persons to live a dignified life without fear of incarceration, and may needlessly force certain accused persons to be deprived of a free life outside the languish of custody. C Further, such a circumstance may also result in contrary views being taken by different adjudicating authorities in identical cases, with similar facts and circumstances. 10. The Settlement Commission, governed by chapter XIV A of the Customs Act, was inserted by virtue of Section 102 of the Finance D (No.2) Act, 1998 (Act No. XXI of 1998), with the aim of settling issues of tax evasion by virtue of a disclosure by the tax offender. Such a disclosure, if made bona fide, allowed for the tax evader to gain immunity from either fine or penalty. While at first glance, it may seem that such a provision allows for offenders to escape penal consequences with no E benefit caused to the government, however, a deeper analysis of the provisions would prove otherwise. The withholding of tax by tax offenders, unlike most other offences, directly impacts the revenue of the country. Further, due to the complexities arising from such disputes, the adjudication of the same often takes a very long time. In such a scenario, wherein a long length of time consumed to resolve tax disputes F directly affects the revenue, and resultantly the welfare of the country, the legislature found it imperative for the enactment of a beneficial and time saving remedy, that would not only help the government in helping reclaim the tax amounts due, but also incentivize persons to do the same. It is out of these considerations that the Settlement Commission was born, and as such, this backdrop must always be kept in mind while G adjudicating on issues of jurisdiction of the Settlement Commission. PRELIMINARY OBJECTION 11. During the course of the hearing, a preliminary objection has been raised by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent H 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R.