73. The recommendations of the Commission are reasonable. As stated above, delays ought to be avoided on the administrative side which C have the effect of stagnating the career of a judicial officer. The suggestions of the Commission will bring about much needed efficiency and perhaps, a standard operating procedure for the grant of ACP in a timely manner. Thus, the recommendation merits acceptance. XI. Changes in Percentage of District Judges (Selection D Grade) and District Judges (Super Time Scale) (Recommendation 44.16) 74. The Commission has recommended the increase of percentage of district judges who will be entitled to District Judge (Selection Grade) and District Judge (Super Time Scale). The reasoning of the Commission E is that due to the limited percentage of District Judge (Super Time Scale) and District Judge (Selection Grade), many judges from larger states are unable to reach higher posts before retirement even though they have spent considerable time in the District Judge Cadre. It also found that as of October, 2019 only 1515 judges out of a cadre strength of 7382 district judges were getting the benefit of Selection Grade and F Super Time Scale. 75. The benefits of Super Time Scale and Selection Grade not reaching a majority of district judges prior to their retirement is a situation that should be avoided. The recommendation of the Commission that the Selection grade and Super Time Scale posts should be increased by G 10% and 5% respectively merits acceptance. Essentially, this would entail that the District Judges at Entry level shall be 50%, selection grade 35% and Super Time Scale – 15% of the total cadre strength of District Judges. H 68 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 76. The Recommendations 44.16 (ii) and (iii) are regarding the upgradation to be given to District Judges by applying the principle of seniority-cum-merit and further that if the post remains or continues for three years it shall form part of cadre strength. These recommendations of the SNJPC may be considered at the appropriate stage as they do not have a bearing on the issues of pay, which are being considered by this B Court at this stage. XII. Pay Revision to be Given to Presiding Judges of Industrial Tribunals/Labour Courts (Recommendation 44.19) C 77. Though Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunals, both statutory courts created under the Industrial Disputes Act, 194733 are not presided over by judicial officers, they are entitled to equal pay as district judges based on the principle of equal pay for equal work. Following this principle, this Court in State of Kerala v. B. Renjith Kumar34 and State of Maharashtra v. Labour Law Practitioners’ Assn.35 held that judicial D officers of Labour Courts and Industrial Tribunal ought to be considered on par with judicial officers. The recommendation of the Tribunal that the pay revision be extended to judges of the Industrial Tribunals/Labour Courts, thus merits acceptance as it is only an extension of the law laid down by this Court. E XIII. Judges in Family Courts in Maharashtra (Recommendation 44.18) 78.