This is B particularly because PNB was not represented before us on the date was reserved inview of the prior dismissal of the civil appeals and no application had been filed by the State to recall such . We furtherdo not consider it appropriate to reopen the proceedings against PNB, bearing in mind the circumstance that more than a decade has lapsed since the of this Court dated 8th April, 2011 was made. C However, if the lis in the writ petition of PNB had subsisted, we would have ruled in its favour upon acceptance of the other reasons in the decision dated 7th September, 2007 which, in the extracted portion, has been highlighted by us above. We, therefore,would allow the matter to rest. D 43. Before parting with C.A. Nos.9212-9213 of 2012, we may observe that in view of the findings returned by the High Court on the question of absence of determination of liability, with which we have concurred, it was absolutely unnecessary for the High Court to outlaw section 16-B of the HPGST Act. E 44. Insofar as C.A.Nos.8980-8981of 2012 isconcerned, the third issue is very much alive and needs to be addressed. 45. The discussion must begin with a reading of the relevant provisions of the HPGST Act. Section 14 of the HPGST Act postulates assessment of tax. The cumulative effect of the several sub-sections of F section 14 is that after returns are furnished by a dealer in respect of any period, the duty of the assessing authority is to assess the appropriate quantum of tax required to be paid by the dealer, in terms of the procedure laid down therein; and to initiate steps, also in terms of the laid down procedure, to recover any amount of unpaid tax, penalty or interest payable under the enactment.Section 16 envisages that any amount of G tax, penalty or interest payable under the HPGST Act remaining unpaid after the due date shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue. Section 16-A, starting with a non-obstante clause, confers power on the Commissioner or any officer other than the one excluded to initiate a special mode of recovery. Then follows section 16-B, which is to the H following effect:- STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. M/S A.J. 795 INFRASTRUCTURES PVT. LTD [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] “16-B. Tax to be first charge on property.- Notwithstanding A anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time being in force, any amount of tax and penalty including interest, if any, payable by a dealer or any other person under this Act shall be a fust charge on the property of the dealer or such other person.” B 46. Having regard to the terms of section 16 of the HPGST Act notedabove, the HPLR Act, to the extent the same provides for the procedure for recovery of dues as arrears of land revenue, needs to be briefly noticed. 47. Section 4(4) of the HPLR Act defines a defaulter as a person C liable forarrears of land revenue and includessuch person who are responsible as surety for the payment of the arrears.