The States having integrated with the federal republic in such a manner that they do not have to accede or execute a document of accession for the purposes of becoming a unit of the republic but they would be mentioned in the Constitution itself. He stated that “in the case of practically all States other than the State of Jammu and Kashmir, their constitutions also have been embodied in the Constitution for the whole of India”. All those other states, he noted, had agreed to integrate themselves “in that way and accept the Constitution provided”. 261. Maulana Hasrat Mohani, a member of the Constituent Assembly queried about the reason for “this discrimination…” in relation to Jammu and Kashmir. Responding to the query, Ayyangar noted that the State of Jammu and Kashmir was not ripe for the manner of integration which was provided in the Constitution for other states: “The discrimination is due to the special conditions of Kashmir. That particular State is not yet ripe for this kind of integration. It is the hope of everybody here that in due course even Jammu and Kashmir will become ripe for the same sort of integration as has taken place in the case of other States. (Cheers) At present it is not possible to achieve that integration. There are various reasons why this is not possible now. I shall refer again to this a little later.” 262. Making a reference to “Kashmir’s conditions” as requiring “special treatment”, he spelt out the nature of the conditions then existing in the State: 166 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “In the fi rst place, there has been a war going on within the limits of Jammu and Kashmir State. There was a cease-fi re agreed to at the beginning of this year and that cease-fi re is still on. But the conditions in the State are still unusual and abnormal. They have not settled down. It is therefore necessary that the administration of the State should be geared to these unusual conditions until, normal life is restored as in the case of the other States. Part of the State is still in the hands of rebels and enemies. We are entangled with the United Nations in regard to Jammu and Kashmir and it is not possible to say now when we shall be free from this entanglement. That can take place only when the Kashmir problem is satisfactorily settled.” 263. Besides the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, Ayyangar also referred to the commitment made by the Government of India to the people of Kashmir “in certain respects” in terms of which “an opportunity would be given to the people of the State to decide for themselves whether they will remain with the Republic or wish to go out of it”. Ayyangar also stated that the Government was committed to ascertaining the will of the people “by means of a plebiscite provided that peaceful and normal conditions are restored and the impartiality of the plebiscite could be guaranteed”.