He cannot be deprived of that limited right on the amendment of rules during the pendency of selection unless the amended rules are retrospective in nature.” [Emphasis added] (Also refer : Sureshkumar Lalitkumar Patel v. State of Gujarat16) 16 2023 SCC OnLine SC 167 NUTAN KUMARI v. B.R.A. BIHAR UNIVERSITY 711 10.4. Further, once an advertisement has been issued and the selection criteria prescribed, there is little scope for relaxing the norms, more so, by the Selection Committee unless and until it can be adequately demonstrated that it had the power to do so. We may allude to a decision of this Court in Secretary, A.P. Public Service Commission and B. Swapna and Others17 which highlights the adverse consequences of interfering with the criteria of selection laid down under the rules in the following words: “14. The High Court has committed an error in holding that the amended rule was operative. As has been fairly conceded by learned counsel for Respondent 1 applicant it was the unamended rule which was applicable. Once a process of selection starts, the prescribed selection criteria cannot be changed. The logic behind the same is based on fair play. A person who did not apply because a certain criterion e.g. minimum percentage of marks can make a legitimate grievance, in case the same is lowered, that he could have applied because he possessed the said percentage. Rules regarding qualifi cation for appointment if amended during continuance of the process of selection do not aff ect the same. That is because every statute or statutory rule is prospective unless it is expressly or by necessary implication made to have retrospective eff ect. Unless there are words in the statute or in the rules showing the intention to aff ect existing rights the rule must be held to be prospective. If the rule is expressed in a language which is fairly capable of either interpretation it ought to be considered as prospective only. (See P. Mahendran v. State of Karnataka [(1990) 1 SCC 411 : 1990 SCC (L&S) 163 : (1990) 12 ATC 727] and Gopal Krushna Rath v. M.A.A. Baig [(1999) 1 SCC 544 : 1999 SCC (L&S) 325] .) 15. Another aspect which this Court has highlighted is scope for relaxation of norms. Although the Court must look with respect upon the performance of duties by experts in the respective fi elds, it cannot abdicate its functions of ushering in a society based on rule of law. Once it is most satisfactorily established that the Selection Committee did not have the power to relax essential qualifi cation, the entire process of selection so far as the selected candidate is 17 (2005) 4 SCC 154 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. concerned gets vitiated. In P.K. Ramachandra Iyer v. Union of India [(1984) 2 SCC 141 : 1984 SCC (L&S) 214] this Court held that once it is established that there is no power to relax essential qualifi cation, the entire process of selection of the candidate was in contravention of the established norms prescribed by advertisement.