For this purpose, the plan/non-plan funds of that department may be utilized. 4.3 The Action Taken Report on the compliance of these guidelines should be sent, along with the URL link, to the DoPT and Central Information Commission soon after the expiry of the initial period of 6 months. 4.4 Each Ministry/Public Authority should get its proactive disclosure package audited by third party every year. The audit should cover compliance with the proactive disclosure guidelines as well as adequacy of the items included in the package. The audit should examine whether there are any other types of information which could be proactively disclosed. Such audit should be done annually and should be communicated to the Central Information Commission annually through publication on their own websites. All Public Authorities should proactively disclose the names of the third party auditors on their website. For carrying out KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 207 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] third party audit through outside consultants also, Ministries/ Public Authorities should utilize their plan/non-plan funds. 4.5 The Central Information Commission should examine the third-party audit reports for each Ministry/Public Authority and offer advice/recommendations to the concerned Ministries/Public Authorities. 4.6 Central Information Commission should carry out sample audit of few of the Ministries/Public Authorities each year with regard to adequacy of items included as well as compliance of the Ministry/Public Authority with these guidelines. 4.7 Compliance with the proactive disclosure guidelines, its audit by third party and its communication to the Central Information Commission should be included as RFD target.” 10. The ‘Note on Submissions’ discloses that the Department continued to follow the mandate of Section 4 and sought compliance of the Guidelines by issuing further O.M.’s such as O.M. issued on 10.12.2013, 22.09.2014 and 09.07.2015. 11. Proceeding further, in its endeavour to make information more accessible, the Department constituted two more Committees which made recommendations for eff ective implementation of Section 4. The fi rst Committee headed by Shri A. N. Tiwari, CIC (Retd) made recommendations with respect to (a) making online access to information more user-friendly and (b) setting up of grievance redressal mechanism, amongst others. These recommendations were accepted by the Department vide O.M. dated 29.06.2015. 12. The second committee headed by Dr. Devesh Chaturvedi, former Joint Secretary also made certain recommendations and some of them were accepted through O.M. dated 30.06.2016. Some of the recommendations that were accepted relate to (a) setting up of Consultative Committees by public authority for systematic and regular interaction with its offi cials and to advise public authorities on information which can be uploaded suo motu, (b) setting up of Information and Facilitation Centres to educate citizens about information available, (c) providing searchable and retrievable database of information on the website of the public authorities; and importantly (d) 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. to undertake transparency audits by training institutes under the Ministry/ Department/Public Authority. 13. The Note also indicated that by O.M. dated 15.10.2019, the Department relaxed the audit criteria by allowing the public authorities to give the transparency audits conducted by any Government Training Institutes, i.e., in cases where there is no institute existing in the Ministry/Department/ Public Authority.