561, page 569 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. giving a choice; and, we cannot assign it a diff erent meaning unless it leads to vagueness or makes clause 2(s) absolutely unworkable. We are fortifi ed in our view by the decision of this Court in Sri Jeyaram Educational Trust vs. A.G. Syed Mohideen16, where it was held thus: “11. It is now well settled that a provision of a statute should have to be read as it is, in a natural manner, plain and straight, without adding, substituting or omitting any words. While doing so, the words used in the provision should be assigned and ascribed their natural, ordinary or popular meaning. Only when such plain and straight reading, or ascribing the natural and normal meaning to the words on such reading, leads to ambiguity, vagueness, uncertainty, or absurdity which were not obviously intended by the legislature or the lawmaker, a court should open its interpretation toolkit containing the settled rules of construction and interpretation, to arrive at the true meaning of the provision. While using the tools of interpretation, the court should remember that it is not the author of the statute who is empowered to amend, substitute or delete, so as to change the structure and contents. A court as an interpreter cannot alter or amend the law. It can only interpret the provision, to make it meaningful and workable so as to achieve the legislative object, when there is vagueness, ambiguity or absurdity. The purpose of interpretation is not to make a provision what the Judge thinks it should be, but to make it what the legislature intended it to be.” 24. In the present case, the word “or” between sub-clauses (i) and (ii) indicates the independent and disjunctive nature of sub-clause (i), meaning thereby that “or” used after sub-clause (i) cannot be interpreted as “and” so as to tie it with the condition enumerated in the long line of clause 2(s) which is applicable only to sub-clause (ii). 25. Applying a diff erent lens, let us test the worth of Ms. Bagchi’s submission in the light of the punctuations in clause 2(s). It has been held by a bench of nine Hon’ble Judges of this Court in Kantaru Rajeevaru vs. Indian Young Lawyers Association & Ors.17 that when a provision is 16 (2010) 2 SCC 513 17 (2020) 9 SCC 121, para 18. COMMISSIONER, CUSTOMS CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 439 PATNA v. M/S SHAPOORJI PALLONJI AND COMPANY PVT. LTD. & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] carefully punctuated and there is doubt about its meaning, weight should undoubtedly be given to the punctuation; however, though a punctuation may have its uses in some cases, but it cannot certainly be regarded as a controlling element and cannot be allowed to control the plain meaning. While so observing, this Court considered several decisions as well as the punctuation comma in the relevant provision of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013. 26. What follows is that punctuation, though a minor element, may be resorted to for the purpose of construction.