The submission is that the role of the resolution professional is to act as a facilitator for compiling information under Part III, which is distinct from the role of the interim resolution professional in Part II, as defi ned in Section 5(27) read with Section 17 of the IBC. In contrast, in Part III, it is Section 97 which provides for the appointment of the resolution professional with a limited role to collate information and submit a recommendation to the adjudicating authority. 36. Senior counsel has relied on the report of the Bankruptcy Law Reforms Committee14 and the Board Regulations to support the submission that: (i) The role of the resolution professional is not that of an adjudicator; and 14 “BLRC” DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 591 (ii) While collecting information, the resolution professional is entrusted with a duty to maintain confi dentiality. 37. The submission which has been urged by Mr Dewan is that the provisions of Part III of Chapter III eventually lead to the creation of a repayment plan and, only if that fails, to a bankruptcy. The adjudicatory role of the interim resolution professional under Section 18 is sought to be distinguished from the role of the liquidator who discharges certain adjudicatory functions if an of liquidation is passed in view of the provisions of Sections 40 and 42. 38. Finally, it has been urged that an alleged ground of misuse of a provision in a particular case cannot be utilized to challenge the constitutional validity of a statute which Parliament is competent to enact. 39. We have also heard Mr Amar Dave, counsel appearing on behalf of some of the respondents who has urged that: (i) The actual process of judicial adjudication takes place at the stage of Section 100 before the adjudicating authority; (ii) The entire framework of the IBC is based on the observance of stringent time lines as a consequence of which prolonging the process should not be countenanced. Adding an intermittent stage, as suggested by the petitioners, for the adjudicating authority to decide a “jurisdictional question” would result in the dislocation of the very scheme of the IBC; (iii) In view of the provisions of Section 96, once a moratorium has taken eff ect, it would not be open to the bank to take action in the meantime. Hence, the time lines which have been set out in the statute must be looked at with a degree of strictness; (iv) There has been no challenge to the provisions of Section 94 of the IBC by any of the petitioners; and (v) The legislature has provided in Section 95(4) with the details of the documents which are to be provided to the resolution professional and, hence, the submission that the resolution professional is left into an uncharted discretion would be lacking in substance. (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 592 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. IV. Analysis 40. While assessing the merits of the rival submissions, we propose to divide this into three distinct parts.