The framers of the Constitution could have made a common draft of restrictions which were permissible to be imposed on the operation of the fundamental rights listed in clause (1), but that has not been done. The common thread that runs throughout clauses (2) to (6) is that the operation of any existing law or the D enactment by the State of any law which imposes reasonable restrictions to achieve certain objects, is saved; however, the quality and content of such law would be different by reference to each of sub-clauses (a) to (g) of clause (1) of Article 19 as can be tabulated hereunder: E Article 19 Clause (1) Clauses (2) to (6) Nature of right Permissible restrictions By existing law or by law F made by the State imposing reasonable restrictions in the interests of (a) Freedom of speech (i) the sovereignty and integrity and expression of India(ii) the security of the G State(iii) friendly relations with foreign States(iv) public , decency or morality(v) in relation to contempt of court, H 5 (2004) 1 SCC 712 ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 563 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] defamation or incitement to an A offence (b) right to assemble (i) the sovereignty and integrity peaceably and without arms of India (ii) public B (c) right to form associations (i) the sovereignty and integrity or unions of India (ii) public or morality (d) and (e) right to (i) the general public(ii) the move freely and/or to reside protection of the interests of C and settle throughout the Scheduled Tribes territory of India (g) right to practise any The general public and in profession, or to carry particular any law relating to D on any occupation, trade (i) the professional or technical or business qualifications necessary for practising of any profession or carrying on of any occupation, trade or business (ii) the carrying on by the State, or by E a corporation owned or controlled by the State, of any trade, business, industry or service, whether to the exclusion, complete or partial, of F citizens or otherwise. 36. Article 19 confers fundamental rights on citizens. The rights conferred by Article 19(1) are not available to and cannot be claimed by any person who is not and cannot be a citizen of India. A statutory right — as distinguished from a fundamental right — G conferred on persons or citizens is capable of being deprived of or taken away by legislation. The fundamental rights cannot be taken away by any legislation; a legislation can only impose reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right. Out of the several rights enumerated in clause (1) of Article 19, the right at sub-clause (a) is not merely a right of speech and expression but a right to freedom H 564 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A of speech and expression. The enumeration of other rights is not by reference to freedom. In the words of the then Chief Justice Patanjali Sastri in State of W.B.