However, in the case on hand, we are convinced that the foundational facts laid by the prosecution are suffi cient to invoke Section 106 of the Act, 1872. 18. On the other hand, the defence of the appellant – Wazir Khan of robbery and the robbers attacking his wife, is completely falsifi ed. 19. The question of burden of proof, where some facts are within the personal knowledge of the accused, was examined by this Court in the case of State of West Bengal v. Mir Mohammad Omar and ors., reported in (2000) 8 SCC 382. 20. In the State of West Bengal (supra), the assailants forcibly dragged the deceased Mahesh from the house where he was taking shelter on account of the fear of the accused, and took him away at about 2:30 in the night. The next day in the morning, his mangled body was found lying in the hospital. The trial Court convicted the accused under Section 364, read with Section 34 of the IPC, and sentenced them to ten years rigorous imprisonment. The accused pre-ferred an WAZIR KHAN v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 45 appeal against their conviction before the High Court and the State also fi led an appeal challenging the acquittal of the accused for the charge of murder. The accused had not given any explanation as to what happened to Mahesh after he was abducted by them. The learned Sessions Judge, after referring to the law on circumstantial evidence, had observed that there is a missing link in the chain of evidence after the deceased was last seen together with the accused persons, and the discovery of the dead body in the hospital, and concluded that the prosecution had failed to estab- lish the charge of murder against the accused persons beyond any reasonable doubt. 21. This Court took note of the provisions of Section 106 of the Evidence Act, and laid down the following principles in paragraphs 31 to 34 of the report: “31. The pristine rule that the burden of proof is on the prosecution to prove the guilt of the accused should not be taken as a fossilised doctrine as though it admits no process of intelligent reasoning. The doctrine of presumption is not alien to the above rule, nor would it impair the temper of the rule. On the other hand, if the traditional rule relating to burden of proof of the prosecution is allowed to be wrapped in pedantic coverage, the offenders in serious offences would be the major beneficiaries and the so- ciety would be the casualty. 32. In this case, when the prosecution succeeded in establishing the afore-narrated circumstances, the court has to presume the existence of certain facts. Presumption is a course recognised by the law for the court to rely on in conditions such as this. 33. Presumption of fact is an inference as to the existence of one fact from the existence of some other facts, unless the truth of such inference is disproved.