In other words, a movie hall is not a movie hall alone but also doubles up as an eatery when food and beverages are sold within D its premises. Viewed from this lens, it is immediately evident that patrons of a movie hall cannot demand to bring their own food to eat there when a condition to the contrary is enforced by the cinema hall owners. This would be akin to permitting a customer who visits a restaurant to carry their own food to that restaurant and eat it within the premises of that E restaurant. 25. Respondents 3 and 4 have urged that they ought to be permitted to carry their own food because the cinema halls sell exorbitantly priced food and beverages, which are also not nutritious. The High Court was persuaded to issue the direction which has been noted earlier based on F the consideration that what is offered for sale is “junk food”. Theatre owners may decide the contents of the menu they offer, similar to restaurants deciding their menu or similar to theatre owners themselves deciding which movies to screen. As mentioned above, this is a commercial decision which the theatre owners are entitled to make. The price point at which the goods and services will be sold is likewise G subject to being fixed by the movie theatre. Whether or not the cost of a good or service is affordable or exorbitant is unrelated to the conditions of entry enforced by a business. 26. The second level of argumentation in the of the High Court is that the prohibition in question impinges upon the right to H 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A choice of food, the right not to eat “junk” food, and the right to good health. However, this line of reasoning fails to notice that movie goers are not compelled to buy food at the cinema hall. Whether or not to purchase food or beverages after gaining admission to the cinema hall is entirely within the choice of the movie goer. Viewers visit cinema halls for the purpose of entertainment. The transaction of purchasing a ticket B permits them to view the movie they have opted to watch. If the food and beverages on sale at the movie hall are not to their taste, they are free to refrain from purchasing them. In this way, they are not being prevented from exercising their right to choice of food. We also note that the right of movie goers to purchase or eat a dish of their choice is C unfettered outside the confines of privately operated movie theatres (subject to safety and public welfare). 27. Whether or not to watch a movie is entirely within the choice of viewers. If viewers seek to enter a cinema hall, they must abide by the terms and conditions subject to which entry is granted. Having D reserved the right of admission, it is open to theatre owners to determine whether food from outside the precincts of the cinema hall should be permitted to be carried inside.