[2023] 12 S.C.R. 254 : 2023 INSC 836 CASE DETAILS SAMIR KUMAR MAJUMDER v. THE UNION OF INDIA & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 6027 of 2014) SEPTEMBER 20, 2023 [J. K. MAHESHWARI AND K. V. VISWANATHAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the High Court was justifi ed in denying the absorption of appellant as an Assistant Teacher in the Higher Secondary section and also rejecting his claim for continuity of service. Service Law – Claim for absorption as an Assistant Teacher in the Higher Secondary section – Tenable or not: Held: The appellant was appointed as a substitute teacher in the payscale of a primary teacher – When he fi led the fi rst round of proceedings in O.A. No. 209 of 1991, no plea was raised that he worked as an Assistant Teacher in the Higher Secondary Section – Before the Tribunal, the argument was only about regularization – The Screening Committee having considered him, pursuant to the s of the Supreme Court, has thought it fi t to absorb him only as a primary teacher; the Screening Committee itself was pursuant to the s of the Supreme Court and based on the Master Circular of 29.01.1991 wherein the claims of the candidates like the appellant were examined; the records of his appointment as a substitute teacher admittedly showed that he was only appointed as a substitute primary teacher – Also, in the earlier round of proceedings culminating in the of the Supreme Court dated 15.02.1996, this issue was never raised – His claim for absorption as an assistant teacher in the Higher Secondary Section is clearly barred by constructive res judicata – Thus, the appellant’s claim for absorption as Assistant Teacher in the Higher Secondary Section is not tenable. [Paras 29, 31 and 32] 254 SAMIR KUMAR MAJUMDER v. 255 THE UNION OF INDIA & ORS. Service Law – Claim for continuity of service – Relief denied by the High Court – Propriety: Held: The only reason given in the denying continuity for the appellant while granting continuity of the same for the others was that, in the case of the appellant, the Supreme Court had not directed any specific regarding continuity of service – The authorities are wrong in stating that in the case of the appellant, the Supreme Court had not directed any specific regarding continuity of service – Nowhere in the said in the appellant’s appeal had the benefits available to the appellant under the Master Circular dated 29.01.1991 been taken away – In the case of Smt. Jayasree Deb Roy (Dutta), by abundant caution, the Master Circular was referred to and the rights granted therein were reiterated expressly – The appellant being identically situated with the other absorbees in the of 02.01.1998 could not have been discriminated and denied the benefit of his service from 04.03.1990 to the date of his absorption – The Tribunal and the High Court have grossly erred in denying the relief by wrongly understanding the s of the Supreme Court and the legal position – Thus, the appellant should be extended the same benefits as were extended to others, who were granted continuity by the letter of 28.12.1998.