This principle cements the bedrock of the constitutional foundation that the power to take decisions aff ecting the governance of the State, or as the case may be of the nation essentially lies with the elected arm of the government. The Governor is intended to be a constitutional statesman, guiding the government on matters of constitutional concern. 16. These principles have been well established since the decision in Samsher Singh v. State of Punjab3, where this Court held: “28. Under the Cabinet system of Government as embodied in our Constitution the Governor is the constitutional or formal head of the State and he exercises all his powers and functions conferred on him by or under the Constitution on the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers save in spheres where the Governor is required by or under the Constitution to exercise his functions in his discretion. … 32. It is a fundamental principle of English Constitutional law that Ministers must accept responsibility for every executive act. In England the Sovereign never acts on his own responsibility. The power of the Sovereign is conditioned by the practical rule that the Crown must fi nd advisers to bear responsibility for his action. Those advisers must have the confi dence of the House of Commons. This rule of English Constitutional Law is incorporated in our Constitution. The Indian Constitution envisages a Parliamentary and responsible 3 (1974) 2 SCC 831 788 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. form of Government at the Centre and in the States and not a Presidential form of Government. The powers of the Governor as the constitutional head are not diff erent.” 17. In SR Bommai v. Union of India4 a nine judge bench of this Court has held that federalism is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution. The manner in which the role of the Governor as a symbolic Head of State is performed is vital to safeguard this basic feature. The exercise of unbridled discretion in areas not entrusted to the discretion of the Governor risks walking rough shod over the working of a democratically elected government at the State. In a steady line of cases this Court has strengthened the importance of institutions and their vitality to democratic functioning. Federalism and democracy, both parts of the basic structure, are inseparable. When one feature is diluted it puts the other in peril. The tuning fork of democracy and federalism is vital to the realization of the fundamental freedoms and aspirations of our citizens. Whenever one prong of the tuning fork is harmed, it damages the apparatus of constitutional governance. 18. In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Union of India,5 one of us (D Y Chandrachud J) observed: “287. … These cases involve vital questions about democratic governance and the role of institutions in fulfi lling constitutional values. The Constitution guarantees to every individual the freedom to adopt a way of life in which liberty, dignity and autonomy form the core. The Constitution pursues a vision of fulfi lling these values through a democratic polity.