It is noteworthy that the incident, subject matter of the criminal case3 had occurred on 14th February, 2015, and judgement was pronounced by the THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS v. 455 BHUPENDRA YADAV [HIMA KOHLI, J.] trial Court on 26th October, 2015. In the very next year, when the appellant – State Government invited applications for appointment to the post of Constable, the respondent had submitted his application. Even though this is a case of candid disclosure of the criminal case3 on the part of the respondent, which had culminated in an acquittal, but having regard to the fact that the prosecution could not succeed in proving the case against the respondent for the reasons noted hereinabove and further, being mindful of the fact that the case involved moral turpitude and the respondent was charged with non-compoundable off ences of a serious nature, we are of the fi rm view that the of the trial Court cannot be treated as a clean acquittal. 18. The aforesaid aspects were rightly factored in by the appellant – State Government while issuing the communication dated 24th August, 20178 and declaring that the respondent was unfi t for appointment to the said post. The yardstick to be applied in cases where the appointment sought relates to a Law Enforcement Agency, ought to be much more stringent than those applied to a routine vacancy. One must be mindful of the fact that once appointed to such a post, a responsibility would be cast on the respondent of maintaining law and in the society, enforcing the law, dealing with arms and ammunitions, apprehending suspected criminals and protecting the life and property of the public at large. Therefore, the standard of rectitude to be applied to any person seeking appointment in a Law Enforcement Agency must always be higher and more rigourous for the simple reason that possession of a higher moral conduct is one of the basic requirements for appointment to a post as sensitive as that in the police service. 19. We are, therefore, of the opinion that mere acquittal of the respondent in the criminal case3 would not automatically entitle him to being declared fi t for appointment to the subject post. The appellant–State Government has judiciously exercised its discretion after taking note of all the relevant factors relating to the antecedents of the respondent. In such a case, even one criminal case faced by the respondent in which he was ultimately acquitted, apparently on the basis of being extended benefi t of doubt, can make him unsuitable for appointment to the post of a Constable. The said decision taken by the appellant–State Government 456 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. is not tainted by any malafi des or arbitrariness for the High Court to have interfered therewith. As a result, the judgement dated 17th November, 2017, passed by the learned Single Judge is upheld while quashing and setting aside the impugned dated 24th January, 2018, passed by the Division Bench of the High Court.