Kindly organise Consortium meeting or joint Lenders Meeting at the earliest, preferably before 07th February 2020 to discuss and to come to an understanding. We hope that you will consider our humble request. Kindly do the needful and oblige. Looking forward to your favourable response. Thanking you, Yours Faithfully (Salalith Tottempudi) Managing Director” TOTTEMPUDI SALALITH v. STATE BANK OF INDIA & 505 ORS. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 8. An argument based on Section 25(3) of the Contract Act, 1872 was examined by this court in Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. -vs- Kew Precision Parts Private Limited and Others [(2022) 9 SCC 364]. We shall refer to this henceforth as Kotak Mahindra II. Analysing the provision of Section 25 (3) of the Contract Act, 1872 this Court has held in this :- “33. There is a distinction between acknowledgment under Section 18 of the Limitation Act, 1963 and a promise within the meaning of Section 25 of the Contract Act. Both promise and acknowledgment in writing, signed by a party or its agent authorised in that behalf, have the eff ect of creating a fresh starting of limitation. The diff erence is that an acknowledgment under Section 18 of the Limitation Act has to be made within the period of limitation and need not be accompanied by any promise to pay. If an acknowledgment shows existence of jural relationship, it may extend limitation even though there may be a denial to pay. On the other hand, Section 25(3) is only attracted when there is an express promise to pay a debt that is time-barred or any part thereof. Promise to pay can be inferred on scrutinising the document. Only the promise should be clear and unconditional.” 9. We accept the submission of the appellant that this letter was a request to consider a one-time settlement. But again, in absence of averments or pleading, after initiation of insolvency proceeding, any promise made to pay the debt cannot be treated to have cured the fault of limitation in a pre- existing action. A promise of this nature would constitute an independent cause of action. 10. We shall now return to the point argued by the appellant that the date of default should go back to the date on which the loan account of the corporate debtor was declared as non-performing asset. In the cases of B.K. Educational Services Private Limited -vs- Parag Gupta & Associates [(2019) 11 SCC 633] and Babulal (supra), date of default has been treated to be the date on which the limitation period starts ticking. In Gaurav Hargovindbhai Dave -vs- Asset Reconstruction Company (India) Limited and Another [(2019) 10 SCC 572], the provision of Article 137 to the Limitation Act was applied for computing the period of limitation. But these authorities do not lay down a proposition of law which is contrary to that laid down by the three-Judge Bench of this Court in the 506 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. case of Kotak Mahindra I (supra). This Court, in the case of Vashdeo R. Bhojwani -vs- Abhyudaya Co-operative Bank Limited and Another [(2019) 9 SCC 158], on considering the facts involved in that case, came to the fi nding that when the recovery certifi cate was issued, the said certifi cate injured eff ectively and completely the appellant’s rights, as a result of which limitation would have begun ticking.