These charges cannot be fairly charged to one stream of work or job, and rather be distributed as they relate to the general business or the work of the contractor/builder being undertaken or to be undertaken, as the overheads are relatable to the builder/contractor’s business in entirety. 21. The usage of formulae such as Hudson’s, Emden’s, or Eichleay’s formulae to ascertain the loss of overheads and profi ts has been judicially approved in the English cases of Peak Construction (Liverpool) Ltd v. McKinney Foundations Limited15, Whittal Builders v. Chesterle-Street District Council16, and JF Finnegan Ltd v. Sheffi eld City Council17 and in the Canadian case of Ellis-Don v. Parking Authority of Toronto18. The three formulae deal with theoretical mathematical equations, but are based on factual assumptions, and therefore can produce three diff erent and unrelated compensation/damages. Therefore, while applying a particular equation or method, the assumptions should be examined, and the satisfaction of the assumption(s) ascertained in the facts and circumstances. 22. The formula suggested by Hudson in his 10th edition of the book Building and Engineering Contracts for the computation of damages takes the head offi ce and profi t percentage as a proportion of the contract value. The formula assumes that the profi t judged by the builder/contractor is in fact capable of being earned by her/him elsewhere had the builder/contractor been free to leave the contract at the proper time. The formula is couched on three assumptions. First, that the contractor is not habitually or otherwise underestimating the cost when pricing; secondly the profi t element was realistic at that time; and lastly, there was no fl uctuation in the market conditions and the work of the same general level of profi tability would be available to her/him at the end of the contract period. Satisfaction of these 15 (1970) 1 BLR 114. 16 (1987) 40 BLR 82. 17 (1988) 43 BLR 124. 18 (1978) 28 BLR 98. BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 463 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] assumptions should be ascertained when we apply Hudson’s formula for computing the damages. Material should be furnished by the claimant to justify and assure that the assumptions for applying Hudson’s formula are met. 23. Ordinarily, when the completion of a contract is delayed and the contractor claims that s/he has suff ered a loss arising from depletion of her/ his income from the job and hence turnover of her/his business, and also for the overheads in the form of workforce expenses which could have been deployed in other contracts, the claims to bear any persuasion before the arbitrator or a court of law, the builder/contractor has to prove that there was other work available that he would have secured if not for the delay, by producing invitations to tender which was declined due to insuffi cient capacity to undertake other work. The same may also be proven from the books of accounts to demonstrate a drop in turnover and establish that this result is from the particular delay rather than from extraneous causes.