54. This would also severely curtail the scope of the selection committee while considering candidates for the post of Vice-Chancellor, as the selection committee in such case would be inclined to consider younger candidates over older and possibly more qualifi ed and experienced ones who may be more suitable considering the coveted nature of the post and the duties expected to be discharged. Moreover, it would inhibit a Vice-Chancellor who has already held offi ce and proven himself to be a valuable asset during his tenure from being reappointed if he happens to be of more than sixty-years of age. This would frustrate the very purpose of ‘reappointment’ which given the nature of the post of Vice-Chancellor is all the more important as it is the Vice-Chancellor who is responsible for the day-to-day functioning as well as the overall performance of the University, its faculty, students etc. DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 421 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 55. Even otherwise, the interpretation as sought to be placed by the appellants would lead to a very absurd situation, where a Vice-Chancellor of sixty-one years age cannot be reappointed to hold the offi ce of Vice- Chancellor, however, at the same time another person would still be able to hold the offi ce of Vice-Chancellor at the very same age of sixty-one years only by reason of him being appointed at the age of fi fty-nine years. This appears to be bereft of any logic, more particularly when sub-section (9) does not say that a person shall hold offi ce of Vice-Chancellor till he attains the age of sixty years and rather uses the expression “No Person who is more than sixty years of age shall be appointed as Vice-Chancellor”. 56. The doctrine of purposive construction may be taken recourse to for the purpose of giving full eff ect to the statutory provisions, and the courts must state what meaning the statute should bear, rather than rendering the statute a nullity, as statutes are meant to be operative and not inept. The courts must refrain from declaring a statute to be unworkable. The rules of interpretation require that construction which carries forward the objectives of the statute, protects interest of the parties and keeps the remedy alive, should be preferred looking into the text and context of the statute. Construction given by the court must promote the object of the statute and serve the purpose for which it has been enacted and not eff ace its very purpose. The courts strongly lean against any construction which tends to reduce a statute to futility. The provision of the statute must be so construed as to make it eff ective and operative. The court must take a pragmatic view and must keep in mind the purpose for which the statute was enacted as the purpose of law itself provides good guidance to courts as they interpret the true meaning of the Act and thus legislative futility must be ruled out.