The further argument was that the power to amend is to be seen in the context. The other provisions of the amendment inserted new provisions of the Constitution itself. They also altered substantially entries of taxation particularly Entry 54 of the State List beyond recognition, denuding states of power to levy VAT on most items. Those provisions become eff ective immediately upon the bringing into force of the Amendment i.e. 16.09.2016. A contextual interpretation of Section 19 therefore would mean that it preserved the operation of existing laws till they were repealed or such laws were brought in line with the other provisions of the amendment which became part of the Constitution. It was submitted in this context, that Section 19 cannot be considered as a part of the Constitution, but merely as an incidental provision with limited operation. 73. Section 19 seeks to achieve three aims. The fi rst is to preserve the existing status quo with regard to the state and central indirect tax regime, for a period of one year from the date of commencement of the Amendment or till a new law is enacted whichever is earlier. The second is authorizing the competent legislatures i.e. the State Legislatures and Parliament to amend existing laws which were in force in states and other parts of the country (obviously both Central and State laws. The third was the repeal of such laws. Now, that Section 19 was meant to be transitional cannot be doubted. In its absence, the several hundreds of state enactments and central laws which were in force, would have been jeopardized. Other than Section 19 there is no saving provision which is part of the Amendment. It is questionable whether Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, would have applied on its own force. Consequently, Parliament, acting in a constituent capacity, amended the substantive parts of the Constitution, and also, at the same time ensured through Section 19 that limited operation of existing laws continued till the legal regime was changed in accordance with the amended parts of the Constitution. Keeping in mind that the Amendment, denuded the States – and even Parliament of legislative authority in regard to the pre-existing THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 181 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (i.e. pre-amendment) powers and fi elds of taxation, the absence of such a transitional provision might have been catastrophic. It was in this context that Section 19 also clarifi ed that not only were the laws to be continued, in force but also that the States – and Parliament, could amend, or repeal them. 74. The petitioners have relied upon the s of this court in Bondu Ramaswamy (supra) and Vipulbhai (supra).In the present case, there is no dispute with respect to the fact that Section 19 also seeks to achieve the same objects i.e. the preservation of existing fi scal and taxation laws prevailing in various statutes and in other parts of the country for a limited duration of one year or till they were amended or repealed.