c. Section 240 which forms part of Chapter XVIII dealing with the trial of warrant cases by Magistrates provides that the charge shall be framed in writing and the learned Magistrate shall read over and explain the charge to the accused. Though the Section does not make it mandatory, normally, the charge will be framed in the language of the Court determined in accordance with Section 272 of CrPC. Therefore, if the accused is not conversant with the language in which the charge is framed, it is the duty of the Magistrate to explain the charge to the accused in a language which he understands. d. If we compare provisions of Chapters XVIII, XIX, XX, and XXI which deal with sessions triable cases, warrant triable cases, summons triable cases, and summary trials, either there is a requirement of explaining the charge to the accused, or there is a requirement of stating the particulars of the off ence to the accused. These requirements can be fulfi lled only by explaining to the accused in the language which he understands. 316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. e. Only in the case of summary trials under Chapter XXI, there is a specifi c provision under Section 265 that the record of the case shall be in the language of the Court. f. Section 277 (b) permits a witness to give evidence in any other language which is not the language of the Court. It lays down the procedure for recording such evidence. g. There is a salutatory provision in the form of Section 279 under Chapter XXIII dealing with evidence in inquiries and trials. Section 279 reads thus: “279. Interpretation of evidence to accused or his pleader.—(1) Whenever any evidence is given in a language not understood by the accused, and he is present in Court in person, it shall be interpreted to him in open Court in a language understood by him. (2) If he appears by pleader and the evidence is given in a language other than the language of the Court, and not understood by the pleader, it shall be interpreted to such pleader in that language. (3) When documents are put for the purpose of formal proof, it shall be in the discretion of the Court to interpret as much thereof as appears necessary.” Thus, where evidence is recorded in the language of the Court which is not understood by the accused or his pleader, there is an obligation on the part of the Court to explain the evidence to the accused or his lawyer, as the case may be. h. Section 281 provides that if the examination of the accused made by the Court is reduced into writing in a language which the accused does not understand, the statement is required to be interpreted to him in a language which he understands and after such interpretation is made, the accused has the liberty to explain and add to his answers. i. Under Section 354, it is provided that in every trial of a Criminal Court must be written in the language of the Court.