Nair and Others -vs- Union of India and Others [(2001) 6 SCC 84], it has been broadly held that animals have inherent right in natural law to live a dignified life without infliction of cruelty and this principle is sought to extended to proscribe Jallikattu, Kambala and Bullock Cart Race. In D the case of N.R. Nair (supra), it was held that animals have capability to bear pain and suffering and that they have a fear from restrictions on their spaces and bodies and other forms of physical discomfort. But we need not refer to these authorities as we accept the obligation of human beings to ensure that animals do not suffer from pain and injury. Our E jurisdiction, however, does not extend to provide an absolute protection to the animals from any manner of infliction of pain and suffering. What the broad theme of 1960 Act is that the animals must be protected from unnecessary pain and suffering. This aspect has been dealt with in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra). This approach would be apparent from a plain reading of Section 11 of the 1960 Act itself even before the three F Amendments where the legislature appears to have undertaken a balancing exercise without disturbing the concept of ownership of animal by an individual and such individual’s right to employ these animals in the aforesaid sports. We have already expressed our views on the point earlier in this . G 37. As we proceed on the basis that the Constitution does not recognise any Fundamental Right for animals, we shall have to test the legality of the three Statutes against the provisions of 1960 Act along with the constitutional provisions of Articles 48, 51-A (g) and (h). The three Statutes will also have to meet the test of arbitrariness, which has H 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A become the foundation of our constitutional jurisprudence after this Court delivered the in the cases of E.P. Royappa -vs- State of Tamil Nadu and Another [(1974) 4 SCC 3], Ajay Hasia and Others -vs- Khalid MujibSehravardi and Others [(1981) 1 SCC 722] and Joseph Shine -vs- Union of India [(2018) 2 SCC 189]. B 38. Factual arguments have been advanced that prohibition on the practice of particularly Bullock Cart Race could result in ultimate collapse of a particular genre of cattle which are useful for agricultural purpose and hence the aforesaid Amendment Acts to be treated to be relatable to Entry 15 of List II of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India. But having regard to the nature of challenge, we are of the C view that in pith and substance, the Amendment Acts seek to address the question of prevention of cruelty to animals. The tenor of the Maharashtra Amendment Act and its Preamble point to that interpretation and the object of the Amendments primarily is relatable to Item 17 of the Concurrent List. Hence, we reject the argument that the Maharashtra D Amendment Act has been legislated for the preservation, protection and improvement of stock and prevention of animal diseases, veterinary training and practice.