357. In that, the offence of money-laundering ought to proceed A for trial only before the Special Court designated to try money- laundering offences where the offence of money-laundering has been committed. This is a special enactment and being a later law, would prevail over any other law for the time being in force in terms of Section 71 of the 2002 Act.” B 14. On facts, it is the contention of the learned Counsel for the petitioner that no part of the alleged offence of money-laundering was committed within the jurisdiction of the Special Court, Ghaziabad and that the petitioner’s bank account where the alleged proceeds of crime were deposited, is located in Navi Mumbai, Maharashtra. Even the C proceedings for the provisional attachment of the bank account were initiated in New Delhi. Therefore, it is contended that the lodging of the complaint at Ghaziabad was an abuse of the process of the court and that the same having been done at the instance of the founder of the Hindu IT Cell, is completely vitiated. It is also contended that the Court of the Special Judge, ought to have returned the complaint to the D respondent, in terms of Section 201 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and that the taking cognizance is vitiated also by non-application of mind. 15. In response, it is contended by Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General that under the scheme of the Act, the complaint of E money-laundering should follow the complaint in respect of the scheduled offence. Since the complaint in respect of the scheduled offence was registered on 7.9.2021 in Indirapuram Police Station, Ghaziabad, the respondent necessarily had to lodge the Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) on 11.11.2021, on the file of the same court, within whose F jurisdiction the scheduled offence became triable. In addition, it is contended by the learned Solicitor General that the petitioner was alleged to have received money through an online crowdfunding platform and that there were several victims within the territorial jurisdiction of the Court of the Special Judge who had contributed money. In other words, it is the contention of the learned Solicitor General that a part of the G cause of action had actually arisen within the jurisdiction of the Court of the Special Judge, Ghaziabad. 16. From the rival contentions, it appears that two questions arise for consideration before us. They are (i)whether the trial of the offence of money-laundering should follow the trial of the scheduled/predicate H 900 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A offence or vice versa; and (ii)whether the Court of the Special Judge, Anti-Corruption, CBI Court No.1, Ghaziabad, can be said to have exercised extra-territorial jurisdiction, even though the offence alleged, was not committed within the jurisdiction of the said Court. 17. In to find an answer to question No.1, it is necessary for us to take note of a few provisions of the PMLA. B 18. The word “money-laundering” is defined in Section 2(1)(p) of the Act to have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section 3.