14.5. The selection process adopted in the instant case may be summarized as under: H 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A i) The process of selection was governed by the 1992 Rules made by the General Administration Department of the Government of Jammu and Kashmir. Rule 9 (i) of the said Rules provided that the Chairman of the Board may nominate a committee of “one or more B members” of the Board for, inter alia, holding interviews for the purpose of selecting candidates for being appointed to the State Cadre. Under Rule 9 (iii), the Chairman may, if he feels necessary associate with the Selection Committee an Expert/ C Specialist in the discipline in which recruitment is to be made. The first proviso to Rule 9 provides that the selection made by the said Committee shall be approved by the Board before the same is forwarded to the appointing authority. For a better appreciation, Rule 9 and 9A of the 1992 D Rules are extracted as under: “9. Nomination of Committees: (i) The Chairman may nominate a Committee “which shall consist of one or more members” of the Board for conducting examination and for holding interviews and tests E for purposes of selection of candidates for being appointed to the State Cadre; (ii) Every such Committee shall be chaired by the Chairman and where the Chairman is not a member of the Committee, by a member to be nominated by the Chairman, and F (iii) Chairman may, if he feels necessary associate with the selection committee expert/specialist in the discipline in which recruitment is to be made. (iv) The Chairman may nominate a Committee of not less than G three persons for conducting and holding examinations, interviews and tests for purposes of making selection of candidates for being appointed to divisional and District Cadre; Provided that the said Committee shall be presided over by a member of the Board nominated by the Chairman and H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 757 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the other members of the Committee shall be nominated by A the Chairman out of the panel or names drawn up and approved by the Board from time to time in this behalf. The selection made by the said Committee shall be approved by the Board before the same is forwarded to the appointing authority. B Provided further that in respect of selection for the posts falling in the District cadre, the District Officer of the discipline in which selection is required to be made, may also be accepted as member in the said Committee. Provided also that the Chairman of the Board may C constitute District Level Selection Committees for each district with Deputy Commissioner as Convenor/ Chairman for selection of Patwaris, as one time exception, for the year 1995 – 96. “9-A. Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, D the Government may for any special employment drive authorize the chairman to constitute following committees for the conduct of examination/tests and for holding interviews or both, as the case may be, for purposes of selection of candidates for being appointed to the State/ E Divisional/District cadre posts: I.