c. The Intervenors/applicants have been receiving the Non- Practicing Allowance while working under CCRUM which clearly indicates that the Intervenors/applicants are indeed qualifi ed doctors at par with the other Doctors who also get the same allowances. d. The Recruitment Rules which apply to the Intervenors/ applicants are: “for functional purpose, a medical officer (Ayurveda) when posted in the Ministry of AYUSH will be designated as Research offi cer (Ayurveda) and thus the medical offi cer and Research offi cer are one and the same and there cannot be any distinction between the two”. e. That the Government of India (Cabinet) vide its has granted the benefi t of enhancement of superannuation age to 65 years to the doctors under the administrative control of the respective Ministries/Department (Ministry of AYUSH) (AYUSH doctors) which is fully applicable to the doctors working under the appellant council but the Ministry of AYUSH erroneously by their mis-interpretation has excluded the benefi ts to doctors working under autonomous bodies like the council. It is because CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 759 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of the wrong interpretation made by the Ministry of AYUSH, the said benefi t was erroneously denied to the AYUSH doctors like the Intervenors/applicants. f. That the Govt. of India vide its own dated 02.11.2020 has given the said benefi t to the Director of ITRA and enhanced the age of superannuation to 65 years. Therefore, as per own interpretation made by the Ministry of AYUSH, the benefi t of enhancement of superannuation of age is fully applicable to all doctors (working in any capacity including researcher) who are under the administrative control of AYUSH and when Govt. of India (Cabinet) did not exclude the autonomous institution like Intervenors/applicants council then the Ministry of AYUSH has no right to diff erentiate and deny the benefi t of superannuation to the Intervenors/applicants. g. It is submitted that Clauses-34 & 35 of the Bye-Laws issued by the CCRAS, deals with superannuation and prescribes that the Fundamental and Supplementary Rules and General Financial Rules of the Government of India as amended from time to time shall apply mutatis mutandis to the employees of the Central Council. h. It is submitted that the Intervenors/applicants during their entire tenure performed duties like treating patients in OPD and IPD along with research activities which would clearly establish that the Intervenors/applicants have been attending the patients, both, the OPDs and IPDs. The Intervenors/applicants have worked for prestigious hospitals like the RML & DDU while performing duties which include treating the patients along with Research work. i. It is submitted that Non-Practicing Allowance has been given to the doctors working under Intervenor/applicants council and the said benefi t was given to the Intervenor/applicants as well which clearly contradicts the stand of council that the Intervenors/ applicants were not performing the duties of doctors. In fact, the Non-Practicing Allowance has been sanctioned only on the basis that the Intervenors/applicants are qualifi ed doctors and are performing the duties of Clinical Doctor which includes the OPD 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.