Apart from setting out the items in respect of which the EOU or the Unit could claim exemption, other conditions included, inter alia, that the entire production had to be exported to General Currency Area/Hard Currency Area countries and that the value addition would be a minimum of 67 percent and that the unit had to maintain value addition in case external commercial borrowing is resorted to. H 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 9. Furthermore, the capital goods limit exemption was also indicated. Importantly, the letter of permission contained standard conditions which described the commercial assent “letter of intent”. 10. It is evident from the overall reading of the document issued by the department of Industrial Development, Central Government on 16.12.1993 to the assessee that it was a mere permission conditioned B upon fulfilment of certain specified requirements. Therefore, it was described as a letter of intent. The actual approval in clear terms enabling the benefit of exemption was issued on 27.10.1994, when “Green Card” was issued by the Central government. Therefore, this Court is of the opinion that the term “approval” in the present case was issued in the letter dated 27.10.1994. C 11. In these circumstances, this Court is of the opinion that the term “approval” has to relate to unambiguous approval by the Central Government which in the present case was given on 27.10.1994. 12. Therefore, the assessee could have availed exemption after 27.10.1994. D 13. The assessee’s contention that it commenced production only on 01.10.1994 which is the reckonable date in the opinion of this Court, is not persuasive. This is because while granting approval, in all manner the assessee was made known of the requirement it has to fulfil. If in a given case the unit holder chooses not to go ahead or start production, he should not be rewarded for such inaction. E 14. In these circumstances, the assessee’s contention that the date of commencement should be the date when the exemption also becomes determinable cannot be accepted. Another reason why such a contention is unfeasible is that it injects subjectivity with regard to assessment of proceedings itself. In a given case, the unit holder may be vigilant and set up his or its unit early whereas in another case, the F concerned unit-holder may be laid back or drags its feet resulting in the unit not commencing production. In the latter case, though it might have secured approval, the delay in the commencement of production should not be rewarded with an exemption. 15. For the above-reasons, the court holds that date of approval in this case was 27.10.1994 and that would be the reckonable date for G grant of exemption under the notification SRO 1727/1993. 16. The appeals are partly allowed in above terms. Nidhi Jain Appeals partly allowed. (Assisted by : Shashwat Jain, LCRA) H