There is no principle underlying Article 20 of the Constitution which makes a right to any course of procedure a vested right… (emphasis supplied)” (ix) In the case of G.P. Nayyar (supra), a two-judge Bench of this Court, while dealing with the eff ect of repeal and revival of Section 5(3) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, was of the view that Section 5(3) did not by itself lay down or introduce any off ence. It was only a rule of evidence whereas the off ence was provided under Section 5(1) or 5(2) of the 1947 Act. As such, the claim of the appellant therein that revival of Section 5(3) by the Anti-Corruption Laws (Amendment) Bill, 1967 retrospectively hit by Article 20(1) of the Constitution was without any merit. 38 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Reliance was placed upon the earlier Constitution Bench in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh (supra) that it was only conviction or sentence under an ex post facto law that was prohibited under Article 20(1) of the Constitution and would not aff ect the trial. What this Court said was that the appellant cannot object to a procedure diff erent from what existed at the time of the commission of the off ence by applying Article 20(1) of the Constitution. It may be noticed that this was a relating to law being amended by the Parliament and not law being declared unconstitutional by a Court. The relevant extract from the said reads as follows: “There can be no objection in law to the revival of the procedure which was in force at the time when the off ence was committed. The eff ect of the amendment is that sub-section (3) of Section 5 as it stood before the commencement of the 1964 Act shall apply and shall be deemed to have always applied in relation to trial of off ences. It may be if by this deeming provision a new off ence was created, then the prohibition under Article 20(1) may come into operation. But in this case, as already pointed out, what is done is no more than reiterating the eff ect of Section 6(1) of the General Clauses Act. Mr. Garg, the learned Counsel, submitted that by amending procedure drastically and giving it retrospective eff ect, a new off ence may be created retrospectively. It was contended that by shifting the burden of proof as provided for in Section 5(3) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1947, a new off ence is created. It is unnecessary for us to consider the larger question as to whether in certain circumstances giving retrospective eff ect to the procedure may amount to creation of an off ence retrospectively. In the present case the old procedure is revived and no new procedure is given retrospective eff ect. The procedure given eff ect to is not of such a nature as to result in the creation of a new off ence. (emphasis supplied)” (x) In the case of Soni Devrajbhai Babubhai (supra), the facts were that on 13.08.1986, the daughter of the appellant therein had died.