A beginning to the end of the trial. (2) There is a rebuttable presumption that the accused was not insane, when he committed the crime, in the sense laid down by Section 84 of the Indian Penal Code: the accused may rebut it by placing before the court all the relevant evidence oral, documentary or circumstantial, but the burden of proof upon him is no higher than that rests upon a B party to civil proceedings. (3) Even if the accused was not able to establish conclusively that he was insane at the time he committed the offence, the evidence placed before the court by the accused or by the prosecution may raise a reasonable doubt in the mind of the court as regards one or more of the ingredients of the offence, C including mens rea of the accused and in that case the court would be entitled to acquit the accused on the ground that the general burden of proof resting on the prosecution was not discharged.” 22. As noticed, the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused has committed the offences of murdering the D children and causing disappearance of evidence. The other surrounding factors also show that prosecution has proved the requisite mens rea with reference to the manner of commission of crimes and projecting false narratives by the appellant. In the given set of facts and circumstances, on the submission as made as regards unsoundness of mind, the question in the present case is as to whether the accused- E appellant has been able to establish that he was insane at the time of committing the offence or anything has been projected on record for which even a reasonable doubt could be entertained as regards mens rea? The answer to this question, in our view, could only be in the negative. 23. The evidence on record, taken as a whole, at the most shows F that the appellant was addicted to alcohol and was admitted to the rehabilitation centre for de-addiction. However, there is absolutely nothing on record to show that the appellant was medically treated as a person of unsound mind or was legally required to be taken as a person of unsound mind. Contrary to the suggestions made on behalf of the appellant, the testimony of PW-3 Jagbir, manager of rehabilitation centre, G had been clear and specific that during his stay in the centre, no mental illness was observed in the appellant nor was he treated for any mental illness. PW-3 stated in categorical terms that the behaviour of the appellant ‘was normal during his said stay and he was never given any medicine for mental illness because neither any mental illness was H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 857 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] observed in him nor his family members gave us any previous history A of his suffering from any mental illness.’ In his cross-examination, this witness further removed any doubt in regard to the mental status of the appellant while maintaining that the appellant ‘was mentally fit and sound during his stay at our centre and he was admitted only for de-addiction of his habit of consuming liquor.’Hence, the appellant’s B had only been a case of addiction to alcohol.