v. NBCC (India) Limited and Ors. : (2022) 1 SCC 401 and Maharashtra Seamless Ltd. v. Padmanabhan Venkatesh and Ors. : (2020) 11 SCC 467 as regards B the principles that the Adjudicating Authority would not be sitting in appeal over the commercial wisdom of CoC and also observed that there was no requirement that the bid of the resolution applicant has to match the liquidation value of the corporate debtor. The Adjudicating Authority also left the questions of various reliefs/concessions sought for by the resolution C applicant to be taken up in the appropriate forum or before the appropriate authority in accordance with law. 17.1. With the above-mentioned observations and findings, the Adjudicating Authority concluded on the matter with approval of the resolution plan and with further directions in the following terms: - D “113. Thus the Resolution Plan is hereby approved and is binding on the Corporate Debtor and other stakeholders involved so that revival of the Debtor Company shall come into force with immediate effect and the “Moratorium” imposed under section 14 of IBC, 2016 shall not have any effect henceforth. The E Resolution Professional shall submit the records collected during the commencement of the Proceedings to the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Board of India for their record and also return to the Resolution Applicant or New Promoters. Certified copy of this be issued on demand to the concerned parties, upon due compliance. Liberty is hereby granted for moving any F Miscellaneous Application, if required, in connection with implementation of this Resolution Plan. That in respect of stepping by the New Promoters/Resolution Applicant into the shoes of the erstwhile Company and taking over the business, the provisions of Companies Act, 2013 shall be applicable and because of this G reason a copy of this is to be submitted in the Office of the Registrar of Companies, Chennai. 114. The Resolution Professional is further directed to handover all records, premises / documents to Resolution Applicant to finalise the further line of action required for starting of the operation as contemplated under the Resolution Plan. The Resolution Applicant H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 819 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] shall have access to all the records premises / documents through A Resolution Professional to finalise the further line of action required for starting of the operation. Accordingly, the Application IA/150/ CHE/2021 stands allowed. All other connected Applications, as arrayed in the cause title, stands dismissed.” Disapproval of the Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) B 18. Being aggrieved of the dated 15.07.2021 so passed by the Adjudicating Authority, approving the resolution plan of the resolution applicant and declaring it to be binding on the corporate debtor and other stakeholders, four appeals were preferred before the Appellate Tribunal, respectively by the promoter Dr. Periasamy Palani Gounder, the related C party Dharani Finance Limited and the NRI shareholder Dr. V. Janakiraman, the details whereof have been noticed hereinbefore in the particulars of proceedings and parties. 19. After considering the said appeals together, the Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) proceeded to allow the same by its impugned D and dated 17.02.2022.