However, at the same time, Shri Nataraj, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the appellant(s) is justified in making the G submission that the original writ petitioners shall not be entitled to the additional 2% automatically and that too from the date of their initial appointment. It is to be noted that even as per D.O./ dated 02.06.2008 while sanctioning 2% hike in pay appropriate target was required to be fixed and accordingly, their sanction from the management for the said proposal was required to be obtained. From 01.04.2009, the H KARNATAKA POWER TRANSMISSION CORPORATION LIMITED v. 567 SRI. B. G. MANAMOHANA PRIYANKA [M. R. SHAH] differential amount towards 2% pay revision was required to be released A after achieving the performance targets by the concerned officers and their first appraisal was to be conducted in April, 2009 and the second appraisal was to be conducted in April, 2010. Therefore, as such the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court have materially erred in directing to revise the pay scale by adding 2% to the B basic pay automatically that too from the date of their appointment. It is required to be noted that in the first year all the writ petitioners were appointed as probationers and as per the Rules, as probationers they were to be put in the minimum basic pay scale which at the relevant time was Rs. 9,470/- C 4. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal succeeds in part. The passed by the learned Single Judge as well as the impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court directing to pay additional 2% in addition to the existing pay to the post of Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical) from the date of their initial appointment is/are hereby quashed and set aside. D It is observed and directed that the original writ petitioners shall be entitled to the additional 2% in addition to the existing pay to the post of Assistant Executive Engineer (Electrical), however, subject to the conditions as mentioned in the D.O./ dated 02.06.2008, namely, subject to achieving the performance targets by the concerned officers. E With this modification, the present appeal stands disposed of. Divya Pandey Appeal disposed of. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Roopanshi Virang, LCRAs) F G H