12. Section 4 of the 1963 Act reads as under :- H 379 BHIMASHANKAR SAHAKARI SAKKARE KARKHANE NIYAMITA v. WALCHANDNAGAR INDUSTRIES LTD. (WIL) [M. R. SHAH, J.] “4. Expiry of prescribed period when court is closed.- Where A the prescribed period for any suit, appeal or application expires on a day when the court is closed, the suit, appeal or application may be instituted, preferred or made on the day when the court reopens. Explanation.- A court shall be deemed to be closed on any day within the meaning of this section if during any part of its normal B working hours it remains closed on that day.” The above Section enables a party to institute a suit, prefer an appeal or make an application on the day court reopens where the prescribed period for any suit, appeal or application expires on the day when the court is closed. C 13. The crucial words in Section 4 of the 1963 Act are “prescribed period”. What is the meaning of these words? 14. Section 2(j) of the 1963 Act defines: “2(j) ‘period of limitation’ [which] means the period of limitation D prescribed for any suit, appeal or application by the Schedule, and ‘prescribed period’ means the period of limitation computed in accordance with the provisions of this Act.” Section 2(j) of the 1963 Act when read in the context of Section 34(3) of the 1996 Act, it becomes amply clear that the prescribed E period for making an application for setting aside an arbitral award is three months. The period of 30 days mentioned in proviso that follows sub-section (3) of Section 34 of the 1996 Act is not the “period of limitation” and, therefore, not the “prescribed period” for the purposes of making the application for setting aside the arbitral award. The period of 30 days beyond three months which F the court may extend on sufficient cause being shown under the proviso appended to sub-section (3) of Section 34 of the 1996 Act being not the “period of limitation” or, in other words, the “prescribed period”, in our opinion, Section 4 of the 1963 Act is not, at all, attracted to the facts of the present case. G 15. Seen thus, the applications made by the appellants on 2-1- 2004 for setting aside the arbitral award dated 26-8-2003 were liable to be dismissed and have rightly been dismissed by the District Judge, Kamrup, Guwahati, as time-barred.” H 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Therefore, as such the question involved in the present appeal is squarely answered against the appellant and the said issue is as such not res integra. 8. Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the appellant that the Limitation Act shall not be applicable to the proceedings under the B Arbitration Act is concerned, the aforesaid has no substance. Section 43(1) of the Arbitration Act specifically provides that Limitation Act, 1963 shall apply to arbitrations as it applies to proceeding in Court.