It further notes that this Court in its and dated 3rd December 2010 in a case relating to construction of park at Noida near Okhla Bird Sanctuary, observed that the ESZs around the Protected Areas had not been notified as the Government of India had not issued any guidelines in this regard. F 35. It thereafter refers to the Committee under the Chairmanship of Shri Pronab Sen for identifying parameters for designating Ecologically Sensitive Areas in India. 36. The said Guidelines thereafter state in paragraph 6 that the G basic aim of notifying ESZs is to regulate certain activities around National Park and Wildlife Sanctuary so as to minimize the negative impact of such activities on the fragile ecosystem encompassing the Protected Area. It states that the first step towards it is to prepare an inventory of the different land use patterns and the different types of activities, types and number of industries operating around each of the Protected Area H IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 623 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] as well as important Corridors. It states that the inventory could be done A by the concerned Range Officers, who can take a stock of activities within 10 kilometres of the range. It further notes that a Committee comprising of the concerned Wildlife Warden, an Ecologist, an official from the Local Self Government and an official of the Revenue Department of the concerned area, could be formed to suggest the B following: (i) Extent of eco-sensitive zones for the Protected Area being considered. (ii) The requirement of such a zone to act as a shock absorber C (iii) To suggest the best methods for management of the eco- sensitive zones, so suggested. (iv) To suggest broad based thematic activities to be included in the Master Plan for the region. 37. It further notes that based on the above, the Chief Wildlife D Warden could group the activities under the following categories:- (i) Prohibited (ii) Restricted with safeguards. (iii) Permissible E 38. The said Guidelines thereafter note that once the proposal for ESZs has been finalized, the same should be forwarded to the MoEF & CC for further processing and notification. An indicative list of details that need to be submitted along with the proposals is also appended to the said Guidelines. F 39. The said Guidelines further note that where the boundary of a Protected Area abuts the boundary of another State/Union Territory where it does not form part of any Protected Area, it should be the endeavour of both the State/Union Territory Governments to have a mutual consultation and decide upon the width of the ESZs around the G Protected Area in question. The said Guidelines emphasize that the State Government should endeavour to convey a very strong message to the public that ESZs are not meant to hamper their day to day activities, but instead, are meant to protect the precious forests/Protected Areas in their locality from any negative impact, and also to refine the environment around the Protected Areas.