THE SCHEME OF THE 2011 NOTIFICATION 21. The Central Government declared certain areas as Coastal Regulation Zone (‘CRZ’, for short). The CRZ in the First Clause consists F of the land area from high tide line to 500 meters on the land along the sea front. The High Tide line is the line based on the highest water mark during the spring tide. We may only further notice that among the other 4 categories of CRZ,the CRZ includes the water and the bed area between the LTL (LOW TIDE LINE) (which line is based on the lowest G height of the water body during the spring tide) to the territorial water 7 (1996) 5 SCC 281 8 (1997) 2 SCC 87 9 (2004) 3 SCC 445 10 (2013) 8 SCC 760 11 (2020) 3 SCC 18 H 12 (2019) 7 SCC 248 K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 263 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] limit (12 nautical miles) in the case of the sea and the water bed and A area between the LTL at the bank to the LTL on the opposite of the bank of the tidal influenced water bodies. CRZ has been classified under para 7 into CRZ I, CRZ II, CRZ III, CRZ IV and CRZ V. Since, we are concerned with CRZ II we may notice the elements which constitute the same. B “7. Classification of the CRZ – For the purpose of conserving and protecting the coastal areas and marine waters, the CRZ area shall be classified as follows, namely:- XXXX XXXX XXXX C (ii) CRZ-II,- The areas that have been developed upto or close to the shoreline. Explanation.- For the purposes of the expression “developed area” is referred to as that area within the existing municipal limits or in other existing legally designated urban areas which are substantially D built-up and has been provided with drainage and approach roads and other infrastructural facilities, such as water supply and sewerage mains;” 22. Paragraph-3 provides for prohibited activities within CRZ. We may notice that it is divided into 14 categories and the noticeable E feature is that certain exceptions to the prohibitions are also declared. Of relevance to the cases before us, are certain Clauses in paragraph-3. They are: “3. Prohibited activities within CRZ,- The following are declared as prohibited activitieswithin the CRZ,- F (i) Setting up of new industries and expansion of existing industries except,- (a) those directly related to waterfront or directly needing foreshore facilities; G Explanation: The expression “foreshore facilities” means those activities permissible underthis notification and they require waterfront for their operations such as ports and harbours, jetties, quays, wharves, erosion control measures, breakwaters, pipelines, H 264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A lighthouses, navigational safety facilities, coastal police stations and the like. ;” 23. Paragraph-3 (i) (b) permits projects of department of Atomic energy.Paragraph-3 (i) (d) permits projects of greenfield project already permitted at Navi Bombay. 3 (i) (e) allows construction, repair work of B dwelling units of local community including fishermen in accordance with Local Town and Country Planning Regulation.