A the higher qualifications of the candidates. Therefore, we are unable to interfere with the selection process on the ground that the award of marks was recast unilaterally. The reallocation of marks based on the educational qualification was in recognition of the higher qualification of the candidates which cannot be termed to be arbitrary. It is a no brainer that any candidate who was aggrieved by the recast of marks would B either withdraw his candidature or challenge the Corrigendum dated 12th June, 2009 at a preliminary stage in the selection process. However, the writ petitioners did not do so. Having participated in the selection process without any demur or protest, the writ petitioners cannot challenge the same as being tainted with mala fides, merely because they were C unsuccessful. 17. One of the directions issued by the learned Single Judge in the Writ Petitions was to retain the successful candidates but, at the same time, to consider the case of the writ petitioners for appointment in the available posts. But if it was not possible to accommodate the writ D petitioners, owing to non-availability of posts, then the entire selection was quashed and set aside and a fresh Selection Committee was to be constituted to conduct fresh interviews of all the candidates who had earlier appeared before it and a fresh Select List was to be prepared. Further, till the said exercise was to be carried out, the selected candidates were to be continued. The Division Bench, however, quashed the E Selection List in its entirety and directed and observed that no further appointments could be made against the vacancies that may have occurred subsequent to the appointments already made and that a fresh selection was to be made by re-advertising the posts. Consequently, the selection of drug inspectors was quashed in toto and a direction was F issued to complete the exercise afresh within six months and till then, the appointed candidates as drug inspectors were to be continued. We find that the aforesaid directions issued by both the learned Single Judge as well as by the Division Bench were not in accordance with law and hence, the said directions have to be quashed. G 18. In light of the aforesaid discussion, the present appeals are allowed. The of the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir at Srinagar, dated 18th December 2015 and the impugned passed by the Division Bench, dated 29th October, 2021, are set aside. Consequently, the of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir at Jammu dated 6th July, 2017 following the H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 765 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of the learned Single Judge of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir at A Srinagar, dated 18th December, 2015, is also set aside. 18.1. The candidates who were declared successful in selection process conducted on 8th September, 2009, for appointment of drug inspectors in the State of Jammu and Kashmir, and the appointments published on 12th November, 2009, were permitted to continue in service B by virtue of stay of the impugned .