the purpose and the relevant legal norms applicable for a binding and enforceable arbitration agreement. An agreement evidenced in writing has no meaning unless the E parties can be compelled to adhere and abide by the terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights based on an unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons to hold that an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal. A void and unenforceable understanding is no agreement to do anything. F Existence of an arbitration agreement means an arbitration agreement that meets and satisfies the statutory requirements of both the Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and when it is enforceable in law.” 86.1. As can be seen, the Court equated existence and validity G and it was held that a contract only exists if it is valid. And it is valid only if it is enforceable. As far as the issue in the present case is concerned, the authors’ Comments in Russell on Arbitration85(24th Edition) in the context of English law provide useful pointers in this context: H 85 Supra at note 58; Chapter 7, P. 369 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 489 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] “Existence and Validity of the arbitration agreement. .. the A Court draws a distinction between existence of the arbitration agreement, which is likely to be a matter for the Court(unless a stay under the inherent jurisdiction is granted) and its validity, which wherever possible should be left to the arbitrators.” [emphasis in original] B 86.2 I have already discussed that in the Indian regime, the Arbitrator under Section 16 has the jurisdiction to decide on “existence” and “validity”. A plain reading of Section 11(6A) would show that the examination by Court is confined only to “existence” and not even “validity”. Moreover, in the present reference, we are only concerned C with the formal requirement of stamping and not arbitrability. Applying contextual interpretation to render an arbitration agreement void on the formal requirement of stamping would defeat the very purpose of the Arbitration Act, 1996. A document cannot be rendered invalid or unenforceable especially if the defect is curable under the Stamp Act, D 1899 as noted earlier. Moreover, none of the provisions in the Stamp Act, 1899 have the effect of rendering a document invalid. Thus, we find the position in Vidya Drolia(supra)to the extent that it relies on Garware(supra) to be incorrect. O. Conclusion E 87. Harking back to Charles Evans Hughes with whose words we began the , let us conclude with the following quote of the same judge reflected in Prophets By Honor86: “There are some who think it desirable that dissents should not be F disclosed as they detract from the force of the judgement. Undoubtedly, they do. When unanimity can be obtained without sacrifice of conviction, it strongly commends the decision to public confidence. But unanimity, which is merely formal, which is recorded at the expense of strong, conflicting views, is not desirable in a court of last resort, whatever may be the effect on public G opinion at the time.