…” FINAL ANALYSIS 52. On a conspectus of all the aforesaid decisions what is discernible is that there is a fine distinction between the plea that the C claims raised are barred by limitation and the plea that the application for appointment of an arbitrator is barred by limitation. 53. Mookerjee, J. in Dwijendra Narain Roy v. Joges Chandra De and others, reported in AIR 1924 Cal 600 has explained the true test to determine when a cause of action could be said to have accrued D observing as under: “10.…The substance of the matter is that time runs when the cause of action accrues and a cause of action accrues when there is in existence a person who can sue and another who can be sued, and when all the facts have happened which E are material to be proved to entitle the plaintiff to succeed ; Coburn v. Colledge [(1897) 1 Q.B. 702] ; Gelmani v. Morriggia [(1913) 2 K.B. 549]. The cause of action arises when and only when the aggrieved party has the right to apply to the proper tribunals for relief : Whalley v. Whalley [(1816) 1 M.R. 436]. The statute does not attach to a claim for which there is F as yet no right of action and does not run against a right for which there is no corresponding remedy or for which cannot be obtained. Consequently the true test to determine when a cause of action has accrued is to ascertain the time when plaintiff could first have maintained his action to a G successful result. ….” (Emphasis supplied) 54. “Cause of action” means the whole bundle of material facts, which it is necessary for the plaintiff to prove in to entitle him to succeed in the suit. In delivering the of the Board H 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A in Mussummat Chand Kour and Another v. Partab Singh and Others, reported in ILR (1889) 16 Cal 98, Lord Watson observed: “Now the cause of action has no relation whatever to the defence which may be set up by the defendant, nor does it depend upon the character of the relief prayed for by the B plaintiff it refers entirely to the grounds set forth in the plaint as the cause of action, or in other words to the media upon which the plaintiff asks the court to arrive at a conclusion in his favour.” (Emphasis supplied) C 55. Cause of action becomes important for the purposes of calculating the limitation period for bringing an action. It is imperative that a party realises when a cause of action arises. If a party simply delays sending a notice seeking reference under the Act 1996 because they are unclear of when the cause of action arose, the claim can become time-barred even before the party realises the same. D 56. Russell on Arbitration by Anthony Walton (19th Edn.) at pp. 4-5 states that the period of limitation for commencing an arbitration runs from the date on which the “cause of arbitration” accrued, that is to say, from the date when the claimant first acquired either a right of action or a right to require that an arbitration take place upon the dispute E concerned.