The second paragraph of Section 73 (supra) enables F the court to direct any person present before it to give his specimen writing “for the purpose of enabling the court to compare” such writings with writings alleged to have been written by such person. The obvious implication of the words “for the purpose of enabling the court to compare” is that G there is some proceeding pending before the court in which or as a consequence of which it is necessary for the court to compare such writings. The direction is therefore required to be given for the purpose of “enabling the court to compare” and not for the purpose of enabling an investigating or a prosecuting agency to obtain and produce as evidence in the H 750 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A case the specimen writings for their ultimate comparison with the disputed writings. Where the case is still under investigation and no proceedings are pending in any court in which it might be necessary to compare the two writings, the person (accused) cannot be compelled to give his specimen writings. The language of Section 73 does not permit any court B to give a direction to an accused to give his specimen writing for comparison in a proceeding which may subsequently be instituted in some other competent court. Section 73 of the Evidence Act in our opinion cannot be made use of for collecting specimen writings during the investigation and C recourse to it can be had only when the enquiry or the trial court before which proceedings are pending requires the writing for the purpose of ‘enabling it to compare’ the same. A court holding an enquiry under the Code of Criminal Procedure is indeed entitled under Section 73 of the Evidence Act to direct an accused person appearing before it to give D his specimen handwriting to enable the court by which he may be subsequently tried to compare it with the disputed writings. Therefore, in our opinion the court which can issue a direction to the person to give his specimen writing can either by the court holding the enquiry under the Code of E Criminal Procedure or the court trying the accused person with a view to enable it to compare the specimen writings with the writings alleged to have been written by such a person. A court which is not holding an enquiry under the Code of Criminal Procedure or conducting the trial is not permitted, on the plain language of Section 73 of the Evidence Act, to F issue any direction of the nature contained in the second paragraph of Section 73 of the Evidence Act. The words “any person present in the court” in Section 73 has a reference only to such persons who are parties to a cause pending before the court and in a given case may even include the witnesses G in the said cause but where there is no cause pending before the court for its determination, the question of obtaining for the purposes of comparison of the handwriting of a person may not arise at all and therefore, the provisions of Section 73 of the Evidence Act would have no application.” H (Emphasis supplied) SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.)