Subsequently, he died on account of injuries suff ered by him in the incident in question. This fact is not in dispute and hence, following the above case laws, the FIR lodged on the basis of Bayan Tahrir of injured Rajendra Rai is liable to be treated as a dying declaration, which itself is a substantive piece of evidence and is admissible under Section32(1) of the Evidence Act. 96. In the present case, the FIR, being a public document and a dying declaration of the informant, is the foundation of the entire prosecution case. However, in the present matter, we have to fi nd out the ‘evidence of those persons who can vouchsafe for the truth of the facts in issue’. As held in Narmada Devi Gupta (supra), to ensure the reliability of the contents of the FIR/dying declaration, for which along with the inference drawn by us against the subsequent conduct of accused-respondent no.2 and the aspect of deplorable functioning of the Public Prosecutor, Police Administration and the Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court to extend undesirable favour to the accused, the only incriminating evidence is the testimony of Smt Lalmuni Devi (CW-1), which aspect is being dealt with hereinafter. Issue (D) : Testimony of CW-1: 97. In the present case, besides the FIR/Bayan Tahriri, which is in the form of dying declaration, the testimony of CW-1 Lalmuni Devi is another incriminating evidence against the accused persons. CW-1 Lalmuni Devi’s statement was recorded during the investigation on 29.08.1995 and during Trial she was not produced as Prosecution Witness but was summoned by the Trial Court as Court’s Witness (CW-1) and her fi rst statement was recorded on 03.11.2006, which was scrapped by the Division Bench of High Court by means of one of the various directions issued in the Habeas Corpus dated 13.03.2007 in view of a serious allegation of her kidnapping by the HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 457 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] accused side on 24.10.2006 i.e., just before her examination in the Trial Court and the High Court directed that she will be reexamined afresh before the Trial Court at Patna under Section 311 of the CrPC. Subsequently, CW-1 was examined by the Trial Court when she had deposed about the incident in question and supported the prosecution’s version narrated in the FIR. 98. The High Court, in its impugned judgement, concluded that CW-1 Lalmuni Devi is not a hearsay witness, as held by the Trial Court, but is a tutored witness in view of her last two lines in cross-examination. Any other prosecution witness of fact does not corroborate the testimony of CW-1. Instead, their testimonies are against CW-1 as no other Prosecution Witness has stated about her presence. The main reason assigned by the High Court for such a conclusion is that she has stated in the end of her cross- examination that “her son (another alive son) had asked her to take the name of accused before the Court,” 99.