Nomination paper- Every nomination paper presented under sub-section (i) of section 33 shall be completed in such one of the Forms 2A to 2E as may be appropriate: G Provided that a failure to complete or defect in completing, the declaration as to symbols in a nomination paper in Form 2A or Form 2B shall not be deemed to be a defect of a substantial character within the meaning of sub-section (4) of section 36. H 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 4A. Form of affidavit to be filed at the time of delivering nomination paper- The candidate or his proposer, as the case may be, shall, at the time of delivering to the returning officer the nomination paper under sub-section (1) of section 33 of the Act, also deliver to him an affidavit sworn by the candidate before a Magistrate of the first class or a Notary in Form 26.” B Legal position: 18. The scheme of the Constitutional and statutory provisions contained in the R.P. Act in relation to the nature of the right to elect, the right to be elected and the right to dispute an election have been explained and interpreted by various Constitutional Benches since 1952. To cite a C few are N.P. Ponnuswami vs. Returning Officer, Namakkal Constituency & Ors.5, in Jagan Nath vs. Jaswant Singh &Ors.6, in Bhikji Keshao Joshi &Anr. vs. Brijlal Nandlal Biyani &Ors.7, in Murarka Radhey Shyam Ram Kumar vs. Roop Singh Rathore &Ors.8 etc. D 19. What has been gleaned from the said authorities may be summed up by stating that a right to elect, though fundamental it is to democracy, is neither a fundamental right nor a common law right. It is purely a statutory right. Similarly, right to be elected and the right to dispute an election are also statutory rights. Since they are statutory creations, they are subject to statutory limitations. An Election petition is E not an action at common law, nor in equity.It is a special jurisdiction to be exercised in accordance with the statute creating it. The concept familiar to common law and equity must remain strangers to election law unless statutorily embodied. Thus, the entire election process commencing from the issuance from the notification calling upon a constituency to elect a F member or members right upto the final resolution of the dispute, concerning the election is regulated by the Representation of People Act 1951. The said R.P. Act therefore has been held to be a complete and self-contained code within which must be found any rights claimed in relation to an election dispute. G 20. In a very interesting and important decision in case of Union of India v/s Association for Democratic Reforms and Another9, a 5 1952 (1) SCC 94 6 AIR 1954 SC 210 7 AIR 1955 SC 610 8 AIR 1964 SC 1545 H 9 (2002)5 SCC 294 KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 813 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] three- judge Bench of this Court raising a question- in a nation wedded A to republican and democratic form of government, whether before casting votes, the voters have a right to know relevant particulars of their candidates contesting election to the Parliament or to the legislature of States, deliberated on the powers of the Election Commission under Article 324 of the Constitution, and observed as under:- B “46.