It is not clear from the testimony of PW-3 as to why, so early in the morning, he had the occasion to pass by the place of occurrence. It is found that D PW-3 is a resident of place N whereas PW-2 happened to be a resident of place S. The distance between the two places is 1–2 miles. The incident of murder happened within the jurisdictional limits of Police Station T. It has not surfaced from the evidence of PW-3 very early from where he started and where he was headed E for. ‘GD’ could be the village, where the matrimonial home of the sister of PW-3 is; but for what purpose he had left is not too clear. It was not said by PW-3 that he was on his way to his sister’s residence. In cross–examination, PW-3 denied having resided in place S. [Para 32][238-F-H; 239-A-B] F 1.3. In to prove the guilt of the appellants beyond reasonable doubt, some more particulars were required given the circumstance that PW-3 was at best a ‘chance witness’. Incidentally, PW-2 had denied being related to PW-3 and it was not elicited by the prosecution from PW-2 as to how he came to know the name of PW-3, given the fact that the latter was a G resident of a different village. Similarly, PW-3 too did not say that he knew PW-2 or his father from before. The nature of acquaintance that PW-2 and PW-3 had, ought to have been brought out by the prosecution. That apart, although it is true that PW-3 gave a vivid description of how N was shot by ML, no H 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A specific role was attributed insofar as SL is concerned except that all 4 (four) accused were “beating” (as deciphered from the evidence recorded in Hindi) and not “killing” (as available from the translated version in the paper–book) N. Again, in course of cross–examination, PW-3 deposed that ML had shot N without elaborating whether SL also inflicted any injury on N. There is an B apparent inconsistency between the versions of PW-2 and PW-3 insofar as the role attributed to SL by PW-2 is concerned, which can hardly be overlooked. [Para 33][239-C-E] 1.4. The circumstances as appearing from the record do not justify the presence of PW-3 at the place of occurrence. The C oral testimony of PW-2 and PW-3 is not free from doubt and their evidence not being of unimpeachable quality, the rule of prudence would demand a corroboration of their versions from other witnesses who, according to PW-2 and PW-3, were present at the place of occurrence and witnessed the murder of N. [Para 34][239- D F-G] 1.5. As per the evidence of PW-2 and PW-3, there were other eye-witnesses of whom K was a key witness, and CL and KH were independent witnesses. Since it was the version of PW- 2 and PW-3 that K, CL and KH were present at the place of E occurrence and had also witnessed, inter alia, the incident of “beating” of N with a ‘kanta’ by SL and firing of a gunshot at him by ML, direct evidence could have been provided by either of the three (K, CL and KH) corroborating the versions of PW-2 and PW-3.