Advs., Rajat Arora, Sarvam Ritam Khare, Ms. Meena Sehrawat, Ms. Vrinda Kapoor, Shahrukh Ali, Raghav Gupta, Ms. Urvi Kuthiala, Advs. for the appearing parties. / OF THE SUPREME COURT VIKRAM NATH, J. 1. These two appeals have been fi led under Article 134A read with Article 133(1)(a) of the Constitution of India by the rival parties before the High Court of Delhi in EFA (OS) No.19 of 2017. The High Court, by the impugned , certifi ed that the case involved the following substantial question of law of general importance which required a decision by this Court. NATIONAL PROJECTS CONSTRUCTION CORP. LTD. v. ROYAL 395 CONSTRUCTION COMPANY PVT. LTD. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] “In terms of the agreement dated 29th June 1982 between the parties and in light of the dated 24th February 2015 of the Supreme Court of India in Civil Appeal Nos. 2543-44/2015, what should be the relevant date for conversion of the awarded sum from USD to Indian rupees?” 2. Relevant facts necessary for adjudication of the issue are as follows: 2.1. An agreement was executed between the parties to carry out earth work in Iraq by the Royal Construction Company Private Limited1 given by the National Projects Construction Corporation Limited2. According to the contract, Clauses 31 and 32 of the agreement along with their sub-paragraphs relate to payments and advances, the same are reproduced hereunder: “31. PAYMENTS AND ADVANCES: All amounts and schedule of prices as mentioned in the Agreement documents are in Iraqi Dinars3 and represent the total lump sum amount payable to the Associate for various components of works. For the purpose of payment, the schedule of prices shall be used, and payment released against all monthly account bills submitted by the Associate after due verifi cations. 32. PAYMENT OF WORK IN PROGRESS 32.1. The NPCC may pay initial advance in the form of purchase of air tickets for workers and staff of the Associate from Delhi to Iraq. 2. The NPCC shall give advance, towards the construction of residential accommodation including fi eld offi ce, store at the site of work, towards cost of transport vehicles (1 mini - bus, 1 land Rover and Jeep, 2 Mobile lighting units garage tools and equipment). 1 RCCPL 2 NPCCL 3 ID 396 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 3. Help required for setting up of camp and for initial running of equipment will be extended to by the Chief Project Manager to the extent he deems necessary in the interest of work. The above advances shall be recovered from the “on account bills” after 10% of the work is completed and before 90% of the work is complete. The recovery will be in the same currency as NPCC has spent for the advance. The recovery shall be made on the pro-rata basis. Payment of work in progress: 32.2 The monthly running account bills for the quantity of work executed by the Associate shall be presented to the Chief Project Manager, NPCG before the 10th of every month.