28. Thus, it is noted that any person considering himself aggrieved C can seek review of the or only on the aforesaid three grounds and none other. In the instance case, according to petitioners’ counsel, the first and second grounds for review do not apply. Learned senior counsel for the petitioners have relied upon the third ground. The third ground is “on account of any other sufficient reason”. The said D expression may mean that the reason must be sufficient to the Court to which the application for review is made. 29. In the present batch of cases, serious arguments have been advanced on both sides on, what I consider, the maintainability of these review petitions revolving around the Explanation to XLVII Rule E 1 CPC. Hence, in my view, the recalling of the s passed following the in Pune Municipal Corporation, which is no doubt, overruled, will have to be reconsidered in light of XLVII Rule 1 CPC. 30. On a consideration of XLVII Rule 1 CPC, it is noted F that there are three main grounds referred to above on which a review of a decree or could be sought by an aggrieved person. Much emphasis has been laid by the learned senior counsel for the review petitioners herein, on the expression “sufficient reason” so as to contend that since Pune Municipal Corporation was decided contrary to the intent and purport of Section 24(2) of L.A. Act, 2013 and the same has G been overruled by a Larger Bench comprising of five Judges in Indore Development Authority, there is sufficient reason to review all s passed by this Court following Pune Municipal Corporation. Hence, the present review petitions have been filed although there may be a delay in doing so. H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 239 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 31. It was further contended that having regard to paragraph 365 A of the in Indore Development Authority, the dictum in Pune Municipal Corporation as well as all decisions following Pune Municipal Corporation have been expressly overruled. Therefore, there is sufficient reason to review and recall all those erroneous decisions in light of the subsequent decision in Indore Development Authority. B Hence, the review petitions have been filed. 32. While considering the aforesaid submission, it is also necessary to bear in mind the arguments advanced by learned senior counsel and counsel on behalf of the respondents as they have drawn our particular attention to the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC. It was C contended that the said Explanation clearly bars a review of a on the ground that a subsequent decision has been rendered by a superior Court, i.e. a Larger Bench of five Judges in the instant case, reversing or overruling the earlier decision. It was contended that when such a decision is on a pure question of law, it is not a ground for review of the s which have been overruled by the Larger Bench.