The ECI held that the third test was most appropriate to the facts of that case. Accordingly, G it assessed which of the two groups constituted a majority in Parliament and in the State Legislatures, and in the organisational wing of the party. It found that Congress J enjoyed a majority in both the organizational wing and the legislative wing, and that it was entitled to utilise the symbol which had been reserved for the INC. H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 943 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 142. On appeal, this Court upheld the decision of the ECI and A ruled that the ‘test of majority’ was a very valuable test in the facts and circumstances of the case: “26. … As Congress is a democratic organisation, the test of majority and numerical strength, in our opinion, was a very valuable and relevant test. Whatever might be the position in another system B of government or organisation, numbers have a relevance and importance in a democratic system of government or political set- up and it is neither possible nor permissible to lose sight of them. Indeed it is the view of the majority which in the final analysis proves decisive in a democratic set-up. C 27. It may be mentioned that according to Paragraph 6 of the Symbols , one of the factors which may be taken into account in treating a political party as a recognised political party is the number of seats secured by that party in the House of People or State Legislative Assembly or the number of votes polled by the contesting candidates set up by such party. If the number of seats D secured by a political party or the number of votes cast in favour of the candidates of a political party can be a relevant consideration for the recognition of a political party, one is at a loss to understand how the number of seats[...] to be irrelevant 31. … All that this Court is concerned with is whether the test of E majority or numerical strength which has been taken into account by the Commission is in the circumstances of the case a relevant and germane test. On that point, we have no hesitation in holding that in the context of the facts and circumstances of the case, the test of majority and numerical strength was not only germane and F relevant but a very valuable test.” 143. Subsequent to the decision in Sadiq Ali (supra), the Election Commission consistently applied the test of majority in the legislative and organisational wings of the party to disputes under Paragraph 15.53 However, neither the Symbols nor Sadiq Ali (supra) indicates G that this is the only or even the primary test to be applied while determining disputes under Paragraph 15. The ECI may apply a test which is suitable to the facts of the particular dispute before it. It need not apply the same test to all disputes, regardless of the suitability of the test to those facts and circumstances.