The Government of the State had the power to grant its concurrence or otherwise on which of the other provisions would apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Those other provisions could also be made applicable with such exceptions and modifi cations. 334. To understand the scope of power under Article 370(1)(d), it is necessary that we identify the breadth of the provision. Would it be open to the Government of the State to not give its concurrence for the application of any other provision other than Article 1 and 370? That is, omit all other provisions of the Constitution in its application to Jammu and Kashmir? Could the Government of the State have chosen to omit the application of Part III in the State of Jammu and Kashmir or ‘modify’ the provisions to the extent that the core of the provision is lost? Could a Constitutional have been issued under Article 370(1)(d) omitting the application of Article 32 to Jammu and Kashmir or omitting the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court over the State of Jammu and Kashmir? 335. In Puranlal Lakhanpal I v. President of India250, the State of Jammu and Kashmir detained the petitioner under Section 3 of the Jammu and Kashmir Preventive Detention Act on 4 October 1955. This gave rise to the institution of a petition seeking a writ of habeas corpus. The of detention was issued “with a view to prevent him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the security of the State.” The of detention denied to the petitioner the grounds of detention in terms of the proviso to Section 8(1). The challenge was that the terms of the Section were inconsistent with Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution and therefore void. 336. On 14 May 1954, the President, acting under Article 370(1) with the concurrence of the State government, issued the Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) 1954 applying certain specifi c provisions of the Constitution to the State of Jammu and Kashmir subject to modifi cations. In clauses (4) and (7) of Article 22, the legislature of the State of Jammu and Kashmir was substituted for Parliament so that the 250 1955 (2) SCR 1101; “Puranlal Lakhanpal I” 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. former was competent to legislate for preventive detention. Moreover, Article 35(c) was added, the eff ect of which was that the provisions of the Jammu and Kashmir Preventive Detention Act, insofar as they were in consistent with Part III of the Constitution, would be valid for a period of fi ve years from the commencement of the . The exception which was made by Article 35(c) was co-extensive with the life of the State legislation which had a limited life of fi ve years. In this backdrop, Justice BP Sinha (as the learned Chief Justice then was) speaking for the Constitution Bench held that so long as the State legislation continued in force, the provisions of Articles 21 and 22 of the Constitution, insofar as they were inconsistent with the Act “are out of the way.” Therefore, the Court held that the provisions of Section 8 could not be held to be unconstitutional as being inconsistent with Part III.