Even if the appellant wanted to deposit settlement amount within the stipulated period, it could not do so in view of the bar under the IBC as, during the moratorium, no payment could have been made. In that view of the matter, the appellant cannot be rendered remediless and should not be made to suffer due to a legal C impediment which was the reason for it and/or not doing the act within the prescribed time. 8.1 Now so far as the observations made by the High Court to the effect that the High Court cannot, in exercise of powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India extend the period under the Scheme, D 2019, to some extent the High Court is right. The High Court while exercising the powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India cannot extend the Scheme. However, in the present case it is not a case of extension of the Scheme by the High Court; It is a case of taking remedial measures. It is not a case where the appellant did not make any application within the stipulated time under the Scheme. This is not E a case where the Form No.3 determining the settlement amount was not issued during the validity of the Scheme. It is not a case where the appellant deliberately did not deposit the settlement amount and/or there was any negligence on the part of the appellant in not depositing the settlement amount within the stipulated time. As observed hereinabove F it is a case where the appellant was unable to make the payment due to the legal impediment and the bar to make the payment during the period of moratorium in view of the provisions of the IBC. In a given case it may happen that a person who has applied under the Scheme and who was supposed to make payment on or before 30.06.2020, became seriously ill on 29.06.2020 and there was nobody to look after his affairs G and therefore he could not deposit the amount; such inability was beyond his control and thereafter, immediately on getting out of sickness he tried to deposit the amount and/or approached the Court - can the Court close its eyes and say that though there may be valid reasons and/or causes for that person’s inability to make the payment, still no relief can be H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A granted to him? There may be extra ordinary cases which are required to be considered on facts of each case. The Courts are meant to do justice and cannot compel a person to do something which was impossible for him to do. 8.2 Now so far as the other ground given by the High Court, that B the Designated Committees are not in existence, is concerned, it is required to be noted that the CBCE has issued a circular that in a case where the High Court/courts have passed an setting aside the rejection of the claim under the Scheme after 30.06.2020, the applications can be processed manually.