H 262 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A ii) That the purchase certificate and title deed of the property were not readily available with the defendants at the time of entering into the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property. That this fact raised the probability that non-performance of the agreement within the stipulated time, was not attributable to the plaintiff. B iii) That since the transaction in question involved sale of rights over immovable property, a prudent purchaser would have to satisfy himself as to the genuineness and validity of the documents of title. Therefore, the first step ought to have been taken by the defendants, by handing over the relevant C documents to the plaintiff, which would have in turn enabled the plaintiff to measure the property and tender the balance sale consideration. That the delay in performance of the agreement of sale could be attributed to the non-availability and non-furnishing of the title deeds of the plaint schedule D property. iv) That the mere fact that the defendants had handed over the photostat copy of the title deed to the plaintiff, could not lead to the inference that the plaintiff could have proceeded to measure the property. E v) That although a direction of specific performance would cause some hardship to the defendants, because they could no longer pursue their intention of constructing a house on the suit property, that alone would not be a ground to deny specific performance of a valid agreement. F vi) That since the value of the suit property had increased manifold and had doubled within a short span of time, specific performance, if allowed by payment of the consideration agreed upon in the agreement, would confer an undue benefit on the plaintiff. Therefore, the sale consideration was enhanced by 25% vis-à-vis the consideration agreed G upon in the agreement dated 7thAugust, 2005. 7. Being aggrieved, the defendants preferred Regular First Appeal No. 63 of 2009 before the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam. By the impugned dated 3rd November, 2021, the first appeal was allowed and the of the Trial Court dated 18thAugust, 2008 was H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 263 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] set aside. The following findings were recorded by the High Court in the A impugned : i) That the Trial Court could not have re-fixed the sale consideration at Rs. 11,000/- per cent as against Rs. 8,750/ - per cent, which was the price agreed upon by the parties. That the Court could not have dictated or deviated from B the terms and conditions enumerated in the contract for sale between the parties. ii) That under Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (prior to the same being substituted by way of Act No. 18 of 2018) Courts were vested with the discretion to deny the C relief of specific performance. The Court could balance competing interests by compensating the plaintiff in terms of money so as to bring him back to his original position, to the extent possible.