(f) the fees for admission to the examinations of the Board and the manner of their realisation; (g) the conduct of examinations; (h) the appointment of examiners, moderators, collators, scrutinizers, tabulators, centre inspectors, superintendents of centres and invigilators, and their duties and powers in relation to the Board’s examinations, and the rates of their remuneration; (i) standards for buildings, including land appurtenant thereto, the equipment and apparatus necessary for institutions seeking affi liation; (j) publication of results of examinations conducted by the Board; (k) the minimum educational and other qualifi cations for admission of students to an affi liated institution; (l) admission of students to affi liated institutions; (m) the inspection of affi liated institutions with a view to ensuring due observance of the prescribed courses of study and that facilities for instruction are duly provided and availed of; (n) the conditions under which a candidate may be disallowed admission to the examination of the Board in courses of study in an affi liated institution; (o) withholding or cancelling results of an examination conducted by the Board and cancelling an examination conducted by it in respect of any candidate; (p) the circumstances under which affiliation of an institution may be withdrawn or refused; (q) inspection of a centre; and (r) any other matter which under this Act or rules made thereunder is to be or may be prescribed by regulations.” ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 841 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Section 31 of the Act provides that fi rst Regulations shall be made by the State. It provides: “31. First regulations of the Board.- (1) The First Regulations shall be made by the State Government and they shall be deemed to have been made by the Board and continue in force until altered or modifi ed by the Board. (2) The regulations made under sub-section (1) shall not take eff ect until these have been published in the Offi cial Gazette” In exercise of its statutory powers, the Takniki Board framed and notifi ed Himachal Takniki Shiksha Board, Regulations 199312 under Section 15 read with Section 31 of the 1986 Act. Regulation 6(5) of the 1993 Regulations provided for conferment of Certifi cates and Diplomas while Regulation 7 prescribed the conditions for affi liation of the Institution. Further, Regulation 6 (5) provided that: “All diplomas and certifi cates issued by the Board, NCVT and SCVT will stand automatically recognized by the Government of Himachal Pradesh for the purposes of employment in Subordinate services.” By placing reliance on the aforesaid statutory provisions and regulations, it was urged that the State was under an obligation to bring the statutory regime to the notice of the High Court so as to remove doubts, if any, about the true import of the phrase “recognized institution” as it occurs in the 2014 Rules. (iii) In addition to the above, the State had notifi ed Himachal Pradesh Private Educational Institutions (Regulatory Commission) Act, 201013 which established a Regulatory Commission and prescribed a regulatory framework for ensuring appropriate standard of admission, teaching, examination, research and 12 1993 Regulations 13 2010 Act 842 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.