[See: Murtaza and Sons and Another v. Nazir Mohd. Khan and Others reported (1970) 3 SCC 876]. E 20. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Dhakeswari Cotton Mills Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income Tax, West Bengal, reported in (1955) 1 SCR 941 : AIR 1955 SC 65 made the following observations: “7. … It is not possible to define with any precision the F limitations on the exercise of the discretionary jurisdiction vested in this Court by the constitutional provision made in article 136. The limitations, whatever they be, are implicit in the nature and character of the power itself. It being an exceptional and overriding power, naturally it has to be exercised sparingly and with caution and only in special and G extraordinary situations. Beyond that it is not possible to fetter the exercise of this power by any set formula or rule. All that can be said is that the Constitution having trusted the wisdom and good sense of the Judges of this Court in this matter, that itself is a sufficient safeguard and guarantee that the power H 1164 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A will only be used to advance the cause of justice, and that its exercise will be governed by well established principles which govern the exercise of overriding constitutional powers. It is, however, plain that when the Court reaches the conclusion that a person has been dealt with arbitrarily or that a court or tribunal within the territory of India has not given a fair B deal to a litigant, then no technical hurdles of any kind like the finality of finding of facts or otherwise can stand in the way of the exercise of this power because the whole intent and purpose of this article is that it is the duty of this Court to see that injustice is not perpetuated or perpetrated by C decisions of Courts and tribunals because certain laws have made the decisions of these Courts or tribunals final and conclusive. …” (Emphasis supplied) 21. In Ujagar Singh and Another v. State (Delhi Administration) reported in (1979) 4 SCC 530,Y. V. Chandrachud, C.J., speaking for the D Bench observed as under: “1. … There is hardly a case, civil or criminal, which does not raise some question of law or the other. But no question of law of general public importance is involved in these petitions. It is time that it was realised that the jurisdiction of E this Court to grant special leave to appeal can be invoked in very exceptional circumstances. A question of law of general public importance or a decision which shocks the conscience of the Court are some of the prime requisites for the grant of special leave. … ” F (Emphasis supplied) 22. In the case of S.G. Chemicals and Dyes Trading Employees’ Union v. S.G. Chemicals and Dyes Trading Limited and Another, (1986) 2 SCC 624, this Court observed in para 6 as under: “6.The Union has directly come to this Court in appeal against G the said of the Industrial Court without first approaching the High Court under Article 226 or 227 of the Constitution for the purpose of challenging the said .