14. Most recently, this Court in SK Ahmed has emphasised that Section 364A of the IPC has three stages or components, namely, i. kidnapping or abduction of a person and keeping them in G detention; ii. threat to cause death or hurt, and the use of kidnapping, abduction, or detention with a demand to pay the ransom; and iii. when the demand is not met, then causing death. H RAVI DHINGRA v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 177 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] The relevant portions of the said judgement are extracted as under: A “12. We may now look into Section 364-A to find out as to what ingredients the section itself contemplate for the offence. When we paraphrase Section 364-A following is deciphered: (i) “Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person or keeps a B person in detention after such kidnapping or abduction” (ii) “and threatens to cause death or hurt to such person, or by his conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt, (iii) or causes hurt or death to such person in to compel C the Government or any foreign State or international inter- governmental organisation or any other person to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom” (iv) “shall be punishable with death, or imprisonment for life, and shall also be liable to fine.” D The first essential condition as incorporated in Section 364-A is “whoever kidnaps or abducts any person or keeps a person in detention after such kidnapping or abduction”. The second condition begins with conjunction “and”. The second condition has also two parts i.e. (a) threatens to cause death or hurt to such E person or (b) by his conduct gives rise to a reasonable apprehension that such person may be put to death or hurt. Either part of above condition, if fulfilled, shall fulfil the second condition for offence. The third condition begins with the word “or” i.e. or causes hurt or death to such person in to compel the Government or any foreign State or international inter-governmental organisation or F any other person to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom. Third condition begins with the words “or causes hurt or death to such person in to compel the Government or any foreign State to do or abstain from doing any act or to pay a ransom”. Section 364-A contains a heading “Kidnapping for G ransom, etc.” The kidnapping by a person to demand ransom is fully covered by Section 364-A. 13. We have noticed that after the first condition the second condition is joined by conjunction “and”, thus, whoever kidnaps or abducts any person or keeps a person in detention after such H 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A kidnapping or abduction and threatens to cause death or hurt to such person. 14. The use of conjunction “and” has its purpose and object. Section 364-A uses the word “or” nine times and the whole section contains only one conjunction “and”, which joins the first and B second condition.