The mandate of issuing caste certificates within 15 days cannot be accomplished if the Competent Authority is to hold a detailed enquiry on par with the one which is required to be held by the Scrutiny Committee. E 15. The law contemplates very detailed scrutiny of the caste claim by the Scrutiny Committee. If both the Competent Authority and the Caste Scrutiny Committee were to make the same degree of scrutiny and detailed enquiry into caste claims, the very object of the two-tier scrutiny will be frustrated. Section 8 provides that the burden of proving a caste claim before the Competent Authority and the Scrutiny Committee F is on the applicant. For discharging the said burden before the Competent Authority, it is enough if the applicant produces prima facie material to show that his caste claim is genuine. The burden put by Section 8 on the applicant to prove his caste status before the Scrutiny Committee is much higher than the burden which he is required to discharge before G the Competent Authority. 16. Sub-section (1) of Section 10 contemplates that if an applicant, on the basis of a caste certificate issued by the Competent Authority obtains any benefit such as employment or admission to an educational institution, on cancellation of the caste certificate by the Scrutiny H 1120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Committee, the admission secured to the educational institution or employment is required to be cancelled forthwith. The scheme of Section 10 is that applicant cannot hold on to any benefit received by him on the basis of a caste certificate issued by the Competent Authority which is subsequently cancelled by the Scrutiny Committee. B 17. Section 6 deals with the procedure to be followed by the Caste Scrutiny Committee for verification of caste certificates. Sub-section (4) of Section 6 lays down that the Scrutiny Committee shall follow the procedure as laid down by the Rules framed under the 2000 Act. Rule 4 of the ST Rules lays down the procedure to be followed by the Competent Authority. We must note that under Rule 10, a provision has been made C for constituting a Vigilance Cell to assist the Scheduled Tribes Caste Scrutiny Committee in conducting an enquiry. As noted earlier, the Vigilance Cell consists of Police Officers of three different ranks as provided therein and a Research Officer. Rule 11 provides details of the documents the applicant must submit to verify the Scheduled Tribes D certificate. Sub-rules 2 and 3 of Rule 11 read thus: “11.(1)……………………. (2) The applicant shall submit the following documents with his application for verification of his Scheduled Tribe Certificate :— E (a) Original documents.— (i) the original Scheduled Tribe Certificate of the applicant along with one attested copy, (ii) an affidavit in Form F; F (b) Documents of which, only attested copies are to be submitted in respect of applicant— (i) Primary School leaving certificate. (ii) An extract of school admission register. G (iii) An extract of birth register.