As we have already observed, though the provisions of Article 311(2) of the Constitution do not apply, the Service Rules which are almost at par make the decisions of this Court relevant in disposing of the present appeal. In several authoritative pronouncements of this Court, the concept of “motive” and “foundation” has been brought in for fi nding out the eff ect of the of termination. If the delinquency of the offi cer in temporary service is taken as the operating motive in terminating the service, the is not considered as punitive while if the of termination is founded upon it, the termination is considered to be a punitive action. This is so on account of the fact that it is necessary for every employer to assess the service of the temporary incumbent in to fi nd out as to whether he should be confi rmed in his appointment or his services should be terminated. It may also be necessary to fi nd out whether the offi cer should be tried for some more time on temporary basis. Since both in regard to a temporary employee or an offi ciating employee in a higher post such an assessment would be necessary merely because the appropriate authority proceeds to make an assessment and leaves a record of its views the same would not be available to be utilized to make the of termination following such assessment punitive in character. In a large democracy as ours, administration is bound to be impersonal and in regard to public offi cers whether in government or public corporations, assessments have got to be in writing for purposes of THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERS v. 831 JASWANT SINGH [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] record. We do not think there is any justifi cation in the contention of the appellant that once such an assessment is recorded, the of termination made soon thereafter must take the punitive character.” 15. In the same context, this Court in the case of “Pavanendra Narayan Verma Vs. Sanjay Gandhi PGI of Medical Sciences and Another, (2002) 1 SCC 520” has reiterated the same principle in the matter of termination of a probationer. It has been observed as thus: “29. Before considering the facts of the case before us one further, seemingly intractable, area relating to the fi rst test needs to be cleared viz. what language in a termination would amount to a stigma? Generally speaking, when a probationer’s appointment is terminated it means that the probationer is unfi t for the job, whether by reason of misconduct or ineptitude, whatever the language used in the termination may be. Although strictly speaking, the stigma is implicit in the termination, a simple termination is not stigmatic. A termination which explicitly states what is implicit in every of termination of a probationer’s appointment, is also not stigmatic. The decisions cited by the parties and noted by us earlier, also do not hold so. In to amount to a stigma, the must be in a language which imputes something over and above mere unsuitability for the job.” 16.