LTD. v. ASHOK S. DHARIWAL [M. R. SHAH, J.] proof” and the grounds set out in section 34(2)(a) and section 34(2)(b) A are satisfied. However, subsequent to the amendment of section 34(2)(a), the words “furnishes proof” have been substituted by the words “establishes on the basis of the record of the arbitral tribunal”. In that view of the matter, we hold that in case of arbitration proceedings commenced and concluded prior to the amendment of section 34(2)(a) B by Act 33/2019, pre-amendment of section 34(2)(a) shall be applicable. 7. Now so far as the question, whether in an application filed under section 34(2)(a) pre-amendment where the requirement is that the party making an application has to “furnish proof”, whether such an applicant can be permitted to adduce evidence by way of affidavit or otherwise is concerned, few decisions of this Court are required to be C referred to. (i) In the case of Fiza Developers (supra), the question that was posed by the Court was, whether issues as contemplated under 14 Rule 1 CPC should be framed in applications under Section 34 of the Act. Answering the same, this Court observed D and held in paragraphs 14, 17, 18, 21, 22, 24, 29 & 31 as under: “14. In a summary proceeding, the respondent is given an opportunity to file his objections or written statement. Thereafter, the court will permit the parties to file affidavits in proof of their respective stands, and if necessary permit cross- E examination by the other side, before hearing arguments. Framing of issues in such proceedings is not necessary. We hasten to add that when it is said issues are not necessary, it does not mean that evidence is not necessary. XXXXXX F 17. The scheme and provisions of the Act disclose two significant aspects relating to courts vis-à-vis arbitration. The first is that there should be minimal interference by courts in matters relating to arbitration. Second is the sense of urgency shown with reference to arbitration matters brought to court, G requiring promptness in disposal. 18. Section 5 of the Act provides that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by Part I of the Act, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in the Act. H 1002 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A XXXXXXX 21. We may therefore examine the question for consideration by bearing three factors in mind. The first is that the Act is a special enactment and Section 34 provides for a special remedy. The second is that an arbitration award can be set B aside only upon one of the grounds mentioned in sub- section (2) of Section 34 exists. The third is that proceedings under Section 34 requires to be dealt with expeditiously. 22. The scope of enquiry in a proceeding under Section 34 is restricted to consideration whether any one of the grounds mentioned in sub-section (2) of Section 34 exists for setting C aside the award.