F 3. Having heard submissions, which remained inconclusive, and before proceeding further with the matter, it was felt, that this Court should ascertain from the Union of India (a) whether the Central Government intends to exercise the power conferred by clause (4)(1)(ii) of Ordinance 10 of 2016; and (b) if the answer to G (a) is in the negative, the reason why the Central Government chose not to exercise its jurisdiction. An affidavit may accordingly be filed by the Central Government, explaining its position to this Court. 4. Needful be done within two weeks from today. H 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 5. Post for hearing on 11th April, 2017.” 14. In pursuance of the directions issued by this Court, a short affidavit came be to be filed on behalf of the Union of India on 7th April, 2017. It was stated in the said affidavit thus: “26. In view of the above and those to be urged at the time of B hearing, it is most humbly submitted that the Central Government took a conscious decision that no necessity or any justifiable reason exists either in law or on facts to invoke its power under Section 4(1)(ii) of the Ordinance to entitle any person to tender within the grace period the specified bank notes.” C 15. The matter came up for hearing before this Bench initially on 12th October, 2022 and, thereafter, on various dates. We have heard Shri P. Chidambaram and Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Counsel, Shri Prashant Bhushan, learned counsel, Shri Viplav Sharma, petitioner-in- person in support of the petitions and Shri R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General appearing for the Union of India and Shri Jaideep D Gupta, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the RBI. We have also heard the learned counsels appearing in the connected petitions. III. SUBMISSIONS OF PETITIONERS 16. Shri P. Chidambaram, learned Senior Counsel led the arguments E on behalf of the petitioners. 17. Shri P. Chidambaram submitted that, upon its correct interpretation, sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act will have to be read down in a manner that sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act does not permit the power to be exercised in respect of “all series” F of notes of a specified denomination. He submits that the word “any” will denote that the power can be exercised only when a particular series of any denomination is sought to be demonetized. 18. Shri Chidambaram submits that, on earlier occasions i.e. by the High Denomination Bank Notes (Demonetization) Ordinance, 1946 G (hereinafter referred to as “the 1946 Ordinance”) and the High Denomination Bank Notes (Demonetization) Act, 1978 (hereinafter referred to as “the 1978 Act”), “all series” of high denomination bank notes were demonetized. He submits that, by the 1946 Ordinance, high denomination bank notes were meant to be “all series” of bank notes of the denominational value of Rs.500/- Rs.1,000/- and Rs.10,000/-. Similarly, H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 37 [B. R. GAVAI, J.]