The Hon’ble Bombay High Court’s interpretation would render any proceedings whether against the company’s management and / or its auditors for fraud completely frustrated by mere stratagem of design of a party. Under the circumstances, the Impugned passed by the Hon’ble D Bombay High Court is unsustainable and deserves to be set aside. 3.23 As regards, Deloitte, it is submitted that the Hon’ble NCLT and the NCLAT have upheld the maintainability of the Petition under Section 140(5) of the Act. It is submitted that as set out above, Section 140(5) of the Act requires the Hon’ble NCLT to satisfy itself that the E auditor of the company, whether directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted or colluded in any fraud. In to arrive at a finding in this regard, it is important to examine the role of both auditors i.e., Deloitte and BSR especially when both were acting as auditors for the financial year 2017- 2018. Keeping in mind the interpretation of the provision set out above, the satisfaction of the Tribunal may finally result F in a change of auditor i.e., the change of BSR; however, that does not take away the powers given to the Hon’ble NCLT in terms of Section 140(5) of the Act to inquire into the fraud qua Deloitte as well and if found record a satisfaction of fraud against Deloitte in its final . Therefore, in the facts of this case, the final and therefore the second proviso can operate against Deloitte and BSR. G 3.24 Now so far as quashing and setting aside Section 212(14) direction by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs and the Criminal Complaint filed by the SFIO and the IFIN SFIO Report, it is submitted that the Bombay High Court has, in the Impugned , set aside/quashed the H 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 212(14) Direction and the Criminal Complaint and the SFIO IFIN Report on the ground that: a. SFIO IFIN Report is an incomplete report/report on an incomplete investigation and therefore the 212(14) Direction could not be given. The alleged basis of this finding is: (i) a B singular paragraph in the SFIO IFIN Report; and (ii) the 212(14) Direction which calls for a further report on certain aspects itself demonstrates that the investigation is incomplete; and b. The 212(14) Direction was given within 30 hours of placing the SFIO IFIN Report before the Central Government and it C was improbable for the Central Government to have applied its mind within such a short period. It is submitted that the impugned is incorrect since: a. The SFIO IFIN Report is a report prepared by the SFIO on the completion of investigation into IFIN viz. one of the companies D under investigation. The Hon’ble Bombay High Court has not appreciated the position that: i. By an dated September 30, 2018, an investigation was directed to be conducted by the SFIO into IL&FS and its subsidiaries (IL&FS Group) which aggregates to approx. 100- E 169 entities; ii.