The claim for awarding compound interest, as in the case of Ireo Grace Realtech (P) D Ltd. (supra), was declined by this Court while observing that it had ‘no nexus with the commercial realities of the prevailing market’. The decision in Manjeet Kaur Monga’s Case and its connotations 15. We may now closely examine the decision of this Court in Dr. E Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case that has been the sheet anchor of the entire consideration of the State Commission as also the National Commission in awarding compensation in terms of compound interest. The said decision has been strongly relied upon by the respondent while the appellant has attempted to distinguish the same. Having regard to F the importance of the questions involved and for clarity on all the relevant aspects, we deem it appropriate to reproduce the entire of this Court in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga with its extractions (even at the cost of a little extra length of this ) as under: - “Leave granted in SLPs (C) Nos. 10484-85 of 2016 and 10481- G 82 of 2016. 2. The appellant in Civil Appeals Nos. 5032-33 of 2016, who is the legal representative of the original complainant, is before us aggrieved by the dated 3-8-2015 passed by the Competition Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi (for short “the Tribunal”) H in Manjeet Kaur Monga v. K.L. Suneja [Manjeet Kaur M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1133 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Monga v. K.L. Suneja, 2015 SCC OnLine Comp AT 593], paras A 37 and 42 to 44 of the impugned read as follows: (SCC OnLine Comp AT) “37. The cancellation of allotment made in favour of the complainant deserves to be declared as wholly arbitrary, illegal and capricious. It is not in dispute that Smt Gursharan Kaur B had deposited three instalments including the booking amount. The complainant, Dr (Ms) Manjeet Kaur Monga deposited three other instalments (total Rs 4,53,850). She did not deposit further instalments because the respondents did not complete the construction within the stipulated time. For the first time a vague C statement about the construction was made in letter dated 26- 12-2001, which was issued after 12 years of the booking. Even thereafter the respondents did not disclose the stage-wise progress in the construction work and, as mentioned above, they deliberately misconstrued the complainant’s protest dated 22-5-2002 as her disinclination to take the flat. Between 2002 D and 2005 i.e. the date on which the cancellation letter was issued, the respondents neither entered into any correspondence with the complainant nor apprised her about the progress made in the construction. Therefore, it must be held that the complainant was justified in not paying further instalments of E price and the respondents committed grave illegality by cancelling the allotment. * * * 42. In my view, even though the Tribunal cannot, in view of the law laid down in Ved Prakash Aggarwal F case [Ghaziabad Development Authority v. Ved Prakash Aggarwal, (2008) 7 SCC 686], issue direction to the respondents to deliver physical possession of the flat, there is ample justification for awarding compensation by invoking Section 12-B of the Act and even otherwise, because the complainant and her legal representatives have been subjected to harassment G for the period of more than 25 years.