Such an THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1121 internal matter of the party, approach of the Court and that too, A while considering the prayer for interim relief, cannot be of finding technical faults and flaws detached from the substance of the matter. Even as regards technicalities, the Division Bench appears to have rightly analysed the frame of the said Rule 19(vii), where the requirement of 15 days’ notice is referable to the regular B meeting and not as such to a requisitioned or special meeting. [Para 28.2][1192-G-H; 1193-A] 4. The Single Judge of the High Court in the present matter did not examine the questions relating to balance of convenience and irreparable injury in the correct perspective and particularly C failed to weigh the competing possibilities and risk of injustice if ultimately the decision of main matter would run counter to the course being adopted and suggested in the granting temporary injunction in the manner and form it was being granted. It gets perforce reiterated that if the as passed by the learned Single Judge was to remain in force until decision of the D suits, it would have been drastically detrimental to the interest of political party in question, which is a recognised political party with the Election Commission of India. In the matters of the present nature, the simple and precise view, as stated by the learned Single Judge at the initial stage on 22.06.2022 while E declining the prayer for interim relief, had been on the correct statement of law that ordinarily the Court would not interfere in the internal issues of an association/party and would leave it open to the association/party and its members to take a particular decision for better administration; and that had been the correct approach towards the facts of the case. In the present case, when F General Council is shown to be the apex body of the party, taking any exception to the meeting of the General Council could have neither been countenanced nor interfered with by way of temporary injunction. In the given set of facts and circumstances, the hyper-technical suggestions as sought to be made about the G want of valid notice with reference to date, time and place of meeting i.e., with reference to Chapter 5 from Shackleton on the Law and Practice of Meetings do not further the cause of the appellants, particularly when it is noticed that the date, time and place of the meeting in question were duly declared in the meeting dated 23.06.2022. [Para 30][1193-H; 1194-A-F] H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 5. The submission on behalf of the appellants based on the decision in S. Thirunavukkarasu that the scheme of byelaws does not envisage the requisitionists to convene the General Council meeting; and if the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator jointly fail to convene the meeting, the only option is to seek intervention of the Court has its own shortcomings. As rightly noticed by the B Division Bench in the impugned, in the said case, an expelled member of the party called for a General Council meeting, parallel to the meeting called by the then General Secretary.