No doubt, it would have caused a dent in their memory. Therefore, the trial Judge F was perfectly correct in accepting the evidence of P.Ws.2 and 3. 48. From the above, it is clear that two witnesses, PW2 and PW3, saw the petitioner taking away the victim on his motorbike after he got down from the school bus while returning. PW2 and PW3 also identified the petitioner upon his arrest at the time of the test identification parade G which was found to have been properly conducted. Furthermore, both of the witnesses also provided unimpeachable evidence in their respective cross-examinations before the trial court. The trial court also followed the proper procedure in taking the testimony of PW2, a child witness, by recording the maturity of the mind of the child, who even identified the H motorbike before the Court. SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1047 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 49. The aforementioned evidence shows that the victim was last A seen with the petitioner. In the appeal before this Court, the petitioner’s counsel seems to have acknowledged that there was enough evidence to establish kidnapping, in view of the following observations: 21. We have considered the first contention advanced by the learned counsel for the appellant, on the basis of the contention B noticed in the foregoing paragraph. In the veiled submission advanced in the hands of the learned counsel for the appellant, we find an implied acknowledgement, namely, that learned counsel acknowledges, that the prosecution had placed sufficient material on the record of the case to C substantiate the factum of kidnapping of the deceased Suresh, at the hands of the accused-appellant. Be that as it may, without drawing any such inference, we would still endeavour to determine, whether the prosecution had been successful in establishing the factum of kidnapping of the deceased Suresh, at the hands of the accused-appellant. D (emphasis supplied) 50. This Court in the course of the decision in appeal took note of the evidence discussed above and held that there was sufficient evidence to hold the petitioner guilty of murder as well: E “27. Since in the facts and circumstances of this case, it has been duly established, that Suresh had been kidnapped by the accused- appellant; the accused-appellant has not been able to produce any material on the record of this case to show the release of Suresh from his custody. Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 places the onus on him. In the absence of any such material F produced by the accused-appellant, it has to be accepted, that the custody of Suresh had remained with the accused-appellant, till he was murdered. The motive/reason for the accused-appellant, for taking the extreme step was, that ransom as demanded by him, had not been paid. We are therefore, satisfied, that in the facts and circumstances of the present case, there is sufficient G evidence on the record of this case, on the basis whereof even the factum of murder of Suresh at the hands of the accused appellant stands established.