[2023] 12 S.C.R. 601 : 2023 INSC 664 CASE DETAILS YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No. 4835 of 2023) AUGUST 01, 2023 [SURYA KANT AND J. K. MAHESHWARI, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: In the instant appeal, the resumption concerning the assignment of non-occupied land in the 1960s to landless scheduled caste/scheduled tribe persons for the purpose of cultivation which was upheld by the Division Bench of the High Court is challenged; as also pertains to the issues of law concerning res judicata, nature of assignment and violation of conditions of assignment. Andhra Pradesh Assigned Land (Prohibition of Transfer) Act, 1977 – Assignment/Alienation of government land – Assignment of non-occupied land to landless scheduled caste/scheduled tribe persons – Assignees alienated the land to one through General Power of Attorney, who in turn sold the land to subsequent purchasers – Resumption , resuming the subject land in favour of the State since assignees sold the land in contravention of the conditions of the assignment – High Court set aside resumption as well the fi rst SCN issued to assignees by the Collector proposing to cancel the assignment of land – Issuance of second SCN that the assigned land could not be sold as per the 1977 Act, thus, the land be resumed into government possession – Second SCN culminated into another resumption – Single Judge of the High Court held that the proceedings emanating from the Second SCN barred by the principle of res judicata and abuse of process of law and that the assignments were governed by the Laoni Rules of 1950 instead by the GOM 1122 – However, the Division Bench allowed in favour of State upholding the second resumption – Correctness: 601 602 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Held: Proceedings emanating out of the Second SCN were valid – Subject Land was non-alienable and hence was subject to the provisions of the 1977 Act – Appellants-assignees had transferred the subject land in contravention to the provisions of 1977 Act and thus, the resultant resumption is valid – Appellants not entitled to any compensation on account of the requisition of the assigned land – Furthermore, an important security agency currently occupies the subject land, thus, invocation of powers u/ Art. 142 and certain directions issued – Subject land in its entirety declared to have vested in the State Government – Constitution of India – Art. 142 - Telengana Land Revenue Act of 1317 – ss. 54, 58, 58A and 166B. [Paras 40-42, Andhra Pradesh Assigned Land (Prohibition of Transfer) Act, 1977 – Assignment of government land – Applicability of doctrine res judicata or constructive res judicata – Proceedings emanating out of the Second SCN, if barred by the doctrine of res judicata or constructive res judicata as said issues already decided by the prior of High Court emanating from the First SCN – Plea that the substratum of both the fi rst Show cause notice (SCN) and second SCN essentially identical: Held: Only such determinations which are fundamental would result in the application of the doctrine of res judicata – Only those fi ndings, without which the Court cannot adjudicate a dispute and also form the vital cog in the reasoning of a defi nite conclusion on an issue on merits, constitute res judicata between the same set of parties in subsequent proceedings – However, in the process of arriving at a fi nal conclusion, if the Court makes any incidental, supplemental or non–essential observations which are not foundational to the fi nal determination, the same would not tie down the hands of courts in future – On a plain reading of the High Court’s in conjugation with the application of the test formulated for distinguishing between a fundamental or collateral determination, it is found that the observation in respect of General Power of Attorney in the said was indeed a mere collateral fi nding – Doctrine of constructive res judicata will also not be applicable as the issues raised in the Second SCN were never adjudicated upon in the fi rst place – Thus, the proceedings emanating out of the Second SCN are not barred by the doctrine of res judicata or the extended doctrine of constructive res judicata – Doctrines/Principles – YADAIAH AND ANR.