LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] (i) the amount of income-tax calculated on the income referred A to in clause (a) and clause (b), at the rate of sixty per cent; and (ii) the amount of income-tax with which the assessee would have been chargeable had his total income been reduced by the amount of income referred to in clause (i). B (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no deduction in respect of any expenditure or allowance or set off of any loss shall be allowed to the assessee under any provision of this Act in computing his income referred to in clause (a) and clause (b) of sub-section (1).” C 14. Section 115BBE of the Act deals with levy of tax on income as mentioned in Section 68, 69, and 69A to 69D of the Act. If a case comes under Section 115BBEsub-section (1) of the Act, the rate of income tax shall be at 60%. 15. The object of this provision is to fill up the loopholes and to D make sure unaccounted money either generated or used, more so in the nature of Black Money, is penalized. When this provision was introduced in the year 2012, the rate of tax was fixed at the rate of 30%.The Bill also speaks about the objective behind not allowing any deduction to the assessee in computing deemed income under Section 68, 69 and 69A to E 69D of the Act. That was the reason why a decision was made to impose greater tax burden.The rate of tax was increased by a subsequent amendment to 60%. 16. Sub-section (2) of Section 115BBE starts with anon-obstante clause. It will have precedence over any other provision contained in the F Act, while dealing with a deduction in respect of any expenditure or allowance or set off of any loss. In other words, no such deduction would be allowed under any provision of the Act in computing an assessee’s income under sub-section (1).An amendment has been introduced by Finance Act, 2016 with the inclusion of ‘set off of any loss’ being not allowable. Sub-section (2) once again does not speak G about loss but the fact that it makes a reference to ‘set off of any loss’ would reiterate the view taken earlier, while considering the scope and ambit of Section 37 of the Act,that such a loss has to be read into expenditure, at least while applying the test for the purpose of deduction. To make the position clear one has to understand that the amendment H 106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A merely speaks about the right of the assessee to set off the loss which presupposes that the loss has to be treated as a facet of expenditure. 17. A little bit of interplay between Section 115BBE and Section 37(1) of the Act might throw more light on both the provisions. If a loss in pursuance to an offence or prohibited business cannot be brought B under Section 115BBE of the Act for income assessed under 68, 69 and 69A to 69D of the Act, which deals with unexplained income, expenditure etc., it can never be said that the same would be brought under Section 37(1) of the Act, despite the fact that the objective behind both the provisions are overlapping with some connection.