This position continued till the amendment brought about in 2015. F After the amendment, all that the courts need to see is whether an arbitration agreement exists—nothing more, nothing less. The legislative policy and purpose is essentially to minimise the Court’s intervention at the stage of appointing the arbitrator and this intention as incorporated in Section 11(6-A) ought to be respected.”] . G 36. The view taken in Garware (supra) [paragraphs-22 and 29 (supra)], came to be specifically approved by a Bench of three learned Judges in the reported in Vidya Drolia (supra). Therein, Justice Sanjiv Khanna wrote for the Court and Justice N.V. Ramana supplemented with his own . The was rendered on a H 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Reference dated 28.02.2009 and the question was, whether landlord- tenant disputes, governed by provisions of the Transfer of Property Act were arbitrable or not. Apart from the said issue, the other conundrum was as to who would decide, viz., the Court at the reference stage, or the Arbitral Tribunal in the arbitration proceedings. The Court also found it fit to go into the question as to the scope and ambit of the jurisdiction at B the reference stage. It is in the course of his Judgement that he made the following observations in pargraphs-146 and 147, 147.1 of Vidya Drolia (supra): “146. We now proceed to examine the question, whether the word “existence” in Section 11 merely refers to contract formation C (whether there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes the question of enforcement (validity) and therefore the latter falls outside the jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage. On jurisprudentially and textualism it is possible to differentiate between existence of an arbitration agreement and validity of an D arbitration agreement. Such interpretation can draw support from the plain meaning of the word “existence”. However, it is equally possible, jurisprudentially and on contextualism, to hold that an agreement has no existence if it is not enforceable and not binding. Existence of an arbitration agreement presupposes a valid agreement which would be enforced by the court by relegating E the parties to arbitration. Legalistic and plain meaning interpretation would be contrary to the contextual background including the definition clause and would result in unpalatable consequences. A reasonable and just interpretation of “existence” requires understanding the context, the purpose and the relevant legal norms F applicable for a binding and enforceable arbitration agreement. An agreement evidenced in writing has no meaning unless the parties can be compelled to adhere and abide by the terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights based on an unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons to hold that an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal. A void and G unenforceable understanding is no agreement to do anything. Existence of an arbitration agreement means an arbitration agreement that meets and satisfies the statutory requirements of both the Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and when it is enforceable in law.