He would take us through the Notification and point out that on a combined reading of paragraphs-3, 4, 7 and 8, the following will be the upshot.In regard to CRZ-II, it is less sensitive than CRZ-I.In CRZ-I, the “storage of edible oil inter alia is permitted within the notified ports”. In CRZ-II on the other hand, storage of non-hazardous C cargo such as edible oil, fertilizers and foodgrain ispermitted ‘in notified ports’. Since the word ‘within’ which is used in CRZ-I is not employed in regard to the similar activity in CRZ-II and instead the word ‘in’ is used,the principal contention is that they must receive a different meaning. He would further contend that this Court may adopt purposive interpretationand, in this regard, he drew our attention to the of D this court in M. Nizamudeen v. ChemplastSanmar Limited and Others1. The words ‘in notified ports’, occurring in pargraph-8 (II) (vi) of the 2011 Notification must be construed to mean “in or around the notified ports”.He would submit that storage tanks have been constructed not within the Chennai Port but on a purposive interpretation, the storage E tank must be treated as “in” the Chennai Port though it isnot inits notified limits. The storage container was located in the Customs Notified Area of the Chennai Port. He would contend that CRZ-II even permits facility for the storage of petroleum products and liquified natural gas.If that is so, he poses the question that having regard to the fact that CRZ-II generally provides for a less harsh regulatory regime and CRZ-I, it may F result in an absurdity to not permit storage of non-hazardous cargo which includes edible oil in CRZ II. He would refer to the company that edible oil keeps in the clause,namely, fertilizers and foodgrains. He would point out that it may be absurd to disallow storage of foodgrains, fertilizers and edible oil in CRZ-II. This is all the more reason to place awider G meaning on the word ‘in’ the notified port. 13. Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned Senior Counsel, drew support from the decisions of this Court as indicated herein. In Electrosteel Steels Limited v. Union of India and Others2, this Court held that the Act does 1 (2010) 4 SCC 240 H 2 (2021) SCC OnLine 1247 K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 261 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] not prohibit grant of ex post facto environmental clearance. It also held A that the Court cannot be oblivious to the interest of the economy or need to protect the livelihood of hundreds of employees and others employed in the project, if such project complies with environment norms. 14. The said view has been followed in the in Pahwa Plastics Pvt. Ltd. and Another v. Dastak NGO and Others3 and B Gajubha Jadeja Jesar v. Union of India and Others4. It is, therefore, contended that there was no occasion for the NGT to interfere. 15. Relying on the in Alembic Pharmaceuticals Ltd. v. Rohit Prajapati and Others5, it is contended that the impugned does not do justice to the Principle of Proportionality.