The learned counsel also drew our attention to several passages such as paragraphs 159, 163, 168 and 172 in the decision in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and it was contended that it was wrongly decided. F 73. According to Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel, certain fundamental questions arise in the present proceedings. They are:-  What are the jurisdictional prerequisites for the ED to initiate investigation under the PMLA?  Does the ED have the power to seek information from G authorities investigating the predicate offence merely on the basis that investigation of a predicate offence is ongoing, even without receiving any information that a cognizable offence under the PMLA has occurred and being in 14 AIR 1967 SC 389 H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1075 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] possession of material that indicates the offence of money- A laundering has taken place?  Can the mere existence of proceeds of crime confer jurisdiction upon the ED to initiate investigation?  What are the elements of “money-laundering”? B  What conditions need to be satisfied before the ED is empowered to issue summons under Section 50 of the PMLA?  Can a summons under Section 50 PMLA be issued to a person who is in the nature of an accused under the PMLA C or in the predicate offence?  Do Sections 50 and 63 of the PMLA violate the constitutional safeguards under Art.20(3) and 21 of the Constitution? 74. Admitting the inevitable position in law that as a Two Member Bench, we are bound by the decision of the Three Member Bench in D Vijay Madanlal Choudhary, Shri Kapil Sibal argued that the matter may be placed before a Three Member Bench for resolving the conundrum created by the PMLA. In this connection, he drew our attention to paragraph 113 of the decision of another Three Member Bench in Union of India vs. Ganpati Dealcom Private Limited15, E wherein this Court expressed an opinion that the ratio laid down in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary with respect to confiscation proceedings under Section 8 of the PMLA, required further exposition in an appropriate case and that without such exposition, much scope is left for arbitrary application. Learned senior counsel also drew our attention to an passed by another Two Member Bench of this Court in a writ petition F being Writ Petition (Crl.) No.65 of 2023, challenging some of the provisions of the PMLA. By an dated 03.03.2023, a Two Member Bench of this Court directed the said writ petition to be placed when the Bench would be sitting in a combination of three Judges. After it was so placed before a Three Member Bench, notice was ed in the writ petition. G Therefore, he contended that the present appeals arising out the proceedings initiated by ED may be placed before a larger Bench. 75. In sum and substance, all the above arguments of Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel are aimed at convincing us that Vijay 15 (2023) 3 SCC 315 H 1076 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.