G (ii) Should the answer to the above question be in the affirmative, whether section 16-B of the HPGST Act should have been outlawed by the High Court on the ground that it is ultra vires the Constitution or the Banking Companies Act? H 788 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (iii) Whether having regard to the facts and circumstances triggering the writ petitions, the High Court was justified in returning the findings that the State’s claim of first charge on the subject properties is not substantiated? (iv) Whether dismissal of the review petition/application for B recallinstituted by the State by the High Court suffers from any infirmity, legal or otherwise? (v) To what relief, if any, are the appellants entitled? Analysis and Reasons 27. Insofar as the first issue is concerned,we may notice the C Constitution Bench decision in A.R. Antulay vs. R.S. Nayak8. It was held there that one of the well-known principles oflaw is that a decision made by a competent court of law should be taken as final subject to any decision of a superior court in further proceedings contemplated by the law of procedure. However, this Court being the apex court, alitigant cannot approach any higher forum but can only invoke its review D jurisdiction to correct a patent error. The power to review is also inherent in this Court and ifjudicial satisfaction is reached that an has been passed, which ought not to have been passed, and it is accepted that a mistake has been committed, it is not only appropriate but also the duty of this Court to rectify the mistake by exercising inherent powers. Mistake E of the Court can be corrected by the Court itself without any fetters. This is based on the principle that an act of Court ought not to injure any party before it. To own up the mistake when judicial satisfaction is reached does not militate against the Court’s status or authority; perhaps it would enhance both. F 28. There can be no doubt that in normal circumstances this Court would not allow reopening of an issue that has attained finality and, that too, in the absence of party who has benefited by reason of such an . However, this is not a normal case and we can unhesitatingly record our satisfaction of a gross error having crept in requiring correction. G 29. A law, which the State legislature had the competence to enact, has been outlawed by the High Court while hearing a writ petition which was rendered infructuous due to developments subsequent to its filingand prior to its disposal but such developments had not been brought to the notice of the High Court. H 8 (1988) 2 SCC 602 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. M/S A.J. 789 INFRASTRUCTURES PVT. LTD [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 30. During the pendency of these proceedings where challenge A had been laid to the and dated 2nd January, 2008 of the High Court, PNB filed an affidavit dated 30th September, 2010, referred to in the of this Court dated 8th April, 2011.