A District Magistrate is entitled to take action under Rule 30(l) (b) to prevent subversion of public but not in aid of maintenance of law and under ordinary circumstances. It will thus appear that just as “public ” in the rulings of this Court (earlier cited) was said to comprehend diss of less gravity than those aff ecting “security of State”, “law and ” also comprehends diss of less gravity than those aff ecting “public ”. One has to imagine three concentric circles. Law and represents the largest circle within which is the next circle representing public and the smallest circle represents security of State. It is then easy to see that an act may aff ect law and but not public just as an act may aff ect public but not security of the State....” 56. In the case of Arun Ghosh v. State of West Bengal, (1970) 1 SCC 98, Hidayatullah, J. again had an occasion to deal with the question of “public ” and “law and ”. In this , by giving various illustrations, very serious eff ort has been made to explain the basic distinction between “public ” and “law and ”. The relevant portion reads as under:- “...Public was said to embrace more of the community than law and . Public is the even tempo of the life of the community taking the country as a whole or even a specifi ed locality. Disturbance of public is to be distinguished from acts directed against individuals which do not disturb the society to the extent of PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 575 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] causing a general disturbance of public tranquility. It is the degree of disturbance and its aff ect upon the life of the community in a locality which determines whether the disturbance amounts only to a breach of law and . Take for instance, a man stabs another. People may be shocked and even disturbed, but the life of the community keeps moving at an even tempo, however much one may dislike the act. Take another case of a town where there is communal tension. A man stabs a member of the other community. This is an act of a very diff erent sort. Its implications are deeper and it aff ects the even tempo of life and public is jeopardized because the repercussions of the act embrace large sections of the community and incite them to make further breaches of the law and and to subvert the public . An act by itself is not determinant of its own gravity. In its quality it may not diff er from another but in its potentiality it may be very diff erent. Take the case of assault on girls. A guest at a hotel may kiss or make advances to half a dozen chambermaids. He may annoy them and also the management but he does not cause disturbance of public . He may even have a fracas with the friends of one of the girls but even then it would be a case of breach of law and only.