B The petitioners have relied on a several authorities explaining this doctrine. These are State of Rajasthan -vs- Shri G. Chawla and Dr Pohumal [(1959) Supp (1) SCR 904], Ishwari Khetan Sugar Mills (P) Ltd. and Others -vs- State of U.P. and Others [(1980) 4 SCC 136], Federation of Hotel & Restaurant Association of India, etc. C -vs- Union of Indiaand Others [(1989) 3 SCC 634],State of A.P. and Others -vs- McDowell & Co.and Others [(1996) 3 SCC 709], State of W.B. -vs- Kesoram Industries Ltd. and Others [(2004) 10 SCC 201] and Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (supra). 34.First we shall examine as to whether conducting these bovine D sports is relatable to Item 17 of the concurrent list. It stipulates:- “Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.” In the case of I.N Saksena -vs- State of Madhya Pradesh [(1976) 4 SCC 750], this Court had laid down that legislative lists in the Constitution ought to be interpreted in a wide amplitude. The 1960 Act in E whole and the subjects of the three Amendments directly deal with the question of prevention of cruelty to animals. There is no other entry in any of the lists to which this subject could be connected with. In such circumstances, we reject the contention of the petitioners that the State Legislatures inherently lacked jurisdiction to bring these Amendments, F which subsequently received Presidential assent. On behalf of the respondents, several decisions have been relied upon in support of this argument. Having regard to the view that we have already taken, we do not consider it necessary to reproduce all these decisions. 35. Next comes the question as to whether even after the said G Amendments, Jallikattu and the other two activities could be held to be beyond legislative competence of the three legislative bodies. We have already held that the three Amendment Acts have to be read together with the consequential Rules or Notifications. In our view, these Rules, once treated as part of the Acts, alter the manner of conducting these sports and once these provisions are implemented, the mischief sought H THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 471 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] to be remedied by the aforesaid two provisions of 1960 Act (i.e. Sections A 3 and 11(1)(a) and (m)) would not be attracted anymore. Thus, the argument that the Amendment Acts are void because they seek to override the of A. Nagaraja (supra) cannot be sustained as the basis of that having regard to the nature and manner in which the offending activities were carried on has been altered. B 36. Petitioners contend that even after changed procedure contemplated by the three statutory instruments, the very participation of the bulls in these sports involve a strong element of involuntariness as well as some element of pain and suffering. In the cases of T.N. Godavarman Thirumulpad -vs- Union of India and Others [(2012) C 4 SCC 362], Centre for Environmental Law, World Wide Fund- India -vs- Union of India and Others [(2013) 8 SCC 234]and N.R.