and wounded him but then this does not in any manner help the prosecution for the same is in the nature of not only hearsay but also not to have been taken note by the police during the course of the investigation and as such appears to be a mere improvement and exaggeration. To similar eff ect, is the testimony of PW-10 (wife of the deceased). Testimony of PW-11 and PW-12 is of no consequence for they are not witnesses to the occurrence of the incident. 21.4 PW3 stated that a group of 25 to 30 people were proceeding towards the deceased and others, i.e., PW5, PW6, PW7, and PW2, who were working in lands near the village. It is he who had taken the deceased to the hospital. However, in the cross-examination part of his questioning, it comes forth that his recollection of events on the fateful day was vague. He had been examined thrice. It also is revealed that numerous aspects, this witness had not deposed before the investigating authorities. He does state the presence of eucalyptus trees at the place where the deceased was laid. It however does not appear in his testimony as to who laid the accused at that particular spot. 21.5 According to PW4, the brother of the deceased, prior to the date of the incident, on 4th August, 1997 another quarrel had taken place, in regards to the use of a pathway, between PW4 and one Shankarappa. On the fateful day, he has testifi ed that a group of 25 to 30 persons holding weapons such as iron chains, sticks, and sickles came to the lands where he along with others, were working. He stated that when they returned, after 10 or 15 minutes, having run away out of fear, upon approach by this armed group of persons, others including PW6 were present near the deceased person. He has also testifi ed to the fact of enmity between the accused persons and the family of the deceased. He has stated it to be false that after assaulting his brother, certain persons had dumped him in the land of PW11. 21.6 PW15, in his testimony has stated that upon returning from the eucalyptus plantation he found the accused in an injured state lying towards the southern side of the Plantation Garden. PWs 4 and 5 were present there. With the deceased having been taken to the hospital, this witness returned to the village. He testifi ed that, approximately a week after the incident several recoveries were made and he, being present MANJUNATH & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 751 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] there signed on various mahazars. In respect of the enmity between the accused and the deceased, he submitted that the same had ended in a compromise. 21.7 Having noted that no other witness has deposed the manner in which they saw the deceased laid on the eucalyptus leaves, similar to the manner as deposed by PW15, the trial court concluded that not much was to be gained from the ocular evidence on record.