It affords G some deterrence against dilatory tactics on the part of a complainant who set the law in motion through his complaint. An accused who is per force to attend the court on all posting days can be put to much harassment by a complainant if he does not turn up to the court on occasions when his presence is necessary. H M/S. BLS INFRASTRUCTURE LIMITED v. 189 M/S. RAJWANT SINGH [MANOJ MISRA, J.] The section, therefore, affords protection to an accused against A such tactics of the complainant. But that does not mean if the complainant is absent, the court has a duty to acquit the accused in invitum.” After observing as above, it was held that where the complainant had already been examined as a witness in the case, it would not be B appropriate for the Court to pass an of acquittal merely on non- appearance of the complainant. Thus, the of acquittal was set- aside and it was directed that the prosecution would proceed from the stage where it reached before the of acquittal was passed. 13. In the instant case, we notice that there is a specific averment C in the Special Leave Petition(s) that the appellant had led its evidence in the case and thereafter had moved an application under Section 311 of the Code to summon and examine further witnesses. In Paragraph 5(u), it is stated that the trial court as well as the High Court did not take into consideration that the complainant’s cross-examination had been over in D Complaint Case Nos.621742/16, 621743/16 and 621744/16, and no cross- examination was sought in other cases. Rather, CW-1’s cross-examination in the above three complaint cases was adopted. There appears no specific denial of the aforesaid factual position. However, we find that neither the High Court nor the learned Magistrate has taken notice of the aforesaid position. Both the courts below thus failed to consider E whether in the facts of the case under the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 256, the court could proceed with the matter after dispensing with the attendance of the complainant. Further, if the complainant had not appeared to press the application under Section 311 of the Code, the learned Magistrate could have rejected F the application under Section 311 of the Code and proceeded with the case on basis of the available evidence. We are, therefore, of the considered view that the learned Magistrate was not justified in straight away dismissing the complaint(s) and ing acquittal of the accused on mere non-appearance of the complainant. The High Court too failed G to take notice of the aforesaid aspects. Thus, the s impugned are liable to be set aside. 14. For the reasons above, the (s) of the High Court as well as of the learned Magistrate are set-aside. The proceedings shall stand restored to their original number(s) on the file of the learned Magistrate H 190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A and the prosecution shall now proceed from the stage where it was when the of acquittal/dismissal of the complaint(s) was passed.