In any case, in the applications before the Court, the only relevant question was about the validity of convening the meeting dated 11.07.2022. The learned H 1196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Single Judgeappears to have traversed through such wide areas that ultimately the decision came to be based on entirely irrelevant considerations. 33. It is also noteworthy that the ultimate injunction issued by the learned Single Judge had been that of restoring status quoante as on B 23.06.2022 and further to that, the learned Single Judge directed that the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator would have to function jointly; meetings have to be called with their joint consent; and on being properly requisitioned, they would not refuse to convene the General Council meeting and that they could approach the Court for necessary directions C for conducting the General Council meeting. Apart from the fact that the injunction as issued by the learned Single Judge had been far away and beyond the scope of applications before him, the said injunction could have only perpetuated the functional deadlock in the party.The passed by the learned Single Judge could not have been D countenanced from any angle and thus, the Division Bench, in our view, has rightly interfered with the same. 34. In the passing, we may also observe that while filing the suit and seeking interim relief, the plaintiff OPS and even the other plaintiff, have arrayed the parties to the litigation in the manner that the political E party- AIADMK, as also its General Council and its Central Executive Committee are said to be represented by “Co-ordinator and Joint Co- ordinator” in terms of assertions of these plaintiffs that the party and its governing/executing bodies are only to be represented by the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator jointly. This effort on the part of the plaintiffs F carries its own shortcomings when it remains undeniable that they i.e., OPS and EPS, the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator respectively, do not stand in jointness or even togetherness so as to work cohesively as a unit. The effort on the part of the plaintiffs does not stand in conformity with the existing realities. G 35. Before closing on these matters, we need to make it clear again that though several submissions have been made on behalf of the appellants assailing the validity and correctness of the resolutions said to have been adopted in the meeting dated 11.07.2022 and in counter to that, the respondents have attempted to justify the said decisions/ H resolutions but we have chosen not to deal with any of those contentions. THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1197 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] This is for the specific reason that the decisions taken in the meeting A dated 11.07.2022 do not form the subject-matter of the applications for temporary injunction, which were restored for reconsideration by this Court and were ultimately decided by the learned Single Judge by the dated 17.08.2022 and then the intra-court appeals against that of the learned Single Judge were allowed by the Division Bench B on 02.09.2022.