However, in terms of Section 55(1)(a), in the absence of a contract to the contrary, the seller is under an obligation to disclose material defects in the property or in the seller’s title thereto of which he is aware and which a buyer could not with ordinary care discover for himself. While G examining the effect of an “as is where is” clause, the facts and circumstances of each case individually, along with the terminology of the clauses governing the auction sales must be taken into consideration, to arrive at an equitable decision. [Paras 141- 143][715-G-H; 716-A-E] H 644 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 9. The rule of “ejusdem generis” is a principle of construction. The rule is that when general words follow particular and specific words of the same nature, the general words must be confined to the things of the same kind as those specified. It applies when the following ingredients are present: (i) the statute contains an enumeration of specific words; (ii) the subjects of B enumeration constitute a class or category; (iii) that category is not exhausted by the enumeration; (iv) a general term follows the enumeration; and (v) there is no indication of a different legislative intent. For the application of the ejusdem generis rule, it is essential that enumerated things before the general words C must constitute a distinct category or a genus or a family which admits of a number of members. [Paras 187 and 188][732-D-F] Conclusions 10. a). The duty to supply electricity under Section 43 of the 2003 Act is not absolute, and is subject to the such charges D and compliances stipulated by the Electric Utilities as part of the application for supply of electricity; b). The duty to supply electricity under Section 43 is with respect to the owner or occupier of the premises. The 2003 Act contemplates a synergy between the consumer and premises. Under Section 43, when E electricity is supplied, the owner or occupier becomes a consumer only with respect to those particular premises for which electricity is sought and provided by the Electric Utilities; c). For an application to be considered as a ‘reconnection’, the applicant has to seek supply of electricity with respect to the same premises for which electricity was already provided. Even if the consumer F is the same, but the premises are different, it will be considered as a fresh connection and not a reconnection; d). A condition of supply enacted under Section 49 of the 1948 Act requiring the new owner of the premises to clear the electricity arrears of the previous owner as a precondition to availing electricity supply G will have a statutory character; e). The scope of the regulatory powers of the State Commission under Section 50 of the 2003 Act is wide enough to stipulate conditions for recovery of electricity arrears of previous owners from new or subsequent owners; f). The Electricity Supply Code providing for recoupment H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 645 ORS.