It is by a final decree that partition of G property of joint Hindu Family takes place by metes and bounds. (See: paragraphs 89 to 102, and paragraphs 106, 114, 133 and 136). The Court observed in para 107 as under: H 62 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A “107. Once the constitution of coparcenary changes by birth or death, shares have to be worked out at the time of actual partition. The shares will have to be determined in changed scenario. The severance of status cannot come in the way to give effect to statutory provision and change by subsequent event. The statutory fiction of partition is B far short of actual partition, it does not bring about the disruption of the joint family or that of coparcenary is a settled proposition of law. For the reasons mentioned above, we are also of the opinion that mere severance of status by way of filing a suit does not bring about the C partition and till the date of the final decree, change in law, and changes due to the subsequent event can be taken into consideration.” (Emphasis supplied) (D) Prior to the Amendment Act, 2005, partition in joint Hindu Family could be made by oral partition or oral family settlement/ D family arrangement. If subsequently terms of such oral partition or oral family settlement/family arrangement could be recorded in a Memorandum. Such Memorandum was not required to be registered. [See: paragraphs 115, 116, 119, 120, 121, 125 and 130]. 74. As noted above, Explanation to substituted Section 6 provides E that for the purposes of Section 6 “partition” means (i) any partition made by execution of a deed of partition duly registered under the Registration Act, 1908 (16 of 1908), or (ii) any partition effected by a decree of a court. The Court in further considered the impact of the aforesaid Explanation on the oral partition or oral family settlement/family arrangement made prior to 20th December, 2004. The Court opined in F para 124 as under: “124. The intendment of amended Section 6 is to ensure that daughters are not deprived of their rights of obtaining share on becoming coparcener and claiming a partition of the coparcenary property by setting up the frivolous defence of G oral partition and/or recorded in the unregistered memorandum of partition. The court has to keep in mind the possibility that a plea of oral partition may be set up, fraudulently or in collusion, or based on unregistered memorandum of partition which may also be created at any H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 63 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] point of time. Such a partition is not recognised under Section A 6(5).” (Emphasis supplied) 75. The Court further held para 135 as under: “135. A special definition of partition has been carved out in the Explanation. The intendment of the provisions is not to B jeopardise the interest of the daughter and to take care of sham or frivolous transaction set up in defence unjustly to deprive the daughter of her right as coparcener and prevent nullifying the benefit flowing from the provisions as substituted.