The Commission noted the fact that in various States such as Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Karnataka, attempts had already been made to bring about the gender equality. But all these States, except F Kerala, while conferring coparcenary rights on daughters also denied such rights to daughters married prior to State Acts coming into force. 51. The Law Commission recommended that the daughter should be made coparcener by birth and that she should be entitled to get a share on partition and/or on the death of the male coparcener. The G Commission also recommended that a daughter who is married after the commencement of the Amendment Act, should be entitled to a share in the ancestral property as she has already become a coparcener prior to her marriage. One more recommendation of the Law Commission was to do away with the erstwhile Section 23 of the Principal Act which H provided that a woman would have a right to stay in the family house as PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 47 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] a member of the joint Hindu Family but unlike a male, she would have no A right to demand a partition of the family house. The Commission recommended that she should have rights equal to the male in respect of a family house. 52. The Law commission also observed that the Law of Succession falls under Entry V of the List III (concurrent list) in VII B Schedule of the Constitution. In view of Article 246 of the Constitution of India the laws made by the above mentioned five States, would stand repealed to the extent they are repugnant to the Principal Act on amendment. 53. On 20th December, 2004, the Hindu Succession Amendment C Bill 2004 was introduced in the Rajyasabha, inter alia, seeking to amend the erstwhile Section 6 and doing away/omitting the erstwhile Section 23 of the Principal Act. “Statement of Objects and Reasons for amending the ‘Principal Act’ read as follows:- D STATEMENT OF OBJECTS AND REASONS The Hindu Succession Act, 1956 has amended and codified the law relating to intestate succession Hindus and gave rights which were till then unknown in relation to women’s property. However, it does not interfere with the special rights of those E who are members of Hindu Mitakshara coparcenary except to provide rules for devolution of the interest of a deceased male in certain cases. The Act-lays down a uniform and comprehensive system of inheritance and applies, inter alia, to persons governed by the Mitakshara and Dayabhaga F schools and also to those governed previously by the Murumakkattayam, Aliyasantana and Nambudir laws.” The Act applies to every person who is a Hindu by 28 of 72 SA.566.2011 religion in any of its forms or developments including a Virashaiva, a Lingayat or a follower of the G Brahmo, Parathana or Arya Samaj; or to any person who is Buddhist, Jain or Sikh by religion; or to any other person who is not a Muslim, Christian, Parsi or Jew by religion.