The term A “administration” in this Rule must be considered in the context of Article 239AA(3) and Section 41 of the GNCTD Act. The executive administration by the Lieutenant Governor, in his discretion, can only extend to matters which fall outside the purview of the powers conferred on the Legislative Assembly but it extends to powers or functions B entrusted or delegated to him by the President” or “in which he is required by or under any law to act in his discretion or to exercise any judicial or quasi-judicial functions”. The term “administration” cannot be understood as the entire administration of GNCTD. Otherwise, the purpose of giving powers to a constitutionally recognised and democratically elected government would be diluted. C 93. Therefore, the phrase “persons serving in connection with the administration of the National Capital Territory” in Rule 46 shall refer only to those persons, whose administration is linked with “public ”, “police”, and “land” which are subjects outside the domain of NCTD. D 94. However, as noted in the concurring opinion of Justice Chandrachud in the 2018 Constitution Bench , Section 49 of the GNCTD Act confers an overriding power of general control to the President. According to Section 49, “the Lieutenant Governor and his Council of Ministers shall be under the general control of, and comply with such particular directions, if any, as may from time to time be given E by, the President.” The directions of the President are in accordance with the “aid and advice” of the Council of Ministers of the Union of India. 95. Thus, the scope of the legislative and executive powers of the Union and NCTD that has been discussed under this section is multi- F fold. Under Article 239AA(3)(a), the legislative power of NCTD extends to all subjects under the State List and the Concurrent List, except the excluded entries. As the 2018 Constitution Bench held, the executive power of GNCTD is coextensive with its legislative power. In other words, the executive power of GNCTD extends to all subjects on G which its Legislative Assembly has power to legislate. The legislative power of the Union extends to all entries under the State List and Concurrent List, in addition to the Union List. The executive power of the Union, in the absence of a law upon it executive power relating to any subject in the State List, shall cover only matters relating to the three entries which are excluded from the legislative domain of NCTD. H 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A As a corollary, in the absence of a law or provision of the Constitution, the executive power of the Lieutenant Governor acting on behalf of the Union Government shall extend only to matters related to the three entries mentioned in Article 239AA(3)(a), subject to the limitations in Article 73. Furthermore, if the Lieutenant Governor differs with the Council of Ministers of GNCTD, he shall act in accordance with the procedure laid B down in the Transaction of Business Rules.