He further stated that Sunil, Satendra and Masooq Ali died due to fi rearm injuries. He stated that Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) and Jai Singh (PW-8) have also received injuries. He fairly stated that Ram Kishan, Rizwan and Rihan were also killed in the incident but he did not see them being murdered with his own eyes. In the cross-examination, he has stated that he loved his life and therefore, he ran forward and took cover of a wall, hiding behind the wall of Amanullah’s MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 789 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] house. He stated that the doors of Amanullah’s house were open and by entering through the doors, he had taken cover of the wall. He stated that he was behind the wall as long as the fi ring went on. He stated that when the miscreants left the street, he came out. 36. PW-11 is Sudhir. He stated that on the day of incident, he had gone from his house towards the locality of the Pathans. He stated that he saw Ram Kishan, Sukhpal Singh (PW-2), Satendra, Sunil, Jai Singh (PW-8) going in the street in front of him, in front of Mustafa’s house. At that time, the accused persons who were having rifl es and pistols in their hands, opened fi re at Ram Kishan, Sunil, Satendra and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2). Satendra and Sunil fell on the spot as soon as a shot was fi red and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) also fell as soon as he was shot. Ram Kishan was shot in the legs and he ran towards Rizwan’s house to escape. All the accused persons ran after him. He stated that he also came to know that Ram Kishan, Rizwan and Rihan had also been killed by the accused persons. Though this witness is also cross-examined at length, nothing damaging insofar as the main incident is concerned, could be elicited in his testimony. 37. The testimony of these witnesses is sought to be attacked on the ground that they are interested witnesses and there are inconsistencies in their evidence. 38. We may gainfully refer to the observations of this Court in the case of Piara Singh and Others v. State of Punjab5, which read thus: “4. …….It is well settled that the evidence of interested or inimical witnesses is to be scrutinised with care but cannot be rejected merely on the ground of being a partisan evidence. If on a perusal of the evidence the court is satisfi ed that the evidence is credit-worthy there is no bar in the Court relying on the said evidence. The High Court was fully alive to these principles and has in fact found that the evidence of these three witnesses has a ring of truth. After having perused the evidence ourselves also we fully agree with the view taken by the High Court……..” 5 (1977) 4 SCC 452 790 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 39. It can thus be seen that merely because some of the witnesses are interested or inimical witnesses, their evidence cannot be totally discarded.