Onus is on the part of H 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the party who alleges that a witness has not been produced deliberately to prove it.” 10. The High Court has recorded a wrong factual finding that the offence under Section 376 IPC was committed even in the uncle’s residence of PW6 which is not even the case spoken by her. The case B of the prosecution, as projected, does not conform to the degree of probability. There is no doubt that the evidence of the prosecutrix will have to be kept at a higher pedestal but then, such a testimony will have to satisfy the conscience of the Court. It has to be seen contextually in the light of the other evidence available. It does appear that the appellant wanted to marry the prosecutrix which was stoutly opposed by her family. C We are not willing to go into the subsequent compromise made between the parties, which happened after the death of PW4. The submission made by the counsel for the appellant appears to be probable when pitted against the version of the prosecution. 11. We wish to quote with profit the following paragraphs of the D decision of this Court in the case of Rajesh Yadav (Supra), on the approach of the court in appreciating the evidence before it, “12. Section 3 of the Evidence Act defines “evidence”, broadly divided into oral and documentary. “Evidence” under the Act is the means, factor or material, lending a degree of probability E through a logical inference to the existence of a fact. It is an “adjective law” highlighting and aiding substantive law. Thus, it is neither wholly procedural nor substantive, though trappings of both could be felt. 13. The definition of the word “proved” though gives an impression of a mere interpretation, in effect, is the heart and soul of the F entire Act. This clause, consciously speaks of proving a fact by considering the “matters before it”. The importance is to the degree of probability in proving a fact through the consideration of the matters before the court. What is required for a court to decipher is the existence of a fact and its proof by a degree of probability, G through a logical influence. 14. Matters are necessary, concomitant material factors to prove a fact. All evidence would be “matters” but not vice versa. In other words, matters could be termed as a genus of which evidence would be a species. Matters also add strength to the evidence H giving adequate ammunition in the Court’s sojourn in deciphering DAVINDER SINGH v. STATE OF PUNJAB 991 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] the truth. Thus, the definition of “matters” is exhaustive, and A therefore, much wider than that of “evidence”. However, there is a caveat, as the court is not supposed to consider a matter which acquires the form of an evidence when it is barred in law. Matters are required for a court to believe in the existence of a fact.