B. PARDIWALA, J.] complied with if the various details prescribed therein are included in the A report. This report is an intimation to the magistrate that upon investigation into a cognizable offence the Investigating Officer has been able to procure sufficient evidence for the court to inquire into the offence and the necessary information is being sent to the court. In fact, the report under Section 173(2) of the CrPC purports to be an opinion of the B Investigating Officer that as far as he is concerned he has been able to procure sufficient material for the trial of the accused by the court. The report is complete if it is accompanied with all the documents and statements of witnesses as required by Section 175(5) of the CrPC. Nothing more need be stated in the report of the Investigating Officer. It is also not necessary that all the details of the offence must be stated. C The details of the offence are required to be proved to bring home the guilt to the accused at a later stage i.e., in the course of the trial of the case by adducing acceptable evidence. (See K. Veeraswami v. Union of India and Others, (1991) 3 SCC 655.) 49. The maximum period of 180 days which is being granted to D the investigating agency to complete the investigation in the case wherein the prosecution is for the offence under the UAPA is not something in the form of a package that everything has to be completed including obtaining of sanction within this period of 180 days. As observed above, the investigating agency has nothing to do with sanction. Sanction is E altogether a different process. Sanction is accorded, based on the materials collected by the investigating agency which forms the part of the final report under Section 173 of the CrPC. The investigating agency gets full 180 days to complete the investigation. To say that obtaining of sanction and placing the same along with the chargesheet should be done within the period of 180 days is something which is not only contrary F to the provisions of law discussed above, but is inconceivable. 50. Let us test the aforesaid argument, keeping in mind the Rules 2008. Rule 3 of the Rules 2008 makes it very clear that the authority concerned shall make its report under sub section (2) of Section 45 of the UAPA containing the recommendations to the Central Government G from the State Government as the case may be within 7 working days of the receipt of the evidence gathered by the investigating officer under the CrPC. We place emphasis on the expression “within 7 working days of the receipt of the evidence gathered by the investigating officer under the CrPC”. This evidence which Rule 3 of the Rules 2008 contemplates H 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A is the final report i.e., filed by the investigating agency under Section 173 of the CrPC. How can one expect the authority under sub section (2) of Section 45 to make its report containing the recommendations without looking into the chargesheet thoroughly containing the evidence gathered by the investigating officer.