This is perhaps the reason that Annexure VI(e) to Form 6 contained in the Rules and Regulation 36(2) referred to above, require information as to personal guarantees that have been given in relation to the debts of the corporate debtor. Far from supporting the stand of the respondents, it is G clear that in point of fact, Section 31 is one more factor in favour of a personal guarantor having to pay for debts due without any moratorium applying to save him. Xxx xxx xxx 26.1. Section 14 refers only to debts due by corporate debtors, H who are limited liability companies, and it is clear that in the AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1043 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] vast majority of cases, personal guarantees are given by A Directors who are in management of the companies. The object of the Code is not to allow such guarantors to escape from an independent and co-extensive liability to pay off the entire outstanding debt, which is why Section 14 is not applied to them. …” B (Emphasis supplied) 77. In Committee of Creditors of Essar Steel India Limited v. Satish Kumar Gupta and Others reported in (2020) 8 SCC 531, this Court held that: “106. Following this in V. Ramakrishnan case (2018) C 17 SCC 394, it is difficult to accept Shri Rohatgi’s argument that that part of the resolution plan which states that the claims of the guarantor on account of subrogation shall be extinguished, cannot be applied to the guarantees furnished by the erstwhile Directors of the corporate debtor. So far as D the present case is concerned, we hasten to add that we are saying nothing which may affect the pending litigation on account of invocation of these guarantees. However, NCLAT being contrary to Section 31(1) of the Code and this Court’s in V. Ramakrishnan case (2018) 17 SCC 394, is set aside.” E (Emphasis supplied) 78. In Vijay Kumar Jain v. Standard Chartered Bank reported in (2019) 20 SCC 455, this Court held that: “19.3… we find that Section 31(1) of the Code would make it clear that such members of the erstwhile Board of Directors, F who are often guarantors, are vitally interested in a resolution plan as such resolution plan then binds them. Such plan may scale down the debt of the principal debtor, resulting in scaling down the debt of the guarantor as well, or it may not. The resolution plan may also scale down certain debts and not G others, leaving guarantors of the latter kind of debts exposed for the entire amount of the debt. 19.4. The regulations also make it clear that these persons are vitally interested in resolution plans as they affect them.” (Emphasis supplied) H 1044 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 79. In Lalit Kumar Jain (supra), this Court held that: “122. It is therefore, clear that the sanction of a resolution plan and finality imparted to it by Section 31 does not per se operate as a discharge of the guarantor’s liability.