In such cases, we think, the position would be the same as if one of these two grounds was irrelevant for the purpose of the Act or was wholly illusory and this would vitiate the detention as a whole. ***” 14. In Rameshwar Shaw vs. District Magistrate8, a Constitution Bench speaking through Hon’ble P.B. Gajendragadkar, J. (as the Chief Justice then was) in course of interdicting an of detention passed under section 3 of the Detention Act held as follows: “7. There is also no doubt that if any of the grounds furnished to the detenu are found to be irrelevant while considering the application of clauses (i) to (iii) of Section 3(1)(a) and in that sense are foreign to the Act, the satisfaction of the detaining authority on which the of detention is based is open to challenge and the detention liable to be quashed. Similarly, if some of the grounds supplied to the detenu are so vague that they would virtually deprive the detenu of his statutory right of making a representation that again may introduce a serious infi rmity in the of his detention. If, however, the grounds on which the of detention proceeds are relevant and germane to the matters which fall to be considered under Section 3(1)(a), it would not be open to the detenu to challenge the of detention by arguing that the satisfaction of the detaining authority is not reasonably based on any of the said grounds. 8. It is, however, necessary to emphasise in this connection that though the satisfaction of the detaining authority contemplated by Section 3(1) (a) is the subjective satisfaction of the said authority, cases may arise where the detenu may challenge the validity of his detention on the ground of mala fi des and in support of the said plea urge that along with other facts which show mala fi des the Court may also consider his grievance that the grounds served on him cannot possibly or rationally support the conclusion drawn against him by the detaining 8 AIR 1964 SC 334 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. authority. It is only in this incidental manner and in support of the plea of mala fi des that this question can become justiciable; otherwise the reasonableness or propriety of the said satisfaction contemplated by Section 3(1)(a) cannot be questioned before the Courts.” 15. In his Counter Affi davit (at pgs. 10 and 11) to the special leave petition, the Commissioner referred to, and extracted a passage from paragraph 8 of the decision of this Court in Khudiram Das vs. The State of West Bengal9, wherein a Bench of 4 (four) Hon’ble Judges of this Court was examining a challenge to an of detention passed under section 3 of the Maintenance of Internal Security Act, 1971 (“MISA”, hereafter) by a district magistrate. We consider it appropriate to notice not only paragraph 8 of the decision rendered by Hon’ble P.N. Bhagwati, J. (as His Lordship then was) in its entirety but also paragraph 9, reading as follows: “8.