This is the general rule, but not a fetter on this Court or the High Court in an appropriate case. 36. What is evincible from the extant case-law is that this Court E has been consistent in interfering in such matters where purely civil disputes, more often than not, relating to land and/or money are given the colour of criminality, only for the purposes of exerting extra-judicial pressure on the party concerned, which, we reiterate, is nothing but abuse of the process of the court. In the present case, there is a huge, and quite frankly, unexplained delay of over 60 years in initiating dispute F with regard to the ownership of the land in question, and the criminal case has been lodged only after failure to obtain relief in the civil suits, coupled with denial of relief in the interim therein to the respondent no.2/ her family members. It is evident that resort was now being had to criminal proceedings which, in the considered opinion of this Court, is G with ulterior motives, for oblique reasons and is a clear case of vengeance. 37. The Court would also note that even if the allegations are taken to be true on their face value, it is not discernible that any offence can be said to have been made out under the SC/ST Act against the H appellant. The complaint and FIR are frivolous, vexatious and oppressive. SRI GULAM MUSTAFA v. THE STATE OF KARNATAKA & ANR. 371 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 38. This Court would indicate that the officers, who institute an A FIR, based on any complaint, are duty-bound to be vigilant before invoking any provision of a very stringent statute, like the SC/ST Act, which imposes serious penal consequences on the concerned accused. The officer has to be satisfied that the provisions he seeks to invoke prima facie apply to the case at hand. We clarify that our remarks, in no manner, are to B dilute the applicability of special/stringent statutes, but only to remind the police not to mechanically apply the law, dehors reference to the factual position. 39. For the reasons aforesaid, the Court finds that the High Court fell in error in not invoking its wholesome power under Section 482 of C the Code to quash the FIR. Accordingly, the Impugned , being untenable in law, is set aside. Consequent thereupon, the FIR, as also any proceedings emanating therefrom, insofar as they relate to the appellant, are quashed and set aside. 40. Accordingly, this appeal stands allowed, without any D towards costs. Pending applications are consigned to records. Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Mayank Batra, LCRA) E F G H