57. The purpose of judicial review is not only to ensure that the individual concerned receives fair treatment, but also to ensure that the authority, after according fair treatment, reaches, a conclusion, which is E correct in the eyes of law71. Notably, in Apparel Export Promotion Council vs. A.K. Chopra, a matter related to sexual harassment at the workplace72 where, aggrieved by the decision taken by the Disciplinary Authority of accepting the report of the Inquiry Officer and removing the respondent therein from service on the ground that he had tried to F molest a lady employee, this Court had set aside the of the High Court that had narrowly interpreted the expression “sexual harassment” and held that in departmental proceedings, the Disciplinary Authority is the sole judge of facts and once findings of fact, based on appreciation of evidence are recorded, the High Court in its writ jurisdiction should not normally interfere with those factual findings unless it finds that the G recorded findings were based either on no evidence or that the findings were wholly perverse and/or legally untenable. The Court is under a 71 (1999) 1 SCC 759 72 Chief Constable of the North Wales Police v. Evans, (1982) 3 ALL ER 141 HL. Also refer : B.C. Chaturvedi v. Union of India, (1995) 6 SCC 749. H 816 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A duty to satisfy itself that an inquiry into the allegations of sexual harassment by a Committee is conducted in terms of the service rules and that the concerned employee gets a reasonable opportunity to vindicate his position and establish his innocence73. (b) EXTENT OF ADHERENCE TO THE “AS FAR AS B PRACTICABLE” NORM 58. Assuming as correct, the submission made by learned counsel for the respondents no.2 and 3 that the Committee was not bound to strictly follow a step by step procedure for conducting an inquiry having due regard to the proviso to Rule 14(2) of the CCS (CCA) Rules that C permits a Committee to enquire into a complaint of sexual harassment ‘as far as practicable’, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules, the question that would still beg an answer is whether the inquiry conducted by the Committee in the instant case, would meet the ‘as far as practicable’ norm? 59. Rule 14 prescribes the procedure required to be followed for D conducting an inquiry by a Public Authority which entails issuance of a charge sheet, furnishing details of the Articles of Charge, enclosing statements of imputations in respect of each article of charge, forwarding of a list of witnesses and the documents sought to be relied upon by the Management/employer. The said procedure may not have been strictly E followed by the Committee in the present case, but it is not in dispute that all the complaints received from time to time and the depositions of the complainants were disclosed to the appellant. He was, therefore, well aware of the nature of allegations levelled against him.