The ASG in the statement filed before the High Court stated G that the reasons for denial of security clearance cannot be disclosed because (i) intelligence inputs on the basis of which security clearance was denied are ‘secret and sensitive’; and (ii) in the interest of national security. It has thus been submitted that the principles of natural justice 53 Dr BR Ambedkar, Constituent Assembly of India Debates (Vol. VII, 9 December 1948 H 54 L. Chandra Kumar v. Union of India, (1995) 1 SCC 400 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 647 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] stand abrogated because: firstly, the decision is based on intelligence A inputs which are ‘sensitive’ in nature from security and intelligence agencies; and secondly, these inputs are in the interest ofnational security. The Union of India has relied on the s of this Court in Ex- Armymen’s Protection Services (supra) and Digi Cable Network (supra) to contend that the principles of natural justice will not apply B when considerations of national security are involved. The validity of this argument has to be assessed before deciding if the State has discharged its burden justifying that the infringements on procedural guarantees are reasonable. G. 1 Natural justice and national security: decisions in Digi C and Ex-armymen 63. In Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services (supra), the appellant was granted the business of ground handling services. Rule 92 of the Aircraft Rules 1937 stipulates that the business shall be provided subject to security clearance. The appellant was informed that security D clearance was withdrawn on grounds of ‘national interest’. The appellant initiated proceedings under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Patna. The writ petition was disposed with a direction that the appellant should be furnished materials that were relied on by the Central Government for withdrawal of security clearance. However, the Central Government passed an that the documents in the file E were classified as ‘secret’ and could not be shared with the appellant. The documents were placed in a ‘sealed cover’ before the Single Judge of the High Court. On a perusal of the documents, the Single Judge directed that a gist of the allegations be disclosed. The Division Bench of the High Court allowed the appeal and held that the materials could F not be disclosed to the appellant in national interest. The appellant initiated proceedings under Article 136. A two-Judge Bench of this Court dismissed the proceedings. Justice Kurian Joseph writing for the Bench observed that if concerns of national security are involved, then the party cannot ‘insist on the strict observance of the principles of natural justice’. It was further observed that it is open to the Court to satisfy G itself that the claim of the government that national security is involved is indeed true. This Court relied on the s in the Zamora55 and Secretary of State for Home Department v. Rehman56 to hold that 55 (1916) 2 AC 77(PC) 56 (2003) 1 AC 153 H 648 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.