Section 106 of the Act is an exception to the rule which is Section 101 of the Act, and it comes into play only in a limited sense where the G evidence is of a nature which is especially within the knowledge of that person and then the burden of proving that fact shifts upon him that person. The burden of proof is always with the prosecution. It is the prosecution which has to prove its case beyond a reasonable doubt. H 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Section 106 of the Act does not alter that position. It only places burden for disclosure of a fact on the establishment of certain circumstances. We have no reason to doubt the testimony of PW-10 (Karanjit Singh), the sole witness of last seen. In his statement under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, when the appellant was questioned about being in the company of the deceased on 08.05.2000 along with co- B accused Mange Ram, no explanation was given by the appellant about his whereabouts. It is for this reason that it has been held that the accused has not been able to discharge his burden under Section 106 of the Act and therefore this has to be read as an additional link in the chain of evidence against the appellant. To our mind, however, Section 106 of the C Act would not even come to play here under the facts and circumstances of the present case. 13. What has to be kept in mind is that Section 106 of the Act, only comes into play when the other facts have been established by the prosecution. In this case when the evidence of last seen itself is on a D weak footing, considering the long gap of time between last seen by PW-10 and the time of death of the deceased, Section 106 of the Act would not be applicable under the peculiar facts and the circumstances of the case. 14. As far as the recovery is concerned, the recovery is again E weak. The so-called alleged place of crime and the recovery of tractor or the place where the tractor was abandoned had already been disclosed by the co-accused by the time the present appellant was arrested. Therefore, making a disclosure about the place of occurrence or the place where the tractor was abandoned is of no consequence. As far as the recovery of watch, currency notes of Rs. 250/-, hair and F ‘Parna’ from the residence of the appellant are concerned, the currency notes and hair have not been identified with the deceased. In a criminal trial, the prosecution has to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. This heavy burden has to be discharged by the prosecution. It becomes even more difficult in a case of circumstantial evidence. In the present G case, the nature of circumstantial evidence is weak. In to establish a charge of guilt on the accused, the chain of evidence must be completed and the chain must point out to one and only one conclusion, which is that it is only the accused who have committed the crime and none else.