For example, the Irish Constitution recognizes the family as a natural unit of society and 158 Bert-Jaap Koops et al., “A Typology of Privacy”, (2017) University of Pennsylvania Journal of International Law (2017), Vol. 38(2) 566 159 Paragraphs 90 and 157 and conclusion (F) of Justice DY Chandrachud’s opinion; paragraph 46 of Justice RF Nariman’s opinion; paragraph 78 of Justice SK Kaul opinion 8 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1331 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a moral institution possessing inalienable rights.160 The Constitution by not recognizing the family as a rights bearing unit has rejected the school of thought where rights of individuals in a family or partnership are subsumed within the larger unit of the family. The Constitution does not promote a framework of rights where the rights of a family are given precedence over individual rights of citizens constituting that family. 167. Relegating actions to the ‘private’ zone has certain shortcomings. The disadvantage must be understood in consequentialist terms, that is, by identifying the eff ect of classifying certain activities as ‘private.’ One of the prominent eff ects of classifying actions as ‘private’ is that such actions are protected from regulation by the State. 168. Depending on how relationships are organized and managed, they can be “a beacon of freedom, or a prison.”161 While there are relationships which are characterized by love, mutual-respect, and devotion to one another, certain relationships are also characterized by the hierarchical power structure in which they operate. Identities such as caste, religion, gender and sexuality more often than not contribute towards the unequal power structure in the private sphere. To recall, in a segment above, we observed that the State’s interest in regulating relationships in the form of marriage is to democratize the private space by ensuring that actions in the intimate space are in consonance with constitutional values. For the reasons in the preceding paragraph, the argument of the learned Solicitor General that the State regulates relationships in the form of marriage solely because they result in procreation is erroneous. The State’s interest in democratizing personal relationships is not specifi c to the institution of marriage. The State’s regulation of marriage is merely one of the many ways by which it can fulfi ll these State aims. However, it is open to the State to use other forms of regulation to fulfi ll the interests identifi ed above. There is public interest in the State’s regulation of all relationships because relationships involving two persons may be unequal by their very nature. Scholars have emphasized that the democratization of personal relationships serves two purposes. First, 160 Article 41 of the Irish Constitution stipulates that the State pledges to guard with special care the institution of marriage on which the family is founded. 161 Tammy R Pettinato, “Transforming Marriage: The Transformation of Intimacy and the Democratizing Potential of Love” JL & Fam. Stud. 9, 101 133 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. it contributes towards eliminating the inequality of the power structure in a relationship thereby preventing exploitation and subjugation; and second, it contributes towards creating a more independent and self-suffi cient citizenry which would have the ability to see alternative viewpoints.162 169.