Then as Jignesh is going to give me job therefore at about 11.15 pm in the night I took him in the hotel F room. Then I asked him water but he refused. Then he told me that, “xxx tu jo field me kaam kart i hai, wo field me to tumhe pata hai kya kya karna padta hai” (xxx you know that, what things needs to do in the field you are working), at that time I told him to speak clearly. Then he told me that, “xxx kuchh pane ke G liye kuchh khona padata hai” (xxx one has to sacrifice something to get something). At that time I told him, that I have cleared you about the same on very first day. At that time he told 3 Anticipatory Bail Application No. 2594 of 2022 4 CR FIR No. 915 of 2022 registered on 06th August, 2022 H 5 For short ‘the IPC’ MS. X v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA AND ANOTHER 1117 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] me that, you have to compromise with me, I have good contacts. A At that time I clearly refused him. Thereafter he got up from bed and pushed me on bed and he touched my breast and backside. Then I started shouting and then he held my neck and threatened to kill me and then he opened his shirt buttons and he tried to open my clothes. In between my maxi was torn near the B neck and breast and then he took out his private part with his hand and he started doing intimacy with me and then I pushed him forcibly and went out from the room and then I got down to the reception from staircase and called the police on 100 number’’ 3.3 Thereafter, in the evening of 06th August, 2022 itself, a C supplementary statement of the appellant/prosecutrix was recorded, relevant portion whereof is as under :- “……Then he got up from the bed and pushed me on the bed by pushing me hard. This time he touched my chest and my rear and lifted my dress which I was wearing. As I screamed and begged D him not to do this to me, he grabbed me by the throat and threatened to kill me. At that time my whole body was shivering, I was completely scared, I had no idea. He then unbuttoned his shirt, removed his pants and tried to remove my clothes. There was a tussle between us and my maxi was torn near my neck and near my chest. During the tussle, he pulled my knicker down and pulled E out his private part with his hand and tried to insert in my private part. Then I pushed him hard and I opened the door and ran outside, then he told, “if you say something about this by going outside then I will kill you and your family.” He was giving such threat then also I came out from the room……” F 3.4 It is the case of the appellant/prosecutrix that to favour the respondent No.