772 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 5P OS.RCT.RS. 772 [2023] 5 S.C.R. A DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. (Civil Appeal No(s). 6301 of 2013) B MAY 12, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Service Law: Department of Space Employees (Classification, Control and C Appeal) Rules, 1976 – r. 16(iii) – Special procedure in certain cases – Dismissal from service without holding any inquiry in the interest of the security of the State, invoking power u/r. 16 (iii) – Interference with – Appellant, high profile scientist in Indian Space Research Organisation-ISRO – Disciplinary proceedings against the appellant, alleging unauthorized absence from the country for D taking post-doctoral research without permission and publication of a technical paper in the Conference in USA as first author with a foreigner as one of the co-authors, without prior permission or approval from the competent authority – Dismissed from service from the date of absence – However, the tribunal held that the E dismissal of the appellant was with effect from the date of the dismissal , and quashed the related to recovery of subsistence allowance – Upheld by the High Court – On appeal, held: When material capable of arriving at a satisfaction that it is not expedient to hold an inquiry “in the interest of the security of the State” are available, the decision in holding that it is inexpedient F “in the interest of the security of the State” to hold an inquiry warrants no further scrutiny, rather, it is not fit to be subjected to further judicial review – Having regard to appellant’s role as high profile scientist in ISRO and the role of ISRO as the space agency of India, the appellant’s unauthorized absence, unauthorized G association and persistent dealings with foreign institution especially in the strategic research and development subject based on which nation’s rocketry and ambitious programs are/were advancing, was a matter of concern for the security of the State – Respondent organisation cannot be said to have committed a flaw or fault in entertaining suspicion on his honesty, integrity, reliability, H 772 DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 773 dependability and trustworthiness – Dismissal from the service A cannot be said to be illegal or absolutely unwarranted – Thus, interference u/Art. 136 not called for – Judicial review – Constitution of India – Arts. 311(2), 136. Dismissing the appeal, the Court B HELD: 1.1 Clause (iii) of Rule 16 of the Department of Space Employees (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1976 is a service rule virtually reproducing clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution of India though the language used is not identical. The appellant did not dispute that Rule 16 (iii) is in pari materia with clause (c) of the C second proviso to Article 311 (2). When once it is so found, there cannot be any doubt with respect to the position, as settled in Tulsiram Patel’s case and reiterated in subsequent decisions, that adherence to principles of natural justice i.e., conducting inquiry after issuing charge sheet and providing hearing to a government D servant on those charges, in case of proposal to impose any of the three major penalties-dismissal, removal or reduction in rank would not arise when the power under Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules is invoked.