It was stated in Para 58 as under: - “58. The question which now arises before the Court is in regard to the relief which can be granted to the petitioners. The fi nal list of successful candidates was issued on 6 March 2017. The candidates who have been selected have been working as District and Sessions Judges for 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. about six years. In the meantime, all the petitioners who are before the Court have not functioned in judicial offi ce. At this lapse of time, it may be diffi cult to direct either the unseating of the candidates who have performed their duties. Unseating them at this stage would be contrary to public interest since they have gained experience as judicial offi cers in the service of the State of Kerala. While the grievance of the petitioners is that if the aggregate of marks in the written examination and viva-voce were taken into account, they would rank higher than three candidates who are respondents to these proceedings, equally, we cannot lose sight of the fact that all the selected candidates are otherwise qualifi ed for judicial offi ce and have been working over a length of time. Unseating them would, besides being harsh, result in a situation where the higher judiciary would lose the services of duly qualifi ed candidates who have gained experience over the last six years in the post of District Judge.” And therefore, one of the directions in the said case was as under: ‘60. XXX XXX (vi) In terms of relief, we hold that it would be contrary to the public interest to direct the induction of the petitioners into the Higher Judicial Service after the lapse of more than six years. Candidates who have been selected nearly six years ago cannot be unseated. They were all qualifi ed and have been serving the district judiciary of the state. Unseating them at this stage would be contrary to public interest. To induct the petitioners would be to bring in new candidates in preference to those who are holding judicial offi ce for a length of time. To deprive the state and its citizens of the benefi t of these experienced judicial offi cers at a senior position would not be in public interest.” The case at hand is on a similar footing if not better than the petitioners in the above case. 37. We therefore uphold the fi ndings of the High Court on law as to the fl aw in the process of selection, which followed post October 8, 2013, after declaration of results. All the same, for the reasons stated above, in to do complete justice and in exercise of our powers under Article VIVEK KAISTH & ANR v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL 643 PRADESH & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 142 of the Constitution of India, we set aside the of the High Court as far as it quashes the selection and appointment of the appellants.