C. Permissible exercise of power under Article 356 while issuing C.O. 272 and C.O. 273. i. Article 356 encompasses/vests all shades of legislative/constituent powers in the Parliament. The said powers cannot be limited by Article 357 as the said provision deals only with the powers of the Parliament to ‘make laws’. Article 357 does not deal with ‘powers of the legislatures’ as used in Article 356 (1)(b). There are thus, no implied limitations in the power under Article 356. ii. Petitioners have challenged the imposition of the Governor’s and President’s Rule at a belated stage i.e., after almost 14 months. 3. Whether the alteration from a State to a Union Territory was permissible? A. Article 3 grants Parliament the power to convert a State into a Union Territory. i. C.O. 272 had already been issued by the President before the Reorganization Act was passed. Thus, Article 3, as applied to the rest of the country, applied to Jammu & Kashmir and the additional proviso did not apply. ii. Article 3 provides for a plenary power of the Parliament, where it is entitled to consider factors such as national security, integrity, etc. An assessment of these factors would not be justiciable before the Court. 344 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. iii. In the process of scrutiny of the delimitation exercise undertaken qua State of Jammu & Kashmir in Haji Abdul Ghani Khan v. Union of India103, this Court had held that Explanation I to Article 3 provides Parliament with power to form new Union Territories. This was in the context of the Reorganization Act. Explanation II clarifi es that such Union Territory can be formed by uniting parts of any States. Thus, Parliament can convert a State into one or more Union Territories. iv. The power under Article 3 extends to eff ectively extinguishing the existence of a State, notwithstanding any assumption of sovereignty of the said State104. v. The power is such that States only have the right to express their views on proposals for reorganization. It is not necessary to make a Constitutional amendment105. The power further extends to providing the extent of representation in the State Legislature, varying its numerical strength, and even aff ecting the existence of a State Legislature106. vi. Parliament is paramount in the matter of constitution of States. Article 3 only envisages that the aff ected States will ‘express their views’. There is no requirement of concurrence107. In eff ect, views are to be taken from the entire nation via the Parliament, as the issue leading to the reorganization aff ects the nation as a whole. The Parliament would include the representatives of Jammu & Kashmir. vii. Lastly, upon a question of the Court, at the very inception, it was emphasized that instructions were taken, and a statement was made by the Solicitor General before the Court in unambiguous terms that the status of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir would be restored to status of a State once the elections were held.