524 of 2021) and Mangal Singh came to the house of Chironji (PW-6). On seeing this, Chironji (PW- 6) ran away from the house out of fear. Thereafter, accused persons broke the doors and entered his house. It is the prosecution case that the accused persons caught and beat Madan, Leelabai and Kailash. Thereafter, all the accused persons fl ed from there. When Chironji (PW-6) came back to his house, he was informed about the incident. 3.2 It is further the prosecution case that on 6th October 2001 at 09.15 am, when Chironji (PW-6), Madan (deceased), Raghuveer, Patiram (PW-13), Leelabai (died natural death during pendency of trial), Ramhet (PW-12), Gyani (PW-14) and Kailash (PW-15), from the complainant party were going on a tractor to the Police Station to lodge the complaint, the accused persons, armed with lethal weapons like barchi, sword, spear, lathi and country-made bomb (hathgola), waylaid them to cause injuries to them. 3.3 After intercepting the victims, Ram Lakhan who was carrying a barchi, stabbed Madan on the left side of his chest, as a result of which Madan fell down unconscious; thereafter, Ram Sewak @ Sewak, who was carrying a gupti, caused injuries to the complainant on the right side of his torso (Bakha), and gave another blow on his head; and thereafter, Ramrup @ Roopa who was carrying a sword, caused injury to the complainant on his shoulder. Other accused persons, including the appellants herein, who were also armed with lethal weapons, caused grievous injuries. 3.4 The original First Information Report (for short, “FIR”) was registered for the off ences punishable under Sections 307, 323, 452, 147, 148 and 149 of IPC. However, on the death of Madan, the same came to be converted to the one under Section 302 IPC. 190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 3.5 The accused persons were arrested, and after completion of investigation, the chargesheet was fi led in the Court of Judicial Magistrate 1st Class, Kolaras. Since the case was exclusively triable by the Sessions Court, the case was committed to the Court of 1st Additional Sessions Judge, Shivpuri, on 10th January 2002. 3.6 Before the trial court, the accused persons (in total nine), denied the charges levelled against them, stating that they have been falsely implicated because of a land dispute. Defence examined two witnesses and the prosecution examined twenty-one witnesses. Out of the twenty- one prosecution witnesses, Chironji (PW-6), Ramhet (PW-12), Partiram (PW-13), Gyani (PW-14) and Kailash (PW-15) were injured eyewitnesses. 3.7 The trial court, thereafter, framed fi ve issues for its consideration in connection with the charges framed against the accused persons. Vide dated 30th March 2005, the trial court held, that the evidence adduced by the prosecution proved that the accused persons Parshuram, Ram Sahai, Mangal Singh, Ram Lakhan, Ramrup @ Roopa, Ram Sewak @ Sewak and Jalim Singh, formed an unlawful assembly on the date of the incident and thereafter they grievously assaulted the complainant and his family members, thereby killing one of them in furtherance of the common intention of their unlawful assembly, using deadly weapons.