He submitted that the growth rate of merely 17.10% from the years 2001 to 2011 is the slowest since its inception. It is submitted that the population in the year 2011 is 10,54,686 with an addition of 1,54,051 during the last decade. He further submitted C that, as a matter of fact, the forest coverage in Chandigarh has doubled in the last 20 years. 31. Shri Tewari submitted that a ‘transferee’ has been defined in the 1952 Act to mean “a person (including a firm or, other body of individuals, whether incorporated or not) to whom a site or building D is transferred in any manner whatsoever, under this Act and includes his successors and assigns”. He therefore submitted that the 1952 Act itself permits a transfer to be made to more than one individual and as such, the contention that, there cannot be more than one apartment in a single dwelling unit, is without substance. E 32. Shri Tewari further submitted that Rule 4 of the Chandigarh Lease-Hold of Sites and Building Rules, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “the 1973 Rules”) provides that the Chandigarh Administration may demise sites and buildings at Chandigarh on lease for 99 years. It further provides that the lease may be given by allotment or by auction in accordance with these Rules. He submitted that Rule 17 of the 1973 F Rules permits the lease to be taken jointly by more than one person. It is submitted that when the lease itself is permitted to be taken jointly by more than one person, then there is no merit in the stand that a building cannot be constructed on a site having more than one apartment. Shri Tewari further submitted that Rule 13 of the 2007 Rules also permits an G allotment to be taken jointly by more than one person. The only requirement in such a case is that the liability to pay premium as well as the rent or any penalty under these Rules shall be joint and several. 33. Shri Tewari further submitted that a perusal of Chandigarh Building Rules (Urban), 2017 (for short, “the 2017 Rules”) which were H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 619 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] enacted in exercise of the powers conferred by the 1952 Act, would A also show that more than one apartment is permitted to be constructed on A single dwelling unit. He submitted that under sub-clause (a) of Clause (22) of Rule 3 of the 2017 Rules, a ‘residential building’ is defined to be “a building used or constructed or adapted to be used wholly or principally for human habitation and includes all garages, or B other out-buildings appurtenant thereto”. Under Clause (32) thereof, ‘dwelling unit’ has been defined to be “a building or a part thereof which is used or is intended to be used by a person or family for habitation comprising of kitchen, toilet and room”. Clause (82) thereof defines ‘storey’ as “any horizontal division of a building so constructed as to be capable of use as a living apartment, although C such horizontal division may not extend over the whole depth or width of the building but shall not include mezzanine floor”.