[2023] 2 S.C.R. 471 471 DR. B R AMEDKAR UNIVERSITY, AGRA A v. DEVARSH NATH GUPTA & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 1141 of 2023) FEBRUARY 14, 2023 B [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] Constitution of India :Art. 226 – Exercise of power under – as regards re-evaluation of the answer sheets/answer scripts – Justification of – Writ of Mandamus by respondent No. 1 seeking C re-checking of answer sheet of the paper of the physiology subject through different examiners and to accept the amended result if marks were increased in re-checking – High Court allowed the writ petition by awarding the respondent no. 1, the average of the marks awarded by the three examiners – High Court further awarded Rs. D 1 lakh cost to respondent no. 1, gave liberty to the students who appeared in preceding three years for applying for re-evaluation, and also directed that the copy of to be sent to Secretaries of concerned Departments to ensure that the examiners/evaluators be deployed in reasonably efficient manner – On appeal, held: E Statute governing the examination does not provide for re-evaluation and scrutiny of the answer sheets – Award of marks in the descriptive type answers essentially remains a matter of subjective assessment and the Court would not be entering into that arena of assessment, which remains reserved for the examiner/evaluator – Decision of Court of law ought to remain confined to the issues arising for F determination in the matter – Imposition of costs not in consonance with subject-matter – Direction to Principal Secretary not of specific nature and cannot be implemented with certainty – All concluded matters cannot be re-opened – If the assessment by one examiner/ evaluator is found questionable, all the examiner could not be G presumed to be irresponsible and every result declared by the University could not be reopened – Substantive relief of award of average marks to the respondent no. 1 not disturbed and other directions set aside. H 471 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Partly allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The Statute governing the examination in question does not provide for re-evaluation and scrutiny of the answer sheets. Moreover, the award of marks in the descriptive type answers essentially remains a matter of subjective B assessment and the Court would not be entering into that arena of assessment, which remains reserved for the examiner/ evaluator. [Para 13][483-D-E] 1.2 At any rate, in the adjudicatory process dealing with a prayer for issuance of a writ of mandamus with reference to the C grievance of the writ petitioner and the facts emerging on record, the observations as to the status of teachers in the society and other co-related observations were not even required. Be that as it may, even if it is assumed that the High Court was impelled to make such observations for its anguish in view of the infirmities referable to the original examiner, imposition of costs in the sum D of Rs. 1 lakh on the appellant-University does not appear congruent to the subject-matter of the petition and consistent with role of the University.