The defendants entered the possession of ’Schedule C’ property. It is submitted that, in B fact, the learned Executive Magistrate directed the defendants to vacate the ‘Schedule C’ property/land and handover the same to the plaintiffs. However, in the revision petition filed by the defendants, the learned revisional Court set aside the same on technical grounds. The plaintiffs approached the High Court by way of revision petition. The High Court C disposed of the case by directing that the plaintiffs can initiate a fresh case under Section 145 Cr.P.C. regarding the ‘Schedule C’ property. It is submitted that thereafter the plaintiffs filed a petition under Section 145 Cr.P.C. However, on 27.09.1985, as the defendants started construction of a pucca structure on ‘Schedule C’ property, the plaintiffs were constrained to file the suit. D 4.3 It is submitted that as such the High Court has rightly drawn the statutory presumption in favour of the plaintiffs. It is submitted that as observed and held by the High Court, the defendants have not led any evidence to rebut the presumption. It is submitted that as there was an endorsement in the sale deed and that it is a vital piece of evidence, the E High Court has not committed any error in drawing the statutory presumption. 4.4 It is further submitted that Part VI of the Registration Act deals with presenting documents for registration. Section 32 contemplates that only those persons mentioned in clause (c) are entitled to present F documents for registration. In case the PoA holder himself executes the sale deed, then for the purpose of registration he is considered to be a person falling under Section 32(a) of the Registration Act. He is not even required to produce the PoA (although in the present case the PoA was produced and the requisite endorsement was made). It is submitted G that sub-clause (c) contemplates presentation of a document for registration by a PoA holder. It is submitted that Section 33 further provides as to which PoA holders will be recognised for the purpose of Section 32. Sub-clause (c) provides for a case where the principal is not residing in India. It is submitted that in that case, the PoA executed has to be authenticated by the concerned persons mentioned therein. Further, H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 157 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] the plaintiffs have proved execution of the PoA by the original owner by A examining PW1. It is contended therefore there is no dispute that the steps mentioned in Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act were complied with. 4.5 It is further submitted that Section 34 of the Registration Act contemplates an enquiry which relates to various aspects mentioned in B sub-clause (3) including (i) enquiring into the fact as to whether such document was executed by the persons by whom it purports to have been executed; (ii) satisfying himself as to the identity of the persons appearing before him; and (iii) in case of any person appearing as a representative assign or agent satisfying himself as to the right of such C person so to appear.