for the appearing parties. / OF THE SUPREME COURT DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. The State of Manipur has been besieged by sectarian strife since the fi rst week of May 2023. 1088 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 2. On 27 March 2023, the Acting Chief Justice of the High Court of Manipur issued directions in a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution1 to the Government of Manipur directing it to respond to a communication dated 29 May 2013 of the Ministry of Tribal Aff airs in the Union Government by recommending the inclusion of the Meitei community in the Presidential List of Scheduled Tribes. The recommendation for including the community in the list of Scheduled Tribes was directed to be considered expeditiously within a stipulated time frame. The jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution was invoked to challenge the of the High Court principally on the ground that while exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution the High Court cannot issue directions for the inclusion of a community in the list of Scheduled Tribes. The pleadings in the Special Leave Petition highlight that ‘Manipur is burning after the impugned .’ 3. On 8 May 2023, the Union Government apprised this Court that the State of Manipur ‘is taking appropriate steps for recall of the of the Single Judge of the High Court dated 27 March 2023 by moving the competent forum in that regard.’ The Union Government placed a statement on record indicating that the following steps were taken to ensure normalcy: “(a) 52 companies of Central Armed Police Forces and 105 columns of the Army/Assam Rifl es have been deployed in Manipur; (b) Flag marches have been conducted in disturbed areas; (c) A senior level former police offi cer has been appointed as Security Adviser by the State Government and another senior offi cer has been repatriated yesterday from Central Deputation to serve as Chief Secretary to the Government of Manipur; (d) Peace meetings have been conducted and vigilance is being maintained; (e) Helicopters and drones are being used to monitor the situation in addition to the extensive deployment of security forces; 1 WP(C) No 229 of 2023 DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1089 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (f) Relief camps have been opened for displaced persons where rations and medical help are being provided; and (g) Movement of persons who are stranded is being facilitated through security forces.” A statement was made before this Court “that as a consequence of the measures which have been adopted, no violence had been recorded in the State during the course of the previous two days and the situation is gradually returning to normalcy.” Counsel for the contesting parties had voiced concerns over the need to preserve law and and to provide relief and rehabilitation. This Court emphasised the need to maintain vigil and ensure that there is no recurrence of violence, bearing in mind the loss of human life and destruction of homes and places of worship that had taken place.