280 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 4E PSO.CR.RT.S 280 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A YOGESH NAVINCHANDRA RAVANI v. NANJIBHAI SAGRAMBHAI CHAUDHARY & ORS. (Civil Appeal Nos. 3114-3115 of 2023) B APRIL 25, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND VIKRAM NATH, JJ.] Power of attorney: Role of power of attorney holder – Application for restoration, at the behest of the power of attorney C holder, whose power of attorney stood cancelled – Tenability of – Is not tenable – On facts, suit by original plaintiff challenging the sale deed – Subsequently, the original plaintiff died in 2006 and his LRs brought on record – Suit dismissed by the trial court – First appeal filed by the LRs and the appellant-son of the original plaintiff, also dismissed – Thereafter in 2015, second appeal filed D by VM, the power of attorney holder under a power of attorney executed by the original plaintiff, prior to his death – VM was also appointed the power of attorney holder by the appellant – VM represented all the LRs of the original plaintiff including the appellant-son of the original plaintiff in the second appeal – E However, office objections raised as the earlier power of attorney got expired with the death of the original plaintiff and there was no Vakalatnama signed by other LRs – Non-removal of objections – Dismissal of the second appeal by the High Court – Application seeking restoration of the second appeal and transposition of other LRs as defendants and the same was allowed – Later, cancellation F of the power of attorney by the appellant by public notice – Pursuant thereto, the appellant engaged an advocate to file a pursis for the withdrawal of the second appeal which was allowed by the High Court – However, even after cancellation of the power of Attorney, VM filed an application for review of the said and consequent G restoration of the second appeal – On appeal, held: by the High Court restoring the second appeal, not sustainable and is quashed and set aside – Since VM was having power of attorney on behalf of the appellant, the appeal could have been filed only on his behalf – Appellant had cancelled the power of attorney issued in favour of VM by issuing a public notice – As such, VM had no H 280 YOGESH NAVINCHANDRA RAVANI v. NANJIBHAI 281 SAGRAMBHAI CHAUDHARY & ORS. authority in law to continue with the second appeal – After the A transposition of the other LRs was allowed, appellant was the sole appellant – As such, in his position as dominus litis, he was very well within his right to withdraw the second appeal – After the withdrawal of the second appeal by appellant, an application for restoration, at the behest of the power of attorney holder, whose power of B attorney stood cancelled, was not at all tenable. Adverse remarks – Expunction of – Adverse remarks by the High Court – Justification of – Held: Remarks against the appellant totally unwarranted and uncalled for.