He submitted that the request made by the Corporate Debtor for extension of the Bank Guarantees was specifically rejected as communicated by the first respondent by a letter dated 18th January 2021 addressed to the Corporate Debtor. He would, therefore, submit E that there is no error committed by NCLT in admitting application under Section 7. OUR VIEW 8. We have given careful consideration to the submissions. This Court in the case of Innoventive Industries Limited v. ICICI Bank F and Another3 has explained the scope of Section 7. Paragraph nos.28 to 30 of the said decision read thus:- “28. When it comes to a financial creditor triggering the process, Section 7 becomes relevant. Under the Explanation to Section 7(1), a default is in respect of a financial debt owed to any financial G creditor of the corporate debtor — it need not be a debt owed to the applicant financial creditor. Under Section 7(2), an application is to be made under sub-section (1) in such form and manner as is 2 (2022) 3 SCC 161 H 3 (2018) 1 SCC 407 M. SURESH KUMAR REDDY v. CANARA BANK & ORS. 393 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] prescribed, which takes us to the Insolvency and Bankruptcy A (Application to Adjudicating Authority) Rules, 2016. Under Rule 4, the application is made by a financial creditor in Form 1 accompanied by documents and records required therein. Form 1 is a detailed form in 5 parts, which requires particulars of the applicant in Part I, particulars of the corporate debtor in Part II, B particulars of the proposed interim resolution professional in Part III, particulars of the financial debt in Part IV and documents, records and evidence of default in Part V. Under Rule 4(3), the applicant is to dispatch a copy of the application filed with the adjudicating authority by registered post or speed post to the registered office of the corporate debtor. The speed, within which C the adjudicating authority is to ascertain the existence of a default from the records of the information utility or on the basis of evidence furnished by the financial creditor, is important. This it must do within 14 days of the receipt of the application. It is at the stage of Section 7(5), where the adjudicating authority is to be satisfied D that a default has occurred, that the corporate debtor is entitled to point out that a default has not occurred in the sense that the “debt”, which may also include a disputed claim, is not due. A debt may not be due if it is not payable in law or in fact. The moment the adjudicating authority is satisfied that a default has occurred, the application must be admitted unless it is E incomplete, in which case it may give notice to the applicant to rectify the defect within 7 days of receipt of a notice from the adjudicating authority. Under sub-section (7), the adjudicating authority shall then communicate the passed to the financial creditor and corporate debtor within 7 days of F admission or rejection of such application, as the case may be.