26. A great deal of argument was canvassed on behalf of the accused on the point of proof beyond reasonable doubt. According to the learned advocate appearing for the accused, the case at hand is one which could not be said to have been proved by the prosecution beyond reasonable doubt and, therefore, the accused is entitled to the benefi t of doubt. 27. In the aforesaid context, we may profi tably quote the following observations made by this Court in para 13 in the case of Dharm Das Wadhwani v. The State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1975 SC 241: “13. The question then is whether the cumulative eff ect of the guilt pointing circumstances in the present case is such that the court can conclude, not that the accused may be guilty but that he must be guilty. We must here utter a word of caution about this mental sense of ‘must’ lest it should be confused with exclusion of every contrary possibility. We have in S.S. Bobade v. State of Maharashtra, AIR 1973 SC 2622, explained that proof beyond reasonable doubt cannot be distorted into a doctrine of acquittal when any delicate or remote doubt fl its past a feeble mind. These observations are warranted by frequent acquittals on fl imsy possibilities which are not infrequently set aside by the High Courts weakening the credibility of the judicature. The rule of benefi t of reasonable doubt does not imply a frail willow bending to every whiff of hesitancy. Judges are made of sterner stuff and must take a practical view of legitimate inferences fl owing from evidence, circumstantial or direct. At the same time, it may be affi rmed, as pointed out by this Court in Kali Ram v. State of Hi- machal Pradesh, AIR 1973 SC 2773, that if a reasonable doubt arises regarding the guilt of the accused, the benefi t of that cannot be withheld from him.” (emphasis supplied) 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 28. Cases are frequently coming before the Courts where the husbands, due to strained marital relations and doubt as regards the character, have gone to the extent of killing the wife. These crimes are generally committed in complete secrecy inside the house and it becomes very diffi cult for the prosecution to lead evidence. Like the present case, no member of the family, even if he is a witness of the crime, would come forward to depose against another family member. 29. If an off ence takes place inside the four walls of a house and in such circumstances where the assailants have all the opportunity to plan and commit the off ence at the time and in the circumstances of their choice, it will be extremely diffi cult for the prosecution to lead evidence to establish the guilt of the accused, if the strict principle of circumstantial evidence, is insisted upon by the Courts. Reference could be made to a decision of this Court in the case of Trimukh Maroti Kirkan Vs. State of Maharashtra, reported in 2007 Criminal Law Journal, page 20, in which this Court observed that a Judge does not preside over a criminal trial merely to see that no innocent man is punished.