(7) Where the immovable property sold is subject to any encumbrances, the authorized offi cer may, if the thinks fi t, allow the purchaser to deposit with him the money required to discharge the encumbrances and any interest due thereon together with such additional amount that may be suffi cient to meet the contingencies or further cost, expenses and interest as may be determined by him: [Provided that if after meeting the cost of removing encumbrances and contingencies there is any surplus available out of the money deposited by the purchaser such surplus shall be paid to the purchaser within fi fteen days from the date of fi nalization of the sale.] UNION BANK OF INDIA v. RAJAT INFRASTRUCTURE PVT. LTD. & 677 ORS. AND M/S. SUNVIEW ASSETS PVT. LTD. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (8) On such deposit of money for discharge of the encumbrances, the authorized offi cer [shall] issue or cause the purchaser to issue notices to the persons interested in or entitled to the money deposited with him and take steps to make the payments accordingly. (9) The authorized offi cer shall deliver the property to the purchaser free from encumbrances known to the secured creditor on deposit of money as specifi ed in sub-rule (7) above. (10) The certifi cate of sale issued under sub-rule (6) shall specifi cally mention that whether the purchaser has purchased the immovable secured asset free from any encumbrances known to the secured creditor or not.” 7. As discernible from the afore-stated sub-rule (4) of Rule 9, the balance amount of purchase price payable by the purchaser to the authorized Offi cer has to be paid on or before the fi fteenth day of confi rmation of sale of the immovable property or such extended period as may be agreed upon in writing between the purchaser and the secured creditor, in any case not exceeding three months. Sub-rule (5) thereof states that in default of payment within the period mentioned in sub-rule (4), the deposit shall be forfeited to the secured creditor and the property shall be resold, and that defaulting purchaser shall forfeit all claim to the property or to any part of the sum for which it may be subsequently sold. As per sub-rule (6) thereof, on the confi rmation of sale by the secured creditor and if the terms of payment have been complied with, the authorized Offi cer exercising the power of sale would issue a certifi cate of sale of the immovable property in favour of the purchaser in the form prescribed under the Rules. 8. Now, it is well settled proposition of law that when a statute requires a particular thing to be done in a particular manner, it must be done in that manner or not at all, and other methods of performance are necessarily forbidden.1 1 Taylor vs. Taylor, [L.R.] 1 Ch.426 approved by the Supreme Court in Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh and Another vs. The State of Vindhya Pradesh AIR 1954 SC 322; State of Uttar Pradesh vs. Singhara Singh and Others AIR 1964 SC 358 and in Babu Verghese and Others vs. Bar Council of Kerala and Others (1999) 3 SCC 422.