That the plaintiff contacted the defendants repeatedly and expressed E his willingness to comply with the terms of the agreement of sale dated 7th August, 2005. However, defendants sought to evade and delay compliance with the said agreement on the ground that anterior documents and certificates relating to the suit property could not be obtained. 4.3 That though the plaintiff had sent a legal notice dated 02nd November, 2006 calling upon the defendants to execute the deed F assigning Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights after accepting the balance sale consideration from the plaintiff, the defendants took no positive steps in this regard. 4.4 That the plaintiff was ready and willing to tender the balance sale consideration and have the deed of assignment registered in his G name within the period stipulated in the agreement. That the defendants were attempting to evade the agreement of sale in an attempt to obtain a better price for the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property as the market value thereof had increased manifold. Therefore, the plaintiff was constrained to file a suit for specific performance of the H 260 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights, dated 7th August, 2005. 4.5 With the aforesaid averments, it was prayed that the defendants be directed to receive the balance sale consideration from the plaintiff and execute the sale deed in respect of the Kanam and Kuzhikoor B rights over the suit property in his favour. In the alternative, it was prayed that the defendants may be directed to return the advance amount of Rs. 10,000/- paid by the plaintiff, together with interest thereon. 5. In response to the plaint, the defendants filed a written statement, the contents of which are encapsulated as under:- C 5.1 That the plaintiff was never ready and willing to perform his obligations under the agreement dated 7thAugust, 2005. That the suit for specific performance was filed on 13th December, 2006, which was nearly one year after the expiry of the deadline fixed in the agreement, for compliance of the terms thereof. D 5.2 That as per the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights, the plaintiff-purchaser was to measure the suit property and accordingly ascertain the sale consideration payable at the rate of Rs. 8750/- per cent. That no attempt was made by the plaintiff in this regard. Therefore, it could not be said that the plaintiff was ready and willing to perform his part of the agreement, more so, when no attempt E was made by the plaintiff to determine even as much as the exact purchase price for the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property. That the plaintiff had paid only Rs. 10,000/- which is a very negligible portion of the purchase price. That the defendants were in dire need for finances in to bear the expenses for cardiac treatment of defendant no. 1. F Therefore, the defendants had approached the plaintiff repeatedly, with requests to tender the balance sale consideration.