In the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra), we have upheld the view taken by CERC as well as APTEL, holding that the actual GCV of coal ‘as received’ at the plant site has to be taken into consideration. As such, no interference would be warranted with regard to the said issue also. G 39. The other three issues, in our view, are interlinked. We find that the only issue that is required to be considered is as to whether deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks would amount to ‘Change in Law’ and as to whether APML would be entitled to restitution on account of the same. H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 663 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ] 40. Insofar as the said issue is concerned, the same is concurrently A held in favour of APML by both the MERC and the APTEL, thereby declaring the event of deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks as ‘Change in Law’. Unless the said issue is found to be perverse or in ignorance of the mandatory statutory provisions or is based on extraneous considerations, it will not be permissible for this Court to interfere with B the same. 41. We will, therefore, have to examine the concurrent findings of MERC as well as APTEL, guided by these factors. 42. It will be relevant to refer to the definition of ‘Law’ as found in Article 1.1 of the PPA, which reads thus: C “”Law” - means, in relation to this Agreement, all laws including Electricity Law in force in India and any statute, ordinance, regulation, Notification or code, rule. or any interpretation of any of them by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality and having force of law and shall further include all applicable rules. D regulations. s. Notifications by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality pursuant to or under any of them and shall include all rules. regulations. decisions and s of the CERC and the MERC. “Indian Governmental Instrumentality” means the GOI, E Government of Maharashtra and any ministry or, department of or, board, agency or other regulatory or quasi-judicial authority controlled by GOI or Government of States where the Procurer and Project are located and includes the CERC and MERC.” [Emphasis supplied] F 43. A perusal of the said definition would reveal that any or notification, rule or regulation by an Indian Governmental Instrumentality would constitute ‘Law’. It cannot be disputed that Government of Maharashtra, Government of India and various statutory authorities would fall under the term ‘Governmental Instrumentalities’. 44. It cannot be disputed that in the present case, the cut-off date G under the PPA was 14th August 2008. It is to be noted that the power to notify a Tiger Reserve as a Buffer Zone is vested with the State Government under Section 38V of the Wildlife (Protection) Act. For consideration and creation of Buffer Zone, three statutory requirements have to be complied with, which are thus: H 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (i) “an Expert Committee must be constituted for identifying and establishing a Buffer Zone; (ii) Gram Sabha should be consulted before any such notification and (iii) the identification and establishment of a Buffer Zone shall B be based on scientific and objective criteria.” 45.