Therefore, being a subordinate legislation, the UGC Regulations becomes a part of the Act. In case of any confl ict between the State legislation and the Central Legislation, the Central Legislation shall prevail by applying the rule/principle of repugnancy as enunciated in Article 254 of the Constitution as the subject “Education” is in the Concurrent List (Entry No. 25 of List III) of the VII Schedule of the Constitution. Therefore, any appointment or reappointment as a Vice-Chancellor contrary to the provisions of the UGC Regulations could be said to be in violation of the statutory provisions. However, the moot question is whether in the present case, there is any confl ict between the State Legislation and the UGC Regulations? The UGC Regulations more particularly the Regulation 7.3 which, we have referred to in the earlier part of our only talks about appointment of Vice- Chancellor. The UGC Regulations provide for the procedure to be adopted for appointment of Vice-Chancellor. The UGC Regulations are silent in so far as reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor is concerned. There is no specifi c procedure prescribed by the UGC under its regulations for the purpose of reappointment of Vice-Chancellor. The entire focus of the Chancellor is on the aforesaid. However, nothing has been said in the counter-affi davit 426 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. fi led on behalf of the Chancellor as regards Chancellor’s own independent satisfaction or for the purpose of reappointment of the respondent No. 4 as Vice-Chancellor. 69. It is in such circumstances that we have thought fi t to pose a question whether the Chancellor abdicated his statutory power? 70. It has been stated by Wade and Forsyth in Administrative Law, 7th Edn. at pp. 358-59 under the heading “Surrender, Abdication, Dictation” and sub-heading “Power in the wrong hands” as below: “Closely akin to delegation, and scarcely distinguishable from it in some cases, is any arrangement by which a power conferred upon one authority is in substance exercised by another. The proper authority may share its power with someone else, or may allow someone else to dictate to it by declining to act without their consent or by submitting to their wishes or instructions. The eff ect then is that the discretion conferred by Parliament is exercised, at least in part, by the wrong authority, and the resulting decision is ultra vires and void. So strict are the courts in applying this principle that they condemn some administrative arrangements which must seem quite natural and proper to those who make them…. Ministers and their departments have several times fallen foul of the same rule, no doubt equally to their surprise….” (Emphasis supplied) 71. It is a well settled (and indeed, bedrock) principle of administrative law that if a statute expressly confers a statutory power on a particular body or authority or imposes a statutory duty on the same, then such power must be exercised or duty performed (as the case may) by that very body or authority itself and none other.