The provision does not mention the need for ‘execution’ or signatures of the parties.21 Similarly, clause (c) to sub-section (4) to Section 7 which refers to exchange of statements of claim and defence, in which the existence of the arbitration agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other, does not refer to an instrument which is signed by the parties. Clause (c) incorporates the principle wherein the parties by “consent” agree to the existence of an arbitration agreement, or impliedly agree by not denying its existence when alleged by one party and not denied by the other. An arbitration agreement is defi ned in the widest terms, and may be in the form of a clause in the underlying contract or separate from an underlying agreement. Signifi cantly, even when it is a clause of the underlying agreement, it is treated as a separate agreement, an aspect to which I shall advert. 28. Section 1622 of the Arbitration Act, empowers the arbitral tribunal 21 Caravel Shipping Services (P) Ltd. v. Premier Sea Foods Exim (P) Ltd. (2019) 11 SCC 461; Govind Rubber Ltd. v. Louis Dreyfus Commodities Asia Pvt. Ltd. (2015) 13 SCC 477. 22 16. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction.—(1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,— (a) an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract; and (b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause. (2) A plea that the arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction shall be raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence; however, a party shall not be precluded IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1207 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [ SANJIV KHANNA, J.] to rule on its own jurisdiction. This includes the authority to decide the existence and validity of the arbitration agreement. This has reference to Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, which I have examined. As per Section 16, an arbitration agreement is an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract, even when it is only a clause in the underlying contract. The section specifi cally states that a decision by the arbitral tribunal holding the underlying contract to be null and void, will not lead to ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause. The existence of an arbitration agreement is to be ascertained with reference to the requirements of Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. In a given case the underlying contract may be null and void, but the arbitration clause may exist and be enforceable. Invalidity of an underlying agreement may not,unless relating to its formation, result in invalidity of the arbitration clause in the underlying agreement.