Nothing in this Instrument shall be deemed to commit in any way to acceptance of any future constitution of India or to fetter my discretion to enter into agreement with the Government of India under any such future constitution.” 124. Paragraph 8 provided that nothing in the IoA would aff ect the continuance of the sovereignty of the Maharaja in and over the State, the exercise of any powers, authority and rights enjoyed by him as Ruler save as otherwise provided by the Instrument and the validity of any law which was in force. 125. The IoA was accepted by the Governor-General on 27 October 1947. The Governor-General stated that in response to the Maharaja’s appeal for military aid, action has been taken to send the troops of the Indian Army to Kashmir “to help your own forces to defend your territory and to protect the lives, property and honour of your people.” 126. On 5 March 1948, Maharaja Hari Singh issued a Proclamation establishing an Interim Government for the State of Jammu and Kashmir pending the framing of a Constitution for the State. 127. Before the Constitution of India came into force, the process of integrating Princely States with the Dominion of India was progressively being achieved. Many Princely States executed IoA and Standstill Agreements. 128. The White Paper on States (1951) contains an illuminating discussion on territorial integration: “224. One of the important consequences of the adoption of the new Constitution is the completion of the process of the territorial integration of States. The States geographically contiguous to the Dominion of India, as they existed before the Constitution of India became operative, could be divided into two main categories: 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (i) the acceding States, and (ii) the non-acceding States. There were only two non-acceding States, namely, Hyderabad and Junagadh. The acceding States could be sub-divided into the following groups:- (a) States which were not aff ected by the process of integration and continued as separate units. i.e. Mysore and Jammu and Kashmir; (b) Unions of States; (c) Centrally-merged States; (d) Provincially-merged States; and (e) Khasi Hill States Federation. Under the new Constitution, all the constituent units, both Provinces and States-the latter term includes non-acceding States-have been classifi ed into three classes, viz: (1) Part A States which correspond to the former Governors’ Provinces, (2) Part B States which comprise the Unions of States and the States of Hyderabad, Mysore and Jammu and Kashmir and (3) Part C States which correspond to the former Chief Commissioners’ Provinces. The new Constitution eff ects the territorial integration of States by means of a of a two-fold process. Firstly, Article 1 of the Constitution defi nes the territories of India to include the territories of all the States specifi ed in the First Schedule, including Part B States. This is an important departure from the scheme embodied in the Act of 1935 in that, while section 311(1) of that Act defi ned India to include British India together with all territories of Indian Rulers, the Act did not defi ne the territories of the Indian Federation.