According, to Webster’s Third International Dictionary (1961 Edn. ), “prima facie case” means a case established by “prima facie evidence” which in turn means “evi-Ideuce suffi cient in law to raise a presumption of fact or establish the fact in question unless rebutted”. In both civil and criminal law, the term is used to denote that, upon initial examination, a legal claim has suffi cient evidence to proceed to trial or . In most legal proceedings, one party (typically, the plaintiff or the prosecutor) has a burden of proof, which requires them to present prima facie evidence for each element of the charges against the defendant. If they cannot present prima facie evidence, or if an opposing 846 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. party introduces contradictory evidence, the initial claim may be dismissed without any need for a response by other parties. 48. Section 106 of the Evidence Act would apply to cases where the prosecution could be said to have succeeded in proving facts from which a reasonable inference can be drawn regarding death. 49. The presumption of fact is an inference as to the existence of one fact from the existence of some other facts, unless the truth of such inference is disproved. 50. To explain what constitutes a prima facie case to make Section 106 of the Evidence Act applicable, we should refer to the decision of this Court in Mir Mohammad (supra), wherein this Court has observed in paras 36 and 37 respectively as under: “36. In this context we may profi tably utilise the legal principle embodied in Section 106 of the Evidence Act which reads as follows: “When any fact is especially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of proving that fact is upon him.” 37. The section is not intended to relieve the prosecution of its burden to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt. But the section would apply to cases where the prosecution has succeeded in proving facts from which a reasonable inference can be drawn regarding the existence of certain other facts, unless the accused by virtue of his special knowledge regarding such facts, failed to off er any explanation which might drive the court to draw a diff erent inference.” (Emphasis supplied) 51. We should also look into the decision of this Court in the case of Ram Gulam Chaudhary and Others v. State of Bihar reported in (2001) 8 SCC 311, wherein this Court made the following observations in para 24 as under: “24. Even otherwise, in our view, this is a case where Section 106 of the Evidence Act would apply. Krishnanand Chaudhary was brutally assaulted and then a chhura-blow was given on the chest. Thus chhura-blow was given after Bijoy Chaudhary had said “he is still alive and should be killed”. The appellants then carried away BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 847 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the body. What happened thereafter to Krishnanand Chaudhary is especially within the knowledge of the appellants.