Gratuity 8.1 Retirement gratuity shall be calculated as per Rule 50(1)(a) of CCS (Pension) Rules 1972. D 8.2 The maximum limit for retirement gratuity/death gratuity shall be Rs. 20 lakhs which shall be increased by 25% whenever DA rises by 50%. 8.3 These recommendations shall be effective from 01.01.2016. 8.4 To the officers who have retired after 01.01.2016 and paid retirement gratuity as E per pre-revised pay and the maximum limit at that time, the differential gratuity payable on account of revision of pay shall be paid subject to the revised maximum limit. 8.5 The death gratuity shall be paid as per table in p.52, Vol. II on the basis of length in service F Retirement Age of Judicial Officers No change in retirement age of 60 years recommended Financial Assistance in Case of Death 9.1 The benefit of family pension as per Rule 54(3) of CCS (Pension) Rules, as G amended vide notification dated 19.09.2019 shall be extended to the family members. 9.2 The other benefits such as one time lumpsum grant, compassionate appointment, permission to stay in official quarters etc. already in force in the States shall continue to apply, in addition to death gratuity. H ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 75 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] A Assistance to Pensioners/Family Pensioners 11.1 Special attention shall be bestowed to them by rendering due assistance for processing the medical bills of the pensioners/family pensioners who are too old, infirm or differently abled or undergoing in-patient treatment for serious ailment 11.2 District Judge shall nominate a Nodal Officer for liasoning work, if required, in B emergency in facilitating admission in the hospital and getting the medical bills of the pensioners/family pensioners cleared promptly. 11.3 Special Cell entrusted with the responsibility of the processing the representations of the pensioners/family pensioners and to initiate action as may be considered C appropriate to redress the grievance expediously, shall be created in the High Court under the supervision of an officer of the rank of Joint Registrar, in the High Court. 11.4 A Judge of the High Court shall be nominated to oversee the functioning of Special Cell and issue necessary instructions. D 11.5 The representatives of the Retired Judges Associations shall be permitted to meet the Registrar General of the High Court atleast once in a year to discuss the problems, if any. 11.6 The Registry of the High Courts to compile data of the pensioners and family E pensioners. National Pension Scheme 31.1 The National Pension System (NPS)/Defined Contributory Pension Scheme shall not be applicable to all judicial officers. F 31.2 The Defined Benefit Pension Scheme/Old Pension Scheme shall be applicable to all Judicial officers irrespective of the date of their joining the judicial service. 31.3 For those who have judicial service after 01.01.2004, the contributions together with the returns earned thereon will be refunded to them or transferred to their GPC account. G 31.4 The Government shall facilitate opening of the GPF Account of the new entrants to the judicial service after 01.01.2004 and transfer their contribution with the returns earned thereon.