35. Section 12A of IBC permits withdrawal of applications admitted G under sections 7, 9 and 10 of IBC. It permits withdrawal of such applications with approval of 90 percent voting share of CoC in such manner as may be specified. The role of CoC and 90 percent of its voting share approving the said withdrawal would come into play only when CoC has been constituted. Section 12A did not specifically mention H 21 In short “IBBI” ABHISHEK SINGH v. HUHTAMAKI PPL LTD. & ANR. 613 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] withdrawal of such applications where CoC had not been constituted A but at the same time it does not debar entertaining applications for withdrawal even before constitution of CoC. Therefore, the application under section 12A for withdrawal cannot be said to be kept pending for constitution of CoC, even where such application was filed before constitution of CoC. The IBBI which had the power to frame Regulations B wherever required and in particular section 240 of IBC for the subjects covered therein had accordingly substituted Regulation 30A dealing with the procedure for disposal of application for withdrawal filed under section 12A of IBC. The substituted Regulation 30A of IBC as it stands today clearly provided for withdrawal applications being entertained before constitution of CoC. It does not in any way conflicts or is in violation of C section 12A of IBC. There is no inconsistency in the two provisions. It only furthers the cause introduced vide section 12A of IBC. Thus, NCLT fell in error in taking a contrary view. 36. In Kamal K. Singh (supra), relying upon paragraph 82 of the report in the case of Swiss Ribbons (supra), the Supreme Court, which D was dealing with a similar situation where the settlement had been arrived before constitution of CoC allowed the proceedings to be withdrawn and held that the applications filed under Rule 11 of the NCLT Rules would be maintainable and the OCs therein was justified in moving such application. E 37. In the case of Ashok G. Rajani (supra), the settlement had been arrived at between the parties on 08.08.2021, after the NCLT had admitted the application under section 7 of IBC vide dated 03.08.2021. On appeal, the NCLAT vide dated 18.08.2021 stayed the formation of CoC but declined to exercise its powers under Rule 11 F of the NCLAT Rules. The said was challenged before this Court. This Court in its in paragraphs 29 and 30 gave reasons as to why the applications for withdrawal cannot be stifled before the constitution of CoC by third parties. The said paragraphs are reproduced below: “29. Considering the investments made by the Corporate Debtor G and considering the number of people dependant on the Corporate Debtor for their survival and livelihood, there is no reason why the applicant for the CIRP, should not be allowed to withdraw its application once its disputes have been settled. 30. The settlement cannot be stifled before the constitution of the Committee of Creditors in anticipation of claims against the H 614 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R.