Now this indenture witnesseth that the DONOR doth hereby give,grant, convey and assign in the interest of public unto the DONEE whohereby accepts the same all that lands for roads, parks and other openspace situated in S.Nos.379 / 1, (part) and H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1077 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 380 / 4 (part) which is for the use of the public comprised in A layout sketch enclosed, within registration subdistrictof Madras South and registration district of Madras Central and more particularly described in the schedule hereunder written and the DONOR doth hereby covenant with the DONEE that the DONOR now does have good right to grant, convey and assign B the lands of roads/parkshere by granted conveyed and assigned upto the “DONEE” with themanner aforesaid and that the “DONEE” shall and may at all timeshereafter peacefully and quietly possess and enjoy the said lands ofroads/parks free from all encumbrances whatsoever without any lawfuleviction, interruption, claim, whatsoever, from or by the “DONOR” or any C person claiming under or interest for him and further that the “DONOR”and all person having lawfully or equitably claiming any rights onroads/parks or interest with the said premises or any part thereof from under or interest for the “DONOR” or from or under any of his ancestors shall and will from time to time and at D all times hereafter at the request of and cost of the “DONOR” do execute and register or cause to be done executed and registered all such acts, deeds and things whatsoever forfurther and more perfectly assuring the said lands or roads and parksevery part thereof unto the “DONEE” in the manner E aforesaid or as shallor may be reasonably required. THE SCHEDULE OF PROPERTY All that piece and parcel of lands measuring 1100 square metersreserved for parks/open spaces and marked in colour of the layout sketchenclosed herein situated in S.No.379/1 (part) and F 380/4 (part) of Velacherry Village, Saidapet Taluk, Madras and within the subregistration District of Madras South and Registration District of Madras Central. The value of property Rs.1,99,000/-.” WHETHER THE IMPUGNED RULE VIOLATES G ARTICLE 14 OF THE CONSTITUTION? IS IT DISCRIMINATORY? 48. As far as this ground is concerned, we do not find any reference to this line of argument before the High Court. In the writ petition filed by the Vasanth Apartments (writ petition no. 23397 of 2007) the only H 1078 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A feeble reference, if at all we can understand the same to be one, is ground (F) where what is contended is that the CMDA had no power under the Constitution to usurp the lands of citizens free of cost, that too selectively, under the guise of regulating the development of the area. In the written submissions, no doubt we may notice the following: - B “(v) Further, if a plot measuring 200m x 55m abutting a road of wide 1O m and above if developed by seeking a single approval, it would attract the impugned rule of gifting 10% area whereas if it is divided into 4 pieces of 50 m* 55 m and sold to 4 individuals and then developed by the 4 persons, for the same development, then the impugned rule will not be attracted.