It is submitted that the decision of this Court does not confer exclusive jurisdiction on the High Court under whose jurisdiction the Tribunal falls. It is submitted that the ought not to be read as constricting the scope of Article 226(2). Therefore, to this extent the G decision of this Court in the case of Alapan Bandyopadhyay (supra) may require reconsideration. 5.2 It is further submitted by Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Advocate that under the Constitutional scheme, the remedies under Article 226 and Article 227 are extremely valuable remedies available to citizens H 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A where they reside or carry on business or are posted. The scheme does not require citizens to come exclusively all the way to Delhi to seek redressal. Thus, limiting the remedy under Article 226 is contrary to the spirit of the Constitution, contrary to the spirit and principle of access to justice and contrary to the basic structure of the Constitution which enables judicial review across the country and not at one concentrated location. B 5.3 It submitted that this Court, by way of a judicial , ought not to take away jurisdiction from other high courts which are otherwise empowered under Article 226(2) to entertain a Writ Petition against the of a Tribunal located in the territory beyond the territorial jurisdiction of the said high courts. It is further submitted that if such an interpretation C is taken to its logical conclusion, then it would result in undue hardship and inconvenience to the employees of the central government itself who are posted across the country. 5.4 Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Advocate has taken us to the historical background of Article 226 of the Constitution of India and D the development of the law on the jurisdiction of the High Courts including the statement of objects and reasons to the Constitution (Fifteenth Amendment) Act, 1963 and the remarks of the then Law Minister at the time of introducing the amendment. 5.5 It is submitted that in the subsequent decision of this Court in E the case of Kusum Ingots and Alloys Ltd. Vs. Union of India and Anr., (2004) 6 SCC 254, which was after the introduction of Article 226(2), has observed and held that the High Court would have jurisdiction if a part of the cause of action arises in its jurisdiction irrespective of location/residence of the authority. F 5.6 It is submitted that this Court in the case of Alchemist Ltd. and Anr. Vs. State Bank of Sikkim and Ors., (2007) 11 SCC 335, noting the development of law in relation to the territorial jurisdiction of the High Courts under Article 226 has held that “the legislative history of the constitutional provisions, therefore, makes it clear that after 1963, cause of action is relevant and germane and a writ petition can be instituted G in a High Court within the territorial jurisdiction of which cause of action in whole or in part arises.” 5.7 It is further submitted that the observations made by this Court in the case of L. Chandra Kumar (supra) that all decisions of tribunals would be subject to scrutiny before a Division Bench of the High Court H UNION OF INDIA v. SANJIV CHATURVEDI 67 [M. R. SHAH, J.]