703 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] the respect accorded to the doctrine of collective responsibility A “has varied”, with its maintenance and disregard “owing as much to politics as to propriety”. An interesting example of this occurred in 2003 during the build- up to the Iraq war. Robin Cook, the Leader of the House of Commons, resigned in protest in March 2003 over the then Labour B Government’s policy toward Iraq, being unable to maintain the official Government position. His actions were therefore consistent with the doctrine of collective responsibility. However, Clare Short, the Secretary of State for International Development, was allowed to stay in the Cabinet despite her own vocal opposition to military C intervention and despite publicly denouncing the then Prime Minister as “deeply reckless” in March 2003. According to Felicity Matthews, despite her “extraordinary breach” of collective responsibility, Clare Short was persuaded and allowed to retain her ministerial portfolio. She then remained in the Cabinet D for a further two months, until she decided to resign on 12 May 2003, following perceived mistakes in the US/UK coalition after the invasion. This example, according to Matthews, “underlines the extent to which Prime Ministers have proven unwilling or unable to enforce a strict interpretation of collective responsibility, even when their personal credibility has been besmirched”. E 133. Thus, the convention developed in the United Kingdom for Ministers, itself appears to have gone for a toss and hence, it is not possible to draw any inspiration from the UK Model. 134. We are not suggesting for a moment that any public official including a Minister can make a statement which is irresponsible or in F bad taste or bing on hate speech and get away with it. We are only on the question of collective responsibility and the vicarious liability of the Government. 135. As all the literature on the issue shows, collective responsibility is that of the Council of Ministers. Each individual Minister is responsible G for the decisions taken collectively by the Council of Ministers. In other words, the flow of stream in collective responsibility is from the Council of Ministers to the individual Ministers. The flow is not on the reverse, namely, from the individual Ministers to the Council of Ministers. H 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 136. Our attention was also drawn to the decision of this Court in Amish Devgan. Though the said decision considered extensively the impact of the speech of “a person of influence”, we are not, in this reference dealing with the same. This is for the reason that the said decision concerned “hate speech”. None of the questions referred to us, including Question No.4 with which we are presently concerned, B relates to hate speech, and understandably so. The writ petition as well as the special leave petition out of which this reference arose, concerned speeches made by the Ministers of the State of Uttar Pradesh and the State of Kerala. The speech made by the Minister of the State of Uttar Pradesh attempted to paint a case of robbery and gang-rape as a political C conspiracy.