Hence, he prays for rejection of the appeal. DISCUSSION, FINDINGS AND CONCLUSION 8. The facts narrated hereinabove would suffi ce for examining as to whether the s of the courts below requires to be sustained or modifi ed or set aside. Elaborate narration of factual aspects would only burden this and as such we desist from doing so, except to the extent required. 9. The solemnisation of marriage between second respondent and Mrs. Akkamahadevi on 16.05.2010 is not in dispute. She having died on 24.12.2010 due to burn injuries sustained on 20.12.2010 is also not in dispute. 9.1 The gist of the prosecution case is that there was consistent demand for dowry and deceased was tortured for additional dowry and unable to sustain the physical and mental torture meted out to her, she had committed suicide by self-immolation viz, by pouring kerosene and lighting herself. 9.2 The complainant, PW-24 who is the father of the deceased has not supported the case of the prosecution and he has deposed that accused had looked after the deceased well. Long and short of the deposition of PW-24 (father of deceased) is that he did not support the case of the prosecution. PW-1 witness to the inquest panchanama too has turned hostile. The neighbours of the house where the deceased was residing namely PW-3 and PW-4 have turned hostile. PW-5 and PW-21 whom the prosecution claimed of having known the fact of ill-treatment given by the accused to the deceased have turned hostile. The persons who are said to have advised the accused not to ill-treat the deceased have also turned hostile. The persons PARANAGOUDA AND ANOTHER v. THE STATE OF 929 KARNATAKA AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] who were present during the marriage talks of the deceased and accused No.1 namely PW-7 to PW-9 have also not supported the case of the prosecution. Other witnesses namely PW-10, 11, 12, 19, 18, 30 as well as the mother of the deceased PW-22 have not supported the case of the prosecution. Dr. Suresh Basarkod (PW.26) who tendered the case sheet attested by casualty medical offi cer of Kumareshwar Hospital, Bagalkot, where deceased was admitted, has deposed that Dr. Pramod Mirji (PW-31) and Dr. Vishwanath are competent to speak about medical treatment extended to Mahadevi (deceased). However, Dr. Vishwanath was not examined. 9.3 Dr. Pramod Mirji has been examined as PW-31 and he has stated that deceased was conscious and she was complaining of pain. He has further deposed to the following eff ect: “The patient was conscious and she was complaining of pain. There were burn injuries over entire body excepted face. The injured has burn injuries of 70% -80%. The patient was in a position to speak. She was under my treatment till she died on 24.12.2010 at about 5.15 a.m. Now I see Ex.P-46 and it is Xerox copy of case sheet of the said injured. In case sheet Ex.P-46 I have mentioned that the patient was under agony due to pain and pulse not fi led and B.P.