Though on the date of making such promise by issuing a cheque, the debt which is promised to be paid, even if is time-barred is a legally recoverable one. In view of Section 25 (3) of the Indian Contract Act, the promise/ agreement is valid and therefore the same is enforceable. The learned counsel for the appellant has argued on the principle that the limitation act only bars the remedy and not the right of a party. He has relied upon the decision of this Court in S. Natarajan v. Sama Dharman, (2021) 6 SCC 413 and A.V. Murthy v. B.S. Nagabasavanna, (2002) 2 SCC 642. 7. Mr. Sidharth Luthra, learned senior counsel appearing as Amicus Curiae on behalf of respondent No. 2 – accused who has failed to appear despite service of notice, would however seek to sustain the passed by the High Court. The learned Amicus Curiae has fairly put on record a compilation showcasing the diff erent view taken by various High Courts, as well as the position of law stated by this Court. It is contended that the earlier view while considering that the presumption under Section 139 NI Act will apply, did not consider the scope in a criminal trial and the bearing that Section 322 of CrPC would have in the light of the decision in K. HYMAVATHI v. THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH & 417 ANR. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] Expeditious Trial of Cases Under Section 138 of NI Act 1881, (2021) SCC OnLine SC 325 and thus did not consider the jurisdictional fact for invoking Section 138 NI Act. It is further contended that the debt being time-barred was not a legally enforceable debt and where a debt is barred by law such debt or liability based on a void contract is against public policy and NI Act cannot apply in such cases. In to attract Section 25(3) of the Indian Contract Act, an express promise made in writing and signed by the person is required is his contention. 8. At the threshold it would be apposite to take note of the decisions referred to by the learned counsel for the petitioner so as to place in perspective the scope of consideration in a petition fi led under Section 482 of CrPC seeking quashment of a complaint fi led under Section 138 of NI Act, more so keeping in view the presumption as incorporated under Section 139 of the NI Act. As noted, the learned counsel has relied on the decision in the case of S. Natarajan vs. Sama Dharman & Anr. (2021) 6 SCC 413 wherein it is held as hereunder: “6. The High Court referred to Section 25(3) of the Contract Act, 1872 on which reliance was placed by the complainant and observed that with regard to payment of time-barred debt, there must be a distinct promise to pay either whole or in part the debt; that the promise must be in writing either signed by the person concerned or by his duly appointed agent.