31. The sequence of events show that what started as an exercise for consideration of B.Ed. qualifi ed candidates as teachers for Primary classes in Central schools, was expanded to include all primary schools throughout the country. The apparent reasoning given is that B.Ed. qualifi ed candidates are better suited for appointment as teachers in Primary schools, as they have ‘higher qualifi cations’, and as such they should be appointed as teachers in all Primary schools. Another reason for doing this is the dearth of qualifi ed TET candidates. The fi gures given in the meeting suggests that only 6% to 16% of the candidates who appear in the TET examination qualify the test. The suggestion appears to be that with the inclusion of B.Ed. candidates the number of TET qualifi ed candidates would increase. But this logic does not hold good when B.Ed. as a qualifi cation has not passed the basic pedagogical threshold for teaching primary classes. We have already examined this aspect in great detail. B.Ed. is not a qualifi cation for teaching at Primary level of classes, much less a better or higher qualifi cation, in context of Primary classes. This fi nding is self-evident in the very admission of NCTE which mandates that all B.Ed. qualifi ed teachers who are appointed to teach Primary level classes must mandatorily undergo a pedagogical course for elementary classes within two years of their appointment. 32. In Society for Unaided Private Schools of Rajasthan v. Union of India & Anr. (supra) this Court while upholding the validity of the RTE Act, held that primary education, which is now a part of fundamental right under Part III of the Constitution, has to be a meaningful education, and not just a 190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. formality. When Diploma in elementary education (D.El.Ed. ), was placed as an essential qualifi cation for teachers in Primary school, it was with a purpose, and the purpose was to declare only such teachers as qualifi ed who are trained to impart education to children at ‘primary level’. The pedagogy for a child who has just entered the school, is an important consideration. A child has come to face a “teacher”, so to speak, for the fi rst time in a class room. It is the beginning of a journey for the child student and therefore world over great care is taken in laying down proper foundations in these formative years. Well qualifi ed and trained teacher in elementary school is an extremely vital aspect. A teacher must be trained to teach students at “primary level”, and this is precisely what the training of Diploma in elementary education (D.El.Ed.) does; it trains a person to teach children at primary level. B.Ed. is not a ‘higher qualifi cation’, or a better qualifi cation, as is being canvassed in its favour, while comparing it with ‘Diploma in elementary education’. B.Ed. is a diff erent qualifi cation; a diff erent training. Even assuming it is a higher qualifi cation, it would still not be a suitable qualifi cation for primary level of classes.