There is, therefore, no reason why the landowner whose C land is “transferred” for the purpose alone should pay for the increase in the value of his remaining land in terms of the transferred land. In fact, whereas it is only the remaining land of the transferor landowner which is benefited by such increase in value, if any, the whole of the land in the possession of the other landowners is D benefited by the accretion in value. Thus, on both accounts, there is a clear violation of Article 14 of the Constitution to make only the transferor landowner suffer for the public purpose. What is further, it is problematic and is in the realm of speculation as to whether the appreciation of the value of the remaining property of the transferor landowner will always be equivalent to or more E than the value of the land transferred to the Municipal Committee, assuming that the public purpose for which the land is taken over contributes to the increase in the value of the remaining property. Lastly, and this is equally important, in many cases the accretion to the value of the remaining property may merely be on paper F and be a poor consolation to the transferor landowner if he cannot or is unable for one reason or the other to sell or otherwise dispose of the said property. On the other hand, in such cases, the accretion in value may prove a burden if the property tax, wealth tax, estate duty etc. are calculated on the basis of the market value of the property. The so-called increase in the value of the property may G thus prove a liability to those who cannot dispose of their property. Looked at from any angle, the argument that the transferor landowner is benefited because his remaining property appreciates in value and, therefore, he need not be paid separate compensation for the land which is transferred, is untenable in law. We thus find H 1118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A that the provisions of Section 192(1)(c) are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution.” VIRENDER GAUR AND OTHERS V. STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS57 105. In the said case, the appellant surrendered 25 per cent of her B land to the Municipality, which was a condition for sanction for construction of a building. The land stood vested with the Municipality. The land in question stood earmarked for open spaces. A Dharamshala came to be put-up for the Punjab Samaj Sabha on the basis of allotment to it. It was contended that in the construction of the Dharamshala, even if there was a public purpose, the Government could not direct the C Municipality to permit land use, defeating the scheme, which provided for keeping the land open. This Court described environment ‘as a polycentric and multifaceted problem, affecting human existence’. 106. The Court, in Virender Gaur (supra), further found power to the Municipality under Section 66 to transfer the land vested in it.