2-5. Consequently, the bhondedar Narain Dass can have no legitimate claim whatsoever, over the suit land. 18. Addressing the issue of limitation on account of the decision of Asst. Collector favouring Narain Dass in the previous proceeding, the High Court observed that the biswedars or other inhabitants of the village were not parties in the proceedings before Asst. Collector. It was therefore held that the decree obtained from the Asst. Collector against the Gram Panchayat, could not be invoked to argue that the biswedars had relinquished their rights, title, and/or interest in the land. 19. Observing that the sale deeds were executed by an individual lacking valid title, the High Court opined that those could also be disregarded in collateral proceedings as well. It was also found that the decision in the previous proceeding cannot extinguish the rights of the plaintiff s and the Gram Panchayat in the suit simply because the biswedars were unaware of the Asst. Collector’s . As soon as the biswedars learnt of such decree in Narain Dass’ favour against the Gram Panchayat, they fi led Suit No.878/1996 before the Trial Court and as such the suit was found to be in . In our assessment, the High Court has rightly held that the suit was fi led within time as the biswedars’ right to challenge the sales by the bhondedar would commence only from the date on which they became aware of such sales. 153 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 20. The upshot of the aforementioned discussion is that when the services were ceased to be rendered towards the management, maintenance and upkeep of the shamlatdeh land, the limited grant so made to the bhondedar, by the proprietors i.e., the biswedars, in lieu of such services, stood extinguished. 21. No specifi c material is produced before us to show the precise terms of arrangement between the biswedars and the bhondedar. However, it is evident that Narain Dass could have retained possession of the land only till such time that he continued to discharge the services tied to the limited grant. Moreover, by relocating to Nangli Gurdhana, i.e., a diff erent village over 50 years ago (around 1970-71), he obviously ceased rendering services to the village temple. By the very nature of the conditional grant, the grantee was naturally incompetent to alienate the shamlatdeh land to any third parties, including the Dfdts. Nos. 2-5. 22. The limited right available to Narain Dass to continue to avail the rent-free land would be extinguished immediately upon cessation of service. To attract the exception, Narain Dass could not prove that the suit land was gifted by the biswedars. The only exceptional circumstance that could have possibly validated ownership and subsequent sales to the Appellants is also not applicable here. 23. The oft-quoted statement full of wisdom – “Before the reward, there must be labour. You plant before you harvest. You sow in tears before you reap joy.” – attributed to author Ralph Ransom perfectly encapsulates the current situation, emphasising upon the inherent connection between eff ort and reward.