It is not based on any subjective criteria. The question of dominant position must stand answered with reference C to carefully thought-out objective norms, as aforesaid. Continuing with the definition of the words‘dominant position’, it means a position of strength enjoyed by the enterprise in the relevant market which in turn involves adverting to the relevant geographic market or relevant product market or both as defined and it should enable the enterprise to enjoy the position of strength to operate independently of competitive forces D prevailing in the relevant market. Another test to find out whether the enterprise enjoys a dominant position is to find out the said position with reference to its ability to “affect its competitors or consumer or the relevant market in its favour”. 85. The Act further expatiates and dwells on the method to find E out dominant position. Section 19(4) enumerates the factors to be considered. We have referred to Section 19(4)in paragraph-66. 86. The CCI is bound to take into consideration the factors which have been indicated. Section 19(4) in fact, empowers the CCI to have regard to “all” or “any” of the factors to arrive at the finding that an F enterprise enjoys a dominant position or not. Does not this mean that even a single factor being “any” factor may form the foundation to find whether an enterprise enjoys dominance? We would think that in a given case the answer would be in the affirmative. Closer home in the facts we find that Section 19(4)(g) declares that “monopoly” or “dominant G position”, whether acquired as a result of the Statute or by virtue of being a Government Company or a Public Sector Undertaking or otherwise,is to be a relevant factor. We will at once notice that this is a clear indication that far from excluding governmental bodies like a government company, a public sector undertaking or a body under a Statute from the purview of the Act, the lawgiver has evinced its intention H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 871 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] to include government companies, public sector companies and bodies A acquired under a Statute within the ambit of the Act. Now, we proceed on the basis that the appellant is a monopoly. Further that it is a government company within the meaning of Section 5 of the Nationalisation Act. The interplay of Sections 3, 5 and 11 of the Nationalisation Act has the said inevitable effect. A monopoly position B under Section 19 (4)(g) is treated essentially as being in the league of a dominant position. 87. But does the inquiry end on an enterprise answering the description of a monopoly or having a dominant position pertinent to Section 19(4)(g)? In a given case, it may. On the other hand, in the facts, C it may provide the CCI with one part of a larger whole. Other factors whether expressly culled out or forming part of the inexhaustibly large residuary clause, viz., Section 19(4)(m), may be projected to contend that, in reality, despite its appearance, it is wholly but deceptive.