G C.6 Does the Doctrine of Legitimate Expectations and Promissory Estoppel apply in favour of Respondent No. 1? 91. An additional point in this regard is the inapplicability of principles of estoppel and legitimate expectations. In line with our analysis on why the principles of natural justice will not be of relevance, these defences, H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 303 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] similarly, cannot be raised by Respondent No. 1 on the strength of illegal A actions or s passed by RIICO. Moreover, there is no governmental action or in favour of Respondent No.1 which can give rise to any legitimate expectations. The execution of the supplementary lease deed by RIICO in favour of Respondent No. 1, along with the attendant permissions in its favour for converting the usage of the land and sub- B division, are actions taken between them. This Court has clearly laid out the contours of legitimate expectations on numerous occasions, along with commenting on the scenarios where they are inapplicable. In Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd. vs. Commercial Tax Officer and Ors.26 it was opined that: C “8…It is generally agreed that ‘legitimate expectation’ gives the applicant sufficient locus standi for judicial review and that the doctrine of legitimate expectation to be confined mostly to right of a fair hearing before a decision which results in negativing a promise or withdrawing an undertaking is taken. The doctrine does not give scope to claim relief straightway D from the administrative authorities as no crystallized right as such is involved. The protection of such legitimate expectation does not require the fulfilment of the expectation where an overriding public interest requires otherwise. In other words, where a person’s legitimate expectation is not fulfilled by E taking a particular decision then decision maker should justify the denial of such expectation by showing some overriding public interest.” 92. In Food Corporation of India v. Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries27, this Court also noted that legitimate expectations may not F themselves give rise to defensible rights, but merely act as a bulwark against arbitrator decision making that does not take into account these interests. The Court outlined: “8. The mere reasonable or legitimate expectation of a citizen, in such a situation, may not by itself he distinct enforceable G right, but failure to consider and give due weight to it may render the decision arbitrary, and this is how the requirement of due consideration of a legitimate expectation forms part of 26 (2005) 1 SCC 625. 27 (1993) 1 SCC 71. H 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the principle of non-arbitrariness, a necessary concomitant of the rule of law. Every legitimate expectation is a relevant factor requiring due consideration in a fair decision making process. Whether the expectation of the claimant is reasonable or legitimate in the context is a question of fact in each case. Whenever the question arises, it is to be determined not B according to the claimant’s perception but in larger public interest wherein other more important considerations may outweigh what would otherwise have been the legitimate expectation of the claimant.