But this view was disagreed with by several members of the Advisory Committee. They had an apprehension that such a clause may be objected to in the Constituent Assembly by the representatives of the G 16 ibid, page 199 17 ibid, page 201 18 ibid, page 201 19 ibid, page 205 20 ibid, page 247 21 ibid, page 249-250 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 195 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] Princely States.22 C. Rajagopalachari expressed that the future method A of elections was not clear, and hence it was not right to keep a detailed clause on the franchise in the fundamental rights. He said: “My only point is whether it is proper to deal with this as a fundamental right or whether we should leave it, or a greater part of it, for the consideration of the whole Assembly. I submit we B cannot take it for granted that the Union Legislature shall be elected by the direct vote from all citizens from all India. It may be a Federation Constitution. It may be indirectly elected. The Government of the Union may be formed indirectly, so that we cannot assume that every adult or any one whatever the description C may be, shall have a direct vote to the Legislature. We cannot lay down a proposition here without going into those details. We cannot therefore deal with the subject at all now. Whether there is going to be direct election or indirect election, that must be settled first.”23 (sic) D 38. Dr. Ambedkar tried to resolve the opposition to this clause by arguing that: “My reply is that this document or report will go before the Constituent Assembly. There will be representatives of the States; there will be representatives of the Muslim League. We shall hear E from them what objection they have to adult suffrage. If the whole Constituent Assembly is convinced that while it may be advisable to have adult suffrage for British India, for reasons of some special character, the Indian States cannot have adult suffrage, and there must be some sort of a restricted suffrage, it will be still open to the Constituent Assembly to modify our proposals.”24 F 39. Govind Ballabh Pant explained the reason why there was a concern regarding inclusion of the right to vote in the fundamental rights chapter. He said: “The only apprehension is that some people belonging to the States may prick the bubble and say that their rights have been interfered G with and so on. They may not be represented. We will have what we desire.”25 22 Statement of Sardar Patel, p. 249 23 ibid, page 250 24 ibid, page 250 25 251 H 196 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 40. In response to Pant, the following reply was given by Dr Ambedkar: “While we are anxious that the Indian States should come in, we shall certainly stick to certain principles and not yield simply to gather the whole lot of them in our Constitution.”26 B 41.