2.95 per share. Such marginal fluctuations in the price of shares; and that too when the Claimant was constrained to realize the entire security in the face F of habitual default by Respondent No.1; with not many takers for the shares; cannot be described as a consequence of price manipulation, resulting in any wrongful loss to the Respondents. 33. Had the share been priced at something like Rs. 8 or 10 per share in August, 2001; then a sale by the Claimant in the region of G Rs.2/- etc. could possibly have attracted an allegation of price manipulation. However, in the given circumstances, and for the reasons stated hereinabove, the allegations levelled by Respondent No.1 are misconceived and are liable to be rejected.” 19.It is thus clear that the complainant/respondent No.1 was having H knowledge of the sale of shares in the year 2001 itself when the arbitration PRAKASH AGGARWAL v. GANESH BENZOPLAST LIMITED 855 AND ANOTHER [B. R. GAVAI, J.] proceedings were initiated. In the complaint, it is alleged that, during the A pendency of the arbitration proceedings, the complainant/respondent No.1 became suspicious of the illegalities committed by the accused persons/ appellants and sought for certain information. However, since the accused persons/appellants did not give the information, the complainant/ respondent No.1 applied to Bombay Stock Exchange (for short, “BSE”) B and National Stock Exchange (for short, “NSE”) in the year 2006 for details of sale of its shares by the accused persons/appellants on 24th August 2001, 31st August 2001, 3rd September 2001 and 12th September 2001. It is stated in the complaint that only thereafter, in the year 2006, the complainant/respondent No.1 came to know of the fact that most of the shares were sold at the closing time of the share market and at the C lowest price of the day. It is averred that, only at that point in time, the complainant/respondent No.1 came to know that the shares were sold by the accused persons/appellants to their own companies. 20.It could thus be seen that, though the complainant/respondent No.1 was aware about the sale of shares as early in the year 2001, he D did nothing till the year 2006 when, according to it, it had applied to BSE and NSE for details. Even after the year 2006, the complainant/respondent No.1 waited till the year 2011 to lodge the complaint. Though, it is sought to be urged by the complainant/respondent No.1 before us that it came to know about the fraudulent act of the accused persons/appellants in E the year 2009, which gave a cause of action to it to file the complaint, there is no averment to that effect in the complaint. 21.Insofar as the other contention that the shares were sold at a lesser price than the market price is concerned, there is no averment in the complaint in that regard. In any case, the transactions have been F made through the BSE and NSE. As such, the contention in that regard is without substance.