The discriminatory impact recognised in the above paragraphs, however, is to highlight the eff ect of a legislative vacuum – specifi cally on long term queer couples, who do not have the avenue of marriage, to entitle them to earned benefi ts. Could this same logic then be extended to heterosexual couples that choose to not get married, despite having the avenue? With respect, this would require further consideration by the State, and was an aspect that was neither argued, nor were we called upon to decide, in the present petitions. Therefore, it is pointed out that State must remain cognizant of such an unwitting consequence of creating two parallel frameworks, for live-in or domestic partnerships, and marriages, and the confusion or anomalies this may cause to gendered legal frameworks (as they stand today) – while trying to remedy or mitigate the discrimination faced by queer couples. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1491 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 118. Addressing all these aspects and concerns means considering a range of policy choices, involving multiplicity of legislative architecture governing the regulations, guided by diverse interests and concerns - many of them possibly coalescing. On 03.05.2023, during the course of hearing, the learned Solicitor General, upon instructions, had expressed the Union’s position that a High-powered committee headed by the Union Cabinet Secretary would be formed to undertake a comprehensive examination to consider such impacts, and make necessary recommendations in that regard. VII. Transgender persons in heterosexual persons can marry under existing law 119. We are in agreement with the Part (xi) of the learned Chief Justice’s opinion which contains the discussion on the right of transgender persons to marry. We are also in agreement with the discussion relating to gender identity [i.e., sex and gender are not the same, and that there are diff erent people whose gender does not match with that assigned at birth, including transgender men and women, intersex persons, other queer gendered persons, and persons with socio-cultural identities such as hijras] as well as the right against discrimination under the Transgender Persons Act 2019. Similarly, discussion on the provisions of the Transgender Persons Act, 2019 and enumeration of various provisions, remedies it provides, and harmonious construction of its provisions with other enactments, do not need any separate comment. Consequently, we agree with the conclusion [(G(m)] that transgender persons in heterosexual relations have the right to marry under existing laws, including in personal laws regulating marriage. The court’s affi rmation, of the HC in Arun Kumar v. Inspector General of Registration115 is based upon a correct analysis. VIII. Issue of joint adoption by queer couples 120. Some of the petitioners have challenged Regulation 5(3) of the 2020 CARA Regulations. By Section 57(2) of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereafter ‘JJ Act’), consent of both the spouses for adoption is necessary (“shall be required”). By Section 115 (2019) Online SCC Madras 8779 149 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 57(5), the authority116 is enabled to frame any other criteria.