A committed the crime, therefore, in absence of a proper explanation of the incriminating circumstances appearing against him, Santosh’s conviction and sentence was liable to be upheld. Consequently, his appeal was dismissed. 10. We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length. B Submissions in Criminal Appeal No.575 of 2011 11. In Criminal Appeal No.575 of 2011, on behalf of appellant Santosh @ Bhure, it was argued that, firstly, there is no documentary evidence that Santosh was tenant of the apartment; secondly, no motive for murder is proved; thirdly, presence of Santosh in that apartment at C the relevant time is not proved; and, fourthly, when the police team visited the spot, a plate, glass, steel bowl, quarter bottle of whisky, packet of salted snacks mixtures were found, yet the FSL Report is silent whether fingerprints of the appellant was found on those articles, which suggests that someone else committed the crime. D 12. In respect of disclosure statement leading to discovery/recovery of blood-stained clothes, it was argued that, firstly, as alleged by the prosecution, there were two disclosure statements, the first resulted in no discovery, therefore, in absence of evidence as to what transpired between the first and the second disclosure, the creditworthiness of the second disclosure as the basis of discovery of the place of concealment E is seriously dented. More so, when that place is rooftop of the same building where the murder took place 13 days ago. Moreover, from the statement of police witnesses, it appears that identical disclosure statements were made by the two accused almost simultaneously, therefore, in absence of clear and satisfactory evidence as to whose F disclosure was made first, not much value could be attached to such a disclosure and the consequential recovery. 13. It was next argued that assuming the blood-stained clothes were recovered on 25.09.2000, there existed no admissible evidence to prove that those clothes were of the accused. The statement of Santosh G @ Bhure, one of the two accused, made to the police in respect thereof is not admissible in evidence. 14. In addition to the above, learned counsel for the appellant Santosh @ Bhure strenuously argued that mere presence of a dead body in the apartment of an accused, which is accessible to others and is H not under lock and key or exclusive control of the accused, by itself is SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 737 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] not sufficient to infer that the accused has committed the crime, A particularly, when there is no proven motive for the crime and there is no evidence of the deceased being last seen alive in the company of the accused. Moreover, there is no evidence in respect of presence of Santosh in the apartment or in the vicinity around the probable time of occurrence. Rather, PW4 stated that on 11.09.2000 when he visited the apartment B between noon and 1 p.m., he saw the deceased there but could not notice Santosh @ Bhure there, rather, the deceased told him that Santosh @ Bhure was not at home.