Dixit & Ors. vs. Rajasthan Housing Board & Anr.16, wherein this Court had opined that the period of experience must be reckoned from the date of acquisition of the Degree. This is how the matter came up before the three-Judges Bench, as now constituted for our D consideration in the reference. The debate before us 13. On behalf of the Appellants, it was sought to be canvassed that the interpretation of the Rule ought to be governed by the two E principles: i. The prescription of an educational qualification and a certain number of years of experience in the designated post is a cumulative requirement. A higher educational qualification makes a qualitative difference in the service rendered by the F incumbent. Therefore, such prescription of a lesser number of years of experience for promotion has a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved, namely, achieving efficiency at work. ii. Watertight compartments are created for the two classes of G employees - the ones with the higher educational qualification requiring lesser number of years of service, and the ones 13 (supra) 14 (supra) 15 (supra) H 16 (2015) 1 SCC 474 T. VALSAN (D) THR. LRS. & ORS. v. K. KANAGARAJ & ORS. 463 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] with lesser educational qualification requiring higher number A of years of service. This demarcation has a direct nexus with the object stated above, and any breach of such demarcation will amount to treating unequal’s as equals, thereby defeating the purpose of the Rule. 14. It was submitted that the three-Judges Bench in Shailendra B Dania & Ors.17 case had taken into account the aforementioned principles and had interpreted an almost identical Rule. That had been further followed and relied upon by this Court in K.K. Dixit & Ors.18 case. It was further submitted that the two-Judges Bench in D. Stephen Joseph19 case had no precedential value, and it is sub C silentio as to the actual text of the Rule and the difference in the quality of service rendered by a Degree holder Junior Engineer vis-à-vis a Diploma holder Junior Engineer was neither placed nor covered by this Court. That was stated to be completely based only on the arguments of a past practice and not as to the actual meaning and interpretation of the relevant Rule. D 15.While referring to the Rule, it was submitted that the plain and dictionary meaning of the word “with” is “accompanied by”. The synonyms in the dictionary are “accompanied by, escorted by, alongside, in addition to, as well as”. Thus, the submission of the Appellants was that irrespective of the use of the word “with” or “and”, E it is a conjunctive phrase and in the light of settled principles, the requirement of educational qualification and service experience is a cumulative requirement. 16. The Appellants contended that they had qualified as Junior Engineers holding Degrees for a much longer period of time than the F private Respondents, who had entered the service only as Junior Engineers holding Diplomas and actually earned their promotions almost immediately once they acquired their Degrees by coming into the Degree quota.