577 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] “It is thus clear that the principles governing public policy must be and are capable, on proper occasion, of expansion or modifi cation. Practices which were considered perfectly normal at one time have today become obnoxious and oppressive to public conscience. If there is no head of public policy which covers a case, then the Court must in consonance with public conscience and in keeping with public good and public interest declare such practice to be opposed to public policy. Above all, in deciding any case which may not be covered by authority our Courts have before them the beacon light of the Preamble to the Constitution. Lacking precedent, the Court can always be guided by that light and the principles underlying the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles enshrined in our Constitution.” (emphasis by us) 29. We are mindful that this Court’s jurisprudence on Section 438 of CrPC, particularly in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia and Sushila Aggarwal, has towed the line of wise exercise of judicial discretion while interpreting the silence of the Parliament to imply an intention to facilitate the grant of essential procedural relief to secure the right to life and personal liberty under Article 21. Whilst the Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia ruled against the procedural and substantive restrictions on the grant of relief of anticipatory bail, the Constitution Bench in Sushila Aggarwal held that the period of anticipatory bail cannot be limited, and may extend till the end of trial. The judgement of the Constitution Bench in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia, in para 13, emphasises that, ‘the High Court and the Court of Session to whom the application for anticipatory bail is made ought to be left free in the exercise of their judicial discretion to grant bail if they consider it fi t so to do on the particular facts and circumstances of the case and on such conditions as the case may warrant.’ 30. Maxwell in his treatise on Interpretation of Statutes (10 edn. ), page 284 states that “the tendency of modern decisions on the whole is to narrow materially the diff erence between strict and benefi cial construction”. It follows that criminal statutes such as the CrPC are interpreted with rational regard to the aim and intention of the legislature. What has to be borne in the judicial mind is that the interpretation of all statutes should be 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. favorable to personal liberty subject to fair and eff ective administration of criminal justice. 31. A remedy such as anticipatory bail secures citizens affl icted in diffi cult life circumstances – and such diffi culties would keep evolving as our collective lives and legal systems become more complex. We deem it fi t to distinguish between exercise of jurisdiction arising out of apprehension of arrest and jurisdiction conferred consequent to the “commission and cognizance of an off ence”. If the Parliament intended that the expression ‘the High Court or the Court of Session’, to mean only the Court that takes cognizance of an off ence, then the Parliament would have made this abundantly clear.