In 29 Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited v. Anis Ahmad, (2013) 8 SCC 491 H 30 (1992) 3 SCC 576 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 675 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] this situation, the consumer continues to remain a consumer as the A premises are connected for the time being for the purposes of receiving the supply of electricity, though the consumer may not themselves be consuming electricity (the consumption being by the tenant). Here, the distribution licensee demands charges incurred from the consumer, even though the electricity is being consumed by the tenant. Another situation B contemplated under the second limb is where the consumer is unable to consume electricity due to circumstances such as accident or strike. In this case, as long as the premises of the consumer are connected to the power system, they will have to pay the demand charges and minimum guaranteed charges stipulated by the distribution licensee. C 48. We are unable to accept the submission of Electric Utilities that the second limb of Section 2(15) connotes a supply of electricity to premises, irrespective of a change in the owner or occupier. The 2003 Act provides an inclusive definition of ‘premises’ under Section 2(51). According to the definition, premises include land, building, or structure. The second limb goes only so far as to say that when electricity is supplied D to any person at a particular land, building, or structure, such person will continue to remain a consumer, even though they are not consuming electricity, so long as the electricity connection exists. The expression ‘premises’ used in the second limb identifies the place where the supply of electricity has to be made. E 49. It would be material to refer to some other definitions under the 2003 Act which emphasise that supply of electricity is with respect to consumer: “2. Definitions.- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- *** F (17) “distribution licensee” means a licensee authorised to operate and maintain a distribution system for supplying electricity to the consumers in his area of supply; *** G (19) “distribution system” means the system of wires and associated facilities between the delivery points on the transmission lines or generating station connection and the point of connection to the installation of the consumers; *** H 676 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (61) “service line” means any electric supply line through which electricity is, or is intended to be, supplied - (a) to a single consumer either from a distributing main or immediately from the Distribution Licensee’s premises; or (b) from a distributing main to a group of consumers on the B same premises or on contiguous premises supplied from the same point of the distribution main; *** (70) “supply”, in relation to electricity, means the sale of electricity to a licensee or consumer;” C (emphasis supplied) 50. The definition of ‘supply’ specifically states that supply means the sale of electricity to a consumer. The said definition does not indicate that supply of electricity is vis-a-vis the premises of the consumer.