Sections 8, 35, and 45 use the phrase “parties or any person claiming through or under”. The word “or” is used in Section 8 and 45 as a disjunctive particle to express an alternative or give a choice between “parties” or “any person claiming through or under”. Consequently, either the party to an arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under the party can make an application to the judicial authority to refer the dispute to arbitration. It is in the interest of respecting the intention of the parties and promoting commercial effi cacy, that the above provisions allow either the party or any person “claiming through or under him” to refer the disputes to arbitration. 142. On the other hand, Sections 35 and 73 use the phrase “parties and persons claiming under them”. The use of the word “and” in Sections 35 and 73 conveys the idea that “parties” is to be added or taken together with the subsequent phrase “any person claiming through or under.” The above provisions provide that an arbitration award binds not only the parties but also all such persons who derive their capacity from the party to the arbitration agreement. Again, the foundational basis for this provision is 119 (2016) 10 SCC 386 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 705 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] commercial effi cacy as it ensures that an arbitral award leads to fi nality, such that both the parties and all persons claiming through or under them do not reagitate the claims. Moreover, the use of the word “and” in Sections 35 and 73 leads to an unmistakable conclusion that under the Arbitration Act, the concept of a “party” is distinct and diff erent from the concept of “persons claiming through or under” a party to the arbitration agreement. ii. The approach adopted by this Court in Chloro Controls is Incorrect 143. This Court in Chloro Controls (supra) observed: fi rst, that the use of the expression “any person” refl ects the legislative intent of enlarging the scope of the words beyond the “parties” who are signatory to the arbitration agreement; second, a signatory party to an arbitration agreement may have a legal relationship with the party claiming through or under the party on the basis of the group of companies doctrine; and third, in case of a multi-party contract, a subsidiary company which “derives” its basic interest from the parent contract would be covered under the expression “claiming though or under.” 144. The fi rst proposition of law relies on the construction of the expression “any person” to conclude that the language of Section 45 has wider import. However, the expression “any person” cannot be singled out and construed devoid of its context. The context, in terms of Section 8 and 45, is provided by the subsequent phrase – “claiming through or under”. Therefore, such “any persons” are acting only in a derivative capacity. Since an arbitration agreement excludes the jurisdiction of national courts, it is essential that the parties consent, either expressly or impliedly, to submit their dispute to the arbitral tribunal.