It is further observed that the breach of a civil obligation which attracts penalty under the Act would immediately attract the levy of penalty irrespective of the fact whether the contravention was made by B the defaulter with any guilty intention. In paragraph 30, it is observed and held as under: - “30. In Chairman, SEBI v. Shriram Mutual Fund [(2006) 5 SCC 361] this Court found on facts that a mutual fund had violated the SEBI (Mutual Funds) Regulations, 1996. Under the said C Regulations there was a restriction placed on the mutual fund on purchasing or selling shares through any broker associated with the sponsor of the mutual fund beyond a specified limit. It is in this context that the Division Bench of this Court held that mens rea was not an essential ingredient for contravention of the provisions D of a civil act. The breach of a civil obligation which attracts penalty under the Act would immediately attract the levy of penalty irrespective of the fact whether the contravention was made by the defaulter with any guilty intention. It was further held that unless the language of the provision intends the need to establish mens rea, it is generally sufficient to prove the default/ E contravention in complying with the statute. In the present case also the statute provides for a hearing. However, that hearing is only to find out whether the assessee has contravened Section 78(2) and not to find out evasion of tax which function is assigned not to the officer at the check-post but to the AO in assessment F proceedings. In the circumstances, we are of the view that mens rea is not an essential element in the matter of imposition of penalty under Section 78(5).” 6.8 In the case of Competition Commission of India (supra) while considering Section 43A of the Competition Act, 2002 which G provides for a penalty, it is observed in paragraphs 34 to 37 as under: - “34. If the ultimate objective test is applied, it is apparent that market purchases were within view of the scheme that was framed. As such the subsequent change of law also did not come to the rescue of the respondents considering the substance of the transaction. The market purchases were part of the same H transaction of the combination. STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR. v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 499 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 35. Lastly, the submission raised that there were no mala fides on A the part of the respondent as such penalty could not have been imposed. We are unable to accept the submission. The mens rea assumes importance in case of criminal and quasi-criminal liability. For the imposition of penalty under Section 43-A, the action may not be mala fide in case there is a breach of the statutory provisions B of the civil law, penalty is attracted simpliciter on its violation. The imposition of penalty was permissible and it was rightly imposed. There was no requirement of mens rea under Section 43-A or intentional breach as an essential element for levy of penalty.