Kraipak v. Union of India [(1969) 2 SCC 262]. What happened in this case was that one Naqishbund, the acting Chief Conservator of Forests, Jammu and C Kashmir was a member of the Selection Board which had been set up to select officers to the Indian Forest Service from those serving in the Forest Department of Jammu and Kashmir. Naqishbund who was a member of the Selection Board was also one of the candidates for selection to the Indian Forest Service. D He did not sit on the Selection Board at the time when his name was considered for selection but he did sit on the Selection Board and participated in the deliberations when the names of his rival officers were considered for selection and took part in the deliberations of the Selection Board while preparing the list of the selected candidates in of preference. This Court held that E the presence of Naqishbund vitiated the selection on the ground that there was reasonable likelihood of bias affecting the process of selection. Hegde, J. speaking on behalf of the Court countered the argument that Naqishbund did not take part in the deliberations of the Selection Board when his name was considered, by saying: F “But then the very fact that he was a member of the Selection Board must have had its own impact on the decision of the Selection Board. Further admittedly he participated in the deliberations of the Selection Board when the claims of his rivals ... was considered. He was also party to the preparation G of the list of selected candidates in of preference. At every stage of his participation in the deliberations of the Selection Board there was a conflict between his interest and duty.... The real question is not whether he was biased. It is difficult to prove the state of mind of a person. Therefore what we have to see is whether there is reasonable ground for H 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A believing that he was likely to have been biased.... There must be a reasonable likelihood of bias. In deciding the question of bias we have to take into consideration human probabilities and ordinary course of human conduct.” This Court emphasised that it was not necessary to establish bias B but it was sufficient to invalidate the selection process if it could be shown that there was reasonable likelihood of bias. The likelihood of bias may arise on account of proprietary interest or on account of personal reasons, such as, hostility to one party or personal friendship or family relationship with the other. Where reasonable likelihood of bias is alleged on the ground of relationship, C the question would always be as to how close is the degree of relationship or in other words, is the nearness of relationship so great as to give rise to reasonable apprehension of bias on the part of the authority making the selection.” (emphasis added) D 37. In the instant case, the complaint was made by the Deputy Superintendent of Police (Mr. Ranjan Kumar Das) of the Directorate of Vigilance, who is, directly or indirectly, not concerned with the complaint, he can be said to be an informant to the office of the appellant and that apart, a preliminary inquiry was conducted independently by a senior E officer of the Directorate of Vigilance, Additional Superintendent of Police, Mr. P.K.