The AAIFR under its dated 1st April, 2005, while setting aside the of the BIFR dated 24th November, 2004 directed the BIFR to confirm the sale of Unit Block IV in favour of the appellant and modalities for payment shall be in B accordance with terms and conditions as approved by the ASC and thereafter the appellants deposited the bid value in instalments. 8. That became the subject matter of challenge by filing of a writ petition before the High Court of Punjab and Haryana at Chandigarh at the instance of BCI Staff Colony, Residential Welfare Association and C its members under Article 226 of the Constitution. 9. The Division Bench of the High Court after revisiting the records of the bidding process and the procedure adopted by the Operating Agency arrived to a conclusion that the appellants have not made payment in terms of the guidelines of the ASC and failed to furnish the bank D guarantee and to deposit the purchase consideration at the relevant point of time. The Division Bench also took note of the fact that solitary bid was received by the ASC for the subject property and it was less than the circle rate fixed by the Collector of the property in question and while setting aside the of the AAIFR dated 1stApril, 2005, restored E the of the BIFR dated 24th November, 2004 with a further direction that the money which was deposited by the appellant, be returned with interest @ 8% (simple) from the date of its deposit till the amount is refunded with liberty to sell the property, if need be, as per the provisions of law under its dated 5th February, 2010. 10. That became the subject matter of challenge in the instant F appeals on behalf of the appellants and this Court while issuing notice under dated 8th July, 2010 directed the parties to maintain the status- quo. 11. The original petitioners before the High Court had also challenged the self-same of the Division Bench of the High G Court in Civil Appeal No.10127 of 2011. 12. Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants, submits that while the advertisement came to be published by the IDBI (Operating Agency), the guidelines of ASC were not appended thereto and it was not made known to the parties that they are H RAJIV KUMAR JINDAL v. BCI STAFF COLONY 87 RESIDENTIAL WELFARE ASSOCIATION [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] required to furnish a bank guarantee as a security to the bid amount and A calling upon the appellants at the stage of acceptance of the bid to act upon the guidelines and to furnish a bank guarantee was not justified and this was considered by the AAIFR under its dated 1stApril, 2005 and which has not been appreciated by the High Court in the right earnest. 13. Learned counsel further submits that the appellants had paid B the entire sale consideration on 3rd June, 2005 and 7th June, 2005 and pursuant thereto the tripartite Memorandum of Understanding had been executed between the concerned parties on 18th July, 2005 and this was not considered by the High Court while setting aside the bid under the impugned .