The observations made therein were in the context of the factual background that fell for consideration in the said case. In our view, the said observations would not be applicable to the facts of the present case. We have already considered in detail as to how, upon application of the four-pronged test of proportionality, the impugned notification cannot be struck down. D 280. In any case, in our view, there is a direct and proximate nexus between the restrictions imposed and the objectives sought to be achieved. As held by this Court in the case of M.R.F. Ltd. (supra), if there is a direct nexus between the restrictions and the object of the action, then a strong presumption in favour of the constitutionality of the E action naturally arises. 281. We, therefore, hold that the impugned notification dated 8th November 2016 does not violate the principle of proportionality and as such, is not liable to be struck down on the said ground. ISSUE NO. (v): AS TO WHETHER THE PERIOD F PROVIDED FOR EXCHANGE OF NOTES VIDE THE IMPUGNED NOTIFICATION DATED 8TH NOVEMBER 2016 CAN BE SAID TO BE UNREASONABLE? 282. It is sought to be urged that the period provided for exchange of old notes with the new notes under the impugned Notification is G unreasonable. 283. Under the 1978 Act, the Ordinance was notified on 16th January 1978, which transformed into the Act on 30th March 1978. Under Section 3 of the 1978 Act, all high denomination bank notes, notwithstanding anything contained in Section 26 of the RBI Act, ceased H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 135 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] to be legal tender in payment or on account at any place. Under Section A 7 of the 1978 Act, every person desiring to tender for exchange demonetized notes was required to submit a declaration giving the particulars not later than 19th January 1978. 284. Under Section 8 of the 1978 Act, a person who failed to apply for exchange of any demonetized notes within the time provided B under Section 7 thereof, was entitled to tender the notes together with a declaration required under Section 7 thereof along with the statement explaining the reasons for his or her failure to apply within the specified time limit. Under sub-section (2) of Section 8 of the 1978 Act, if the RBI was satisfied with the reasons for the failure to submit the notes prior to C 19th January 1978 being genuine, it could pay the value of the notes in the manner specified in sub-section (4) of Section 7 thereof. Under sub- section (3) of Section 8 thereof, an appeal was provided before the Central Government against the refusal of the RBI to pay the value of the notes. D 285. It could thus be seen that under the 1978 Act, three days’ period was provided for exchanging the demonetized notes. If a person could not avail of the said period, five days’ grace period was made available during which period the money could be exchanged subject to the RBI being satisfied with the genuineness of the reasons for not submitting the same within three days.