They were thus convicted and H sentenced accordingly. 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A High Court Findings:- 9. The High Court upheld the conviction upon finding the prosecution evidence reliable and corroborative of each other. 10. We have heard Ms. Ankita Gautam for the appellant Ravi Mandal; Mr. Gopal Jha, learned Amicus Curiae, for Shabbir; and Mr. B Jatinder Kumar Bhatia for the State of Uttarakhand, and have perused the record. Submissions on behalf of the appellant Ravi Mandal:- 11. On behalf of Ravi Mandal, it was submitted that insofar as the evidence of the deceased being last seen in the company of the two C accused is concerned, neither PW-1 (father of the deceased) nor PW-3 (mother of the deceased) had seen the deceased in the company of the two accused on 31.10.2001. Babloo (PW-7) though disclosed that on 31.10.2001 he met Chhotu (the deceased) but he did not depose about any of the two accused being with him. Insofar as the testimony of PW- 2 (Chandan Singh) is concerned, no reliance is to be placed on it as he is D not a witness arrayed in the chargesheet and there is no cogent explanation as to why he did not make a disclosure earlier. Moreover, he is a chance witness whose presence at the spot finds no proper explanation. Similarly, PW-5 too is a chance witness whose explanation for his presence at the spot, at that odd hour, is falsified by statement of PW-7 and PW-10. And E insofar as PW-6 is concerned, he has been declared hostile. Thus, there is no reliable evidence of the deceased being last seen alive with the two accused. 12. In addition to the above, it was argued that the testimony regarding recovery of weapons from the accused does not appear F convincing as there is no public witness to it; the site plan of the place of arrest and recovery was prepared several days after the alleged recovery which would suggest that there existed no place of recovery and arrest but, as an after thought, to complete the formality, the site plan was prepared. G 13. It was also argued that there is material discrepancy in the deposition of witnesses as to whether the FIR was lodged before, or after the dead body was brought to the police station. The statement of PW-1 suggests that he was informed by the police about his son’s body being found, whereupon he went to the spot and brought the dead body to the police station to lodge the FIR; whereas, police witnesses state H RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 17 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] that they proceeded to the spot after PW-1 had lodged the report and at A the spot they carried out inquest proceeding. It was urged that this discrepancy creates doubt as to whether the prosecution case was developed on guess work at the instance of the police. This doubt gets doubled because the name of Govind appeared in the first written report.