Commissioner and any Officer specially appointed by the appropriate Govt. to perform the functions of a Collector under this Act.” H 94 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 3.3 It is contended that in the present case, apart from being specially appointed by the appropriate Government to perform the functions of a Collector, the Authority who has considered the objections u/s 5-A is the Collector of a District. The definition of the Collector is an inclusive one and means the Collector of the District and includes Dy. Commissioner as well. Further the State Government vide its circular B dated 06.03.1987 conferred power to the Dy. Collector for exercising functions of the Collector for acquisition of land in their areas. 3.4 It is further contended that Article 166 of the Constitution of India provides that all executive action of the Government of a State shall be expressed to be taken in the name of the Governor and s C and other instruments made and executed in the name of the Governor shall be authenticated in such manner as may be specified in rules to be made by the Governor, and the validity of an on instruction which is so authenticated shall not be called in question on the ground that it is not an or instrument made or executed by the Governor. D 3.5 It is submitted that therefore the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court have materially erred in quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings on the ground that there was no delegation of power by the State Government with regard to Section 5-A of the Act, 1894 to the Collector. E It is further submitted that even the learned Single Judge specifically observed and held that except for technical irregularity, the award cannot be declared invalid. 3.6 As regards the quashing and setting aside Scheme No. 97 on the ground that IDA failed to take substantial steps to implement the F scheme within three years from the date of publication as per section 54 of the Adhiniyam, it is submitted that section 54 of the Adhiniyam provides that “if the Town and Country Development Authority fails to commence implementation of the Town Development Scheme within a period of three years from the date of notification of the final scheme under section 50, it shall, on the expiration of the said period of three years, lapse.” G 3.7 It is submitted that in the present case the substantial steps were taken within three years. That before the expiration of three years when the negotiations failed, the State Government immediately issued the notification under Section 4 of the Act, 1894. H INDORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. BURHANI GRIH NIRMAN 95 SAHAKARI SANSTHA MARYADIT SNEH NAGAR [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3.8 It is next submitted that in the present case declaration of A intention to prepare a town development scheme under section 50(1) was issued on 13.03.1981; publication of the said declaration under Section 50(2) was carried out on 10.07.1981; final development scheme was published in the Official Gazette under section 50(7) of the Adhiniyam on 08.06.1984; the State Government was requested to acquire the land B on 4.06.1987, i.e., within three years of the final publication.