17. Now, we will have to apply the principles enunciated by this D Court to the facts of this case. The High Court has reproduced the charge framed on 04th July 1998 against the accused, which reads thus: “Charge 6. The charge framed against all the accused by the dated 4th July 1998 by the trial Court was as under : E (i) That on or before 1st October 1995 at around 3.30 pm at Delhi A-1 to A-6 along with Vimal (since dead) agreed to criminally intimidate and commit the murder of Jawahar Lal (PW-3) and his relatives on account of the failure of PW-3 to stop his TV cable network in the area of F Paschimpuri thereby committing the offence of criminal conspiracy punishable under Section 120B IPC. (ii) That at House No.618/3, Paschimpuri on 1st October 1995, in pursuance of the aforementioned conspiracy, A-4 and A-5 fired bullets from their respective revolvers on Smt. G Omi Devi and Chander Shekhar whereas Vimal and A-3 attacked Chander Shekhar and Omi with their respective dagger and knife and committed their murders and thus all of them had committed an offence punishable under Section 302 read with 120B IPC. H RAJ KUMAR @ SUMAN v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 769 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (iii) All of them pursuant to the criminal conspiracy A attempted to commit the murder of PW-3 by firing bullets from their revolvers on both PW-3 and PW-7 due to which both of them received dangerous injuries and thereby all of them committed an offence punishable under Section 307 read with 120B IPC.’ B (emphasis added) 18. In paragraph 7 of the High Court , it is noted that a separate charge under Section 452 read with 120-B of IPC was framed against all accused except the present appellant. Thus, the charge as framed against the appellant was of being a party to criminal conspiracy. C There is also a charge that all the accused fired bullets from their revolver. Only based on the version of PW-5 regarding the appellant’s presence with a weapon outside the premises where the offence took place, the involvement of the appellant has been held as proved. There is absolutely no other evidence against him. This is not a case where there are several D incriminating circumstances appearing against the appellant in the evidence adduced by the prosecution. This is a case where there is only a solitary circumstance appearing in the evidence against the appellant. The prosecution examined 37 witnesses. The material against the appellant is in the form of one sentence in the evidence of PW-5. As mentioned earlier, if we read 42 questions put to the appellant in his E statement under Section 313 of CrPC, any accused having ordinary intelligence will carry an impression that there is absolutely no material against him. The appellant was not confronted during his examination under section 313 of CrPC with the only allegation of the prosecution against him. This is how, on facts, we find that a serious prejudice was F caused to the appellant.