The subsequent selection list was made in terms of decision of the High Court delivered on 12thSeptember 2012. The general principle of service jurisprudence that seniority is required to be computed from the date of E actual entry into a particular cadre cannot operate in a case where there is an undisturbed judicial finding that appointments were made on different dates in breach of the applicable Rules. Moreover, selection list per se does not determine seniority as the said list is only to contain names of persons who are to be part of a particular cadre. In the 1979 F Rules also, selection list is to be prepared as per Rule 17 whereas seniority is to be determined in terms of Rule 22. What the authorities have done in finalising the 2013 selection list is that positioning of incumbents in this list have been made on the basis of their seniority. Thus, it has become a combined selection and seniority list. 14. We find that in the under appeal, stand of the G authorities before the Division Bench on the question of fixing of seniority was recorded as:- “He contends that so far as determination of seniority is concerned the same has been done applying the quota and rota system meant H 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A for the first place to promotees and second place to direct recruits, vis-à-vis the year of availability of respective vacancies.” (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) 15. This practise, in our opinion, is contrary to the seniority as contemplated in Rule 17. The selection list stipulated how the vacancy B positions shall be filled but for determination of seniority, the dates of appointment were to be treated as dates of birth in the cadre. In relation to the two streams of entry, after they entered the cadre, their seniority were to be decided on the basis of such dates of entry. In the present proceeding, the manner in which appointment s were issued was C found to be in breach of the provisions of Rule 17 in the first . But neither the first nor the under appeal stipulated in what manner the dates of birth into the cadre for individual candidates from the two streams were be determined. We are not inclined to remand this matter for that purpose, considering that the present dispute is continuing for about three decades. But since the main reasoning of the D High Court for deciding the matter was that selection from both streams was made from a common recruitment process, in our opinion, the dates of appointment s of both the streams ought to be treated from a particular date and 30th January 1996, being the date on which the appointment letters of the promotee candidates were issued, would be E such date. 16. As regards the manner in which the names of the superannuated and dead officers were to be dealt with, the High Court in its delivered on 12th September 2012 has already given its findings and directions.