You have been found to be unfi t for the Government Service because Sections 7 /8, Section 354 IPC and 11 (D) 12 Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences are related to the moral degradation. Sd/- Superintendent of Police District Ujjain Copy to: 01. Reserved Inspector Police Line Ujjain with two copies that one copy be given to the concerned person and the acknowledgement of the receiving be sent to the offi ce . Sci/- Superintendent of Police District Ujjain” THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS v. 443 BHUPENDRA YADAV [HIMA KOHLI, J.] 3.5 Aggrieved by the aforesaid decision taken by the appellant No. 3 – Superintendent of Police, Ujjain, the respondent preferred a writ petition2 before the High Court praying inter alia that the dated 24th August, 2017, passed by the appellant No.3 be quashed and directions be issued to reinstate him in service with all consequential benefi ts. Vide judgement dated 17th November, 2017, the learned Single Judge dismissed the writ petition2 fi led by the respondent with the following observations: “From perusal of the impugned dated 24.08.2017 (Annexure P/1) it appears that in the light of the rendered by the Hon’ble Apex Court in the case of Avtar Singh Vs. Union of India and Ors. 2016 (4) MPLJ 332 case of the petitioner has been considered and after considering the same impugned has been passed treating the case of the petitioner is of moral turpitude. Once the departmental authorities have arrived to a conclusion then no interference can be made by this Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India because this Court is not sitting as a appellate authority. Even otherwise the matter pertains to Section 354(d) of IPC and Section 7, 8, 11(D) and 12 of the POCSO Act which amounts to moral turpitude, therefore, no case is made out” 3.6. The aforesaid was challenged by the respondent in an appeal1 fi led under Section 2(1) of the Madhya Pradesh Uchcha Nyayalaya (Khand Nyayapeeth Ko Appeal) Adhiniyam, 2005 which resulted in passing of the impugned whereby the Division Bench quashed and set aside the dated 24th August, 20178, passed by the Competent Authority and the dated 17th November, 2017, passed by the learned Single Judge and remanded the matter back to the Competent Authority to pass a fresh in the facts of the instant case. The two factors that weighed with the High Court for allowing the appeal1 were that the respondent had fairly disclosed his involvement in the criminal case wherein he had been acquitted and except for the said case, there was no other criminal case pending against him. Aggrieved by the said decision, the present appeal has been fi led. 4. Mr. Bharat Singh, learned counsel for the appellants submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court has erred in interfering with the passed by the learned Single Judge and overlooked the fact that a candidate who seeks recruitment in police service, must be of 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.