The statement has to be read in its entirety. The inculpatory admissions emerging from this statement against the appellant are (i) his presence at the spot and (ii) sustaining of injuries E by the victim and the other prosecution witnesses while the appellant, as claimed, was attempting to save himself from getting injured. The exculpatory circumstances sought to be established are (i) the appellant’s description of the act complained of as involuntary, which was compelled by inevitable circumstances and not guided by choice and, (ii) sustaining of injury by him in the same transaction. F 20. In view of the inculpatory admissions appearing from Ext.96, the trial court, and the High Court while concurring with the trial court, need not have laboured much to convict the appellant as the person instrumental for the homicidal death of the victim by discussing the evidence led in course of the trial in details. The appellant’s presence at G the spot and the victim and the injured witnesses sustaining injury in course of the scuffle could be held to have been established from Ext.96 itself. However, by not looking into Ext. 96 with the other evidence on record, what the trial court omitted to consider is, whether the prosecution was justified in claiming that the offensive act amounted to culpable H 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A homicide amounting to murder or whether the appellant being guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, deserved punishment under section 304, Part II, IPC. True it is, the trial court considered the arguments advanced on behalf of the appellant that (i) he had “exercised his right of private defence”, and though (ii) “he exceeded such right”, (iii) the present case at the most would fall under section 304, B Part II, IPC; but, it proceeded to overrule such arguments by relying on the oral testimony of P.W.s 2 to 4. In the process, the trial court failed to appreciate the defence version as spelt out in Ext.96, which appears to us to be plausible. A senior citizen who visits Katol from Nagpur, his place of residence, for collecting rent, having the intention of murder C would possibly not attempt to do so in broad daylight and in the presence of witnesses, and that too with a weapon such as a knife. Reading Ext.96 as it is, we do find it probable that there could have been provocation at the instance of the victim, who allegedly indulged in spitting on the appellant coupled with verbal abuse, whereafter P.W.2 and later P.W.s 3 and 4 sprang into action, resulting in a scuffle where both parties D indulged in inflicting injuries on each other resulting in an unwanted loss of life. 21. Regrettably, pointed attention of the High Court does not appear to have been drawn to Ext.96 by counsel on behalf of the appellant, as a consequence whereof the Court went on to hold that the “act could not E be shown to have come in any of the exceptions enumerated in Section 300 of IPC”, that “it is neither the result of sudden provocation nor done in the heat of passion during quarrel”, and that it had “no hesitation to hold that the death of Nandkishor is culpable homicide amounting to murder”.