It was told that the machine is there in someone’s house at Kerodi. I and Sunil Kumar went to see the machine and the accused was there in that place. The accused disclosed his name as Binu. He introduced himself as the son of Kafan’s younger brother. He said that the rubber roller machine is on sale G and informed that its cost is Rs. 30,000/-. I agreed to purchase the machine and after negotiation it was decided to purchase it for an amount of Rs. 27,000/-. We came back on that day only. I had informed Lijo about purchasing the machine. Lijo is my brother-in-law and he told to prepare an agreement for that. H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 427 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] Then I, my brother-in-law Lijo and Binu went to advocate’s house A on 09.12.2011. Advocate Uday Kumar resides in Lingadahalli. We had been to his house. He wrote the content of agreement on a white paper. I, Binu and Lijo had affixed our signature on the said document. The accused himself is Binu. The witness identifies his signature of the accused in M.O.41-agreement. The witness B identifies his signature also. The signature of the witness has been marked as M.O.41(b), accused signature as M.O.41 (c) and Lijo’s signature as M.O.41 (a). The sale agreement was prepared for Rs. 30,000/- but I gave only Rs. 27,000/-.” PW-13: “On 07.01.2012, I went to Vigneshwara Hospital with C my wife and son because my son was unwell. Lijo also had come to the hospital since his son was also unwell. I know Lijo from long back. While talking, Lijo informed me that Jose Kafan is dead. He informed me that Kafan was suffering from Paralysis disease and his son took him to Kerala for treatment and since the disease became severe in Kerala, he took Kafan to America D for better treatment but Kafan died two days before Christmas festival. Lijo even told that his dead body was not bought back but the funeral was conducted there only. Later, after several days I went to Century Motors for my bike repair. Lijo was also there in that place. Lijo told me that E Kafan’s children are intended to sell his land and asked me whether I would be interested to buy it. I told Lijo that I don’t want and would inform my brother-in-law about it. After 2 days Lijo informed me about the price of the land and about his commission. Later Lijo told me that he has land documents with F him. Since I said that I have to take suggestions from Advocate, I and my brother-in-law, Stanie and Lijo went to the house of Advocate Nagaraj with the said documents. Advocate Nagaraj examined the documents and since the advocate was informed that Jose Kafan had died, he informed that Kafan’s children have to come and should bring Power of Attorney from all the heirs G and also the death certificate of Kafan. We went to our respective houses from the hose of Advocate.