15.6. Section 2(w) states that words and expressions used in the NABARD Act, 1981 which are not defi ned therein but defi ned in the RBI Act, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in that Act. Section 2(x) of the said Act states that words and expressions used in the NABARD Act, 1981 and not defi ned either in the said Act or in the RBI Act, but defi ned in the BR Act, 1949, shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the BR Act, 1949. Therefore, we revert back to BR Act, 1949. 15.7. What is central to the controversy in this batch of cases is, whether, the appellant bank is a co-operative bank. What is of signifi cance to know is, a state co-operative bank or central co-operative bank under the NABARD Act, 1981 is essentially a principal co-operative society either in a district or in a State, respectively, the primary object of which is the fi nancing of 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. other co-operative societies in the district or the State respectively. Further, NABARD Act, 1981 does not defi ne banking business. Hence, reliance is to be placed, on the defi nition of banking business in terms of clause (w) of Section 2 of NABARD Act, 1981 which means the RBI Act has to be seen. When the RBI Act is perused, it is noted that clause (i) of Section 2 defi nes “co-operative bank”, “co-operative credit society”, “director”, “primary agricultural credit society”, “primary co-operative bank” and “primary credit society” to have the meanings respectively assigned to them in Part V of the BR Act, 1949. Therefore, we have to again fall back on Part V of the BR Act, 1949 which has defi ned a co-operative bank in Section 56 (c)(i)(cci) to be a state co-operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co-operative bank and central co-operative bank and state co-operative bank to have the same meanings as NABARD Act, 1981. 15.8. Since the words ‘bank’ and ‘banking company’ are not defi ned in the NABARD Act, 1981, the defi nition in sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of Section 56 of the BR Act, 1949 has to be relied upon. It states that a co-operative society in the context of a co-operative bank is in relation to or as a banking company. Thus, co-operative bank shall be construed as references to a banking company and when the defi nition of banking company in clause (c) of Section 5 of the BR Act, 1949 is seen, it means any company which transacts the business of banking in India and as already noted banking business is defi ned in clause (b) of Section 5 to mean the accepting, for the purpose of lending or investment, of deposits of money from the public, repayable on demand or otherwise, and withdrawal by cheque, draft, or otherwise. Thus, it is only when a co-operative society is conducting banking business in terms of the defi nition referred to above that it becomes a co-operative bank and in such a case, Section 22 of the BR Act, 1949 would apply wherein it would require a licence to run a co-operative bank.