Thus, an onerous responsibility rests on the shoulders of the presiding offi cer of every court, who should be cautious and vigilant against such indolent acts and persons who attempt to thwart quick dispensation of justice. A response is expected from all parties involved, with a special emphasis on the presiding offi cer. The presiding offi cer must exercise due diligence to ensure that proceedings are conducted effi ciently and without unnecessary delays. While it’s important to maintain a friendly and cooperative atmosphere with the members of the Bar, this should not be misused as a pretext for frequent adjournment requests. A word of caution to the learned members of the Bar, at this juncture, would also be necessary because of they being considered as another wheel of the chariot of dispensation of justice. They should be circumspect in seeking adjournments, that too in old matters or matters which have been pending for decades and desist from making request or prayer for grant of adjournments for any reason whatsoever and should not take the goodness of the presiding offi cer as his/her weakness. 29. In-fact, the utilization of the provision of CPC to the hilt would reduce the delays. It is on account of non-application of many provisions of the CPC by the presiding offi cers of the courts is one of the reason or cause for delay in the proceedings or disputes not reaching to its logical conclusion. 30. The very fact of the pendency of the present suit No. 2 of 1982, in the instant case, for the past 41 years is refl ective of the fact, as to how some of the civil courts are functioning and also depicting how stakeholders are contributing to such delays either directly or indirectly. The procedure that is being adopted by the courts below or specifi cally the trial courts is contrary to the express provisions of the CPC. It can also be noticed that there are party induced delays. It is laid down under s VIII Rule (1) that a defendant shall at or before the fi rst hearing or within 30 days, or 90 days as the court may permit, present a written statement of his defence. In most cases, there would be no diffi culty in presenting such a written statement on the date fi xed, and no adjournment should be given for the YASHPAL JAIN v. SUSHILA DEVI & OTHERS 967 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] said purpose except for a good cause shown, and in proper cases, costs should be awarded to the opposite side, namely realistic costs. However, this is seldom found. Delay in fi ling the written statement and seeking adjournments is also another tactic used by the parties to litigation to delay the proceedings No doubt in catena of s including Kailash vs. Nanku 2005 (4) SCC 480, Serum Advocates Bar Association, Tamil Nadu vs Union of India, AIR 2005 SC 3353. Bharat Kalra vs. Raj Kishan Chhabra (2022) SCC OnLine SC 613 and Shoraj Singh vs Charan Singh (2018) SCC OnLine All 6613 the time limit prescribed under the CPC has been held to be directory and not mandatory which by itself does not mean that adjournments if sought should be granted for mere asking.