The prime concern and the endeavour of the court of law should be to secure justice on the basis of true facts which ought to be unearthed through a committed, resolved and a competent investigating agency. 48. The above principle has been reiterated in K.V. G Rajendran v. Superintendent of Police, CBCID South Zone, Chennai, (2013) 12 SCC 480. Dr. B.S. Chauhan, J. speaking for a three-Judge Bench of this Court held: “13. …This Court has time and again dealt with the issue under what circumstances the investigation can be transferred from the State investigating agency to any other independent H ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF 69 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] investigating agency like CBI. It has been held that the power A of transferring such investigation must be in rare and exceptional cases where the court finds it necessary in to do justice between the parties and to instil confidence in the public mind, or where investigation by the State police lacks credibility and it is necessary for having “a fair, honest and B complete investigation”, and particularly, when it is imperative to retain public confidence in the impartial working of the State agencies. …” 49. Elaborating on this principle, this Court further observed: “17. … the Court could exercise its constitutional powers for C transferring an investigation from the State investigating agency to any other independent investigating agency like CBI only in rare and exceptional cases. Such as where high officials of State authorities are involved, or the accusation itself is against the top officials of the investigating agency thereby allowing D them to influence the investigation, and further that it is so necessary to do justice and to instil confidence in the investigation or where the investigation is prima facie found to be tainted/biased.” 50. The Court reiterated that an investigation may be transferred E to the CBI only in “rare and exceptional cases”. One factor that courts may consider is that such transfer is “imperative” to retain “public confidence in the impartial working of the State agencies.” This observation must be read with the observations made by the Constitution Bench in the case of Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal (supra), that mere allegations F against the police do not constitute a sufficient basis to transfer the investigation. 51. In Romila Thapar v. Union of India, (2018) 10 SCC 753, one of us, A.M. Khanwilkar, J., speaking for a three-Judge Bench of this Court (Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J. dissenting) noted the G dictum in a line of precedents laying down the principle that the accused “does not have a say in the matter of appointment of investigating agency”. In reiterating this principle, this Court relied upon its earlier decisions in Narmada Bai v. State of Gujarat, (2011) 5 SCC 79, Sanjiv Rajendra Bhatt v. Union of India, (2016) 1 SCC 1, E. Sivakumar v. Union of India, (2018) 7 SCC H 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 365, and Divine Retreat Centre v. State of Kerala, (2008) 3 SCC 542.