Indeed, the very idea of classifi cation is that of inequality, so that it goes without saying that the mere fact of inequality in no manner determines the matter of constitutionality.” The diff erentiation, therefore, is to be discerned from gathering of the object sought to be achieved by the enactment. 77. For a moment, if it is assumed (as the petitioners argue) that the classifi cation is suspect, because non-heterosexual couples are not provided the facility of marriage, yet such “under classifi cation” is not per se discriminatory. This aspect was highlighted by this court in Ambica Mills72: “Since the classifi cation does not include all who are similarly situated with respect to the purpose of the law, the classifi cation might appear, at fi rst blush, to be unreasonable. But the Court has recognised the very real diffi culties under which legislatures operate — diffi culties arising out of both the nature of the legislative process and of the society which legislation attempts perennially to re-shape — and it has refused to strike down indiscriminately all legislation embodying classifi catory inequality here under consideration” 78. In an earlier decision, this court upheld the tax imposed upon joint families, in Kerala, based on Marumakkattayam law. The law imposed expenditure tax upon those professing the Marumakkattayam unit and defi ned it in such a manner that it omitted to include Mapillas (non-Hindus) who also followed that system. This court held that such under inclusion did 72 State Of Gujarat And Another v. Shri Ambica Mills Ltd 1974 (3) SCR 760 147 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. not attract the vice of discrimination, in N. Venugopala Ravi Varma Rajah v. Union of India73 and observed: “the mere fact that the law could have been extended to another class of persons who have certain characteristics similar to a section of the Hindus but have not been so included is not a ground for striking down the law.” 79. The question of some categories being left out, when a new legislation is introduced, was the subject matter of the decision in Ajoy Kumar Banerjee & Ors. v. Union of India & Ors.74 where it was held that: “[…] Article 14 does not prevent legislature from introducing a reform i.e. by applying the legislation to some institutions or objects or areas only according to the exigency of the situation and further classifi cation of selection can be sustained on historical reasons or reasons of administrative exigency or piecemeal method of introducing reforms. The law need not apply to all the persons in the sense of having a universal application to all persons. A law can be sustained if it deals equally with the people of well-defi ned class-employees of insurance companies as such and such a law is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that it had no application to other persons.” These s have underlined that exclusion or under inclusion, per se, cannot be characterised as discriminatory, unless the excluded category of persons, things or matters, which are the subject matter of the law (or policy) belong to the same class (the included class).