e) The High Court in paragraph 70 held that the revenue is right as there can be no presumption in law that control and management is at the registered office. H 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A f) In paragraph 71, the High Court held that “it appears to the Court that the ITAT has not upset the factual finding of the AO, which was confirmed by the CIT(A). The above exhaustive evidence gathered by the revenue, without being countered by the assessee despite opportunity being afforded, serves to substantiate the case of the revenue that the management and control of the 5 B assessee companies was in fact located in Delhi. The finding by the ITAT in this regard is plainly perverse and unsustainable in law.” g) On commission and accrual of income, the High Court concluded as under: C i) The findings by the AO that the assessee had failed to prove that the commission payments earned by them is exclusively in Sikkim had not been dislodged by the assessee by producing any tangible material; ii) The evidence produced by the assesses are only copies of D bills and vouchers and receipt of money from such agents at Sikkim in its bank accounts and assessments have been made under the Sikkim Manual, 1948; iii) The High Court in para 76 held that “none of the 5 entities named by the assessees as having paid the commission to them E appeared in the course of assessment proceedings to confirm the payments having been made to the assessees.” The High Court also recorded that the rate of commission paid was unrealistic and beyond human probabilities, non-existence of any employees in Sikkim, non-incurring of any expenditure in F Sikkim as found in the P&L account and finally the balance sheet showing that notwithstanding that the income was from commission the assets were in the form of investments in Dalmia Group would stare at the face of the assessees and remains unrebutted. The High Court concluded that the findings by the ITAT in this regard is contrary to the record and is based on G surmises and unsustainable in law. 6.4 In light of the above findings, the submissions made by the learned counsel for the respective parties on service of notice upon Rattan Gupta being in the control and management of the respective assessees; the control and management of the affairs of the assessee companies; H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 483 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] the applicability of the Income Tax Act, 1961; jurisdiction of the AO and A levy of interest are required to be considered. 7. On appreciation of the entire evidence on record, the AO, CIT(A) and the High Court have specifically held against the assessees that in fact Rattan Gupta did not merely render professional services but had a vital say in the control and management of the assessee companies B and in fact he was in control and management of the affairs of the respective assessee companies.