Sub-clause (iv) of clause (s) of Section 2 of the Industrial C Disputes Act, 1947, is conspicuously absent in the corresponding provision in the 1948 Act. Therefore, we would not place our conclusion on the basis of the decision in Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distribution Company of India Ltd. 38. Similarly, the argument of Shri S.S. Deshmukh, learned counsel D appearing for the respondents based upon the proviso to Section 64(1) of the 1948 Act read with Section 1(6) of the 1936 Act, cannot distract our attention. In any case, Section 1(6) of the 1936 Act as it stood before the Amendment Act 41 of 2005 which came into effect on 9.11.2005 reads as follows:- E “1. Short title, extent, commencement and application.— xxx xxx xxx (6) Nothing in this Act shall apply to wages payable in respect of a wage-period which over such wage-period, average one thousand six hundred rupees a month or more.” F 39. But in the case on hand, the distinction made by the Government of India in their Office dated 21.12.1988 related to persons drawing a basic pay of more than Rs.2,200/-. Therefore, the provisions of the Payment of Wages Act, were not applicable to the respondents herein and as a sequitur, the Proviso to Section 64(1) of the G 1948 Act cannot be pressed into service. 40. Thus, we find (i) that the Tribunal as well as the High Court did not consider the distinction between persons in Government service and those in private service and the effect of the statutory rules upon the conditions of service of the respondents, including their liability to work H 264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A for extra hours; (ii) that the Tribunal reached diametrically opposite findings of fact in respect of persons holding similar supervisory posts; and (iii) that therefore, the s of the Tribunal and the High Court are unsustainable. 41. In view of the above, all the appeals are allowed and the B impugned of the High Court is set aside. However, we find that some of the employees have retired, some have passed away and in respect of some who have passed away, the appeals have been abated. Therefore, even while allowing the appeals and setting aside the impugned of the High Court, we direct the appellants not to effect any recovery from those to whom payments have already been made. No C as to costs. Pending application(s), if any, stands disposed of accordingly. Divya Pandey Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Sirgapoor Sahil Reddy and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) D E F G H