A the NCLT’s power to remove an auditor upon finding that the auditor has perpetrated a fraud at Clause 140(5) of the 2011 Bill. Most pertinently, the 2011 Bill incorporating the recommendations of the Standing Committee as contained in the Report, provides for consequences for an auditor who is found to have perpetrated a fraud by the NCLT and is B removed for such fraud by the NCLT. This has been done by way of a proviso to Clause 140(5) of the Bill (particularly the second proviso). The relevant extract of Section 140(5) of the 2011 Bill is as follows: “(5) Without prejudice to any action under the provisions C of this Act or any other law for the time being in force, the Tribunal either suo motu or on an application made to it by the Central Government or by any person concerned, if it is satisfied that the auditor of a company has, whether directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent D manner or abetted or colluded in any fraud by, or in relation to, the company or its directors or officers, it may, by , direct the company to change its auditors: Provided that if the application is made by the Central Government and the Tribunal is satisfied that any change E of the auditor is required, it shall within fifteen days of receipt of such application, make an that he shall not function as an auditor and the Central government may appoint another auditor in his place: Provided further that an auditor, whether individual or firm, against whom final has been passed by the F Tribunal under this section shall not be eligible to be appointed as an auditor of any company for a period of five years from the date of passing of the and the auditor shall also be liable for action under section 447. Explanation – For the purposes of this Chapter the word G “auditor” includes a firm of auditors”. iv. Thereafter, in January 2012, the 2011 Bill was placed before the Standing Committee by the Lok Sabha. The Standing Committee has prepared and finalized its report in this regard, and insofar as the penalty and guiding principles of H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 973 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] Clause 140(5) are concerned, there is no further guidance A on the legislative intent behind the same. v. In view of the above, the test of Clause 140(5) of the 2011 Bill has remained unchanged, the same has been enacted as the present Section 140(5) of the Companies Act, 2013. B 3.6 It is submitted that therefore by way of Companies Bill, 2009 subsequently introduction the Act, for the first time it includes an obligation to an auditor to report any fraud detected to the Central Government as per Section 143(12) of the Act and incorporated in the form of the second proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act a provision to make an auditor who has been found to have been acting in a fraudulent manner or colluding C from being an auditor in any company for a period of 5 years.