The Explanation to Section 53 of the Code states that ‘workmen’s dues’ shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in Section D 326 of the Companies Act, 2013. In other words, Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 has been incorporated and applies to the waterfall mechanism as prescribed in clause (b) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code. What is significant here is that under clause (b) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code, the workmen’s dues are for the period of twenty four E months preceding the liquidation commencement date. [Para 15.1][131-E-H; 132-A] 1.10 The waterfall mechanism is based on a structured mathematical formula, and the hierarchy is created in terms of payment of debts in of priority with several qualifications, F striking down any one of the provisions or rearranging the hierarchy in the waterfall mechanism may lead to several trips and disrupt the working of the equilibrium as a whole and stasis, resulting in instability. Every change in the waterfall mechanism is bound to lead to cascading effects on the balance of rights and G interests of the secured creditors, operational creditors and even the Central and State Governments. Depending upon the facts, in some cases, the waterfall mechanism in the Code may be more beneficial than the hierarchy provided under Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 and vice-versa. [Para 16][132-G-H; 133- A] H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 91 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 1.11. In the waterfall mechanism, after the costs of the A insolvency resolution process and liquidation, secured creditors share the highest priority along with a defined period of dues of the workmen. The unpaid dues of the workmen are adequately and significantly protected in line with the objectives sought to be achieved by the Code and in terms of the waterfall mechanism B prescribed by Section 53 of the Code. In either case of relinquishment or non-relinquishment of the security by the secured creditor, the interests of workmen are protected under the Code. In fact, the secured creditors are taking significant hair-cut and workmen are being compensated on an equitable basis in a just and proper manner as per Section 53 of the Code. C In economic matters, a wider latitude is given to the lawmaker and the Court allows for experimentation in such legislations based on practical experiences and other problems seen by the law- makers. In a challenge to such legislation, the Court does not adopt a doctrinaire approach. Some sacrifices have to be always D made for the greater good, and unless such sacrifices are prima facie apparent and ex facie harsh and unequitable as to classify as manifestly arbitrary, these would be interfered with by the court. [Para 17][133-C-G] 1.12 As Sub-section (7) of Section 327 of the Act, 2013 E provides that Sections 326 and 327 of the Act, 2013 shall not be applicable in the event of liquidation under the IBC, which has been necessitated in view of the enactment of IBC and it applies with respect to the liquidation of a company under the IBC, Section 327(7) of the Act, 2013 cannot be said to be arbitrary and/or violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.