jointly executed with the collaborator or associate. It was in pursuance of the above requirement that the appellant submitted a consortium agreement with the Chinese company. 32. Clause 7 of the bid documents stipulates that a bidder may collaborate or tie up in any legal form with other parties. As part of this requirement, clause 7.2 envisages that a Memorandum of Association should be executed between the members of a bidding consortium in which one of the members holding at least 50% of the equity/ownership stake would be treated as a lead member to act for and represent all the members of the consortium. The agreement between the appellant and the Chinese company does not fall within the description of clause 7.2 since the Chinese company has no ownership or equity in the project, no MoU as required by the clause was executed between the appellant and the Chinese entity and it has no contribution in the bid. The agreement was pure and simple, an agreement in terms of the requirements that were imposed by clause 01.01.02. 33. Neither Telangana State Power Generation Company Limited nor for that matter BHEL raised any dispute in regard to the eligibility of the appellant to bid for the contract. The challenge was addressed by the fi rst respondent who is a competing bidder whose bid was admittedly higher than the bid which was submitted by the successful bidder by approximately Rs 58 crores. The Procurement dated 23 July 2020 imposes a registration requirement and also states that the bidder would not be eligible unless it is registered in the event that it belongs to a country that shares a land b with India. The primary decision on whether the appellant meets the technical requirements of the tender on account of its collaborator/associate being a Chinese company that was not registered had to be determined by BHEL. BHEL has not found that there was a breach of the OM dated 23 July 2020 which, as noted earlier, has been relaxed by the subsequent OM dated 8 February 2021. In this context, it has been submitted on behalf of the appellant that out of a total contract value of Rs 378.64 crores in the contract between BHEL and the appellant, the Chinese sub-contract for carrying out design and other related aspects of the Ash Handling Plant is to the extent of US dollars 95,000 corresponding approximately to Rs 78 lakhs, which is only 0.2% of the entire contract value. BHEL and the Telangana State Power Generation Company found that the agreement with BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND 169 OTHERS [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the Chinese company was in the nature of a service agreement and not a “consortium” under clause 7.2 of the pre-qualifi cation requirements. The bid was made by the appellant as a standalone entity and not in a consortium comprising the unregistered Chinese entity. It was neither a joint bid nor a bid made by a bidding consortium.