Explaining this position, flowing from the principles laid down in Vidya Drolia (supra), this Court in a subsequent decision in Nortel Networks (supra) held [Nortel Networks supra note 22, para 45.1. ]: “45.1 ...While exercising jurisdiction under Section 11 as the judicial forum, the court may exercise the prima facie test to F screen and knockdown ex facie meritless, frivolous, and dishonest litigation. Limited jurisdiction of the courts would ensure expeditious and efficient disposal at the referral stage. At the referral stage, the Court can interfere “only” when it is “manifest” that the claims are ex facie time-barred and G dead, or there is no subsisting dispute...” 27. The standard of scrutiny to examine the non-arbitrability of a claim is only prima facie. Referral courts must not undertake a full review of the contested facts; they must only be confined to a primary first review [Vidya Drolia supra note H 7, para 134.] and let facts speak for themselves. This also M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 631 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] requires the courts to examine whether the assertion on A arbitrability is bona fide or not [ibid.]. The prima facie scrutiny of the facts must lead to a clear conclusion that there is not even a vestige of doubt that the claim is non-arbitrable [Nortel Networks supra note 22, para 47.]. On the other hand, even if there is the slightest doubt, the rule is to refer B the dispute to arbitration [Vidya Drolia supra note 7, para 154.4.]. 28. The limited scrutiny, through the eye of the needle, is necessary and compelling. It is intertwined with the duty of the referral court to protect the parties from being forced to C arbitrate when the matter is demonstrably non-arbitrable [ibid para 154.4.]. It has been termed as a legitimate interference by courts to refuse reference in to prevent wastage of public and private resources [[ibid para 139]. Further, as noted in Vidya Drolia (supra), if this duty within the limited compass is not exercised, and the Court becomes too reluctant to D intervene, it may undermine the effectiveness of both, arbitration and the Court [ibid]. Therefore, this Court or a High Court, as the case may be, while exercising jurisdiction under Section 11(6) of the Act, is not expected to act mechanically merely to deliver a purported dispute raised by E an applicant at the doors of the chosen arbitrator [DLF Home Developers Limited v. Rajapura Homes Pvt. Ltd., 2021 SCC OnLine SC 781, paras 18, 20. ], as explained in DLF Home Developers Limited v. Rajapura Homes Pvt. Ltd.” (Emphasis supplied) F 50. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner also placed reliance on a decision rendered by the Delhi High Court in the case of Welspun Enterprises Ltd. v. NCC Ltd. reported in (2022) 295 DLT 286 wherein, the High Court observed as under: “58. In view of the above, the period of limitation would run G when a party acquires a right to refer the disputes to arbitration.