), Urban Utopias (Palgrave Macmillan, 2017) 90 AIDS Bhedbhav Virodhi Andolan, ‘Less Than Gay’ (1991) 91 ibid 130 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. a lesbian hostel warden, a gay teacher at a government polytechnic college in Madhya Pradesh, an auto-rickshaw driver in Pune, two male municipal sweepers in Mumbai who lived together and loved each other, and a gay man from a slum in Delhi.92 90. Ruth Vanita also documents attempted suicides and suicides arising from the diffi culties faced by persons in queer relationships:93 a. In 1980, Jyotsna and Jayshree died by suicide after they jumped in front of a train in Gujarat. In a letter they left behind, they explained that they chose to die because they could not endure having to live apart after their marriages to men; b. Gita Darji and Kishori Shah died by hanging in a village in Gujarat, in 1988. They were nurses and worked in a hospital; and c. In January 2000, two young women named Bindu and Rajni were stopped from eloping. A few days later, they jumped into a granite quarry in Kerala and died. They each left behind notes to their families in which they explained that they wished to die because it was impossible for them to live together. 91. In Loving Women: Being Lesbian in Unprivileged India,94 Maya Sharma gives an account of various persons (most of whom are women) in same-sex or queer relationships. The book was written after detailed interviews with its subjects, and focuses on working class persons. The author explains that one of the purposes of the book was to: “… dispel the myth that lesbians in India were all urban, Westernised and came from the upper and middle classes.” The author also highlights that public discourse has not created space for the voices and experiences of persons from the LGBTQ community who also belong to marginalized communities: “… the lives of most of our subjects are equally distant and alienated from upperclass, urban Indian as well as all Western representations of 92 ibid 93 Vanita (n 85) 94 Maya Sharma, Loving Women: Being Lesbian in Unprivileged India (Yoda Press, 2006) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1301 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] homosexuality, and their personal struggles, which cannot be separated from their socioeconomic struggles and traditional contexts, are largely unmirrored and therefore remain largely unknown.” The book variously gives accounts of women in queer relationships from diff erent religions and communities, hailing from diff erent parts of the country. They or their family members worked as domestic workers, factory workers, construction labourers, and Home Guards, amongst other professions. 92. The discussion in this segment has not scratched the surface of the rich history of the lives of LGBTQ persons in India, which continue into the present. Yet, even the limited exploration of the literature and reportage on the subject makes it abundantly clear that homosexuality or queerness is not solely an urban concept, nor is it restricted to the upper classes or privileged communities.