Adjudication of such a dispute is entrusted solely and exclusively to the Judicature of this country…” Hence, it falls squarely within the powers of this Court to adjudicate whether the fundamental rights of queer persons have been infringed, as claimed by the petitioners. 71. This Court will not issue a mandamus to Parliament but will determine the scope and eff ect of certain fundamental rights. What do these rights mean and what are their incidents? What do they require of the state? What are their boundaries? In answering these questions, this Court is not enacting law or framing policy but is performing its constitutionally mandated function of interpreting the Constitution and enforcing the rights it recognizes. This Court cannot ignore its duty to fulfi l the mandate of Articles 13 and 32. The distinction between law-making and adjudicating the rights of the people by interpreting the Constitution and enforcing these rights, as required by Article 32, cannot be forgotten. 72. This Court has previously utilized its power under Article 32 to issue directions or s for the enforcement of fundamental rights. This power does not extend only to striking down an off ending legislation but also to issuing substantive directions to give eff ect to fundamental rights, in certain situations. In Common Cause v. Union of India,73 a Constitution Bench of this Court (of which one of us, Justice D Y Chandrachud was a 72 (1965) 1 SCR 413 73 (2018) 5 SCC 1 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1291 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] part) found that the right to life, dignity, self-determination, and individual autonomy meant that people had a right to die with dignity. This Court delineated guidelines and safeguards in terms of which Advance Directives could be issued to cease medical treatment in certain circumstances. Similarly, in Vishaka (supra) this Court issued guidelines for the protection of women from sexual harassment at the workplace. These guidelines were grounded in the fundamental rights to equality under Article 14, to practise any profession or to carry out any occupation, trade or business under Article 19(1)(g), and to life and liberty under Article 21. The decisions of this Court in Common Cause (supra) and Vishaka (supra) are signifi cant because this Court issued directions for the enforcement of fundamental rights in the absence of a law which was impugned before it. d. The power of judicial review must be construed in terms of the Constitution of India and not in terms of the position of law in other jurisdictions 73. A common mistake in the legal community is to refer to the doctrines and decisions of other jurisdictions regardless of the context in which they arose. The jurisprudence of other countries no doubt facilitates an exchange of ideas and acquaints us with the best practices in the fi eld. It illuminates the potential benefi ts and pitfalls of a particular approach and enables us to dwell on whether to accept and if we do so, whether to improve on that approach.