The legal relationship may arise from out of a Statute. It may arise in relation to a tort but an Arbitration Agreement must always mean an agreement. It is really a contract which is intended as an agreement enforceable by law is a contract. An Arbitration Agreement may be a Clause in an H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 355 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] agreement providing for Arbitration. It may be a separate or a standalone A agreement [Section 7(2) of the Act]. An Arbitration Agreement must be in writing [See Section 7(3) of the Act]. As to what all are comprehended within the requirement that the Arbitration Agreement must be in writing, is set out in Sections 7(4)(a) to 7(4)(c). It includes a document which is signed by the parties [See Section 7(4)(a)]. An Arbitration Agreement B would be treated as contained in writing, if there is an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunications, including, communications through electronic means which provide a record of the agreement [See Section 7(4)(b)]. Next, we may notice that an Arbitration Agreement will be treated as contained in writing, if there is an exchange of statements of claims and defence, in which, the existence C of the agreement is alleged by a party and not denied by the other [See Section 7(4)(c)]. Finally, Section 7(5) contemplates an Arbitration Agreement by incorporation, viz., a reference in a contract to a document containing an Arbitration Clause, would constitute an Arbitration Agreement, if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to D make that Arbitration Clause part of the contract. The true scope of Section 7(5) of the Act has been elaborately considered inM.R. Engineers & Contractors Private Limited v. Som Datt Builders Limited31. 78. Section 3(a) of the Stamp Act, no doubt, contemplates that E every instrument mentioned in the Schedule, which, not having been previously executed by any person, is executed in India on or after the first day of July, 1899, is chargeable with duty. Clause (c) of Section 3 also contemplates ‘execution’ of a document out of India, being chargeable with duty. Section 17 of the Stamp Act also contemplates that in respect of documents executed in India, they shall be stamped F before or at the time of execution. Justice Hrishikesh Roy would reason that an Arbitration Agreement, as defined in Section 7 of the Act, need not be an instrument chargeable to stamp duty as stamp duty is payable under the Stamp Act only on instruments, which are executed. The word ‘executed’ has been defined in the Stamp Act as meaning ‘signed’. G 79. Section 7(3)(b) of the Act contemplates that an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication, including communication through electronic means, which provide a record of the agreement, would constitute an Arbitration Agreement in writing within 31 (2009) 7 SCC 696 H 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.