iii. There has been a gross failure of justice in that the learned Judge ought to have corrected the manifest error committed by the Trial Court in issuing process against the accused without the Trial Court considering whether any of the exceptions to section 499, IPC was applicable on facts and in the circumstances of the present case. 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. iv. The impugned of the learned Judge fails to explain why the decision of this Court in Rajendra Kumar Sitaram Pande v. Uttam6 was not followed, whereby law has been settled that issuance of process by a Magistrate without applying the exceptions to section 499, IPC is unreasonable, excessive and palpably wrong resulting in failure of justice. v. The decision in Aroon Purie v. State of NCT of Delhi7 was also cited for the proposition that there is no rigid principle that the benefi t of exception can only be aff orded at the stage of trial. 6. Resting on the aforesaid contentions, Ms. Viswanathan prayed that the proceedings emanating from the complaint be quashed. CONTENTIONS OF THE FIRST RESPONDENT 7. Mr. Taneja, learned counsel representing the complainant invited our attention to various documents forming part of his counter affi davit to the special leave petition. According to him, the appellant withheld relevant materials from this Court and obtained an ex parte interim on 29th April 2011 as a sequel whereto the entire proceedings before the Trial Court have been brought to a grinding halt. 8. Our notice was first invited to the fact that Aggarwal had independently challenged the summoning before the High Court of Delhi by presenting a petition8 under section 482, Cr. PC. By a detailed dated 10th December 2010, the same learned Judge (who dismissed the petition of the appellant) noted that Aggarwal was taking defence under exceptions to section 499 IPC and that “the Court cannot take the defence of the petitioner into account to quash the summoning or to quash the complaint”. Based on such fi nding, the learned Judge rejected the challenge. 9. Mr. Taneja contended that the learned Judge on 10th December 2010 had considered the petitions of Aggarwal and the appellant, one after 6 (1999) 3 SCC 134 7 2022 (15) SCALE 541 8 CRL. M.C. 3350/2010 M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 229 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] the other; and, although it is true that the learned Judge while dismissing the petition of the appellant dealt with the point that a company could be proceeded against in view of Iridium India Telecom Ltd. (supra) and Morgan Tetronics Ltd. (supra) and did not assign separate reasons for spurning the appellant’s challenge to the impugned on the other grounds raised therein, the appellant was duly represented by its learned advocate when Aggarwal’s petition was considered and in his presence, the of dismissal was dictated. What Mr. Taneja hinted at was that the learned Judge having passed a reasoned rejecting Aggarwal’s challenge to the summoning , the learned Judge may not have considered it necessary to repeat the reasons twice over while dismissing the petition of the appellant.