of IPC has to prove legal insanity and not medical insanity. Since the term insanity or unsoundness of mind has not been defi ned in the Penal Code, it carries diff erent meaning in diff erent contexts and describes varying degrees of mental dis. A distinction is to be made between legal insanity and medical insanity. The court is concerned with legal insanity and not with medical insanity. 23. In a recent of this Court in Prakash Nayi Alias Sen vs. State of Goa 9 after reiterating the above principles it is held that the procedure prescribed in Chapter XXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 clearly indicates that there cannot be an acquittal on the ground of unsoundness of mind unless the act is actually done. The whole idea is to facilitate a person of unsound mind to stand trial, not only because of his reasoning capacity, but also to treat him as the one who is having a disability. The role of the court is to fi nd the remedial measures and do complete justice. This Court held in para 17 thus: “17. Having noted the scope and ambit of Chapter XXV CrPC, including the provisions incorporated by way of amendments in the year 2009, one has to take into account the fact that the court has a larger role to play while considering the case under Section 84 IPC. If a friendly approach is required to be followed during the trial, when adequate powers have been conferred upon the court to even discharge an accused on the ground of a n unsound mind, the same reasoning will have to be applied with much force when it comes to Section 84 IPC.” 24. In addition to the above, it is signifi cant to note that the present is a case where the appellant-accused was acquitted by the Trial Court and the High Court has reversed the of acquittal upon appeal preferred by the State. It is settled that the of acquittal can be reversed by the Appellate Court only when there is perversity and not by taking a diff erent view on reappreciation of evidence. If the conclusion of the Trial Court is plausible one, merely because another view is possible on reappreciation of evidence, the Appellate Court should not disturb the fi ndings of acquittal and 9 (2023) 5 SCC 673 RUPESH MANGER (THAPA) v. STATE OF SIKKIM 589 [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] substitute its own fi ndings to convict the accused. See State of Rajasthan vs. Abdul Mannan (supra). 25. In the case at hand, the High Court had reversed the fi nding of acquittal and convicted the appellant mainly on reappreciation of evidence by holding that the Trial Court erred in extending the benefi t of Section 84 of IPC, without even recording a fi nding that the Trial Court’s fi nding is perverse. 26. In the light of the evidence discussed by the Trial Court including the medical evidence about the mental illness of the appellant-accused and his abnormal behaviour at the time of occurrence, it does not appear that the view taken by the Trial Court was perverse or that it was based on without any evidence.