Among others, universities are the nurseries or the catchment for sportspersons, who can represent in state, national, international level and Olympic sports. At the same time, the state or educational institution can 10 (2004) 138 PLR 896 244 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. insist upon a minimum eligibility condition. That is not to say that such condition would necessarily and mandatorily have to be what is applicable to general (or open category) candidates. The latter kind of criteria would tend to exclude meritorious sportspersons, and place the less (academically) meritorious sportspersons, at a disadvantageous position, because they satisfy the open category candidates’ criterion of higher academic merit. For instance, it is quite possible that a sportsperson, who has and continues to represent the country in international Olympic sports, and gained such excellence as to have bagged a medal or two, in say, wrestling, would be altogether excluded in the eventuality of a wrestler, of the same category (but who has never reached the national level) securing 80% marks in the qualifying examination. It exactly this consequence which this court had warned would be the “unequal application” of a uniform criteria, a wooden equality without regard to the inherent diff erences, which Article 14 frowns upon, and forbids. 18. The conclusion drawn by the court is also supported by the fact that the sports policy of 2023 governing admissions, was evolved with a careful eye to detail, to ensure that performance in sport, rather than academic merit, was the chosen criterion to be applied for fi lling the 2% sports quota. Another reason which leads this court to conclude that discrimination has resulted, is because in respect of sports too, the state has lowered the criterion for those enjoying vertical classifi cation, under Article 15 (4). In such event, it was open to the state to lower the eligibility criterion, for sports quota, to other candidates too; the dissimilarity in treatment is therefore, egregious. Moreover, the record indicates that except for the academic years 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2023-24, for all the previous years, the eligibility prescribed was lower; indeed, for 2020-21, 2021-22 and 2022-23, the criterion was “10+2 Pass”. Lastly, the sports policy, itself underlines that the quota would be available to students who “pass their qualifying examination from schools/colleges recognised by the Chandigarh administration” or had studied in Chandigarh for two preceding years. Requiring all candidates to possess a fulfi l a certain eligibility standard- such as the one, prescribed in the sports policy, of 2023 (alluded to) or the qualifying marks prescribed by the concerned Board, or university, to pass in the concerned subjects is entirely diff erent from the prescription of a uniform standard, far higher than the such a minimum threshold. The imposition of the minimum 75% eligibility condition, therefore, does not DEV GUPTA v. PEC UNIVERSITY OF TECHNOLOGY 245 AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] subserve the object of introducing the sports quota, but is, rather destructive of it; the criterion, in that sense subverted the object and is discriminatory; it therefore, falls afoul of the equality clause, in Article 14 of the Constitution.