In this regard, we must examine the applicability of the proviso to condition No.2 stipulated thereunder which came to be introduced through the amendment in the year 1969. 20. According to the aforesaid proviso, if the holding of the landlord does not exceed one economic holding and the landlord’s principal source of income is dependent on agriculture or agricultural labor, then, it follows, as per the amended notifi cation, that the conditions mentioned in Section 31A& 31Bshall not govern the present dispute and the lessor’s right to resume land shall be subject to conditions set out in Section 33B(5)(b) and (c). If the holding of the landlord exceeds one economic holding or his principal source of income is not dependent on agriculture, then, Section 31A-31D will govern the present dispute. 21. The fact fi nding authorities have concluded that the landlord holds 13 acres of jirayat land, apart from the land leased out to the tenant under the two lease deeds. The defi nition of ‘economic holding’ in Section 2(6A) requires us to account for the total land held by a person, whether as an owner or tenant. There is no defi nition in the Act for the expression ‘land held’. However, we fi nd the expression ‘to hold land’ defi ned in the Maharashtra Land Revenue Code, 1966 (for short ‘the Code’). It reads as under: 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. “to hold land” or “to be a land-holder or holder of land” means to be lawfully in possession of land, whether such possession is actual or not.” 22. In Bhavani Housing Cooperative Society v. Bangalore Development Authority, ILR 2006 KAR 1352, the Karnataka High Court while considering the question as to whether the defi nition of a particular phrase can be imported into a particular enactment from a diff erent enactment, has held that if the Acts are pari materia to each other, then the defi nition of one Act can be imported to the other Act. The preamble in the Code suggests that the object of the enactment was ‘to unify and amend the law relating to land and land revenue in the State of Maharashtra.’ The Act, on the other hand, was brought in with the object of amending ‘the law relating to tenancies of agricultural lands and to make certain other provisions in regard to those lands’. Under several provisions of the Act, reference is required to be made to the Code. In that sense, the provisions contained in the Act and the Code operate in an overlapping sphere and fertilize each other. The words used in the Code and the expressions appearing under the Act, when read harmoniously, it would indicate that the expressions in both the enactments are complementary and supplementory to each other. Therefore, it would not be incorrect to say that the Act and Code are in pari materia to each other, and therefore, we proceed to import the defi nition of ‘to hold land’ from the Code and import it for the purpose of interpreting the phrase, ‘economic holding’ in the Act.