A combined reading of Rules 2, 7, and 11A C indicates that the postings within the State Cadre as well as Joint Cadre of a Constituent State shall be made by the “Government of that State”, that is, by the duly elected government. In our case, it shall be the Government of NCTD. It is accordingly held that references to “State Government” in relevant Rules of All India Services or Joint Cadre Services, of which NCTD is a part D or which are in relation to NCTD, shall mean the Government of NCTD. [Para 161][580-C-H; 581-A-B] 1.3 In light of Article 239AA and the 2018 Constitution Bench , the Lieutenant Governor is bound by the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers of NCTD in relation to E matters within the legislative scope of NCTD. As NCTD has legislative power over “services” (excluding ‘public ’, ‘police’, and ‘land’) under Entry 41 in List II, the Lieutenant Governor shall be bound by the decisions of GNCTD on services. To clarify, any reference to “Lieutenant Governor” over services F (excluding services related to ‘public ’, ‘police’ and ‘land’) in relevant Rules shall mean Lieutenant Governor acting on behalf of GNCTD. [Para 162][581-C-D] 2. In view of the discussion above, the conclusions are as follows: (a) There does not exist a homogeneous class of Union G Territories with similar governance structures; (b) NCTD is not similar to other Union Territories. By virtue of Article 239AA, NCTD is accorded a “sui generis” status, setting it apart from other Union Territories; (c) The Legislative Assembly of NCTD H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 499 has competence over entries in List II and List III except for A the expressly excluded entries of List II. In addition to the Entries in List I, Parliament has legislative competence over all matters in List II and List III in relation to NCTD, including the entries which have been kept out of the legislative domain of NCTD by virtue of Article 239AA(3)(a); (d) The executive power of NCTD B is co-extensive with its legislative power, that is, it shall extend to all matters with respect to which it has the power to legislate; (e) The Union of India has executive power only over the three entries in List II over which NCTD does not have legislative competence; (f) The executive power of NCTD with respect to entries in List II and List III shall be subject to the executive C power expressly conferred upon the Union by the Constitution or by a law enacted by Parliament; (g) The phrase ‘insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories’ in Article 239AA(3) cannot be read to further exclude the legislative power of NCTD over entries in the State List or Concurrent List, over and above D those subjects which have been expressly excluded; (h) With reference to the phrase “Subject to the provisions of this Constitution” in Article 239AA(3), the legislative power of NCTD is to be guided, and not just limited, by the broader principles and provisions of the Constitution; and (i) NCTD has legislative E and executive power over “Services”, that is, Entry 41 of List II of the Seventh Schedule because: (i) The definition of State under Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act 1897 applies to the term “State” in Part XIV of the Constitution.