): When a non- signatory person or entity is arrayed as a party at Section 8 or Section 11 stage, the referral court should prima facie determine the validity or existence of the arbitration agreement, as the case may be, and leave it for the arbitral tribunal to decide whether the non-signatory is bound by the COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 627 arbitration agreement – At the referral stage, the referral court should leave it for the arbitral tribunal to decide whether the non-signatory is bound by the arbitration agreement. [Paras 163, 165] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.7 – Requirement of a written arbitration agreement u/s.7 – Eff ect: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The requirement of a written arbitration agreement u/s.7 does not exclude the possibility of binding non-signatory parties. [Para 165] Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine – Whether the principle of alter ego or piercing the corporate veil can be the basis for application of the group of companies doctrine: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The principle of alter ego disregards the corporate separateness and the intentions of the parties in view of the overriding considerations of equity and good faith – In contrast, the group of companies doctrine facilitates the identifi cation of the intention of the parties to determine the true parties to the arbitration agreement without disturbing the legal personality of the entity in question – The principle of alter ego or piercing the corporate veil cannot be the basis for the application of the group of companies doctrine. [Paras 104, 165] Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine – Factors to be considered for application of the doctrine – Conduct of the non- signatory parties – Relevance: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The participation of the non-signatory in the performance of the underlying contract is the most important factor to be considered by the courts and tribunals – The intention of the parties to be bound by an arbitration agreement can be gauged from the circumstances that surround the participation of the non-signatory party in the negotiation, performance, and termination of the underlying contract containing such agreement – The non-signatory’s participation in the negotiation, performance, or termination of the contract can give rise to the implied consent of it being bound by the contract – Conduct of the 628 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. non-signatory parties could be an indicator of their consent to be bound by the arbitration agreement. [Paras 118, 125 and 165] Arbitration – Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.2(1)(h) and s.7 – Group of companies doctrine – Has independent existence: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.