68. Section 47 of the Act comes under Chapter VI which deals with control of development and use of land. It declares that afterthe B coming into operation of any development plan in any area, any person, other than the government or local authority, cannot use or cause to be used any land otherwise in accordance with the development plan.This would mean that once a development plan which includesa master plan comes into operation which happens on the approval of the government C being published under Section 30 of the Act in the Gazette,Development activities must be carried on only in accordance with the terms of the master plan. Section 48 is intended to place restrictions on buildings and land when a notice in the Gazette is published under Section 26, inter alia. With the publication of the notice which is a prelude to the coming into operation of the plan under Section 30, Section 48 prohibits the D erection of any building or other work or other excavationas enumerated therein except with a written permission of the planning authority and subject to such conditions. Section 49 provides for application for such permission when notice of preparation of a master plan, interalia, is published under Section 26 of the Act inviting the restrictions contemplated E in Section 48. It is dealing with such a situation, namely, when the master plan, inter alia, has not come into operation and only a notice is published under Section 26, inter alia, that Section 49(2) provides for three matters which are to guide the planning authority in deciding whether permission should be granted or not. They are as follows: - F i.The purpose. ii.The suitability of the place for such purpose. iii. The future development and maintenance of the planning area. 69. Section 50 provides that the permission granted under Section 49 is to remain in force for a period of three years from the date of G permission. It can be extended but subject to a maximum period of three years.Section 52 provides for an obligation to acquire land or building. It operates in the following circumstances. A land may be required or reserved or designated in any development plan which includes master plan. A person must be interested in the land or building which is so H 1090 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A required, reserved or designated in such plan. He must have made an application seeking permission.The application must have been either refused or granted, subject to conditions. For the section to operate the following further conditions must exist. The refusal to grant permission should result in the land or building becoming incapable of reasonably beneficial use in the condition in which the land is.This means that as a B result of the land or building being required, reserved or designated in the plan, the person interested in the land or building is unable to use the land for which he could have used, but for the requirement, reservation or designation in the plan, and it has resulted in the rejection of his application for permission to develop the property.