1 and defended the High Court granting pre- arrest bail with the following submissions: i. The allegations levelled against Respondent No. 1 are false and concocted. Respondent No. 1 never raised any demand G for gratification as alleged by the complainant. Respondent No. 1 had no connection with the search and seizure action 2 2021 SCC OnLine SC 955. 3 (2014) 2 SCC 171. H 4 (2012) 8 SCC 730. CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH 489 KARNANI & ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] taken against the complainant’s company in September 2021 A or with the preparation of the appraisal report. Respondent No. 1 is not the Assessing Officer of the complainant’s case and the matter is entrusted to some other officer; ii. There is no evidence of demand or acceptance of bribe which are sine qua non for establishing the offence. In B trap cases under Section 7 of Prevention of Corruption Act, the conversation of demand is to be recorded by the complainant in the presence of independent panchas and the trap laying Officer has to ensure that there is no possibility of any tampering. In the present case, the voice C recording of the alleged demand has been done without any police involvement and thus, holds no evidentiary value. The alleged deposit of the amount was made in an Angadia firm which is unknown to Respondent No. 1 and cannot be termed as acceptance of bribe. Respondent No. 1 has no connection with Malav Ajitbhai Mehta, who is stated to be D the owner of the account wherein the amount was deposited and Respondent No. 1 was not present at the site of the Angadia firm; iii. The complainant has animosity with Respondent No. 1 due to the past survey action taken for the financial year E 2018-19 against his company which led to disclosure of additional income of Rs. 50 crores. This fact has not been disclosed in the FIR. The complainant has falsely implicated Respondent No. 1 due to his apprehensions that Respondent No. 1 will impose huge tax liability on him & F his company; iv. A perusal of FIR No. 12/2022 shows that it was registered on 4th October, 2022 at 9:30 pm while the acts of the alleged demand, laying down of the trap, deposit of money at Dhara Angadia and the raid at Respondent No. 1’s office occurred G on 3rd October, 2022 and during the daytime on 4th October, 2022. Additionally, there is no record of the complainant meeting police officials prior to the registration of FIR. The delay in registration of FIR which is more than 24 hours after the alleged demand of illegal gratification, has not been explained; H 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A v. Only Respondent No. 1 is sought to be arrested by the CBI. The owner or employees of Dhara Angadia firm have not been arrested and the High Court granting anticipatory bail to Malav Mehta has not been challenged by the CBI before this Court; B vi.