The period of separation should be sufficiently long, and anything above six years or more will be a relevant factor. But these facts have to be evaluated keeping in view the economic F and social status of the parties, including their educational qualifications, whether the parties have any children, their age, educational qualification, and whether the other spouse and children are dependent, in which event how and in what manner the party seeking divorce intends to take care and provide for the spouse or the children. Question of custody and G welfare of minor children, provision for fair and adequate alimony for the wife, and economic rights of the children and other pending matters, if any, are relevant considerations. We would not like to codify the factors so as to curtail exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the 52 (2019) 9 SCC 409. H 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Constitution of India, which is situation specific. Some of the factors mentioned can be taken as illustrative, and worthy of consideration. 34.Towards the end, for the sake of completeness and to avoid confusion and debate on the ratio we have expounded, we would like to examine a few decisions, in which this Court had refused to exercise B jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India or dispense with the period of six months for moving the second motion. In Manish Goel (supra), a division bench of this Court has held that power and jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, though couched in the widest possible terms and plenary in nature, is discretionary. Thus, extraordinary care and caution must be exercised, and unless it is shown C that exceptional and special circumstances exist to demonstrate that substantial and grave injustice has been rendered, this Court should not review/interfere with the decision appealed against. Article 136 of the Constitution of India should not be used to short-circuit the legal procedure prescribed. The power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India D was summarised to observe that generally, this Court would not pass an in contravention or ignorance of a statutory provision, or merely on sympathetic grounds. However, the bench did not specifically examine the question of whether the period prescribed under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act is mandatory or directory in nature, and if directory, whether the same could be dispensed with by the High Court in exercise E of its writ/appellate jurisdiction.53 Further, the two judges’ bench did not exercise extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, observing that it was not a case where there was any obstruction to the stream of justice, or there was injustice to the parties requiring the court to grant equitable relief. The contingencies to exercise of power F under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India were not established. 35. In Hitesh Bhatnagar v. Deepa Bhatnagar54, one of the parties had withdrawn the consent before the stage of second motion, and therefore, the decree of divorce could not be passed.