The issue involved in the present reference relates to a matter of procedure, and not the two aspects covered by sub-article (1) of Article 20 of the Constitution. 32. Learned counsel for the parties have also briefl y referred to Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897. It would be appropriate to reproduce the said provision hereunder: “Where this Act, or any Central Act or Regulation made after the commencement of this Act, repeals any enactment hitherto made or hereafter to be made, then, unless a diff erent intention appears, the repeal shall not- 54 In the present case, we need not examine-when an off ence is a continuous off ence, an aspect and matter of considerable debate. 55 See T. Barai Vs. Henry Ah Hoe, (1983) 1 SCC 177 and Pratap Singh Vs. State of Jharkhand, (2005) 3 SCC 551. The latter refers to several s. 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time at which the repeal takes eff ect; or (b) aff ect the previous operation of any enactment so repealed or anything duly done or suff ered thereunder; or (c) aff ect any right, privilege, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under any enactment so repealed; or (d) aff ect any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect of any off ence committed against any enactment so repealed; or (e) aff ect any investigation, legal proceeding or remedy in respect of any such right, privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment as aforesaid; and any such investigation, legal proceeding or remedy may be instituted, continued or enforced, and any such penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be imposed as if the repealing Act or Regulation had not been passed.” A plain reading of the above provision indicates that the repeal of an enactment shall not aff ect previous operation, unless a diff erent intention appears. It may be appropriately noted here that the present case does not involve repeal or revival of any enactment but is a case where a Constitution Bench of this Court has declared a statutory provision as invalid and unconstitutional being hit by Article 14 of the Constitution. As such Section 6 of the 1897 Act will have no application. 33. At this stage, it would be appropriate to briefl y refer to the case law on the above point regarding applicability of Article 20 of the Constitution. (i) In the case of Rao Shiv Bahadur Singh (supra), the Constitution Bench, as far back as 1953, was dealing with the eff ect of Article 20(1) of the Constitution raised under two separate circumstances. The fi rst being that the Court which recorded the conviction had been conferred jurisdiction much after the off ence had taken place and at the time of the off ence the forum was diff erent. The other issue raised with regard to Article 20(1) of the Constitution was that although the off ence had been committed in the month of March and April 1949 but by way of an ordinance which came into force in CBI v. R.R.