The Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956 deleted Schedule B VII List I Entry 33, List II Entry 36 and reworded List III Entry 42 relating to “acquisition and requisitioning of property”. The right to property being no more a fundamental right, a legislation enacted under the authority of law as provided in Article 300-A of the Constitution is not amenable to judicial review merely for alleged C violation of Part III of the Constitution. xxx xxx xxx 73. It was further submitted that the inherent powers of public purpose and eminent domain are embodied in Article 300-A, and Entry 42, List III, “acquisition and requisitioning of property” which D necessarily connotes that the acquisition and requisitioning of property will be for a public use and for compensation and whenever a person is deprived of his property, the limitations as implied in Article 300-A as well as Entry 42, List III will come into the picture and the Court can always examine the legality and E validity of the legislation in question. It was further submitted that awarding nil compensation is squarely amenable to judicial review under Articles 32 and 226 of the Constitution of India. xxx xxx xxx 77. Article 31(2) of the Constitution has since been repealed by F the Constitution (Forty-fourth Amendment) Act, 1978. It is to be noted that Article 300-A was inserted by the Constitution (Forty- fourth Amendment) Act, 1978 by practically re-inserting Article 31(1) of the Constitution. Therefore, right to property is no longer a fundamental right but a right envisaged and conferred by the G Constitution and that also by retaining only Article 31(1) of the Constitution and specifically deleting Article 31(2), as it stood. In view of the aforesaid position the entire concept of right to property has to be viewed with a different mindset than the mindset which was prevalent during the period when the concept of eminent H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A domain was the embodied provision of fundamental rights. But even now as provided under Article 300-A of the Constitution the State can proceed to acquire land for specified use but by enacting a law through State Legislature or by Parliament and in the manner having force of law.” B 113. The Court also reiterated the distinction between ‘no compensation’ and ‘Nil compensation’, as laid down in K.T. Plantations (supra). The Court proceeded to find that it was a case of ‘no compensation’ at all, and therefore, it attracted the vice of illegal deprivation of property and gave relief on the said basis. This is after finding that the property in question was a productive asset. C 114. In W.P. No. 591/15, the challenge is to Regulation 29(7)(a) and Annexure XX. It is first necessary to notice the scheme of Regulation 29(7). “29(7) (a) The space set apart for roads (except those which D may remain private) and the 10% area reserved for recreational purposes shall be transferred to the Authority or Agency or the Local Body designated by the Authority free of cost through a registered gift deed before the actual approval of the layout under the provisions of the T & CP Act.