Moreover, none of the provisions of the Stamp Act, 1899 have the effect of rendering a F document invalid or void ab initio. G. The Statutory Scheme of the Arbitration Act, 1996 33. It is apposite to refer to the parliamentary intent behind the enactment of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which replaced the Arbitration Act, 1940. The first law on the subject was the Arbitration Act, 1899 G with limited application in the Presidency towns of Calcutta, Bombay and Madras. Thereafter, the second schedule of the provisions of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 dealt with arbitration. The major consolidated legislation was the Arbitration Act, 1940 which was based 39 Justice G.P. Singh: Principles of Statutory Interpretation,(LexisNexis,2016) at P. 46; H 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A on the (English) Arbitration Act, 1940. The Law Commission in its 246th LCI Report (supra) notes that this arbitral regime was based on the mistrust of the arbitral process and “The 1996 Act is based on the UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 1985 and the UNCITRAL Conciliation Rules, 1980.” The relevant part of the Statement of Object and Reasons is extracted below: B (i) to comprehensively cover international commercial arbitration and conciliation as also domestic arbitration and conciliation; (ii) to make provision for an arbitral procedure which is fair, efficient and capable of meeting the needs of the specific C arbitration; (iii) to provide that the arbitral tribunal gives reasons for its arbitral award; (iv) to ensure that the arbitral tribunal remains within the limits of its jurisdiction; D (v) to minimise the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process; (vi) to permit an arbitral tribunal to use mediation, conciliation or other procedures during the arbitral proceedings to encourage settlement of disputes; E (vii) to provide that every final arbitral award is enforced in the same manner as if it were a decree of the court; (viii) to provide that a settlement agreement reached by the parties as a result of conciliation proceedings will have the same status F and effect as an arbitral award on agreed terms on the substance of the dispute rendered by an arbitral tribunal; and (ix) to provide that, for purposes of enforcement of foreign awards, every arbitral award made in a country to which one of the two International Conventions relating to foreign arbitral G awards to which India is a party applies, will be treated as a foreign award.” [emphasis supplied] 34. Further, on reading Article 5 of the Model Law and Section 5 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, which cover the provisions for judicial H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 447 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] intervention in arbitral proceedings, it is clear that the Parliament went A beyond Article 5 of the UNCITRAL Model law and added a non-obstante clause. To substantiate this point, it is pertinent to quote the provisions in full. Article 5 of the UNCITRAL Model Law, 1985 reads as under: B “ Article 5.