The principles of natural justice G must be read into unoccupied interstices of the statute, unless there is a clear mandate to the contrary. No form or procedure should ever be permitted to exclude the presentation of a litigant’s defence or stand. Even in the 42 (2004) 2 SCC 447 H 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A absence of a provision in procedural laws, power inheres in every tribunal/court of a judicial or quasi-judicial character, to adopt modalities necessary to achieve requirements of natural justice and fair play to ensure better and proper discharge of their duties. Procedure is mainly grounded on the principles of natural justice irrespective of the extent of its application by express provision in B that regard in a given situation. It has always been a cherished principle. Where the statute is silent about the observance of the principles of natural justice, such statutory silence is taken to imply compliance with the principles of natural justice where substantial rights of parties are considerably C affected. The application of natural justice becomes presumptive, unless found excluded by express words of statute or necessary intendment. Its aim is to secure justice or to prevent miscarriage of justice. Principles of natural justice do not supplant the law, but supplement it. These rules operate only in areas not covered by any law validly made. D They are a means to an end and not an end in themselves. […] (emphasis supplied) 57. As a counter to the above legal position, the RBI and lender banks have contended that the principles of natural justice could be E excluded in cases where there is a requirement of promptitude or exigent action. In support of the submission, the RBI and banks have relied upon Ajit Kumar Nag v. General Manager (PJ), Indian Oil Corp. Ltd43, which in turn relied on the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Union of India v. Tulsiram Patel.44 In Tulsiram Patel (supra), this Court observed that a right to a prior notice and an opportunity to be F heard could be excluded if allowing for such a right would obstruct the taking of prompt action: 101. […] So far as the audi alteram partem rule is concerned, both in England and in India, it is well established that where a right to a prior notice and an opportunity to be heard before an G is passed would obstruct the taking of prompt action, such a right can be excluded. This right can also be excluded where the nature of the action to be taken, its object and purpose and the scheme of the relevant statutory provisions warrant its exclusion; 43 (2005) 7 SCC 764 H 44 (1985) 3 SCC 398 STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 517 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] nor can the audi alteram partem rule be invoked if importing it A would have the effect of paralysing the administrative process or where the need for promptitude or the urgency of taking action so demands, […] 58.