thereby making the process simpler and quicker; (vi) introduction of stringent penal provisions to check illegal mining prescribing higher penalties up to Rs 5 lakhs per hectare and imprisonment up to 5 years; and (vii) further empowering the State Government to set up Special Courts for trial of off ences under the Act.” 14. Thus, the object and purpose of the Amendment Act, 2015 is to ensure that allocation of mineral resources is done through auctioning. This is the reason why sub-section (1) to Section 10-A of the MMDR Act, 1957 mandates that all applications received prior to 12.01.2015 shall become ineligible. The exceptions or the saving clause applies to three kinds of situations specifi ed in sub-section (2) to Section 10-A of the MMDR Act. 1957. The fi rst category is where an application has been received under Section 11-A of the MMDR Act,1957. The second category is where a reconnaissance permit or a prospecting licence has been granted the permit holder or the licensee has the right to obtain a prospecting licence followed by a mining lease and the State Government is satisfi ed that the permit holder or the licensee has complied with the requirements specifi ed in sub-clauses (i) to (iv) of clause (b) of sub-section (2) to Section 10-A of the MMDR Act, 1957. The reason for protecting this class of cases is on account of the fact that they had altered their position by spending money 300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. on reconnaissance operations or prospecting operations. Accordingly, the principle of legitimate expectation is applied. The third category is where the Central Government had already communicated their previous approval or the State Government had issue Letter of Intent for grant of mining lease before coming into force of the Amendment Act 2015. The raison dêtre, it is observed therein, is that certain rights had accrued to these applicants inasmuch as all necessary procedures and formalities had been complied with and only formal lease remains to be executed. 15. Delving on the question of whether the letter for approval dated 22.05.2014 granted by the State Government can be treated as a Letter of Intent predicated on the words by whatever name, which expression, it was submitted, should be given a broad interpretation in view of the words ‘by whatever name called’ was examined in-depth and in detail. Reference was made to the legal dictionary for the meaning of the term ‘Letter of Intent’ as a preliminary understanding between the parties who intend to make a contract or join together for further action. Reference was also made to decisions of this Court in Rishi Kiran Logistics Private Limited v. Board of Trustees of Kandla Port Trust and Others16 and Rajasthan Cooperative Dairy Federation Limited v. Maha Laxmi Mingrate Marketing Service Private Limited and Others17 However, the said contention was rejected inter alia holding as under: “26. Applying the aforesaid meaning, can it be said that Letter dated 24-5-2014 of the State Government would constitute a letter of intent?