E Provided further that ‘standing s’’ shall not be inconsistent with the rules concerning transaction of business.” (emphasis supplied) F 91. The Rule provides that the Lieutenant Governor may issue standing s relating to “his executive functions”, which must be consistent with the Rules of Business as a whole. As an exception to the Rule, only “in respect of matters connected with ‘public ’, ‘police’ and ‘land’”, which are matters outside the legislative domain of NCTD under Article 239AA(3)(a), he may “exercise his executive functions to G the extent delegated to him by the President”. The second part of this proviso further indicates that in matters outside the legislative domain of NCTD, the Lieutenant Governor may be required to consult with the Chief Minister, if it is so provided under any issued by the President under Article 239 of the Constitution. This Rule thus clarifies that the H 552 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Lieutenant Governor may exercise his executive function in relation to matters outside the legislative purview of NCTD only “to the extent delegated to him by the President”. As a matter of principle, in the discharge of executive functions within the domain of NCTD, the Lieutenant Governor must abide by the “aid and advice” of the Council of Ministers in the manner indicated in the Rules. Rule 46 thus needs to B be construed accordingly. 92. Rule 46 deals with the power of the Lieutenant Governor with respect to persons serving in connection with the “administration” of NCTD. Rule 46 provides that: C “46. (1) With respect to persons serving in connection with the administration of the National Capital Territory, the Lieutenant Governor shall, exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be entrusted to him under the provisions of the rules and s regulating the conditions of service of such personsorby any other D of the President in consultation with the Chief Minister, if it is so provided under any issued by the President under Article 239 of the Constitution. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1) the Lieutenant Governor shall consult the Union Public Service E Commission on all matters on which the Commission is required to be consulted under clause (3) of Article 320 of the Constitution; and in every such case he shall not make any otherwise than in accordance with the advice of the Union Public Services Commission unless authorised to do so by the Central Government. F (3) All correspondence with Union Public Service Commission and the Central Government regarding recruitment and conditions of service of persons serving in connection with the administration of National Capital Territory shall be conducted by the Chief Secretary or Secretary of the Department concerned under the direction of the Lieutenant Governor.” G (emphasis supplied) The Rule provides that the Lieutenant Governor shall exercise such powers and functions with respect to persons serving in the “administration” of NCTD, “as may be entrusted to him under the H provisions of the rules and s regulating the conditions of service of GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 553 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] such persons or by any other of the President”.