H 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Mandatory nature of Section 154(1) of the Code. 14. The question, whether the Police is bound to register a First Information Report (FIR) for a cognizable offence under Section 154 on receiving the information as such or has some latitude for conducting preliminary inquiry before registration of FIR, had led to the decision of B the Constitutional Bench in Lalita Kumari (supra). In this case, one of the arguments raised was that when an innocent person is falsely implicated, he suffers mental tension, loss of reputation and his personal liberty is seriously impaired and, therefore, Section 154 of the Code should be read and interpreted in conformity with the mandate of Article 21 of the Constitution. Harmonizing the delicate balance to be maintained C between the rights of the victim and the accused, it was opined, there are sufficient safeguards provided in the Code itself to protect liberty of an individual against registration of a false case. However, as Section 154 has been drafted keeping in mind the interest of the victim, and their right to have access to fair and independent investigation, the mandatory D registration of FIRs under Section 154 will not contravene Article 21 of the Constitution. Drawing on several earlier s and the language of Section 154 of the Code, it was held that the Police is bound to proceed to conduct investigation, even without receiving information about commission of a cognizable offence if the officer in-charge otherwise suspects the commission of such an offence. The legislative intent is to E ensure that no information of commission of a cognizable offence is ignored and not acted upon, which would otherwise result in unjustified protection of the alleged offender/accused. Every cognizable offence must be promptly investigated in accordance with the law. This being the legal position, there is no reason that there should be any discretion F or option left with the Police to register or not to register an FIR when information is given about commission of a cognizable offence. This interpretation in a way keeps a check on the power of the Police, which is required to protect the liberty of individuals and society rights inherent in a democracy. It is the first step which provides access for justice to a victim and upholds the rule of law, facilitates swift investigation and G sometimes even prevents commission of crime and checks manipulation in criminal cases. 15. To strike a balance, distinction is drawn between power of arrest of an accused person under Section 41 and registration of an FIR under Section 154 of the Code. While registration of an FIR is mandatory, H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 161 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] the arrest of the accused on registration of the FIR is not. FIR is registered A on the basis of information without any qualification like credible, reasonable or true information. Reasonableness or credibility of information is not a condition precedent for registration of the FIR.