Therefore, the passed by the High Court is not liable to be interfered with in exercise of jurisdiction of this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. DISCUSSION 17. We have considered the submissions and have perused the record. As we notice that the of dismissal from service was based on original petitioner’s acceptance of his guilt before the SSFC, before proceeding further, it would be useful to have a glimpse of the relevant provisions of 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the BSF Act, 1968 and the BSF Rules, 1969 concerning a “Security Force Court” and proceedings before it. 18. Section 2 (u) of the BSF Act, 1968 defi nes “Security Force Court” as, “means a court referred to in section 64”. Section 64 of the BSF Act provides: “… there shall be three kinds of Security Force Courts: - (a) General Security Force Courts; (b) Petty Security Force Courts; and (c) Summary Security Force Courts.” 19. Section 87, which applies to all kinds of Security Force Courts, provides that the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (Act No. 1 of 1872) shall, subject to the provisions of the BSF Act, 1968, apply to all proceedings before a Security Force Court. 20. In this case the dismissal was passed by an SSFC. It would thus be appropriate to have a look at the relevant provisions concerning an SSFC. Section 70 provides: - “S.70. Summary Security Force Court.— (1) A Summary Security Force Court may be held by the Commandant of any unit of the Force and he alone shall constitute the Court. (2) The proceedings shall be attended throughout by two other persons who shall be offi cers or subordinate offi cers or one of either, and who shall not as such, be sworn or affi rmed.” 21. Punishments awardable by a Security Force Court are specifi ed in Section 48 of the BSF Act, 1968 which, inter-alia, includes the power to dismiss from service. 22. Section 141 (1) of the BSF Act, 1968 empowers the Central Government to make rules for the purpose of carrying into eff ect the provisions of the BSF Act, 1968. Sub-section (2) of Section 141, inter alia, provides: “(2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power to frame such rules as may provide for,-- UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS v. JOGESHWAR SWAIN 127 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (a) …. (b) …. (c) ….. (d) …… (e) the removal, retirement, release or discharge from the service of persons subject to this Act; (f) …… (g) the convening, constitution, adjournment, dissolution and sittings of Security Force Courts, the procedure to be observed in trials by such courts, the persons by whom an accused may be defended in such trials and the appearance of such persons thereat; (h)……. (i) the forms of s to be made under the provisions of this Act relating to Security Force Courts and the awards and the infl iction of death, imprisonment, and detention (j)….. (k) any matter necessary for the purpose of carrying this Act into execution, as far as it relates to the investigation, arrest, custody, trial, and punishment of off ences triable or punishable under this Act (l)…… (m) the convening of, the constitution, procedure and practice of, Courts of inquiry, the summoning of witnesses before them and the administration of oaths by such Courts (n).