Situations which affect “Public ” are graver than those which affect “law and ” and situations which affect “security of the State” are graver than those which affect “Public ”. It was therefore, observed and held that of all these situations those which affect “security of the State” E are the gravest. The expression “security of the State” does not mean security of the entire country or a whole State and it includes security of the part of the State. Furthermore, it was held that there are various ways in which “security of the State” could be affected such as, by State secrets or information relating to defence production or similar matters being passed on to other countries, whether inimical or not to F our country, or by secret links with terrorists. It was also held that it would be difficult to enumerate the various ways in which the “security of the State” could be affected and the way in which “security of the State” would be affected might be either open or clandestine. In paragraph 142 of Tulsiram Patel’s case (supra) it was further held: G “142. The question under clause (c), however, is not whether the security of the State has been affected or not, for the expression used in clause (c) is “in the interest of the security of the State.” The interest of the security of the State may be affected by actual acts or even the likelihood of such acts H DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 797 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] taking place. Further, what is required under clause (c) is not A the satisfaction of the President or the Governor, as the case may be, that the interest of the security of the State is or will be affected but his satisfaction that in the interest of the security of the State, it is not expedient to hold an inquiry as contemplated by Article 311 (2). The satisfaction of the B President or the Governor must, therefore, be with respect to the expediency or inexpediency of holding an inquiry in the interest of the security of the State. (emphasis added) C 24. We have already taken note of the indisputable and undisputed facts obtained in this case which are relevant for the purpose of consideration of the question with respect to the expediency or inexpediency of holding an inquiry “in the interest of the security of the State.” In view of the situations deducible from the materials on record, we find absolutely no reason to hold that the satisfaction that it is not D expedient to hold an inquiry “in the interest of security of the State” was arrived at without any material. When once it is obvious that circumstances based on materials capable of arriving at a satisfaction that it is not expedient to hold an inquiry “in the interest of the security of the State” are available the decision in holding that it is inexpedient “in E the interest of the security of the State” to hold an inquiry warrants no further scrutiny, rather, it is not fit to be subjected to further judicial review.