At this stage it is required to be noted that in the affidavit filed by the appellant before the High Court, D filed in support of IA No.1, the appellant as such admitted that it received the copy of the award on 24.08.2016. However, according to the appellant, the said award was misplaced and thereafter obtained a fresh copy on 29.12.2016. The learned trial Court observed that in that view of the matter, the period of limitation would commence from 24.08.2016 and 120 days are to be counted from 24.08.2016. E 2.3 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the passed by the learned trial Court refusing to condone the delay in preferring application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act, the appellant herein preferred an appeal before the High Court. F 2.4 Before the High Court, Section 4 of the Limitation Act, 1963 and Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 were pressed into service. By the impugned and the High Court has dismissed the said appeal by observing that the expression “prescribed period” appearing in Section 4 of the Limitation Act cannot be construed to mean anything other than the period of limitation and therefore, any G period beyond the prescribed period, during which the Court or Tribunal has the discretion to allow a person to institute the proceeding, cannot be taken to be “prescribed period”. H 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 2.5 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court, the original applicant has preferred the present appeal. 3. Shri Shyam Diwan, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the appellant and Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned Senior Advocate B has appeared on behalf of the contesting respondent. 4. Shri Shyam Diwan, learned Counsel has submitted that Section 34(3) of the Arbitration Act specifies that the limitation period for filing an application for setting aside the arbitral award under Section 34 is three months from the date on which the party making application has C received the award. However, if the Court is satisfied that the applicant was prevented by sufficient cause from making the application within the said period of three months, the proviso to the Section specifies a further period of 30 days within which the application under Section 34 may be filed/entertained. 4.1 It is submitted that the central question in the present petition D is whether when the last day of condonable period of 30 days falls on a holiday or during a court vacation, would the benefit of Section 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 would be available to the appellant? 4.2 It is submitted that in other words, can the petitioner – appellant file the application on the next date when the Court reopens, in line with E the settled principle that the law does not compel a person to do an impossible act. It is submitted that in the present case the petitioner – appellant had filed the application under Section 34 on the very day when the Court reopened.