The term “consumer” will not bring B an auction-purchaser within the ambit of Clause 4.1.16 as an auction- purchaser does not become a consumer before entering into an agreement with the distribution licensee. 303. According to Clause 4.8.1, a consumer shall not transfer a service connection without the prior consent of the distribution licensee. C It further provides that transfer of a service connection will be effected on application in case the registered consumer is dead or if the ownership or occupation of property has changed or been transferred. In case of a transfer, the clause provides that arrears of every description shall be paid in full together with the transfer fee. However, the said provision D only applies in situations where there has been a transfer of a service connection. In the facts of the present case, we are dealing with a situation where the auction-purchaser applied for a new connection of electricity to the premises. Therefore, Clause 4.8.1 will not be applicable to the facts of the present case. E 304. Clause 4.8.4 provides that a transferee of premises would be liable for the unpaid dues of energy bills of the defaulter transferor only if they continue to use the service connection in the previous name without transferring to their name. The said clause is only applicable where a transferee applies for a transfer of connection, and not where a transferee applies for a new power connection in their own name. F 305. In the present matter, from the perusal of facts, it is evident that the respondent applied for a fresh electricity connection for the premises on 28 December 2006. Therefore, on the date of the submission of the application for electricity by the respondent, the unamended Clause 4.1.11 of the Gujarat Electricity Supply Code was in force, according to G which only the dues of the applicant to the distribution licensee had to be cleared for a new connection or reconnection of electric supply. There was no statutory provision requiring the auction purchasers to clear the arrears of the previous owner as a condition precedent for getting a fresh connection. H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 773 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 306. It was only in 2010 that clause 4.1.11 of the said Electricity A Supply Code was amended which required the subsequent owner of the premises to clear the dues of the previous owner as a condition precedent for receiving a new electricity connection. Thus, at the time when the respondent applied for a fresh connection of electric supply, there was no existing provision requiring the applicant of a new connection to clear B the dues of the previous owner linked to the premises. Therefore, the dated 3 December 2012 of the High Court has to be upheld. The appeal shall stand dismissed. IV. Assam 307. The Assam Electricity Regulatory Commission framed the C AERC Supply Code on 30 August 2004 in exercise of its power under Section 50 of the 2003 Act to provide for recovery of electricity charges.