right to marry a person of their choice, including LGBTQIA+ citizens. The FMA violates the right to dignity and decisional autonomy of LGBTQIA+ persons and is discriminatory. Reliance was placed on National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v. Minister of Home Aff airs [2000] 4 LRC 292; c. The object of the FMA in adopting the scheme of the SMA is to provide a uniform, civil and secular marriage law for a couple, either of whom is an Indian citizen. However, by recognizing marriages only between opposite sex couples, the eff ect of the law is to deny same-sex and gender non-conforming couples the right to marry a person of their choice, solely on grounds of their sexual orientation and gender identity. This is violative of Article 15 of the Constitution; d. The SMA and the FMA are violative of Article 14 of the Constitution because they deny LGBTQIA+ persons the equal protection of laws, are manifestly arbitrary, and fail the rational nexus test. There is no intelligible diff erentia between LGBTQIA+ and non-LGBTQIA+ couples. The object of the FMA is to extend the protection of the Indian Constitution and its laws to a citizen abroad regardless of who they choose to marry and under whichever law they choose to do so, to provide for maximum international validity of a marriage, and in adopting the framework of the SMA, to provide for a uniform, civil and secular law to govern foreign marriages. The exclusion of same- sex and gender non-conforming couples from the FMA has no rational nexus with these objects; e. The FMA is pari materia to the SMA. They must be interpreted similarly with regard to same-sex and gender non-conforming marriages; f. Recognition of marriage of same-sex and gender non-conforming couples under the FMA furthers the comity of nations; and g. The grant of reliefs does not render the provisions of the FMA or other statutes employing gendered terminology unworkable. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1259 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 25. Mr. Anand Grover, learned senior counsel, made the following submissions: a. Marriage remains fundamental to the functioning of the society, and to avail important schemes under the modern nation - state, such as joint tax benefi ts and rights of surrogacy; b. The FMA must be interpreted liberally to advance the cause of society at large. It must not be interpreted to cause hardship; c. The failure of the SMA to recognize same-sex marriages violates Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution because it fails the reasonable classifi cation test, is manifestly arbitrary, and discriminates based on gender identity and sexual orientation; d. The failure of the SMA to recognize same-sex marriages violates Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution because sexuality, gender expression, and marriage are forms of expression; e. The right to intimate associations is protected by Article 19(1) (c) of the Constitution. Reliance was placed on Griswold v. Connecticut 381 US 479 (1965); f. Same-sex marriages or gender non-conforming marriages form a part of Indian tradition and culture.