(b) Whether the of the High Court is erroneous and the findings recorded by the Trial Court has been erroneously reversed by High Court while re-appreciating the said evidence? D Or (c) Whether the High Court has appreciated the evidence in proper manner or the High Court had failed to consider the evidence in proper perspective? DISCUSSION AND FINDING E 11. As the points formulated hereinabove are interlinked and findings being recorded are likely to overlap with each other, we have considered the above points conjointly and answered hereinbelow: RE: POINTS 1 TO 3 F 12. One of the main contentions raised by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant is to the effect that High Court ought not to have interdicted with the of the acquittal passed by the Trial Court and only in the event of of the trial court was riddledwith perversity and the view taken by the Trial Court was not a possible view, same could have been reversed by relying upon the of this G Court in case of Murugesan V. State through the inspector of police1 whereunder it came to be held as follows: “33. The expressions “erroneous”, “wrong” and “possible” are defined in Oxford English Dictionary in the following terms: H 1(2012) 10 SCC 383 SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 411 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] “erroneous.— wrong; incorrect. A wrong.—(1) not correct or true, mistaken. (2) unjust, dishonest, or immoral. possible.—(1) capable of existing, happening, or being achieved. (2) that may exist or happen, but that is not certain or probable.” B 34. It will be necessary for us to emphasize that a possible view denotes an opinion which can exist or be formed irrespective of the correctness or otherwise of such an opinion. A view taken by a court lower in the hierarchical structure may be termed as erroneous or wrong by a superior court upon a mere disagreement. C But such a conclusion of the higher court would not take the view rendered by the subordinate court outside the arena of a possible view. The correctness or otherwise of any conclusion reached by a court has to be tested on the basis of what the superior judicial authority perceives to be the correct conclusion. A possible view, D on the other hand, denotes a conclusion which can reasonably be arrived at regardless of the fact where it is agreed upon or not by the higher court. The fundamental distinction between the two situations have to be kept in mind. So long as the view taken by the trial court can be reasonably formed, regardless of whether the High Court agrees with the same or not, the view taken by the E trial court cannot be interdicted and that of the High Court supplanted over and above the view of the trial court.” 13. It need not be restated that it would be open for the High Court to re-apprise the evidence and conclusions drawn by the Trial Court and in the case of the of the trial court being perverse F that is contrary to the evidence on record, then in such circumstances the High Court would be justified in interfering with the findings of the Trial Court and/or reversing the finding of the Trial Court.