Venugopal, who had also been appointed as an Amicus and after taking us through the material crystallised two aspects as under: a. The Bar Council of India is entitled to make rules under Section 49 of the said Act and the rule-making power of B the Bar Council of India would not be affected after the 1973 Amendment. b. The pre-enrolment training may not be necessary since what is gained through the mandate of the internship is far superior. C 16. The Chairman of the Bar Council of India, Mr. Manan Kumar Mishra, learned Senior Advocate, highlighted the powers of the Bar Council of India to make rules for the implementation of the said Act. Mr. Mishra also relied upon Section 7(1)(g) of the said Act which gives absolute control to the Bar Council of India to exercise supervision and D control over the State Bar Councils. Contra View Point: 17. The significant contra view point was made by the petitioners in T.C. (C) No.13/2011 seeking to contend that since the pre-enrolment E examination was done away in the light of the statutory provisions in V. Sudeer16, the first two questions of the reference need no reconsideration. With respect to third question of the post-enrolment examination for which Rules 9 to 11 have been inserted in Chapter III of Part VI of the Bar Council of India Rules, the plea of striking down was based on the following aspects: F a. Section 16 of the said Act provides for only two categories of advocates, i.e. Senior Advocates and other advocates, and does not provide for any third category of “provisionally enrolled advocates” who shall be finally enrolled after giving the All India Bar Examination. G b. Section 22 of the said Act provides for certificate of enrolment to any person whose name is entered in the roll of advocates maintained by the respective State Bar 16 (supra) H BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 359 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] Council. Hence, once an advocate enters the State Roll, he A is an advocate and there is no bar on his practice. c. Section 24 of the said Act which exhaustively provides for conditions and qualifications for the persons to be admitted as advocates does not set any condition to the effect of clearing any post-enrolment examination for continuing as B an advocate. d. Section 28 of the said Act was amended and the power of State Bar Councils to provide for an examination and training prior to enrolment was done away with. C e. Section 30 of the said Act which provides for right to practice does not provide for clearing an examination to practice. f. Rule 9 of the Bar Council of India Rules is unconstitutional and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution, as a person D graduating before the introduction of the All India Bar Examination and applying for enrolment is not required to take the Examination, whereas those from 2009-2010 are mandated to take the Examination, making the rule discriminatory in nature.