In Gautam Kundu vs. Directorate of Enforcement (Prevention of Money-Laundering Act), Government of India Through Manoj Kumar, Assistant Director, Eastern Region6, it was observed as under: - “30. The conditions specifi ed under Section 45 of PMLA are mandatory and need to be complied with, which is further strengthened by the provisions of Section 65 and also Section 71 of PMLA. Section 65 requires that the provisions of CrPC shall apply insofar as they 6 (2015) 16 SCC 1 828 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act and Section 71 provides that the provisions of PMLA shall have overriding eff ect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force. PMLA has an overriding eff ect and the provisions of CrPC would apply only if they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act. Therefore, the conditions enumerated in Section 45 of PMLA will have to be complied with even in respect of an application for bail made under Section 439 CrPC. That coupled with the provisions of Section 24 provides that unless the contrary is proved, the authority or the Court shall presume that proceeds of crime are involved in money-laundering and the burden to prove that the proceeds of crime are not involved, lies on the appellant.” 13. Keeping in view of the aforestated legal position let us consider the submissions made by the learned counsels for the parties. It is trite that the court while considering an application seeking bail, is not required to weigh the evidence collected by the investigating agency meticulously, nonetheless, the court should keep in mind the nature of accusation, the nature of evidence collected in support thereof, the severity of the punishment prescribed for the alleged off ences, the character of the accused, circumstances which are peculiar to the accused, reasonable possibility of securing the presence of the accused at the trial, reasonable apprehension of the witness being tampered with, the larger interests of the public/State etc. Though, the fi ndings recorded by the Court while granting or refusing bail would be tentative in nature, nonetheless the Court is expected to express prima facie opinion for granting or refusing to grant bail which would demonstrate an application of mind, particularly dealing with the economic off ences. 14. The fi rst and foremost contention raised by learned Senior Counsel Mr. Luthra would be that the appellant was not named in the FIR nor in fi rst three prosecution/ supplementary complaints and has been implicated only on the basis of the statements of witnesses recorded pursuant to the summons issued under Section 50 of the PML Act, without there being any material in support thereof. 15. In our opinion, there is hardly any merit in the said submission of Mr. Luthra. In Rohit Tandon vs. Directorate of Enforcement7, a three 7 (2018) 11 SCC 46 TARUN KUMAR v. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR DIRECTORATE 829 OF ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Judge Bench has categorically observed that the statements of witnesses/ accused are admissible in evidence in view of Section 50 of the said Act and such statements may make out a formidable case about the involvement of the accused in the commission of a serious off ence of money laundering.