In view of the first proviso to Section 4 of the 1991 Act, a shortfall, in terms of the six years stint, may occur. But it is pointed out that as far as possible, appointments are being made so as to fulfil the requirements of the law. In view of the operation of the proviso, resulting E in a compulsory and premature vacating of the Office by the incumbent on attaining the age of 65 years, the term may not last for the full six years, even on the combination of the two appointments, viz., firstly as Election Commissioner and later as Chief Election Commissioner. The learned Attorney General would point out that this Court should not be detained by the said aspect, when the question, which this Court is F concerned with, is different. As far as the criticism launched, both by Shri Prashant Bhushan and Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, that the panel which was considered, betrayed sheer arbitrariness and reinforced the grievance and the complaint of the Writ Petitioners that an undeniable case is made out for this Court to step in and grant relief so that a fair G procedure for selection and appointment is laid down, till a law is made by the Parliament, the learned Attorney General would point out that Civil Servants or IAS Officers are by dint of the experience gathered in the course of their careers, ideally suited for appointment as Election Commissioners and Chief Election Commissioners. They have experience in the matter of the conduct of the elections at different H 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A stages of their career. They operate as observers in States other than their cadre States. The Election Commission is not to be conflated with the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners. The Commission functions as a large team. It is in this regard that Officers of the Civil Services are impeccably poised for being considered under Article 324(2), it is pointed out. B 191. The learned Attorney General would point out that that the panel of Officers, is born out of the database of serving and retired IAS Officers in the position of Secretaries to the Government of India. 192. When it was pointed out that it remained a mystery to the C Court that incongruous with the unambiguous mandate of Section 4 of the 1991 Act, all the panellists were either retired (3 out of four) and the person finally appointed was himself appointed, when he had less than a month for his 60th birthday, it was submitted that the Court must bear in mind that the panel was drawn up from the database of Officers in the rank of Secretaries to the Government of India, both serving and retired, D and drawn up by the Ministry of Law and Justice. When it was further queried as to why the respondent did not appear to exhibit any anxiety to ascertain whether there were Officers, who could be appointed who would be assured the full term of six years, in keeping with the mandate of law, it was submitted that there is a dearth of such Officers.