for the Appellant. Saurabh Mishra, A.A.G., S.N. Bhat, Sr. Adv., Ms. Anuradha Mutatkar, Tarun Kumar Thakur, Sunny Choudhary, Vikas Bansal, Abhinav Shrivastava, Shivang Rawat, Rahul Kaushik, Rajesh Kandari, Vikrant Singh Bais, M. P. Devanath, Abhishek Anand, Rahul Kumar, Advs. for the Respondents. SOUTH EASTERN COALFIELDS LTD. v. STATE OF 769 MADHYA PRADESH & ORS. / OF THE SUPREME COURT 1. This batch of appeals arises from a dated 21 July 2010 by a Division Bench of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in a set of petitions under Article 226 of the Constitution. 2. Section 132 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act 1956 provides for “taxes to be imposed under this Act”. Sub-section 6(n) empowers the Corporation to levy “a terminal tax” on goods and animals exported from the limits of the Corporation. A corresponding provision is contained in the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act 1961; Section 127(6) (n) empowers the Municipal Council to imposed “a terminal tax on goods or animals exported from the limits of the Council”. In exercise of the statutory powers conferred by the two statutes, the Terminal Tax (Assessment and Collection) on the Goods Exported from Madhya Pradesh Municipal Limits Rules 1996 have been framed. Section 2(c) defi nes the expression “terminal tax” in the following terms : “(c) “Terminal tax” means the terminal tax on goods exported from the Municipal limit in accordance with the sanction of State Government under clause (o) of sub-section (2) of Section 132 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 and the tax described in clause (xvi) of sub-section (1) of Section 127 of the Madhya Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1961.” 3. The appellant is a company registered under the Companies Act, 1956 and owns the coal mines of Jamuna & Kotma Colliery. The appellant moved the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution seeking to challenge the levy of terminal tax within the limits of the Municipal Council. The plea was rejected by the High Court on the ground that the land from where the appellant was carrying out its coal mining operations fell within the limits of the Municipal Council which has levied the terminal tax. The High Court held that the power of imposing tax was granted by a State statute which was enacted with due legislative competence. It was observed that no exceptions have been notifi ed to the powers of the Municipal Council under any provision of the Constitution. The has been carried in appeal. 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 4. Article 244 of the Constitution provides that the provisions of the Fifth Schedule shall apply to the administration and control of Scheduled Areas and Scheduled Tribes. A notifi cation was issued on 29 February 2003 by the Union Ministry of Law and Justice, in exercise of the powers conferred by Paragraph 6(2) of the Fifth Schedule to the Constitution of India, by which the Scheduled Areas (States of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh) , 2003 was promulgated. The areas specifi ed in the notifi cation were redefi ned to be the Scheduled Areas within the States of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Madhya Pradesh.