It has been held that though the Affinity Test may be used to corroborate the documentary evidence, it should not be the sole criteria to reject the D claim. 14. It will further be apposite to refer to the recent of this Court in the case of Mah. Adiwasi Thakur Jamat Swarakshan Samiti (supra), wherein this Court observed thus:- “25. Now, we come to the controversy regarding the affinity test. E In clause (5) of Paragraph 13 of the decision in the case of Kumari Madhuri Patil, (1994) 6 SCC 241, it is held that in the case of Scheduled Tribes, the Vigilance Cell will submit a report as regards peculiar anthropological and ethnological traits, deities, rituals, customs, mode of marriage, death ceremonies, methods of burial F of dead bodies etc. in respect of the particular caste or tribe. Such particulars ascertained by the Vigilance Cell in respect of a particular Scheduled Tribe are very relevant for the conduct of the affinity test. The Vigilance Cell, while conducting an affinity test, verifies the knowledge of the applicant about deities of the community, customs, rituals, mode of marriage, death ceremonies G etc. in respect of that particular Scheduled Tribe. By its very nature, such an affinity test can never be conclusive. If the applicant has stayed in bigger urban areas along with his family for decades or if his family has stayed in such urban areas for decades, the applicant may not have knowledge of the aforesaid facts. It is H true that the Vigilance Cell can also question the parents of the PRIYA PRAMOD GAJBE v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 1267 AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] applicant. But in a given case, even the parents may be unaware A for the reason that for several years they have been staying in bigger urban areas. On the other hand, a person may not belong to the particular tribe, but he may have a good knowledge about the aforesaid aspects. Therefore, Shri Shekhar Naphade, the learned senior counsel, is right when he submitted that the affinity B test cannot be applied as a litmus test. We may again note here that question of conduct of the affinity test arises only in those cases where the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the material produced by the applicant.” 15. It could thus clearly be seen that this Court has held that if the appellant has stayed in bigger urban areas along with his family for decades C or if his family has stayed in such urban areas for decades, the applicant may not have knowledge of the aforesaid facts. This Court has, therefore, held that the Affinity Test cannot be applied as a litmus test. 16. Insofar as the contention with regard to area restriction is concerned, it could be seen that Mana Tribe is found at Entry No.18 in D the Presidential with respect to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes for the State of Maharashtra. It could be seen that in the said entries, there is no area restriction with regard to any of the tribes mentioned therein.