H 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (b) The operation of the provisions suspended by virtue of Clause (a) shall revive upon the dissolution of the Authority under Section 58, the provisions of [Sections 6 and 24 of the United Provinces General Clauses Act, 1904] shall apply in relation to the cesser of application of the corresponding provisions of this Act as if such cesser amounted to a repeal of B these provisions of this Act by an Uttar Pradesh Act. (c) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of Clauses (a) and (b), and bye-laws, directions or regulations under the [U.P. Municipalities Act, 1916] or the Uttar Pradesh (Regulation of Building Operations) Act, 1958 or the [U.P. C Municipal Corporation Act, 1959) as the case may be, and in force on the date immediately before the date of commencement of this Act, shall, insofar as they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, continue in force, until altered, repealed or amended by any competent authority D under this Act). (6) Notwithstanding the provisions of Sub-sections (1) and (2) (a) anything done or any action taken (including any notification issued or or scheme made or permission granted) under E any of the enactments referred to in Sub-sections (1) and shall, so far as it is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Act continue in force and be deemed to have been done or take under the provisions of this Act unless and until it is superseded by anything done or any action taken under the provisions this Act; F Therefore, as per Section 15(2-A) of the Act, 1973, the Development Authority can levy only those charges, namely, development fees, mutation charges, stacking fees and water fees. The Act, 1973 does not permit levy of other charges other than provided under Section 15(2-A) of the Act, 1973. G 9. Insofar as the reliance placed upon Section 41 of the Act, 1973 by the State as well as the Development Authorities is concerned, at the outset, it is required to be noted that the power exercisable under Section 41 by the State, as such, are supervisory in nature and under the said provision, the State Government can issue various directions to the Development Authorities for implementation of the provisions of the said H MATHURA VRINDAVAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & 913 ANOTHER v. RAJESH SHARMA AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] Act. In para 9 in the case of Malti Kaul (supra), it is observed and held A as under: “9. Section 41 envisages control by the State Government in implementation of the provisions of the Act. Under sub-section (1) thereof, the authority, the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman shall carry out such directions as may be issued to it/him from B time to time by the State Government for the efficient administration of this Act. Section 56 gives power to make regulations under the Act. Sub-section (1) thereof provides that any authority may, with the previous approval of the State Government, make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act and C the rules made thereunder, for the administration of the affairs of the authority.