It is undoubtedly true that Section 19 also contemplates that the wronged party can insist upon the contract being performed and E further, however, persevere in requiring that he be placed in the same position if he had not been led astray by the misrepresentation. There may be no dispute about this principle. However, we have noticed the various clauses as contained in the disclaimer clauses. When a party to the contract states that what is contained in the first WAPCOS report and anything else as contemplated in the RFP and the PPA does not F amount to a representation, we are unable to agree with the contention that it would still be considered as a representation within the meaning of Section 18 and thereby leading to a claim under Section 19 of the Contract Act. Therefore, we find that the contentions which the first respondent seeks to raise under the provisions of Section 18 and 19 G untenable. (94) Reliance was placed on the of this Court PTC India Limited v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (2010) 4 SCC 603. In PTC India Limited4, the actual question which arose was as to 4 PTC India Limited v. Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (2010) 4 SCC 603 H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 63 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] whether the appellate Tribunal under the Act has jurisdiction under Section A 111 to examine the validity of regulations framed in exercise of power under Section 178 of the Act. The further question which arose was whether Parliament has conferred power of judicial review on the Tribunal under Section 121 of the Act. In the course of this , the Court inter alia held as follows: B “53. Applying the abovementioned tests to the scheme of the 2003 Act, we find that under the Act, the Central Commission is a decision-making as well as regulation-making authority, simultaneously. Section 79 delineates the functions of the Central Commission broadly into two categories —mandatory functions C and advisory functions. Tariff regulation, licensing (including inter- State trading licensing), adjudication upon disputes involving generating companies or transmission licensees fall under the head “mandatory functions” whereas advising the Central Government on formulation of National Electricity Policy and tariff policy would fall under the head “advisory functions”. In this sense, the Central D Commission is the decision-making authority. Such decision-making under Section 79(1) is not dependent upon making of regulations under Section 178 by the Central Commission. Therefore, functions of the Central Commission enumerated in Section 79 are separate and distinct from functions of the Central Commission under E Section 178. The former are administrative/adjudicatory functions whereas the latter are legislative. 55. To regulate is an exercise which is different from making of the regulations. However, making of a regulation under Section 178 is not a precondition to the Central Commission taking any steps/measures under Section 79(1). As stated, if there is a F regulation, then the measure under Section 79(1) has to be in conformity with such regulation under Section 178.