Thereafter, it becomes enforceable and it can be acted upon, as held in Hindustan Steel (supra). E J. THE INDIAN CONTRACT ACT, 1872 - A SURVEY; DISSECTION OF GARWARE, VIDYA DROLIA AND N.N. GLOBAL 53. Section 2(g) of the Contract Act provides that an agreement, F not enforceable by law, is said to be void, whereas, Section 2(h) declares that an agreement enforceable by law, is a contract. Section 2(j) of the same Act provides that a contract, which ceases to be enforceable by law, becomes void, when it ceases to be enforceable. We may, at once, notice the distinction between an agreement and a contract. Not every agreement is a contract. Only those agreements, which are enforceable, G are treated as contracts. The result of a contract, ceasing to be enforceable, is that, the contract becomes void. Next, we may notice Section 10. It reads as follows: “What agreements are contracts. - All agreements are contracts, if they are made by the free consent of parties, competent to H 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A contract, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful object and are not hereby expressly declared to be void. Nothing herein contained shall affect any law in force in India, and not hereby expressly repealed, by which any contract is required to be made in writing or in the presence of witnesses, or B any law relating to the registration of documents.” Section 10, in the first part, when broken down into parts, consists of the following: ‘Agreement must be made by free consent of parties’. 54. Section 14 defines ‘free consent’ and it reads: “14. ‘Free consent’ defined. -Consent is said to be free when it is C not caused by- (1) Coercion, as defined in section 15, or (2) Undue influence, as defined in section 16, or (3) Fraud, as defined in section 17, or D (4) Misrepresentation as defined in section 18, or (5) Mistake, subject to the provisions of sections 20, 21 and 22. Consent is said to be so caused when it would not have been given but for the existence of such coercion, undue influence, E fraud, misrepresentation or mistake.” 55. The next part of Section 10 to be noticed is the expression ‘parties competent to contract’. Section 11 of the Contract Act declares that every person is competent to contract, according to the law, to which he is subject, and who is of sound mind and is not disqualified from F contracting by any law to which he is subject. Since Section 11 requires soundness of mind for the person to be competent to contract, Section 12 articulates as to what is sound mind for the purpose of the Contract Act. The next part in Section 10 is that there must be ‘a lawful consideration and a lawful object’. The said aspect is dealt with in Section 23. It reads as follows: G “23. What consideration and objects are lawful, and what not. - The consideration or object of an agreement is lawful, unless- It is forbidden by law; or Is of such a nature that, if permitted, it would defeat the provisions H of any law, or is fraudulent; or M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 339 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.