30. In Mewa Ram & Another5, the accused appellant had exhorted to kill the complainant, but the person killed was someone else. There was no evidence to indicate that the accused-appellant had stated anything about killing the deceased. In that backdrop, this Court while holding that the accused-appellant could not be convicted with the aid of Section 34 of the I.P.C., by placing reliance on earlier decisions of this Court, observed: “12. What is to be noticed from the aforesaid is that exhortation given by appellant Mohan Lal was to kill complainant Harbans Singh. There is no evidence, apart from the said exhortation which has been produced by the prosecution to show that the appellant Mohan Lal had stated anything about the killing of the deceased Deputy Singh. This is the fundamental mistake committed by the Trial Court and repeated by the High Court in using the said exhortation on the part of Mohan Lal insofar as killing of Deputy Singh is concerned. Under what circumstances, Deputy Singh was shot at by Mewa Lal is not discernible from the record when the dispute was between the two brothers (appellants-herein) on the one hand and complainant Harbans Singh on the other. On these facts, it cannot at all be said that there was any common intention of the accused persons to kill Deputy Singh. 13. It is noticed that there is fundamental diff erence between common intention and joint intention. Section 34 of the I.P.C. talks of common intention which is an intention to commit the crime actually committed and each accused person can be convicted of that crime, only if he has participated in that common intention and to fasten with the same liability as that of the main accused who was perpetrator of the crime.” 404 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 31. Reverting to the case at hand, when we examine the facts of this case, we notice that the two deceased were Anil and Vijay. The accused party had no animosity or grudge qua them (i.e., the two deceased). The prosecution evidence is that all the four accused left together from the place where altercation had occurred and soon all of them were seen at the roof-top of PW-2’s house from where Babu Ram opened fi re with a view to teach a lesson to those who had supported the rival faction. Neither PW-2 nor PW-8, whose brother and son, respectively, had died, stated that the two deceased had supported Satpal (i.e., the rival group). Rather, according to them, the two deceased had no enmity with any of the accused persons. Further, statements of witnesses are not consistent as to establish beyond reasonable doubt that the appellants had exhorted Babu Ram to fi re shots at Anil or Vijay i.e., the two deceased. The evidence, which is consistent, is about exhorting Babu Ram not to spare Satpal’s supporters. But there is no evidence that the two deceased were Satpal’s supporters. In our view, that general exhortation is not suffi cient to fasten them with vicarious liability for shots fi red by Babu Ram at the two deceased, particularly, when the testimony of witnesses is not consistent whether the two deceased were shot before or after the exhortation made by the appellants.