In other words, any act or omission which is not specified in the Act and is found to be prejudicial to good and military discipline would invite action under E Section 63. She even went to the extent of pointing out that it can lead to a mutiny. She would submit that an unrestful breakdown has, in fact, occurred. (13) She would further point out that Union of India is faced with the following situation: F If an action is taken under Sections 45 and 63 of the 1950 Act, it is being challenged. The bone of contention raised by the officer/personnel is that the action is tabooed by virtue of the of this Court. This has led to a number of cases piling up. There is a certain amount of chaos. This does not conduce to discipline being maintained in the Armed G Forces. (14) Ms. Madhavi Divan, learned Additional Solicitor General, would submit that this Court may, at least, clarify that the of this Court was not concerned with and does not deal with the provisions in question under the Acts. H JOSEPH SHINE v. UNION OF INDIA 591 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (15) We also have had the benefit of hearing Ms.Anannya Ghosh A and Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned counsel. They are counsel who appear for intervenors. It is pointed out by them that the application for clarification may not be allowed. (16) They would submit that no case is made out for ing clarification. Proceedings would have to be decided on the facts as are B relevant to each case. The application for clarification may not be the solution to the problem which is projected by the applicant. In the individual cases where this question may arise, it is for the applicant to work out its remedies and this Court may not issue an omnibus clarification. (17) Mr. Kaleeswaran Raj, learned counsel, appears for the C petitioner-Joseph Shine in the sought to be clarified. He would submit that the application for clarification may not be entertained. In this regard, he drew our attention to an of this Court in Supertech Limited v. Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association and Others (Miscellaneous Application No. 1572 of 2021 D in Civil Appeal No. 5041 of 2021). The Court notices that the applicant therein was seeking the following prayers: “(a) Modify the dated 31.08.2021...to the extent that the Applicant may demolish a part of tower T-17 as stipulated in paragraph 6 hereinabove; E (b) Pass an of status quo in respect of Towers 16 & 17 in Emerald Court, Plot No. 4, Sector 93A, NOIDA till final s are passed in the present application.” (18) No doubt, this Court has proceeded to go into the question as to the maintainability of the application. In doing so, the Court has followed F the by this Court in Delhi Administration v. Gurdip Singh Uban and Others (2000) 7 SCC 296: “In successive decisions, this Court has held that the filing of applications styled as “miscellaneous applications” or “applications for clarification/modification” in the guise of a review cannot be G countenanced.