The principle underlying such prohibition has been elaborately discussed and pointed out in the very learned of Justice Willes in the well-known case of Phillips v. Eyre [(1870) 6 QBD 1, 23, 25] and also by the Supreme Court of F U.S.A. in Calder v. Bull [3 Dallas 386 : 1 L Ed 648, 649]. In the English case it is explained that ex post facto laws are laws which voided and punished what had been lawful when done. There can be no doubt as to the paramount importance of the principle that such ex post facto laws, which G 11Article 20 (1) reads as follows: (1) No person shall be convicted of any offence except for violation of a law in force at the time of the commission of the Act charged as an offence, nor be subjected to a penalty greater than that which might have been inflicted under the law in force at the time of the commission of the offence.’’ 121953 SCR 1188 @ 1198. H 560 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A retrospectively create offences and punish them are bad as being highly inequitable and unjust.” 19. Speaking about the same provision, this court held in T. Barai v. Henry Ah Hoe13 that: “22. It is only retroactive criminal legislation that is prohibited B under Article 20(1). The prohibition contained in Article 20(1) is that no person shall be convicted of any offence except for violation of a law in force at the time of the commission of the act charged as an offence prohibits nor shall he be subjected to a penalty greater than that which might have been inflicted C under the law in force at the time of the commission of the offence. It is quite clear that insofar as the Central Amendment Act creates new offences or enhances punishment for a particular type of offence no person can be convicted by such ex post facto law nor can the enhanced punishment prescribed by the amendment be applicable. But insofar as the Central D Amendment Act reduces the punishment for an offence punishable under Section 16(1)(a) of the Act, there is no reason why the accused should not have the benefit of such reduced punishment. The rule of beneficial construction requires that even ex post facto law of such a type should be E applied to mitigate the rigour of the law. The principle is based both on sound reason and common sense. This finds support in the following passage from Craies on Statute Law, 7th Edn., at pp. 388-89: ‘A retrospective statute is different from an ex post facto statute. “Every ex post facto law…” said Chase, J., in the F American case of Calder v. Bull [Calder v. Bull, 1 L Ed 648 : 3 US 386 (1798)] “must necessarily be retrospective, but every retrospective law is not an ex post facto law. Every law that takes away or impairs rights vested agreeably to existing laws is retrospective, G and is generally unjust and may be oppressive; it is a good general rule that a law should have no retrospect, but in cases in which the laws may justly and for the benefit of the community and also of individuals relate to a time antecedent H 13[1983] 1 SCR 905.