[Section 45H] (iv) The Lieutenant Governor shall return the recommendation made by the Authority for reconsideration if he differs from C the recommendation of the Authority. In case of a difference of opinion between the Lieutenant Governor and the Authority, the decision of the Lieutenant Governor shall be final. [Section 45H] (v) Proposals which may, inter alia, affect the peace of NCTD, D interests of the Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and socially and educationally backward community, or proposals on matters which affect the relations of the Government of NCTD with the Central Government, State Government, Supreme Court of India or the High Court of Delhi shall be placed before the Lieutenant Governor for opinion. [Section E 45J(4)] (vi) The Secretary of the Council of Ministers or the Departments shall bring a proposal of the Council of Ministers or the concerned Departments to the attention of the Lieutenant Governor if they are of the opinion that the proposal is not F in accordance with law or that the proposal will bring NCTD into “controversy” with the Central Government, the State Governments, the Supreme Court or the High Court of Delhi. [Section 45K] 4. The petitioner has instituted proceedings under Article 32 of G the constitution challenging the constitutional validity of the 2023 Ordinance. 5. The 2023 Ordinance is challenged on three broad grounds: (i) Section 3A, by excluding NCTD’s legislative power over Entry 41 of List II, in effect amends a constitutional provision, that is, Article 239- AA(3)(a); H GOVERNMENT OF NATIONAL CAPITAL TERRITORY OF 497 DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. (ii) The provisions of the NCT Ordinance remove the executive A power vested in the Government of NCTD over the day- to-day administration of National Capital from the elected government of NCTD and place it exclusively in the Lieutenant Governor, a nominated head. The 2023 Constitution Bench in the specific context of B services observed that the people are the ultimate sovereign and the executive is accountable to the public through the “triple chain of accountability”. The triple chain of accountability requires the permanent executives to be responsible to the elected government, the elected government to be responsible to the legislature, and the C legislature to be responsible to the public. The 2023 Ordinance abrogates the principles of collective responsibility and the triple chain of accountability which are important facets of NCTD’s governance structure; (iii) Article 239-AA(7)(b) is not a sui generis provision in the D constitutional scheme. Other provisions of the Constitution (such as Articles 4,169,239A, 244A,312, Part D Fifth Schedule, and Paragraph 21 Sixth Schedule) also stipulate that certain laws made by Parliament shall not deemed to be a constitutional amendment though it has the effect of E amending the constitution. Article 239-AA(7)(b) does not vest Parliament with wide powers to abolish the constitutional scheme of governance envisaged for NCTD in Article 239-AA; and (iv) The President could not have exercised the power to F promulgate an Ordinance under Article 123 because circumstances which warranted immediate action did not exist.