It is submitted that therefore at the time G when the property was auctioned the debtor was not the owner of the property in question, which as such was purchased by the appellant by the registered sale deed on 31.08.1999. It is submitted that therefore the High Court has committed a very serious error in observing that the appellant purchased the property despite the injunction granted by the Trial Court on 18.05.1999 and that the appellant cannot be permitted to H GAS POINT PETROLEUM INDIA LIMITED v. RAJENDRA 437 MAROTHI & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] raise the objection as the appellant has purchased the property despite A the injunction. 4.4 Making the above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal. 5. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Sanjay Agrawal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No. 1 herein – auction B purchaser. 5.1 It is submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent No. 1 that in the facts and circumstances of the case no error has been committed by the High Court in restoring the passed by the learned Executing Court and overruling the objections raised by C the appellant herein – objector. 5.2 It is submitted that on true interpretation of 21 Rule 90 the High Court has rightly refused to set aside the sale on the alleged violation of 21 Rule 64 and 21 Rule 84/85. It is submitted that the appellant purchased the property in question during the pendency of the suit and the injunction dated 18.05.1999 was in operation. It is D submitted that therefore the appellant shall not be entitled to raise any objection thereafter and pray to set aside the sale on the ground that the property in question was purchased by it. It is submitted that therefore, the High Court has rightly observed that since, in the civil suit a temporary injunction was granted by the Trial Court on 18.05.1999 and by that time E the property was not purchased by the appellant herein there was no question of putting the appellant to notice. 5.3 It is further submitted that even the alleged non- compliance of 21 Rule 64, 21 Rule 84 and 85 were not raised before the Executing Court and therefore, the High Court has rightly observed that the same cannot be permitted to be raised subsequently. F 5.4 Making the above submissions it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 6. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. 7. While appreciating the submissions on behalf of the respective G parties the chronological dates and events are required to be considered which are as under: - 7.1 In the year 1998, the decree holder filed a suit for specific performance of the L.P.G. gas agreement; H 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 7.2 The civil suit was not with respect to the property in question. An interim injunction application was filed by the original plaintiff.