However, in the said , it was observed as under: “If at all, plaintiff feels that recording remarks was the result G of above adverse said departmental proceedings and result thereof, then in the wake of setting aside of the impugned by this court, plaintiff, if so advised may again file a representation with the competent authority against the adverse remarks which shall be decided by said authority expeditiously. H In the totality of circumstances, this court is not inclined to AISH MOHAMMAD v. STATE OF HARYANA AND ORS. 413 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] interfere with the satisfaction of competent authority to record A adverse remarks in the ACR of plaintiff. Hence, no relief whatsoever regarding expunction of adverse remarks can be granted in favour of plaintiff. Accordingly, issue No.2 is hereby decided against plaintiff and in favour of defendants.” (sic) B 16. This permitted the appellant to again file a representation before the Inspector General of Police, Gurgaon Range, for expunction of adverse remarks, which was disposed favourably, and the adverse remarks were expunged. However, the Director General of Police issued a Show-Cause Notice to the appellant that the adverse remarks were C wrongly expunged, which made the appellant escape compulsory retirement. Thereafter, the appellant was retired having crossed the age of 55 years, in terms of such power being conferred on the competent authority under the Punjab Civil Services Rules. The matter then came before the High Court, initially before the learned Single Judge who, D relying on certain precedents, recorded that the Director General of Police could not have passed the impugned therein, as it amounted to a review of an passed by his predecessor-in-office. 17. The Court would pause at this juncture to indicate that the factual premise noted by the learned Single Judge itself was wrong, E inasmuch as it was the Inspector General of Police, who had, in effect, ‘reviewed’ an passed by his predecessor-in-office by expunging the adverse remarks, which was previously declined by his predecessor- in-office. Volume II of the Punjab Police Rules, 1934 provides as under: “16.28. Powers to review proceedings F (1) The Inspector-General, a Deputy Inspector-General, and a Superintendent of Police may call for the records of awards made by their subordinates and confirm, enhance, modify or annul the same, or make further investigation or direct such to be made before passing s. G (2) If an award of dismissal is annulled, the officer annulling it shall state whether it is to be regarded as suspension followed by reinstatement, or not. The should also state whether service previous to dismissal should count for pension or not. H 414 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (3) In all cases in which officers propose to enhance an award they shall, before passing final s, give the defaulter concerned an opportunity of showing cause, either personally or in writing, why his punishment should not be enhanced.” (emphasis supplied) B 18. Clearly, the ‘review’ contemplated in Rule 16.28 empowers a superior authority to ‘call for the records of awards made by their subordinates and confirm, enhance, modify or annul the same, or make further investigation or direct such to be made before passing s.’ As such, the ‘review’ is by a superior authority and not the C same authority.