Thereafter, two separate IAAPs being IAAP No. D 90 of 2017 and 89 of 2017 were filed by the appellant but, the proceedings therein ultimately culminated in the common dated 15.12.2017. The High Court dismissed those applications in view of the fact that the prayer of the appellant in terms of Section 8 of the Act had been rejected by the Commercial Court on 13.12.2017 but, with liberty to the appellant E to file afresh under Section 11 of the Act after decision on the challenge to the so passed by the Commercial Court. Be that as it may, this aspect is not as such relevant for the present purpose and could be left at that. 4. The Commercial Court at Ahmedabad, in the dated F 13.12.2017, rejected the application of the appellant under Section 8 of the Act of 1996. It was held that there was no arbitration clause in the tripartite agreement and no reference had been made to the original or supplementary licence agreement to give effect or consider the arbitration clause as a part and parcel of the tripartite agreement. While referring to clause 32 of the Licence Agreement dated 07.04.2005, the Court G observed that it was explicitly clear that the arbitration clause was applicable to the appellant and respondent No. 1, specifically in reference to the original licence agreement and supplementary licence agreement but the same could not be extended to apply to subsequent transactions and agreements with different parties. H 116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 4.1. In consonance with the aforementioned observations, the Commercial Court also held that there must be a valid arbitration agreement in to invoke the powers of the Court to refer the parties to arbitration under Section 8 of the Act of 1996. It was further observed that persons who are not parties to the arbitration agreement cannot be referred to arbitration, as the binding effect would only apply to the B parties thereto, i.e., the appellant and respondent No. 1. Hence, if the dispute was between parties and non-parties to the arbitration agreement, appointment of arbitrator could only be made with respect to the parties. The relevant parts of the passed by Commercial Court could be usefully reproduced as under: - C “15….As such, no arbitration clause seems to have been inserted nor any reference has been made as to the License Agreement or Supplementary License Agreement executed between the plaintiff and defendant No. 1 so as to give effect and to consider as a part and parcel of the tripartite agreement executed between D the plaintiff, defendant No. 1 and defendant No. 2. 16. Even perusing item No. 32 of the Licence Agreement dated 07/04/2005 executed between the plaintiff and defendant No. 1 wherein it has been expressly agreed upon between the parties thereto that dispute, if any, arising out of this Agreement shall E be referred to arbitration…..Thus, it is explicitly clear that the arbitration clause is binding to the plaintiff and defendant No.