for the Appellants. S. Nandakumar, Ms. Deepika Nandakumar, Ashok Kumar Singh, Rajeev Gupta, Naresh Kumar, Advs. for the respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. 1. Leave granted. 2. In this appeal, we are called upon to decide two questions. The fi rst relates to the true and correct application of the principle underlying KUM. GEETHA, D/O LATE KRISHNA v. NANJUNDASWAMY 155 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] the ‘rejection of plaints’ under VII Rule 11, Code of Civil Procedure, 19081, to the facts of the case. The second question relates to the legality of rejection of a plaint in part. For the reasons to follow, we have held that the High Court has committed an error in passing the impugned, on both counts. First, by misapplying the well-established principles informing VII Rule 11 of the CPC, and second, by rejecting the plaint in part, which is again contrary to the law on the subject. We have, therefore, allowed the appeal and dismissed the application under VII Rule 11, CPC. We will fi rst indicate the necessary facts. 3. Mr. P V Yogeshwaran, learned counsel appearing for the appellants, assisted by Mr. M.A. Chinnasamy, Mrs. C Rubavathi, Mr. C Raghavendren, Mr. V Senthil Kumar, Mr. Devendra Pratap Singh and Mr. Ashis Upadhay submitted that the Plaintiff s along with the Defendants No. 1 to 3 are members of a joint family owning properties mentioned in Schedule A and B of the plaint. He has taken us through the plaint where it is averred that the karta of the family, late Shri Munivenkata Bhovi had many properties and was in a habit of temporarily mortgaging properties for raising fi nances by executing what are referred to as ‘nominal sale deeds’. Once dues were cleared, reconveyance deeds were executed. It is specifi cally averred that this practice was adopted by the karta to maintain the family and the persons in whose favour these documents were executed were also close acquaintances of the family. As such, the possession of the joint family properties was never parted. It is also pleaded that when the Plaintiff s asked for partition, initially the Defendants did not deny it, but instead, only asked the Plaintiff s to wait till the revenue records were updated so that actual partition could be eff ected. Hence, Plaintiff s presented a plaint for partition and separate possession. 4. Four years after the suit was instituted, the Defendants fi led a petition seeking rejection of the plaint under VII Rule 11, CPC. While the Trial Court dismissed the application on the ground that the plaint does disclose a cause of action, the High Court, by the impugned , observed that the property in survey No. 76/1 (described in schedule A of the plaint) 1 Hereinafter referred to as ‘CPC’. 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. was sold way back in 1919 via a registered Sale Deed. The High Court reasoned that the Plaintiff s did not deny the sale, but only urged that there was a subsequent re-conveyancing of the property back to the joint family, without a corresponding mutation of revenue records.