It was seen that during the period of the pandemic as well, the District Judiciary was yet efficient and undertook its functions to C ensure that justice is delivered in a timely manner. It is thus important to recognize that the District Judiciary is a vital part of the independent judicial system, which is, in turn, part of the Basic Structure of the Constitution. IV. Judicial Independence and Access to Justice Ensures D Implementation of Part III of the Constitution 32. Any interpretation of Part III of the Constitution would also require that effective and speedy disposal of cases be done by an independent District Judiciary. This Court has repeatedly held that the right of free and fair trial forms part of Article 14 and 21 of the E Constitution.17 For instance, in Anita Kushwaha v. Pushap Sudan [(2016) 8 SCC 509, para 31], this Court recognized that “access to justice” inheres in Articles 14 and 21. This Court held: “31. If “life” implies not only life in the physical sense but a bundle of rights that makes life worth living, there is no juristic or other basis for holding that denial of “access to justice” F will not affect the quality of human life so as to take access to justice out of the purview of right to life guaranteed under Article 21. We have, therefore, no hesitation in holding that access to justice is indeed a facet of right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. We need only G add that access to justice may as well be the facet of the right 16 The Preamble guarantees that “JUSTICE, social, economic and political;” shall be secured to all the citizens of India. 17 See: Hussainara Khatoon (I) v. Home Secy., State of Bihar, (1980) 1 SCC 81, Commissioner of Police Delhi v. Registrar, Delhi High Court [(1996) 6 SCC 323, para 16]; Mohd. Hussain v. Govt. of NCT of Delhi [(2012) 9 SCC 408, para 1. H 54 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A guaranteed under Article 14 of the Constitution which guarantees equality before law and equal protection of laws to not only citizens but non-citizens also… … Absence of any adjudicatory mechanism or the inadequacy of such mechanism, needless to say, is bound to prevent those B looking for enforcement of their right to equality before laws and equal protection of the laws from seeking redress and thereby negate the guarantee of equality before laws or equal protection of laws and reduce it to a mere teasing illusion.” C 33. The right of fair trial and access to justice, as contemplated by this Court, is not limited to the physical access to a Court. The right must also include all the necessary prerequisites of a Court, i.e., the infrastructure, and an unbiased, impartial, and independent judge. At the cost of repetition, for most litigants in this country, as the only physicallyaccessible institution for accessing justice is the District D Judiciary, the independence of district judiciary assumes even greater significance.