In paragraph 20, in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra), while distinguishing the profit derived from DEPB / Duty Drawback, it is observed and held as under:- H M/S. SARAF EXPORTS v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 359 JAIPUR-III [M. R. SHAH, J.] “20. Liberty India [Liberty India v. CIT, (2009) 9 SCC A 328] being the fourth in this line also does not help the Revenue. What this Court was concerned with was an export incentive, which is very far removed from reimbursement of an element of cost. A DEPB drawback scheme is not related to the business of an industrial undertaking for manufacturing or selling B its products. DEPB entitlement arises only when the undertaking goes on to export the said product, that is, after it manufactures or produces the same. Pithily put, if there is no export, there is no DEPB entitlement, and therefore its relation to manufacture of a product and/or sale within India is not proximate or direct but is one step removed. Also, the object behind DEPB entitlement, as C has been held by this Court, is to neutralise the incidence of customs duty payment on the import content of the export product which is provided for by credit to customs duty against the export product. In such a scenario, it cannot be said that such duty exemption scheme is derived from profits and gains made by the industrial D undertaking or business itself.” Thus, from paragraph 20 of the said decision, it can be seen that this Court did not disapprove of the decision of this Court in the case of Liberty India (supra). Even in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra), this Court did not consider the earlier decision in the case of E Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra). Thus, the decision of this Court in the cases of Liberty India (supra) and Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra), which as such are on DEPB / Duty Drawback Schemes clinch the issue at hand. It cannot be said that the decision taken in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra) is contrary to the decisions in the case of Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra) and Liberty India F (supra). On the contrary, the observations made in paragraph 20 can be said to be in favour of the Revenue and against the assessee. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the High Court has rightly held that the respondent – assessee is not entitled to the deductions under Section 80-IB on the amount of DEPB as well G as Duty Drawback Schemes. We hold that on the profit earned from DEPB / Duty Drawback Schemes, the assessee is not entitled to deduction under Section 80-IB of the Act, 1961. Any contrary decision of any High Court is held to be not good law. H 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Present appeal deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs.