The question is, as to whether the act of the Board of Directors attracted the opprobrium of it being an act of oppression. We would think that the decisions of the Board of B Directors on 18.12.2009, understood as a whole, only means that the Resolution to issue further capital was to become effective only after the Authorised Capital was duly increased. This is not a case where the Board of Directors had resolved to allot the shares otherwise disregarding the mandate of Section 81 of the Act. What is more shares have been offered on a ratio of 1:1 to the existing shareholders. They were given C the choice of refusal or to apply for more or lesser number of shares. This is not a case where the Resolution was to allot the further shares to the Directors or Members of their Group alone. There is a concurrent finding that the decision to go in for increase in capital, viz., Authorised Capital, was not vulnerable to attack. The decision was based on the D advice given by the Bank. The purpose of the Board of Directors to increase the capital has been admittedly found to be bonafide. An incidental gain, namely the change in the shareholding pattern is entirely the inevitable result of the refusal of the respondent’s groups to apply. We cannot proceed on the basis that the appellants foresaw and deliberately planned the whole affair. If only the respondents had applied, E the situation would not have happened. 73. As far as the aspect that, the purported object was shown as generating fresh funds but in place of Rs.90 lakhs only Rs.21 lakhs was brought in goes, the fact that the paid-up capital was apparently shown as credited by cancelling loans due by the company to the appellants F group, should not prevent this Court from overlooking the fact that the debt-equity ratio has undoubtedly been improved.It must be borne in mind that the whole idea was to get funds from the Bank for the expansion of the company. The case of the respondents that there were loans due to them also may not advance their case. It would have been different if G the respondents had applied and sought adjustment of the consideration by cancelling loans given by them to the company and it was rejected. On the whole, in the facts, the appellants cannot be described as having acted in a defective or in an unfair manner, in the matter of allotment of further shares particularly when the contention of the H 282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A respondents about the bonafides of the decision to increase the authorised capital has been found in favour of the appellants. The appeals are partly allowed. The direction to allot shares in the impugned is set aside. The for conducting audit will remain undisturbed. There will be no as to costs. B Ankit Gyan Appeals partly allowed. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) C D E F G H