40. Thereafter, the Court considered whether the failure to comply with the conditions laid down in Section 50 of the NDPS Act by the empowered or authorised offi cer while conducting the search aff ects the prosecution case, and held as under:- “18. … It is obvious that the legislature while keeping in view the menace of illicit drug traffi cking deemed it fi t to provide for corresponding safeguards to check the misuse of power thus conferred so that any harm to innocent persons is avoided and to minimise the allegations of planting or fabricating by the prosecution, Section 50 is enacted.” The Court thereafter held as under:- “20. …When such is the importance of a right given to an accused person in custody in general, the right by way of safeguard conferred under Section 50 in the context is all the more important and valuable. Therefore it is to be taken as an imperative requirement on the part of the offi cer intending to search to inform the person to be searched of his right that if he so chooses, he will be searched in the presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or a Magistrate. Thus the provisions of Section 50 are mandatory.” 41. When we refer to the decision of this Court in Balbir Singh (supra), what has been held therein as a broad principle in para 25(1), is as under:- “25. The questions considered above arise frequently before the trial courts. Therefore we fi nd it necessary to set out our conclusions which are as follows: 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (1) If a police offi cer without any prior information as contemplated under the provisions of the NDPS Act makes a search or arrests a person in the normal course of investigation into an off ence or suspected off ences as provided under the provisions of CrPC and when such search is completed at that stage Section 50 of the NDPS Act would not be attracted and the question of complying with the requirements thereunder would not arise. If during such search or arrest there is a chance recovery of any narcotic drug or psychotropic substance then the police offi cer, who is not empowered, should inform the empowered offi cer who should thereafter proceed in accordance with the provisions of the NDPS Act. If he happens to be an empowered offi cer also, then from that stage onwards, he should carry out the investigation in accordance with the other provisions of the NDPS Act.” 42. The said principle clearly postulates a situation where a police offi cer in the normal course of investigation of an off ence or suspected off ences as provided under the provisions of CrPC 1973 and in the course of such investigation when a search is completed and in that process happens to stumble upon possession of a narcotic drug or psychotropic substance, the question of invoking Section 50 would not arise. When that principle is examined carefully one can easily understand that without any prior information as to possession of any narcotic drug and psychotropic substance, a police offi cer might have held a search in the course of discharge of his duties as contemplated under the provisions of CrPC 1973 and, therefore, it would be well-neigh impossible to state that even under such a situation, the application of Section 50 would get attracted.