Thus, it became an Act of Parliament intended to revolutionise the mechanism of revival or liquidation of sick industrial G units and channelisation of the complete administrative-cum-quasi- judicial process within the framework of SICA 1985. 11.5 The statement of Objects and Reasons for enactment of SICA, 1985 is as under:- H 1054 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A “Statement of Objects and Reasons.—The ill effects of sickness in industrial companies such as loss of production, loss of employment, loss of revenue to the Central and State Governments and locking up of investible funds of banks and financial institutions are of serious concern to the Government and the society at large. The concern of the Government is B accentuated by the alarming increase in the incidence of sickness in industrial companies. It has been recognised that in to fully utilise the productive industrial assets; afford maximum protection of employment and optimize the use of the funds of the banks and financial institutions, it would be imperative to revive C and rehabilitate the potentially viable sick industrial companies as quickly as possible. It would also be equally imperative to salvage the productive assets and realise the amounts due to the banks and financial institutions, to the extent possible, from the non-viable sick industrial companies through liquidation of those companies. D It has been the experience that the existing institutional arrangements and procedures for revival and rehabilitation of potentially viable sick industrial companies are both inadequate and time-consuming. A multiplicity of laws and agencies makes the adoption of a co-ordinated approach for dealing with sick industrial companies difficult. A need has, therefore, been felt to E enact in public interest a legislation to provide for timely detection of sickness in industrial companies and for expeditious determination by a body of experts of the preventive, ameliorative, remedial and other measures that would need to be adopted with respect to such companies and for enforcement of the measures F considered appropriate with utmost practicable despatch.” 11.6 Thus, the SICA, 1985 basically and predominantly is a remedial and ameliorative enactment, insofar as it empowers a quasi-judicial Body - BIFR to take appropriate measures for revival and rehabilitation of the potentially viable sick industrial companies as quickly as possible and G also to salvage the productive assets and realise the amounts due to the banks and financial institutions, to the extent possible, from the non- viable sick industrial companies through liquidation of those companies. 11.7 Now, let us consider the scheme under the BIFR and the relevant provisions of SICA, 1985, which are relevant for our consideration:- H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1055 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] “35. Section 15 of SICA 1985 places an obligation upon an A industrial company, which has become sick in terms of that provision, to make a reference to BIFR established under Section 4 of SICA 1985 within the period of limitation prescribed. While under Section 15(2) where the Central Government or Reserve Bank of India or a State Government or a public financial institution B has sufficient reasons to believe that any industrial company has become, for the purpose of SICA 1985, a sick industrial company, would also make a reference of such company to the Board for determination of the measures which may be adopted with regard to such company.