33. The discussion on the question of territorial jurisdiction in terms D of the provisions of the Cr.P.C can be cut short by extracting the principles culled out in paragraphs 19 to 21 of the decision in Kaushik Chatterjee. They read as follows: “19. Chapter XIII of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 contains provisions relating to jurisdiction of criminal courts in inquiries and E trials. The Code maintains a distinction between (i) inquiry; (ii) investigation; and (iii) trial. The words “inquiry” and “investigation” are defined respectively, in clauses (g) and (h) of Section 2 of the Code. 20. The principles laid down in Sections 177 to 184 of the Code F (contained in Chapter XIII) regarding the jurisdiction of criminal courts in inquiries and trials can be summarised in simple terms as follows: 20.1. Every offence should ordinarily be inquired into and tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction it was committed. This G rule is found in Section 177. The expression “local jurisdiction” found in Section 177 is defined in Section 2(j) to mean “in relation to a court or Magistrate, means the local area within which the 52020 (10) SCC 92 H 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A court or Magistrate may exercise all or any of its or his powers under the Code”. 20.2. In case of uncertainty about the place in which, among the several local areas, an offence was committed, the Court having jurisdiction over any of such local areas may inquire into or try B such an offence. 20.3. Where an offence is committed partly in one area and partly in another, it may be inquired into or tried by a court having jurisdiction over any of such local areas. 20.4. In the case of a continuing offence which is committed in C more local areas than one, it may be inquired into or tried by a court having jurisdiction over any of such local areas. 20.5. Where an offence consists of several acts done in different local areas it may be inquired into or tried by a court having jurisdiction over any of such local areas. (Numbers 2 to 5 are D traceable to Section 178) 20.6. Where something is an offence by reason of the act done, as well as the consequence that ensued, then the offence may be inquired into or tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction either the act was done or the consequence ensued. (Section 179) E 20.7. In cases where an act is an offence, by reason of its relation to any other act which is also an offence, then the first mentioned offence may be inquired into or tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction either of the acts was done. (Section 180) 20.8. In certain cases such as dacoity, dacoity with murder, F escaping from custody, etc., the offence may be inquired into and tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction either the offence was committed or the accused person was found.