According to us, the issue about the applicability and the B non-compliance of contractual clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7 was one of the most relevant and vital issues which arose before the learned Arbitrator. A substantial claim was made by the Respondent towards variable charges, of which, the fuel component was the most dominant. Ultimately, the learned Arbitrator has made an Award in an amount of Rs. 24.66 crores (approximately) towards C variable charges post the switch of the fuel from Naphtha to RLNG. Such a substantial award has been made without even adverting to, much less considering or evaluating the issue raised by the Appellant about applicability and non-compliance with the contractual clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7. This amounts to patent D illegality because the Award to that extent can be said to have been made ignoring or even disregarding contractual provisions to be found in clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7 of the PPA. The Award to this extent will have to be held as vitiated by patent illegality because Award ignores vital evidence on the issue of applicability and non-compliance with the contractual provisions in clauses E 12.1.4 to 12.1.7.” 17.2. The High Court has also proceeded to observe and reiterate that interference was being made not because of the Court disagreeing with any interpretation of the contractual clauses by the Arbitrator but because the Arbitrator failed to look into the relevant contractual F provisions. The High Court justified its interference while observing as under: - “98. According to us, all these predicates are attracted when it comes to impugned Award concerning the variable charges. The interference is by no means, merit-based. Interference is because G the Arbitrator in the present case has failed to even advert to much less go into the merits of one of the most vital and relevant issues concerning the applicability and non-compliance with the contractual provisions. The interference is not because the interpretation of the contractual clauses by the learned Arbitrator is wrong or because we disagree with such interpretation. The H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 433 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] interference is because the learned Arbitrator failed to even look A into the contractual provisions to find out if the same were given a go by post the switch of fuel from Naphtha to RLNG. The interference is because the learned Arbitrator failed to take note of and interpret the contractual clauses to find out whether they were breached as alleged by the Appellant though denied by the B Respondent. Without even adverting to much less taking into consideration the contractual provisions which governed the relationship between the parties, the learned Arbitrator was not justified in making an Award of Rs. 24.66 crores in favour of the Respondent. Accordingly, we set aside the impugned Award to the extent it awards Rs. 24.66 crores to the Respondent towards C the variable charges.” 18. As noticed, arbitral award is not an ordinary adjudicatory so as to be lightly interfered with by the Courts under Sections 34 or 37 of the Act of 1996 as if dealing with an appeal or revision against a decision of any subordinate Court.