A show cause notice was issued to the first respondent. 9. The first respondent challenged the cancelling her caste certificate before the Collector, Khurda. By an dated 23 March 2012, the Collector rejected the appeal of the first respondent and upheld B the of the Tehsildar dated 16 August 2011 cancelling her caste certificate. 10. On 13 March 2012, the appellant passed an dismissing the first respondent from service. The appellant also ed recovery of all the money received by the first respondent towards her salary and C other perquisites during service. The first respondent challenged her dismissal before the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 11. By a dated 25 January 2018, a Single Judge upheld the cancellation of the caste certificate of the first respondent but directed D the appellant to consider her continuance in the post, inter alia, by relying upon the decisions of this Court in Kavita Solunke v. State of Maharashtra3 and Shalini v. New English High School Association4. The Single Judge observed that the first respondent did not obtain the caste certificate fraudulently. Therefore, the court directed the appellant E to consider her continuance in the post in the event that the post was lying vacant. In the event that the post was not vacant, the Single Judge directed the appellant to consider her immediate absorption in a parallel post. However, the Single Judge directed that if the first respondent is reinstated, she would be disentitled to any future promotions and benefits. 12. A writ appeal was filed against the of the Single Judge F with a delay on five hundred and sixty-four days. The Division Bench by its impugned dated 30 October 2019 declined to condone the delay. The Court held that the reasons for delay provided by the appellant did not constitute sufficient cause. Consequently, the writ appeal was dismissed. G 13. The first respondent has filed a counter-affidavit averring that the appellant failed to assign sufficient reason to account for the inordinate delay of five hundred and sixty-four days. Moreover, the first respondent 3 (2012) 8 SCC 430 4 (2013) 16 SCC 526 H 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A urged that the of the Single Judge dated 25 January 2018 should not be interfered with. It has been urged that the Single Judge did not direct the appellant to compulsorily reinstate the first respondent, as was done in Kavita Solunke (supra) and Shalini (supra). Therefore, the directions passed by the Single Judge are (according to the submission) not based on the decisions of this Court in Kavita Solunke (supra) and B Shalini (supra). 14. We have perused the reasons which were placed on the record of the Division Bench for condoning the delay. The State had explained in detail the steps which were taken to take necessary approvals for the purpose of processing the writ appeal. Besides declining to condone the C delay in this case would have serious consequences of allowing an imposter to continue having the benefit of a reserved seat.