B 33. Copy of this be also forwarded to Principal Secretary (Higher Education) as well as Secretary (Secondary Education), so that they may also look into the matter and ensure that Examiners/Evaluators of answer sheets are deployed in a reasonably efficient manner and there should be strict instructions C so that no student may suffer on account of negligence/ carelessness etc. on the part of Examiners/Evaluators.” 8. Aggrieved by the directions and requirements aforesaid, the appellant-University has approached this Court. It may be observed that after taking note of the facts and circumstances of the case, while D entertaining the petition seeking leave to appeal on 25.11.2019, this Court stayed the operation of the impugned dated 21.05.2019. We have been informed that before passing of such stay by this Court, a few other writ petitions were filed in the High Court while relying upon the impugned dated 21.05.2019 and therein, the High Court passed the s for re-evaluation while following the decision in question. Be E that as it may, we are not commenting upon any other which is not in challenge before this Court. 9. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties at some length in relation to the observations made and the directions issued by the High Court in the impugned dated 21.05.2019. F 9.1 Learned counsel for the appellant would submit that the procedure as adopted and the directions as issued in the present case by the High Court are of uncontrollable ramifications, and do not stand in conformity with the requirements of law. It is submitted that when the Statute of the University makes no provision for re-evaluation of the G answer sheets, directions by the High Court practically make the Statute of the University redundant and that remains impermissible in law. A decision of this Court in the case of Himachal Pradesh Public Service Commission v. Mukesh Thakur and Another: (2010) 6 SCC 759 has been referred to. It has also been submitted that the High Court has H 480 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A failed to consider that the question paper being a subjective one, the marking style and manner of different examiners cannot be equated as it has not been a case of objective type question paper where only one answer out of possible options may be correct. It has further been submitted that the original examiner had, in fact, scored out the other answers while giving no marks, which was equivalent to awarding ‘zero’ B mark; and his style of awarding marks could not have been taken as an irresponsible manner of evaluation. The learned counsel has also relied upon the decision of this Court in Ran Vijay Singh and Others. v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Others: (2018) 2 SCC 357. 10. Per contra, learned counsel for the writ petitioner (respondent C No. 1) has duly supported the impugned with the submissions that he was required to approach the Court when left with no other option; and the present one had clearly been a case of the examiner failing in his duty to properly evaluate the answer sheet of the writ petitioner.