In the absence D of any specific column or note similar to note 4, requiring separate disclosure of the value of deemed export clearances, there is no merit in the findings of the adjudicating authority that there was suppression of facts as a consequence of assessee’s failure to separately disclose the value of deemed export clearances. An accusation of non–disclosure can only be made if there is in the E first instance a requirement to disclose. [Para 20][1297-B-D] 1.2 Note 4 to Form ER-1 requires separate details of clearances to be mentioned for exports under Bond. There is no reference in the said notes to deemed exports or supplies made to holders of advance licenses. The submissions that the assessee F was never required to separately furnish details of clearances made to holders of advance licenses is accepted. Neither the show cause notice nor the civil appeal filed by the Revenue before this Court contain any reference to the wrongful clubbing of deemed export clearances under the details meant for domestic clearances. Also the of the tribunal does not contain any G reference to this particular aspect which was the main thrust of the oral arguments made by the Counsel for the Revenue before this Court. The Revenue cannot be permitted to argue its matters by going beyond the written pleadings filed by it before this Court. H 1288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A The mere fact that the oral arguments are supported by findings of the adjudicating authority, which is not the impugned before this Court, does not entitle the Revenue to resurrect a point which though made at the original stage, was never pressed before the tribunal or even incorporated in the memo of appeal filed before this Court. [Para 21][1297-E-H; 1298-A] B 1.3 The submission of the Revenue that the tribunal’s in the case of IFGL Refractories could not have constituted a valid basis for the belief entertained by the assessee in view of the fact that the relevant valuation provisions had undergone amendments in the year 2000 cannot be accepted. Firstly, this C contention too has not been urged in the Civil Appeal filed by the Revenue and has been urged only during the course of the hearing before this Court; and secondly, the submission is diametrically opposite to what the Revenue itself has been contending on merits right from the Show cause notice till the appeal filed before this D Court. On merits, the Revenue’s case throughout had been that the issue of valuation is covered against the assessee by the judgement of this Court in the case of IL Refractories. Even in the of the CESTAT under challenge the tribunal proceeded on the basis that the principle of valuation laid down by this Court in the case of IFGL Refractories holds good and remains valid E even under the amended valuation provisions for the period post July 2000. It is strange that for the purposes of justifying its case on limitation, the Revenue wishes to take a position exactly contrary to what it has taken in the Show Cause Notice on merits.