Explanation.—For the purposes of sub-section (4) and this sub-section, the, expression “any association of residents in the slum area” means a society, if any, of such residents registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860) or under the Maharashtra Co- operative Societies Act, 1960 (Mah. XXIV of 1961). (6) While deciding the appeal the Tribunal shall ignore the works of improvement executed in such slum area by any agency of the Government or any local authority after the declaration thereof as such slum area by the Competent Authority under sub-section (1).] [4-A. Certain slum improvement areas deemed to be slum areas.—(1) Any declaration made under Section 26 of the Maharashtra Slum Improvement Board Act, 1973 (Mah. XXIII of 1973), declaring any area to be slum improvement area, and in force immediately before the date of commencement of the Maharashtra Slum Areas (Improvement, Clearance and Redevelopment) (Amendment)Act, 1976 (Mah. XX of 1970), (herinafter in this section referred to as “the said date”) shall, on and from the said date, be deemed to be a declaration made under Section 4 of this Act declaring the same area to be a slum area for the purposes of this Act. (2) Any person aggrieved by the provisions of sub-section (1) may, within thirty days from the said date, appeal to the Tribunal function under this Act. SAYUNKTA SANGARSH SAMITI & ANR v. THE STATE OF 731 MAHARASHTRA [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] (3) on such appeal, the Tribunal may make an either confi rming, modifying or rescinding the declaration: and the decision of Tribunal shall be fi nal].” 7. The Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 (hereinafter referred to as ‘MRTP Act, 1966’) is again an important piece of legislation with which we are presently concerned. The MRTP Act, 1966 was enacted in to have a planned development in the State of Maharashtra. An amendment was brought in the MRTP Act, 1966, in the year 1995 whereby SRA was given the status of Planning Authority so far as slums were concerned. The State Government under the 1966 Act has got powers to frame what is called Development Control Regulations (DCR) for the purposes of implementation of any scheme, project, etc which would include development of a slum. The DCR Regulation under which the present rehabilitation of slum was to be undertaken was Regulation 33(10) of DCR, 1991. The present slum area with which we are concerned is at Lower Parel Division in J.R. Boricha Marg and is notifi ed as a “slum” under the 1971 Act and had 1672 residential tenements. As per the scheme of SRA more than 70 percent of the eligible hutment dwellers were members of the federation, i.e., present respondent no.6 which were to choose its developer and take the scheme forward under the overall supervision of SRA. 8. In accordance with the procedure given under the DCR, 1991 the majority section of the slum dwellers, in the present case, who were earlier divided into diff erent independent societies, got together and formed a society called “Shramik Ekta Co-Operative Housing Federation” (respondent No.