Certain tests, whether this Court should or not interfere in the policy decisions of the State, as stated in other s, can be summed up as: (I) If the policy fails to satisfy the test of reasonableness, it would be unconstitutional. (II) The change in policy must be made fairly and should not give the impression that it was so done arbitrarily on any ulterior intention. (III) The policy can be faulted on grounds of mala fides, unreasonableness, arbitrariness or unfairness, etc. 17 (1984) 3 All ER 935 : 1985 AC 374 : (1984) 3 WLR 1174 (HL) 18 (2005) 5 SCC 181 19 (2015) 7 SCC 698 20 (2012) 6 SCC 502 DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 195 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] (IV) If the policy is found to be against any statute or the Constitution or runs counter to the philosophy behind these provisions. (V) It is dehors the provisions of the Act or legislations. (VI) If the delegate has acted beyond its power of delegation. 101. Cases of this nature can be classifi ed into two main classes: one class being the matters relating to general policy decisions of the State and the second relating to fi scal policies of the State. In the former class of cases, the courts have expanded the scope of judicial review when the actions are arbitrary, mala fi de or contrary to the law of the land; while in the latter class of cases, the scope of such judicial review is far narrower. Nevertheless, unreasonableness, arbitrariness, unfair actions or policies contrary to the letter, intent and philosophy of law and policies expanding beyond the permissible limits of delegated power will be instances where the courts will step in to interfere with government policy.” The decision whether to include or exclude B.Ed. as a qualifi cation for teachers in primary school is an academic decision, which has to be taken after proper study by the academic body i.e. NCTE and should be better left to this expert body. But as we have seen the decision to include B.Ed. as a qualifi cation is not an independent decision of NCTE, but it was the decision of the Central Government and NCTE was simply directed to carry it out for that being a direction under Section 29 of NCTE Act, a direction NCTE followed. In the present case and in the larger context of the matter, we cannot even see this as a policy decision. But without getting into this argument, even presuming for the sake of argument that the decision taken at the Government level to include B.Ed. as a qualifi cation for teachers at primary level is a policy decision, we must say that this decision is not correct as it is contrary to the purpose of the Act. In fact, it goes against the letter and spirit of the Fundamental Right enshrined in the Constitution under Article 21A. It is against the specifi c mandate of the Act, which calls for a free, compulsory and meaningful primary education to children.