Once it is so found, the original appellant cannot be treated as a ‘transferee’ within the meaning of the TP Act and for the purpose of Section 51, TP Act. Therefore, we have no hesitation to hold that the appellants are not entitled to rely on the provision under Section 51, TP Act to seek for G restoration of the modification made by the First Appellate Court with respect to demolition and possession. The appellants, rightly, did not take up the plea of adverse possession and in the circumstances, being not a transferee for the purpose of Section 51 TPAct, he cannot legally require the respondent either to pay the value of improvements and take back H BAINI PRASAD (D) THR. LRS. v. DURGA DEVI 293 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] the land or to sell out the land to him at the market value of the property, A irrespective of the value of the improvements. 12. Now, what remains to be considered is whether the appellant herein/defendant has pleaded and proved his plea of estoppel. The appellants would contend that non-framing of the question of estoppel as an issue is not fatal in the facts and circumstances as also in view of B the evidence available on record, in the case on hand. To buttress the contention, the appellants rely on the decision of this Court in Nedunuri Kameswaramma v. Sampati Subba Rao4. The relevant recital in the paragraph 5 of the said decision reads thus:- C “5. …No doubt, no issue was framed, and the one, which was framed, could have been more elaborate; but since the parties went to trial fully knowing the rival case and led all the evidence not only in support of their contentions but in refutation of those of the other side, it cannot be said that the absence of an issue was fatal to the case, or that there was D that mistrial which vitiates proceedings. We are, therefore, of opinion that the suit could not be dismissed on this narrow ground, and also that there is no need for a remit, as the evidence which has been led in the case is sufficient to reach the right conclusion.” E The position of law revealed from the afore-extracted recital from the said decision cannot be disputed. In fact, for the very same reason despite the non-framing of the issue of estoppel we are inclined to consider the contentions founded on the principle of estoppel. We may hasten to add that indubitably the position is that to invoke the concept of estoppel F the defendant has to specifically plead each and every act or omission, as the case may be, that constitutes representation from the plaintiff. Before delving into the said question it is only appropriate to refer to the enunciation of the settled position in respect of the concept of estoppel. 12.1 In the decision in R.S. Madanappa v. Chandramma5, this G court considered the object of estoppel. It was held that its object is to prevent fraud and secure justice between the parties by promotion of honesty and good faith.