These are set out in paragraph 198 of Union Carbide D Corporation & Others v. Union of India & Others3, which reads as under: “198. After a careful thought, it appears to us that while it may not be wise or proper to deprive the victims of the benefit of the settlement, it is, however, necessary to ensure that in E the — perhaps unlikely — event of the settlement fund being found inadequate to meet the compensation determined in respect of all the present claimants, those persons who may have their claims determined after the fund is exhausted are not left to fend themselves. But, such a contingency may not arise having regard to the size of the settlement fund. If it F should arise, the reasonable way to protect the interests of the victims is to hold that the Union of India, as a welfare State and in the circumstances in which the settlement was made, should not be found wanting in making good the deficiency, if any. We hold and declare accordingly.” G 10. The aforesaid would show that the burden would fall on the Union of India, as a welfare state, to protect the interest of the victims. 2 (1991) 4 SCC 584. 3 (supra). H 888 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A It is to be noted that Ahmadi J., dissented on this aspect of liability of the Union. However, naturally, the majority view prevails. 11. Another aspect noted in the review was qua the members of the population of Bhopal who were put at risk; and who though asymptomatic at the time and not having filed for compensation, might B become symptomatic in future. In addition, care had to be taken of unborn children of mothers exposed to toxicity, where such children later develop congenital defects. For such an eventuality, a medical group insurance cover was envisaged. This is set out in paragraph 207 of Union Carbide Corporation & Others v. Union of India & Others4, which reads as under: C “207. We are of the view that such contingencies shall be taken care of by obtaining an appropriate medical group insurance cover from the General Insurance Corporation of India or the Life Insurance Corporation of India for compensation to this contingent class of possible prospective D victims. There shall be no individual upper monetary limit for the insurance liability. The period of insurance cover should be a period of eight years in the future. The number of persons to be covered by this Group Insurance scheme should be about and not less than one lakh of persons. Having regard to the E population of the seriously affected wards of Bhopal city at the time of the disaster and having regard to the addition to the population by the subsequent births extrapolated on the basis of national average of birth rates over the past years and the future period of surveillance, this figure broadly accords with the percentage of (sic the) population of the F affected wards bears to the number of persons found to be affected by medical categorisation.