F (5) no one can be compelled to give sample of blood for analysis.” ii. In Bhabani Prasad Jena, this Court emphasised that a direction to use DNA profiling technology to determine the paternity of a child, is an extremely delicate and sensitive G aspect. Therefore, such tests must be directed to be conducted only when the same are eminently needed. That DNA profiling in a matter relating to paternity of a child should not be directed by the court as a matter of course or in a routine manner, whenever such a request is made. The H 714 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A court has to consider diverse aspects including presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act; pros and cons of such and the test of ‘eminent need’ whether it is not possible for the court to reach the truth without use of such test. It was further declared that a Court may direct that a DNA test be conducted, to conclusively determine paternity, B only when there is a strong prima-facie case in favour of the person seeking such a direction. iii. In Inayath Ali vs. State of Telangana, MANU/SC/1538/ 2022, the question before this Court was whether a DNA test of two minor children could be ed by a Court, C with a view to facilitate proof of allegations under Sections 498A, 323, 354, 506 and 509 of Indian Penal Code, 1860. This Court speaking through Aniruddha Bose, J. at the outset took note of the fact that the dispute was essentially one relating to dowry related offences, and that paternity of the D children of the complainant was not directly related to the allegations. The complainant therein sought for a direction to conduct DNA test of her two minor children, in to establish that they were born as a result of her forced relationship with her brother-in-law. Rejecting the complainant’s plea, this Court held as under as to the power E of Courts to subject children to DNA testing, in proceedings in which their status is not required to be examined: “In the present proceeding, we are taking two factors into account which have been ignored by the Trial Court as also the Revisional Court. The Trial Court allowed F the application of the respondent no.2 mechanically, on the premise that the DNA fingerprint test is permissible under the law. High Court has also proceeded on that basis, referring to different authorities including the case of Dipanwita Roy v. Ronobroto Roy [2015 (1) SCC G 365]. The ratio of this case was also examined by the Coordinate Bench in the decision of Ashok Kumar (supra). 7. The first factor, which, in our opinion, is of significance, is that in the under appeal, blood sampling of the children was directed, who H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 715 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] were not parties to the proceeding nor were their A status required to be examined in the complaint of the respondent no.2.