F Where the words of the statute are clear and unambiguous, the provision should be given its plain and normal meaning, without adding or rejecting any words. Departure from the literal rule, by making structural changes or substituting words in a clear statutory provision, under the guise of interpretation will pose a great risk G as the changes may not be what the legislature intended or desired. Legislative wisdom cannot be replaced by the Judge’s views. As observed by this Court in a somewhat different context: “6. … When a procedure is prescribed by the legislature, it is not for the court to substitute a different one according to its H 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A notion of justice. When the legislature has spoken, the judges cannot afford to be wiser.” (See Shri Mandir Sita Ramji v. Lt. Governor of Delhi [(1975) 4 SCC 298] , SCC p. 301, para 6.) 21. There is however an exception to this general rule. B Where the words used in the statutory provision are vague and ambiguous or where the plain and normal meaning of its words or grammatical construction thereof would lead to confusion, absurdity, repugnancy with other provisions, the courts may, instead of adopting the plain and grammatical C construction, use the interpretative tools to set right the situation, by adding or omitting or substituting the words in the statute. When faced with an apparently defective provision in a statute, courts prefer to assume that the draftsman had committed a mistake rather than concluding that the legislature has deliberately introduced an absurd or irrational statutory D provision. Departure from the literal rule of plain and straight reading can however be only in exceptional cases, where the anomalies make the literal compliance with a provision impossible, or absurd or so impractical as to defeat the very object of the provision. We may also mention purposive interpretation to avoid E absurdity and irrationality is more readily and easily employed in relation to procedural provisions than with reference to substantive provisions.” (emphasis added) 16.As a normal rule, while interpreting the statute, the Court will F not add words or omit words or substitute words. However, there is a well-recognized exception to this rule which is found in a decision of the House of Lords in the case of Inco Europe Limited & Ors. v. First Choice Distribution (A Firm) & Ors.4, wherein the Court held thus: “The court must be able to correct obvious drafting errors. G In suitable cases, in discharging its interpretative function the court will add words, or omit words or substitute words. Some notable instances are given in Professor Sir Rupert Cross’s admirable opuscule, Statutory Interpretation, 3rd ed. (1995), pp.93- 105. He comments at p.103: H 4 (2000) 2 ALL ER 109 BHASKER & ANR. v. AYODHYA JEWELLERS 975 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] “In omitting or inserting words the judge is not really engaged A in a hypothetical reconstruction of the intentions of the drafter or the legislature, but is simply making as much sense as he can of the text of the statutory provision read in its appropriate context and within the limits of the judicial role.” This power is confined to plain cases of drafting mistakes.