A perusal of the Report indicates that the Commission has analyzed the representations from various sources and periodically consulted with several experts while preparing E working sheets and calculations. 7. After wide consultation, the Commission realized a need for interim relief to be granted to judicial officers as their pay had not been increased for more than 10 years. Thus, they submitted a Report on Interim Relief to this Court 09.03.2018. Considering that the judicial F officers were without updated/upgraded pay, this Court, by dated 27.03.2018, directed the States and the Union of India to implement the recommendations of the Commission with regard to interim relief. 8. Subsequently, on 29.01.2020, the Commission submitted its Final Report to this Court. The Report has recommendations which cover G Pay Structure (Volume I), Pension and Family Pension (Volume III) and Allowances (Volume IV). A separate part of the report viz., Part II deals with the issue of establishing a permanent mechanism to determine subjects of service conditions of the District Judiciary. 9. This Court took cognizance of the Report on 28.02.2020. For H the assistance of the Court, amici curiae were appointed. The States ALL INDIA JUDGES ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA 45 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] and the Union of India were directed to file their objections, if any, to the A Report. The Court observed that over the years, the primary objection to the implementation of the various directions concerning the service conditions of the district judiciary is the alleged paucity of financial resources, and rejected this objection even before the States could raise it. B 3. SUBMISSIONS OF COUNSEL 10. The Amicus Curiae, K Parameshwar placed the recommendations of the Commission and its reasoning before this Court. Detailed notes of submissions have been filed by the amicus curiae tabulating the recommendations and supplementing the same with C additional reasoning. He also detailed the objections put forward by the States and the Union and rebutted them with clarity. 11. The Amicus Curiae also laid stress on the principles on which the recommendations of the Commission draw their strength. He broadly suggested five principles for the consideration of the Court. Firstly, he submitted that the independence of the district judiciary is part of the D Basic Structure of the Constitution. He stated that the s of the Court, thus far, have recognized the principle of independence of judiciary only in the context of the High Courts and the Supreme Court and submitted that this principle ought to equally apply to the District Judiciary. 12. He then submitted that the principle of independence of the E judiciary is an integral part of Part III of the Constitution, as it ensures a guarantee to a fair trial. He argued that therefore, the independence of the judiciary must be seen as a guarantee under Article 21 of the Constitution. 13. The third principle, in his submission, was that the doctrine of F inherent powers, as noticed by this Court in Brij Mohan Lal v. Union of India, (2012) 6 SCC 502 and suggested by the Report of the Task Force on Judicial Impact Assessment (chaired by Justice (Retd) M Jagannadha Rao) would require the Judiciary to compel payment of reasonable sums of money to carry out its constitutionally mandated responsibilities.