G D2. Whether the Appellate Tribunal has erred in making observations against increase of the fees of the resolution professional and assuming the possibility of its impact on his decision to submit the resolution plan before the Adjudicating Authority without approval of CoC? H 858 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A E. Whether the Appellate Tribunal has erred in applying the principles of non-discrimination in relation to related party of corporate debtor and thereby holding against the resolution plan in question for want of provision for related party? F. Whether the Appellate Tribunal has erred in holding that B settlement offer of the promoter in terms of Section 12-A of the Code was not placed for consideration of CoC; and as to whether non-consideration of such a proposal has any bearing on the question of approval of the resolution plan in question? G. What is the impact and effect of the subsequent events, C particularly of the approval of settlement offer of the promoter by the CoC in its nineteenth meeting held on 12.10.2022 by 100% majority of the voting share? Relevant statutory provisions 38. We have taken note of the parties and their respective positions; D the relevant factual and background aspects that have led to the present set of appeals, including various meetings of the CoC and other events that occurred during the CIRP; the impugned s of the NCLT and NCLAT dated 15.07.2021 and 17.02.2022 respectively; and the principal points to be determined in these appeals. Before proceeding further, worthwhile it would be to take note of the statutory provisions, which E are relevant to the contentions urged in these appeals23. 38.1. We may also take note of some of the other relevant statutory provisions of the IBC including Section 12-A which provides for withdrawal of application admitted under Sections 7, 9 or 10; Section 21 in regard to constitution and composition of the CoC; Section 24 which F specifies about meetings of the CoC; Section 25 which lays down the duties of the resolution professional in respect to the corporate debtor; Section 29-A which provides that certain persons may be ineligible to be resolution applicants; Section 30 relating to submission of resolution plan; Section 31 which provides for approval of the resolution plan; Section 32 G which provides for appeal from approving resolution plan; Section 61 which lays down the procedure and grounds of appeal before the Appellate Tribunal ; and Section 238 which states that the Code has an overriding power over other laws. These provisions read as follows: - 23 It may be observed that the relevant provisions have been extracted herein as presently H noticeable, while indicating, as far as possible, the amendments thereto. M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 859 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “24Section 12A. Withdrawal of application admitted under A section 7, 9 or 10.— The Adjudicating Authority may allow the withdrawal of application admitted under section 7 or section 9 or section 10, on an application made by the applicant with the approval of ninety per cent.