In such a case, an of admission under Section 7 of the IB Code must follow. If the NCLT finds that there is a debt, but it has not become due and payable, the application under Section 7 can be rejected. Otherwise, there is no ground available to reject the application. F 11. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Vidarbha Industries1 and in particular, what is held therein in paragraph nos. 86 to 89 which reads thus:- “86. Even though Section 7(5)(a) IBC may confer discretionary power on the adjudicating authority, such discretionary power G cannot be exercised arbitrarily or capriciously. If the facts and circumstances warrant exercise of discretion in a particular manner, discretion would have to be exercised in that manner. 87.Ordinarily, the adjudicating authority (NCLT) would have to exercise its discretion to admit an application under H 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Section 7 IBC and initiate CIRP on satisfaction of the existence of a financial debt and default on the part of the corporate debtor in payment of the debt, unless there are good reasons not to admit the petition. 88. The adjudicating authority (NCLT) has to consider the grounds B made out by the corporate debtor against admission, on its own merits. For example, when admission is opposed on the ground of existence of an award or a decree in favour of the corporate debtor, and the awarded/decretal amount exceeds the amount of the debt, the adjudicating authority would have to exercise its discretion under Section 7(5)(a) IBC to keep the admission of the C application of the financial creditor in abeyance, unless there is good reason not to do so. The adjudicating authority may, for example, admit the application of the financial creditor, notwithstanding any award or decree, if the award/decretal amount is incapable of realisation. The example is only illustrative. D 89. In this case, the adjudicating authority (NCLT) has simply brushed aside the case of the appellant that an amount of Rs 1730 crores was realisable by the appellant in terms of the passed by APTEL in favour of the appellant, with the cursory observation that disputes if any between the appellant and the recipient of E electricity or between the appellant and the Electricity Regulatory Commission were inconsequential.” (emphasis added) 12. A Review Petition was filed by the Axis Bank Limited seeking a review of the decision of Vidarbha Industries1 on the ground that the F attention of the Court was not invited to the case of E.S. Krishnamurthy2. While disposing of Review Petition by dated 22nd September 2022, this Court held thus: “The elucidation in paragraph 90 and other paragraphs were made in the context of the case at hand. It is well settled G that s and observations in s are not to be read as provisions of statute. Judicial utterances and/or pronouncements are in the setting of the facts of a particular case. To interpret words and provisions of a statute, it may become H necessary for the Judges to embark upon lengthy discussions.