The illustration appended to the clause 3rdly reads: C ‘(c) A intentionally gives Z a sword-cut or club-wound sufficient to cause the death of a man in the ordinary course of nature. Z dies in consequence. Here A is guilty of murder, although he may not have intended to cause Z’s death.’ The sufficiency of an intentional injury to cause death in D the ordinary way of nature is the gist of the clause irrespective of an intention to cause death. Here again, the exceptions may bring down the offence to culpable homicide not amounting to murder.” (Emphasis supplied) 53. This Court in Vineet Kumar Chauhan v. State of U.P., (2007) E 14 SCC 660, noticed that the academic distinction between ‘murder’ and ‘culpable homicide not amounting to murder’ had vividly been brought out by this Court in State of A.P. v. Rayavarapu Punnayya, (1976) 4 SCC 382, where it was observed as under:- “…that the safest way of approach to the interpretation and F application of Sections 299 and 300 of the Code is to keep in focus the key words used in various clauses of the said sections. Minutely comparing each of the clauses of sections 299 and 300 of the Code and the drawing support from the decisions of the court in Virsa Singh v. State of Punjab, (AIR G 1958 SC 465 : 1958 Cri LJ 818) and Rajwant Singh v. State of Kerala, (AIR 1966 SC 1874 : 1966 Cri LJ 1509) speaking for the court, Justice RS Sarkaria, neatly brought out the points of distinction between the two offences, which have been time and again reiterated. Having done so, the court said that wherever the Court is confronted with the question H 1124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A whether the offence is murder or culpable homicide not amounting to murder, on the facts of a case, it would be convenient for it to approach the problem in three stages. The question to be considered at the first stage would be that the accused has done an act by doing which he has caused the death of another. Two, if such causal connection between B the act of the accused and the death, leads to the second stage for considering whether that act of the accused amounts to culpable homicide as defined in section 299. If the answer to this question is in the negative, the offence would be culpable homicide not amounting to murder, punishable under C the First or Second part of Section 304, depending respectively, on whether this second or the third clause of Section 299 is applicable. If this question is found in the positive but the cases come within any of the exceptions enumerated in Section 300, the offence would still be culpable homicide not amounting to murder, punishable under the first D part of Section 304 of the Code. It was, however, clarified that these were only broad guidelines to facilitate the task of the court and not cast-iron imperative.” (Emphasis supplied) 54.