What is legitimate expectation? Obviously, it is not a legal right. It is an expectation of a benefi t, relief or remedy, that may ordinarily fl ow from a promise or established practice. The term “established practice” refers to a regular, consistent, predictable and certain conduct, process or activity of the decision-making authority. The expectation should be legitimate, that is, reasonable, logical and valid. Any expectation which is based on sporadic or casual or random acts, or which is unreasonable, illogical or invalid cannot be a legitimate expectation.” (emphasis supplied) In Ram Pravesh Singh (supra), this Court noted that the effi cacy of the doctrine of legitimate expectation is weak as the claimant is only entitled to the following two reliefs: (i) an opportunity to show cause before the expectation is negatived; and (ii) an explanation as to the cause for denial. The Court further clarifi ed that a claim based on legitimate expectation can be negatived on factors such as public interest, change in policy, conduct of the claimant, or any other valid or bona fi de reason provided by the public authority. 31. While dealing with the doctrine of legitimate expectation, another important aspect that the courts have had to grapple with is determining the “legitimacy” of the expectation. The court can infer the legitimacy of an expectation only if it is founded on the sanction of law.20 In Secretary, State of Karnataka v. Umadevi,21 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that a contractual or casual employee cannot claim a legitimate expectation to be regularized in service since such appointments could only be made after following proper procedures for selection including consultation with the Public Service Commission in certain situations. The legitimacy of expectation is a question of fact and has to be determined after weighing the claimant’s expectation against the larger public interest. 32. This Court has consistently held that a legitimate expectation must always yield to the larger public interest. In Sethi Auto Service Station v. 20 Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd v. CTO, (2005) 1 SCC 625 21 (2006) 4 SCC 1 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. DDA,22 this Court clarifi ed that legitimate expectation will not be applicable where the decision of the public authority is based on a public policy or is in the public interest, unless the action amounts to an abuse of power. The doctrine of legitimate expectation cannot be invoked to fetter valid exercise of administrative discretion.23 In P Suseela v. University Grants Commission,24 the claimants challenged the UGC Regulations which made it mandatory for candidates seeking to be appointed to the post of lecturer or assistant professor to qualify at the NET examination. The Court held that the legitimate expectation of the claimants must yield to the larger public interest – having highly qualifi ed assistant professors and lecturers to teach in educational institutions governed by the UGC. 33. In Kerala State Beverages (M&M) Corp Ltd. v. P P Suresh,25 the state government decided to ban arrack, as a result of which thousands of arrack workers lost their livelihoods.