17. Accordingly, this Court exercising its powers under Article 142 hereby constitutes a Committee headed by Justice Debi Prasad Dey, retired Judge, Calcutta High Court. The Committee shall also consist G of a Principal Secretary ranking officer of the IAS, who had served in the West Bengal cadre and stationed in Kolkata with experience in the Higher Education Department as well as a retired Registrar of one of the State Universities in West Bengal, residing in Kolkata. The State Government shall nominate the members other than the Chairman. The H 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Committee is requested to consider the claims of the petitioner, keeping in mind the following: (a) Whether the madrasa or its managing committee was recognized by the state government on the date on which the appointment was made? B (b) Whether such appointments were made, of candidates who possessed the requisite prescribed qualifications and fulfilled the experience and other eligible conditions stipulated for the post concerned? C (c) Whether such an appointment was made by following the recruitment procedure indicated in the Kolkata Gazette Notification dated 11-03- 2015 (No. 93-SE/S/10R-14/2013-9th February, 2015) and in Kolkata Gazette Notification dated 04-03-2016 (No. 486- MD/O/2M-11/2016)? D (d) Whether the appointments were made against vacancies that existed and whether the vacancies conformed to the staffing pattern for the concerned institution/madrasas (e) Whether after the appointments were made, the persons appointed actually worked on their respective posts? E (f) Whether the appointments were actually made on the date of the appointment letter, or were backdated? 18. The remuneration of the Chairperson of the Committee shall be ` 10,00,000/- and that of each member shall be ` 5,00,000/-. The F committee shall complete its task expeditiously; and, within four months from today, submit a report to the State Government, which shall then pass appropriate s in respect of the petitioners within two months thereafter. G 19. Ms. Madhumita Bhattacharjee submitted that all necessary co-operation would be extended by the State Government, which is directed to provide infrastructure, and the necessary staff to the committee to complete its task. The State Government is directed to notify the committee, within four weeks from today, and give appropriate publicity to those interested to seek verification of their claim. Such publicity shall H SNEHASIS GIRI AND ORS. v. SUBHASIS MITRA 311 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] be through appropriate advertisement in newspapers, both in English A and in Bengali. In addition, the notification shall also be placed on the website of the State Government’s Minority Affairs & Madrasah Education Department, Nabanna, Howrah. The notification shall indicate the time within which representations can be made. It is open to those claiming benefit, as well as those likely to be affected by the report, to B represent to the committee, within the time stipulated. The committee shall also consider a suitable and practicable method of giving hearing to those interested. 20. These petitions and pending applications/appeal(s) are disposed of in the above terms. C Divya Pandey Petitions disposed of.