D 1 and that if the same was granted by the competent Magistrate, Respondent No. 1 would be set free immediately upon completion of the police remand. The relevant part of the impugned to this effect reads as under: “16. Despite this , it would be open for the Investigating E Agency to apply to the competent Magistrate, for police remand of the applicant. The applicant shall remain present before the learned Magistrate on the first date of hearing of such application and on all subsequent occasions, as may be directed by the learned Magistrate. This would be sufficient to treat the accused in the judicial custody for the purpose of entertaining application of the F prosecution for police remand. This is, however, without prejudice to the right of the accused to seek stay against an of remand, if, ultimately, granted and the power of the learned Magistrate to consider such a request in accordance with law. It is clarified that the applicant even if, remanded to the police custody, upon G completion of such period of police remand, shall be set free immediately, subject to other conditions of this anticipatory bail . At the trial, the Trial Court shall not be influenced by the prima facie observations made by this Court while enlarging the applicant on bail. Rule is made absolute. Direct service is permitted.” H CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SANTOSH 485 KARNANI & ANR. [SURYA KANT, J.] 17. Following the High Court’s directions, Respondent No. 1 joined A the investigation and appeared on three days but is stated to have not produced his mobile phone(s) though he was asked to do so repeatedly. The CBI, then, applied for police remand of Respondent No. 1 and, on 30th December, 2022, the Special Judge, CBI Court No. 3 partly allowed the said application. The Court, upon perusal of the case diary, observed B that the allegations against Respondent No. 1 seem well-founded and that remand is necessary for the purpose of investigation to collect the missing link of evidence and to unearth the larger conspiracy. The application was allowed in the following terms: “The Accused Mr. Santosh Kumar Karnani is directed to appear C and surrender himself to the custody of Investigating Officer, CBI /ACB/ Gandhinagar from 10.00 am to 7.00 pm on dated 31/12/ 2022, 01/01/2023, 02/01/2023 and on 03/01/2023, in connection with RC-0292022A0011 GNR. It is further directed that accused shall be set free at 7.00 pm on respective dates. D Further as per the direction of Honourable Gujarat High Court, upon completion of aforesaid period of remand, the accused be set free upon expiry of remand period and report be submitted to this Court along with copies of medical examination paper/ Certificate. The case diary be handed back to the Investigating Officer. E The accused is hereby directed to give full cooperation to Investigating officer to carry out proper investigation of this case. The Investigating Officer is hereby directed to strictly adhere to the guidelines laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India F in case of D.K.