A Council of India,51 to argue that a charge cannot be introduced by way of regulations as the subject matter is not covered under Section 50 of the 2003 Act. It was further contended that only a fiscal levy by way of statutory exaction could be fastened on land. In the context of electricity, it was urged that a state legislation can provide for a charge on property only by providing for levy of a duty on consumption or sale of electricity. B Relying on India Cement Ltd & Ors v. State of Tamil Nadu52 and Al Champdany Industries v. Official Liquidator53, it has been argued that only such a fiscal exaction would get attached to the land. 106. The subject of taxes on the consumption or sale of electricity within the State falls under Entry 53, List II of the Seventh Schedule of C the Constitution. A number of States have enacted legislations providing for the levy of electricity duty on consumption or supply of electricity. In these instances, the legislature specifically provides that the duty payable under the state legislation shall be a first charge on the amount recoverable by the licensee for the electrical energy supplied. Further, the manner in D which such charges are to be realised from the consumer is provided for in the state legislation and relevant subordinate legislation. For example, the Kerala Electricity Duty Act 1963 and Kerala Electricity Duty Rules 1963 provide that the dues from a consumer towards electricity duty create a first charge on the amounts recoverable for the energy consumed. E 107. However, Entry 53 of List II of the Seventh Schedule does not have any bearing on the issues involved in this batch of cases. This is because neither is any tax levied under Article 265 of the Constitution nor is any levy imposed. It is not the case of the distribution licensees that the State Commission under Section 50 of the 2003 Act has the power to provide for fiscal exactions. F 108. A subordinate rule or regulation, as in the case of the Electricity Supply Code framed by a regulatory commission, can provide for a statutory charge to be fastened on the premises within which consumption of electricity was effected. In terms of Section 50 of the 2003 Act, a State Commission is empowered to provide for recovery of electricity G charges, intervals for billing of electricity charges, disconnection of supply of electricity for non-payment thereof, restoration of supply of electricity and other cognate matters. In terms of Section 181 of the 2003 Act, the 51 1995 (1) SCC 732 52 (1990) 1 SCC 12 H 53 (2009) 4 SCC 486 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 699 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] State Commission is empowered to make regulations and rules consistent A with the Act which carry out the provisions of the Act. As held in the preceding paragraphs, the rule making power contained under Section 181 read with Section 50 is wide enough to enable the regulatory commission to provide for a statutory charge in the absence of a provision in the plenary statute providing for creation of such a charge.