221/2021 F has been registered against the appellants. It is submitted that the said FIR is lodged consequent to the impugned and passed by the High Court. It is submitted that therefore if the impugned and passed by the High Court is set aside, in that case, all subsequent consequential s and subsequent registration of the FIR also deserve to be quashed and set aside. G 4. Shri R. Basant, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the State of West Bengal has vehemently submitted that the Magistrate is not authorised to inquire into the credibility of the complainant and the acceptability of the allegations at the stage of application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 151 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.1 It is submitted that the Constitution Bench in the A case of Lalita Kumari (supra)holds that a police officer cannot refuse to register an FIR if it discloses commission of a cognizable offence. It is submitted that the preliminary enquiry contemplated in Lalita Kumari (supra) by a police officer is only to ascertain whether a cognizable offence is revealed or not. It is submitted that if the police officer wrongly B or incorrectly refuses to register an FIR, the complainant has no option in law but to file a complaint under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. 4.2 It is submitted that though the in Priyanka Srivastava (supra) empowers the Magistrate to consider the credibility of the complainant and the acceptability of the allegations also at the stage of C application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., in view of the prior decisions of this Court in the cases of Srinivas Gundluri and others v. SEPCO Electric Power Construction Corporation, reported in (2010) 8 SCC 206; and Anju Chaudhary v. State of U.P., reported in (2013) 6 SCC 384, the plea that the veracity and/or credibility of the complainant and the acceptability of the allegations raised can be gone into by the D Magistrate at Section 156(3) stage does not appear to be correct. 4.3 It is submitted that the Magistrate is approached by the complainant alleging that the police officer has not registered the FIR. Hence, there cannot be a mismatch between the duty of the police officer under section 154(1) and the contours of the jurisdiction of the Magistrate E under Section 156(3) at the pre-cognizance stage. It is submitted that if so understood, the test of veracity enabled in Priyanka Srivastava (supra) can only be to ascertain whether a cognizable offence is in fact made out or not. It cannot receive an interpretation, divorced of the context and the dictum in Lalita Kumari (supra). If so, there will be a F mismatch between Section 154(1) and Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. It is submitted that the decision of this Court in the case of Priyanka Srivastava (supra)cannot lead to a conclusion that the Magistrate can delve into the credibility of the complainant/witnesses and the acceptability of the allegations made by her. It is submitted that Priyanka Srivastava(supra) was not intended to confer such a jurisdiction.