The question before the Court was whether in to get the benefit of sub-section (4) of Section 20 the tenant was liable to deposit the enhanced rate of rent as claimed by the landlord, or will he be relieved of the liability if he deposits the admitted rent. This court was of the opinion, which was in fact the settled position of law, that in case a tenant deposits F the admitted rent, under sub-section 4 of Section 20, he would get the benefit. Paragraph 19 of the above cited judgement clears this position. 19. In the absence of any proper evidence regarding the purported agreement for periodical enhancement of the rents, it becomes difficult to accept the story of such agreed G enhancement as made out on behalf of the landlord or its application to the provisions of Section 20(4) of the Act. Since there is no such evidence on record, except for the uncorroborated statement of the landlord, we have no other H 2 (2005) 13 SCC 145 MAN SINGH v. SHAMIM AHMED (DEAD) THR. LRS 309 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] option but to accept the story of the appellant tenants that A the parties had agreed to the increase of the monthly rent up to a maximum of Rs 100 per month and that too after the renovation had been effected to the shop room and a shutter had been fixed therein. If such be the case, the appellants would also be entitled to the protection of Section 20(4), since B the rents admitted to be in arrears at the rate of Rs 100 per month had been duly deposited by the tenant within the time prescribed under such provision of the Act. 14. The learned counsel of the appellant Shri Uniyal, sought to draw a parallel with the said case and would argue that in the present C case as well the tenant has been depositing the admitted rent. However, as we have already noticed the facts of the two cases are entirely different. The above case therefore has no application to the present case. 15. We therefore find no merit in the appeal which is hereby D dismissed. All interim s shall stand vacated. Nidhi Jain Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Adiraj Bali and Tamana, LCRAs) E F G H