…” 18. In Kalpana Mehta (supra), Hon. Dipak Misra, C.J.I., with whom 4 learned Judges concurred, stated: “40. While focussing on the exercise of the power of judicial review, it has to be borne in mind that the source of authority is the Constitution of India. The Court has the adjudicating authority to scrutinise the limits of the power and transgression of such limits. The nature and scope of judicial review has been succinctly stated in Union of India v. Raghubir Singh [Union of India v. Raghub-ir Singh, (1989) 2 SCC 754] by R.S. Pathak, C.J. thus : (SCC p. 766, para 7) “7. … The range of judicial review recognised in the superior judiciary of India is perhaps the widest and the most extensive known to the world of law. … With this impressive expanse of judicial power, it is only right that the superior courts in India should be conscious of the enormous responsibility which rest on them. This is specially true of the Supreme Court, for as the highest Court in the entire judicial system the law declared by it is, by Article 141 of the Constitution, binding on all courts within the territory of India.” And again: (SCC p. 767, para 11) “11. Legal compulsions cannot be limited by existing legal propositions, be-cause there will always be, beyond the frontiers of the existing law, new areas inviting judicial scrutiny and judicial choice- making which could well aff ect the validity of existing legal dogma. The search for solutions responsive to a changed social era involves a search not only among competing propositions of law, or competing versions of a legal proposition, or the modalities of an inde-terminacy such as “fairness” or “reasonableness”, but also among propositions from outside the ruling law, corresponding to the empirical knowledge 86 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. or ac-cepted values of present time and place, relevant to the dispensing of justice within the new parameters.” The aforesaid two passages lay immense responsibility on the Court pertain-ing to the exercise of the power keeping in view the accepted values of the pre-sent. An organic instrument requires the Court to draw strength from the spirit of the Constitution. The propelling element of the Constitution commands the reali-sation of the values. The aspiring dynamism of the interpretative process also expects the same. 41.This Court has the constitutional power and the authority to interpret the constitutional provisions as well as the statutory provisions. The conferment of the power of judicial review has a great sanctity as the constitutional court has the power to declare any law as unconstitutional if there is lack of competence of the legislature keeping in view the fi eld of legislation as provided in the Constitution or if a provision contravenes or runs counter to any of the fundamental rights or any constitutional provision or if a provision is manifestly arbitrary. 42. When we speak about judicial review, it is also necessary to be alive to the concept of judicial restraint.