According to the learned counsel, this D again has only been a matter of re-appreciation of evidence by the High Court. 9.7. In respect of reduction of interest post-award from 15% to 10% p.a. based on the principles of proportionality and reasonableness with reliance on the decision in Vedanta Ltd. (supra), learned senior E counsel has submitted that post-award interest was awarded under Section 31(7)(b) of the Act of 1996 and the claimant had handed over the statement indicating that prime lending rate was approximately 13% p.a. and above and, therefore, award of interest @ 15% p.a. was justified. 10. Mr. R. Venkataramani, the learned Attorney General for India, F appearing on behalf of the State has countered the submissions made on behalf of the claimant and has argued that the High Court has rightly interfered with the award in question that suffered from patent illegalities. The learned Attorney General has also questioned the observations and findings in the impugned and dated 08.03.2021 to the extent the submissions of the State have been rejected or overruled. G 10.1. Learned Attorney General has referred to various decisions of this Court on the scope of interference under Sections 34 and 37 of the Act of 1996 including those in Ssangyong Engineering (supra); MMTC Limited v. Vedanta Limited: (2019) 4 SCC 163; and PSA SICAL Terminals (P) Ltd. v. Board of Trustees of V.O. Chidambranar H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 405 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Port Trust Tuticorin and Ors. : (2021) SCC Online SC 508. It has A been submitted that this is not a case of two plausible views by the Arbitral Tribunal but a case of non-advertence to, and non-consideration of, the relevant contractual clauses leading to patent illegalities. According to the learned Attorney General, the Arbitral Tribunal had approached the entire case from an altogether wrong angle; and when the Arbitrator B adverted to wrong questions, the result has been of wrong answers. Learned Attorney General would submit that the High Court rightly interfered with the under Section 34 of the Act of 1996 considering the fact that the Commercial Court did not adjudicate upon the arbitral award and rather framed separate issues like a regular Appellate Court. C 10.2. It has been strenuously argued by the learned Attorney General that in the award in question, the Arbitral Tribunal proceeded to rely upon certain correspondence between the parties but, failed to examine the root question as to whether such correspondence had the effect of variation of terms of contract and as to whether such correspondence changed the fundamentals of contract. The learned D Attorney General has re-emphasised that the Arbitral Tribunal has not considered the relevant clauses of the contract and this had been a matter of patent illegality. Two decisions of this Court have been relied on in this regard, namely State of Chhattisgarh and Ors. v. Sal Udyog Pvt. Ltd.: (2022) 2 SCC 275 and Associate Builders v. Delhi Development E Authority: (2015) 3 SCC 49.