While learned senior counsel for the appellant has laid great emphasis on this provision on the basis of which he has assailed the unreasoned cancellation of the bid of the appellant, learned senior counsel for the intervenor has pointed out that para 1(11A) was inserted in Schedule I vide notifi cation dated 30.09.2021 with eff ect from 30.09.2021. According to him, this provision is prospective and cannot be applied to auctions conducted prior to 30.09.2021, including the auction in question. Therefore, there was no requirement for the Liquidator to give reasons for cancellation of the bid of the appellant. 29. We are afraid we cannot accept such a contention made on behalf of the intervenor. While it is true that para 1(11A) came to be inserted in Schedule 1 to the Regulations with eff ect from 30.09.2021, it does not imply that an auction sale or the highest bid prior to the aforesaid date could be cancelled by the Liquidator exercising unfettered discretion and without furnishing any reason. It is trite law that furnishing of reasons is an important aspect rather a check on the arbitrary exercise of power. Furnishing of reasons presupposes application of mind to the relevant factors and consideration by the concerned authority before passing an . Absence of reasons may be a EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 887 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] good reason to draw inference that the decision making process was arbitrary. Therefore, what para 1(11A) has done is to give statutory recognition to the requirement for furnishing reasons, if the Liquidator wishes to reject the bid of the highest bidder. Furnishing of reasons, which is an integral facet of the principles of natural justice, is embedded in a provision or action, whereby the highest bid is rejected by the Liquidator. Thus, what para 1(11A) has done is to give statutory recognition to this well-established principle. It has made explicit what was implicit. 30. In S. N. Mukherjee versus Union of India2, this Court opined that the requirement to record reason can be regarded as one of the principles of natural justice which governs exercise of power by administrative authorities. The rules of natural justice are not embodied rules. The extent of their application depends upon the particular statutory framework whereunder jurisdiction has been conferred on the administrative authority. Except in cases where the requirement of recording reasons has been dispensed with expressly or by necessary implication, an administrative authority exercising judicial or quasi-judicial functions is required to record the reasons for its decision. This Court held as follows: - 39. The object underlying the rules of natural justice “is to prevent miscarriage of justice” and secure “fair play in action”. As pointed out earlier the requirement about recording of reasons for its decision by an administrative authority exercising quasi-judicial functions achieves this object by excluding chances of arbitrariness and ensuring a degree of fairness in the process of decision-making. Keeping in view the expanding horizon of the principles of natural justice, we are of the opinion, that the requirement to record reason can be regarded as one of the principles of natural justice which govern exercise of power by administrative authorities.