ETC. v. STATE OF 1019 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] (iii) that the land proposed to be acquired is suitable for the A purpose; (iv) that the area of land proposed to be acquired is not excessive; (v) that the Company is in a position to utilise the land B expeditiously; and (vi) where the land proposed to be acquired is good agricultural land, that no alternative suitable site can be found so as to avoid acquisition of that land. (2) The Collector shall, after giving the Company a C reasonable opportunity to make any representation in this behalf, hold an enquiry into the matters referred to in sub-rule (1) and while holding such enquiry he shall, - (i) in any case where the land proposed to be acquired is agricultural land, consult the Senior Agricultural Officer of the D district whether or not such land is good agricultural land; (ii) determine, having regard to the provisions of sections 23 and 24 of the Act, the approximate amount of compensation likely to be payable in respect of the land which, in the opinion of the Collector, should be acquired for the Company; and E (iii) ascertain whether the Company offered a reasonable price (not being less than the compensation so determined), to the persons interested in the land proposed to be acquired. Explanation. - For the purpose of this rule “good agricultural land” means any land which, considering the level of agricultural F production and the crop pattern of the area in which it is situated, is of average or above average productivity and includes a garden or grove land. (3) As soon as may be after holding the enquiry under sub- rule (2), the Collector shall submit a report to the appropriate G Government and a copy of the same shall be forwarded by that Government to the Committee. (4) No declaration shall be made by the appropriate Government under section 6 of the Act unless - H 1020 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (i) the appropriate Government has consulted the Committee and has considered the report submitted under this rule and the report, if any, submitted under section 5-A of the Act; and (ii) the agreement under section 41 of the Act has been executed by the Company.” B 8.12 At the relevant time, there was no Section 41 agreement at all. Even no inquiry was made by the State Government in terms of Rule 4 read with Rule 3 of the Rules, 1963. Declaration under Section 6 could not have been issued by the State Government without consulting the Land Acquisition Committee to be constituted under Rule 3 of the Rules, C 1963. Constituting the Core Committee by the State Government, which was to coordinate the entire acquisition cannot be said to be constituting the Land Acquisition Committee as required under Rule 3. The object and purpose of constituting the Land Acquisition Committee under Rule 3 is to advise the appropriate Government on all matters relating to or arising out of acquisition of land under Part VII of the Act, 1894 on D which it is consulted and to tender its advise.