54. The off ences under the IPC and off ences under the PC Act, 1988 are diff erent and distinct. What is important to consider is whether the off ences for one reason or the other punishable under the IPC are also required to be approved in relation to the off ences punishable under the PC Act, 1988. 55. It is important to draw a distinction between an of sanction required for prosecuting a person for commission of an off ence under the IPC and an of sanction required for commission of an off ence under the PC Act, 1988. 56. In Kalicharan Mahapatra v. State of Orissa, reported in (1998) 6 SCC 411, this Court noted: “…The sanction contemplated in Section 197 of the Code concerns a public servant who ‘is accused of any off ence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his offi cial duty’, whereas the off ences contemplated in the PC Act are those which cannot be treated as acts either directly or even purportedly done in the discharge of his offi cial duties. Parliament must have desired to maintain the distinction and hence the wording in the corresponding provision in the former PC Act was materially imported in the new PC Act, 1988 without any change in spite of the change made in Section 197 of the Code…” (Emphasis supplied) 57. In Lalu Prasad alias Lalu Prasad Yadav v. State of Bihar reported in (2007) 1 SCC 4, this Court observed as under: “10. It may be noted that Section 197 of the CrPC and Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988 operate in conceptually diff erent fi elds. In cases covered under the Act, in respect of public servants the sanction is of automatic nature and thus factual aspects are of little or no A. SREENIVASA REDDY v. RAKESH SHARMA AND ANR. 957 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] consequence. Conversely, in a case relatable to Section 197 of the CrPC, the substratum and basic features of the case have to be considered to fi nd out whether the alleged act has any nexus with the discharge of duties. Position is not so in case of Section 19 of the Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 58. Thus, although in the present case, the appellant has been discharged from the off ences punishable under the PC Act, 1988 yet for the IPC off ences, he can be proceeded further in accordance with law. 59. From the aforesaid, it can be said that there can be no thumb rule that in a prosecution before the court of Special Judge, the previous sanction under Section 19 of the PC Act, 1988 would invariably be the only pre-requisite. If the off ences on the charge of which, the public servant is expected to be put on trial include the off ences other than those punishable under the PC Act, 1988 that is to say under the general law (i.e. IPC), the court is bound to examine, at the time of cognizance and also, if necessary, at subsequent stages (as the case progresses) as to whether there is a necessity of sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC.