v. 1187 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] of his own case. Petitioner No.1 obviously crossed boundaries where the Court was compelled to take action under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 and debar petitioner No.1 from practicing in this Court. 13. We fi nd the pleadings completely devoid of merit and justifi cation, making allegations against all and sundry. This is more so in the conspectus of the large growth in the legal profession where a large number of fi rst- generation lawyers have made their mark. These lawyers, some of them young ones, have come from National Law Schools and other prominent Law Schools. Instead of appreciating their contribution, petitioner No.1 has used his usual style of making allegations against all and sundry. 14. On what is a limited legal scrutiny, the rest being the opinion and rantings of the petitioners, is the constitutional validity of the aforesaid provisions of the said Act. Suffi ce to say that the constitutional validity of a specifi c provision cannot be challenged in abstract, but when the provisions violate any fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III or contravenes any provision of the Constitution, or the legislature lacks law-making competence. If a provision violates a fundamental right, such a violation must directly and inevitably aff ect the people and cannot be premised on an ostensible use of violation of the provision. We may usefully refer to the observations in Public Services Tribunal Bar Association v. State of U.P.5 as under: “26. The constitutional validity of an Act can be challenged only on two grounds viz. (i) lack of legislative competence; and (ii) violation of any of the fundamental rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution or of any other constitutional provisions. In State of A.P. v. McDowell & Co. [(1996) 3 SCC 709] this Court has opined that except the above two grounds there is no third ground on the basis of which the law made by the competent legislature can be invalidated and that the ground of invalidation must necessarily fall within the four corners of the aforementioned two grounds.” 15. The classifi cation of advocates as senior advocates and other advocates under Section 16 of the said Act is a classifi cation made by 5 (2003) 4 SCC 104 118 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the legislature. The legislature has a broad discretion to make such classifi cations, and while there must be a reason for classifi cation, the reason need not be a good one. The Court can only review the classifi cation if it is palpably discriminatory and arbitrary. 16. In Union of India v. Nitdip Textile Processors (P) Ltd.6 observed as under: “47. It is now well settled by a catena of decisions of this Court that a particular classifi cation is proper if it is based on reason and not purely arbitrary, caprice or vindictive. On the other hand, while there must be a reason for the classifi cation, the reason need not be a good one, and it is immaterial that the statute is unjust.