Where the law prescribes a thing to be done in a particular manner following a particular procedure, it shall be done in the same manner following the provisions of law, without deviating from the prescribed procedure. When the provisions of Section 3 of the Act clearly mandated the authorities to pass an of detention at one time for a period not exceeding three months only, the government in the present case, directing detention of the husband of the appellant for a period of twelve months at a stretch is clear violation of the prescribed manner and contrary to the provisions of law. The Government cannot direct or extend the period of detention up to the maximum period of twelve months in one stroke, ignoring the cautious legislative intention that even the of extension of detention must not exceed three months at any one time. One should not ignore the underlying principles while passing s of detention or extending the detention period from time to time. 15. Normally, a person who is detained under the provisions of the Act is without facing trial which in other words amounts to curtailment of his liberties and denial of civil rights. In such cases, whether continuous detention of such person is necessary or not, is to be assessed and reviewed from time to time. Taking into consideration these factors, the legislature has specifi cally provided the mechanism “Advisory Board” to review the detention of a person. Passing a detention for a period of twelve months at a stretch, without proper review, is deterrent to the rights of the detenu. Hence, the impugned government directing detention for the maximum period of twelve months straightaway cannot be sustained in law.”. (Emphasis supplied) 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 25. Thus, from the aforesaid, it is evident that in Cherukuri Mani (supra), this Court took the view that sub-section (2) of Section 3 more particularly the proviso to sub-section (2) is in respect with the operation of the of detention. To put it in other words, the time period for which the detenu is to be detained. 26. In the aforesaid context, we may say with profound respect that Cherukuri Mani (supra) does not lay down the correct law. Sub- section (2) of Section 3 has nothing to do with the period of detention. In Cherukuri Mani (supra), the Bench completely mis-read the entire provision. 27. We are of the view that Section 3(2) is with respect to the delegation of powers by the State Government upon the District Magistrate or Commissioner of Police, as the case may be, for exercise of powers under sub-section (2) of Section 3 of the Act 1986. The period as mentioned in Section 3(2) of the Act 1986 refers to the period of delegation of powers and it has no relevance at all to the period for which a person may be detained. It appears that the attention of the learned Judges while deciding Cherukuri Mani (supra) was not invited to a three-Judge Bench of this Court in T. Devaki v. Government of Tamil Nadu, (1990) 2 SCC 456, wherein it has been held as under:- “8.