This version of PW-3 was accepted by the Trial Court but was disbelieved by the High Court. The ‘last seen’ theory sought to be built up by the prosecution, therefore, fell to the ground. 14. A conspectus of the prosecution’s case clearly reveals that it is poised entirely on circumstantial evidence as there was no eyewitness to the kidnapping and murder of Ajit Pal. In a case resting on circumstantial evidence, the prosecution must establish a chain of unbroken events unerringly pointing to the guilt of the accused and none other [See C. Chenga Reddy and others vs. State of A.P1, Ramreddy Rajesh Khanna Reddy vs. State of A.P.2, Majenderan Langeswaran vs. State (NCT of Delhi) and another3and Sharad Birdhichand Sarda vs. State of Maharashtra4]. As long back as in the year 1952, in Hanumant vs. State of Madhya Pradesh5, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court observed as under: ‘It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should in the fi rst instance be fully established, and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused. Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved. In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.’ 1 (1996) 10 SCC 193 2 (2006) 10 SCC 172 3 (2013) 7 SCC 192 4 (1984) 4 SCC 116 5 (1952) 2 SCC 71 RAJESH & ANR. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 11 [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] Again, in Padala Veera Reddy vs. State of Andhra Pradesh and others6, this Court affi rmed that when a case rests solely upon circumstantial evidence, such evidence must satisfy the following tests: ‘1. The circumstances from which an inference of guilt is sought to be drawn must be cogently and fi rmly established; 2. Those circumstances should be of a defi nite tendency unerringly pointing towards guilt of the accused; 3. The circumstances, taken cumulatively, should form a chain so complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused and none else; and 4. The circumstantial evidence in to sustain conviction must be complete and incapable of explanation of any other hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused and such evidence should not only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but should be inconsistent with his innocence.’ 15. Applying these standards presently, we fi nd that the prosecution utterly failed to pass muster in establishing its case. There are cavernous gaps in the evidence that the prosecution would off er as an ‘unbroken chain unerringly pointing to the guilt of the appellants’.