5.1. We shall refer to the findings of the Arbitral Tribunal, to the extent relevant, at the appropriate juncture hereafter. However, to take D into comprehension as to what was presented to the Arbitral Tribunal by way of dispute and as to what material points called for determination, it may be noticed that the parties jointly formulated the issues on which the Arbitral Tribunal was required to give its ruling; and the same were duly taken note of by the Arbitral Tribunal in the following words:- E “34. The parties in the joint statement submitted by them on computation of the claim amount payable by the Respondent to the claimant have themselves succinctly formulated the issues on which this Tribunal is required to give its ruling, which are as follows: F a) Contention of the Respondent that Rated Capacity is required to be downrated from September 2000 till the expiry of the PPA, i.e. 13th August, 2014, relying on the draft Notification issued by the Ministry of Power, Government of India referred to by the Respondent during its arguments. G b) Respondent’s claim for credit to be given to it of 4 MW for 12 hours on daily basis for weekdays in computing the Tariff Heat Rate for arriving at the Fuel Cost (Variable Charges) from January, 2009 till 13th August 2014. The Respondent has made this claim by referring to letters dated 2nd January, 2009 and 19th January, 2009. H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 395 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] c) Contention of the respondent that the claimant had agreed to A supply power based on a fixed rate of Fuel price and a fixed rate of exchange in terms of US Dollar to INR for supply of power using RLNG as fuel from June, 2013 onwards; d) Claim of the Claimant that it is entitled to Fuel Facilitation Charges for supply of power by using RLNG from June 2013, B and e) Contention of the respondent that back-up power supplied by it from May, 2014 till 13th August, 2014 was 1.25 times of Rs. 3.78/ kWh, being the rate specified by the respondent in its letter dated 18th September, 2014.” C 5.2. Out of the five issues aforementioned, four were decided by the Arbitral Tribunal in favour of the claimant (except that relating to fuel facilitation charges). The parties also presented various alternatives of calculation for arriving at the amount payable in terms of findings. Having examined these alternatives and with reference to its findings, D the Tribunal made the award in the following terms: - “77. This Tribunal after considering all aspects of the matter has decided four of the issues in favour of the Claimant, and one in favour of the Respondent. The scenario attracted in view of the above findings is Scenario 22. Accordingly, the Claimant will be E entitled to a sum of Rs.119.32 Crores by way of principal amount and a sum of Rs 158.98 Crores by way of interest for the period up to 31.10.2017 totaling Rs.