She also denied the suggestions in the cross-examination that she visited the place of occurrence at 8:00 a.m. C and brought the witnesses as also the appellant with her to the police station. The relevant extracts from the testimony of PW-10 are as under:- “…On 21.6.2007 at 9:00 A.M. when I was on duty, Basheera, wife of Mohammed Kasim, aged 65 years, residing at No. 230/ 48D, Cross Street, Renga Nagar, Perambalur, came to the station D and had deposed the complaint and I recorded the same in writing. After deposing the complaint, I had read out the statement to Basheera. As she said that it was as deposed by her, and as she said that she did not know to sign, I had obtained her left thumb impression in the complaint… E Cross Examination:…In the complaint that had been deposed to me it had not been indicated that after the incident was over, the margin accused was brought by the complainant Basheera to the Perambalur Police Station. When Basheera deposed, Anwar Basha was with her.… The witness Basheera did not depose in the complaint that after seeing that the child was dead, Basheera F came out of the house, and shouted and thereafter the witnesses Mumtaz and Asha Begum came there. Basheera did not depose in the complaint that she went to get the society milk at 6:00 A.M. She did not depose in the complaint that when she bought the milk and came on the way she met her daughter Mumtaz at her house G and talked to her. The witness Basheera did not depose in the complaint that after coming to house, the accused had given Rupees one hundred for getting idli and that she had taken the same and went to the farmer’s market to get idli. The witness Basheera did not depose in the complaint that after she came to the house, the house door was locked and she had knocked the H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 961 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] door and opened the same. If it is said that after coming to know A of the incident, I went to the place of incident at 8.00 A.M. itself and I had brought the witnesses, Basheera, Mumtaz and Asha Begum to the police station, they are all incorrect. If it is said that at that time, I had taken the margin accused along with the above said witnesses, it is also incorrect…” B 5.8. PW-12 Thiru G. Ayyanar was the first IO in the case. He stated to have received the FIR at 10:15 a.m. on 21.06.2007 and commenced the investigation. For the purpose, he went to the place of incident and examined a few witnesses; prepared the mahazar; and seized the articles like mat and pillow. He also stated to have arrested the C appellant at Perambalur New Bus Stand and having recorded her confessional statement in the presence of witnesses. He further stated to have seized the saree said to have been used in the offence.