The law reports contain many precedents where the court had to depend and act upon the testimony of a single witness in support of the prosecution. There are exceptions to this rule, for example, in cases of sexual off ences or of the testimony of an approver; both these are cases in which the oral testimony is, by its very nature, suspect, being that of a participator in crime. But, where there are no such exceptional reasons operating, it becomes the duty of the court to convict, if it is satisfi ed that the testimony of a single witness is entirely reliable. We have therefore, no reasons to refuse to act upon the testimony of the fi rst witness, which is the only reliable evidence in support of the prosecution.” (emphasis added) 8. Considering the nature of the testimony of PW-2, it cannot be said that the evidence of PW-2 is wholly reliable. The identifi cation of the appellant for the fi rst time in the Court after a lapse of about two years becomes doubtful for more than one reason. Firstly, the appellant was not known to PW-2. Secondly, the appellant was part of a large aggressive mob of 50 to 100 people which surrounded the auto-rickshaw. Thirdly, there was no identifi cation parade held. Fourthly, there was no time available to PW-2 to note the distinctive features of the appellant. Hence, it is very unsafe to record a conclusion based only on the testimony of the solitary witness that the guilt of the appellant was proved beyond a reasonable doubt. Even if we categorise the evidence of PW-2 as “neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable,” the appellant cannot be convicted only based on the sole testimony of PW-2 unless there is a corroboration to the version of PW-2 either by direct or circumstantial evidence. Such a corroboration is completely absent in this case. Therefore, the conviction of the appellant cannot be sustained. JAVED SHAUKAT ALI QURESHI v. STATE OF GUJARAT 229 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 9. Now, coming to the role of accused nos.2,3 and 4, we must note here that the only role ascribed to them was that they were a part of the mob. No overt act was ascribed to them. The Trial Court believed the testimony of PW-25 (Arifkhan) and PW-26 (Sachinbhai Patel). Both PW-25 and PW- 26 identifi ed accused no.2. However, a test identifi cation parade was not conducted. 10. As far as accused no.3 is concerned, he was identifi ed by PW-26 as a member of the mob. After having perused the testimony of PW-25, we fi nd that he has not specifi cally named accused no.3. Accused no.4 was not identifi ed by PW-26, but the fi nding of the Trial Court is that he was identifi ed by PW-25. 11. The conviction of accused nos. 1, 5 and 13 was based only on the testimony of PW-25 and PW-26. The test identifi cation parade as regards accused nos.1 and 5 was not held, but as regards accused no.13, the test identifi cation parade was conducted.