Only when such prayer being honest and prayer sought with a bona-fi de intention, which we will have to be demonstrated in express terms, at least by way of an affi davit, such prayers should be entertained as otherwise the purpose of the legislative mandate would get defeated and the purpose of the amendment brought to CPC by Act 22 of 2002 would also become otiose. In other words, it is high time that the presiding offi cers of all the trial courts across the country strictly enforce the time schedule prescribed under sub-rule (1) of Rule (1) of VIII in its letter and spirit rather than extending the olive branch on account of said provision being held directory to its illogical end even where circumstances of a particular case does not warrant time being enlarged. Although XVII of the CPC indicate under the heading “adjournments”, making it explicitly clear the procedure which requires to be adopted by the civil courts in the matter of trial, as evident from plain reading of the said provision would reveal, seems to have been completely lost sight of by all the stakeholders, which can be held as one of the root cause for delay in disposal of civil cases. It would be apt and appropriate to extract XVII of the CPC and it reads: XVII “1. Court may grant time and adjourn hearing” (1) The court may, if suffi cient cause is shown, at any stage of the suit grant time to the parties or to any of them, and may from time to time adjourn the hearing of the suit for reasons to be recorded in writing: Provided that no such adjournment shall be granted more than three time to a party during hearing of the suit. 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (2) Costs of adjournment. -In every such case the Court shall fi x a day for the further hearing of the suit, and [shall make such s as to costs occasioned by the adjournment or such higher costs as the court deems fi t: Provided that, - (a) when the hearing of the suit has commenced, it shall be continued from day-to-day until all the witnesses in attendance have been examined, unless the Court fi nds that, for the exceptional reasons to be recorded by it, the adjournment of the hearing beyond the following day is necessary. (b) no adjournment shall be granted at the request of a party, except where the circumstances are beyond the control of that party, (c) the fact that the pleader of a party is engaged in another Court, shall not be a ground for adjournment, (d) where the illness of a pleader or his inability to conduct the case for any reason, other than his being engaged in another Court, is put forward as a ground for adjournment, the Court shall not grant the adjournment unless it is satisfi ed that the party applying for adjournment could not have engaged another pleader in time, (e) where a witness is present in Court but a party or his pleader is not present or the party or his pleader, though present in Court, is not ready to examine or cross-examine the witness, the Court may, if it thinks fi t, record the statement of the witness and pass such s as it thinks fi t dispensing with the examination-in-chief or cross-examination of the witness, as the case may be, by the party or his pleader not present or not ready as aforesaid.” The High Court of Karnataka in the matter of M. Mahalingam vs. Shashikala reported in ILR Karnataka 4055 had an occasion to deal with this rule and it was observed as under: “17.