It has been urged that in the absence of any existing statutory regulations, the appellant cannot be called upon to clear the past arrears incurred by the E erstwhile consumer as a condition precedent to electricity supply. 161. The relevant date to determine the applicability of the Conditions of Supply is the date on which the auction purchaser applies for a fresh connection of electricity for the premises, and not the date of purchase of the undertaking. The issue before this Court is whether F there was any statutory provision in operation governing the issue of recovery of the defaulted amount as on the date when the appellant applied for a new electric connection. 162. The respondent in their counter affidavit has raised a dispute on the factum of the date of application for a fresh connection of G electricity. The respondent submits that the court sale was held on 31 October 1989, which was confirmed on 22 January 1990 and the sale certificate was signed on 6 April 1990. It is argued that in these circumstances, it is unlikely that the appellant would have received 75 Reliance placed on State of Madhya Pradesh v. Tikamdas, (1975) 2 SCC 100 H 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A possession of the premises or would have applied for an electric connection on 1 December 1989, as alleged by the appellant. 163. However, neither party has submitted any material on record to prove the date of the application for the grant of a power connection. In view of the material factual dispute and insufficient evidence on record, B we remand the matter to the High Court to determine whether Condition 15 of Conditions of Supply of Electrical Energy would apply to the appellant’s case, bearing in mind the principles which have been laid down in this . II. Maharashtra C 164. In the state of Maharashtra, the terms and conditions under which the MSEB supplied electrical energy were provided in the MSEB Conditions of Supply. The MSEB Conditions of Supply were made effective from 1 January 1976. The MSEB Conditions of Supply laid down a detailed procedure in respect of the application for supply of electrical energy, payment of bills, procedure to be adopted in case of D prejudicial use of electrical energy and the terms on which the supply of electrical energy is released to a consumer.Condition 23 of MSEB Conditions of Supply provides for assignment and transfer of agreement. 165. In light of the New Industrial Development Policy 1993, aimed at reviving sick industries,the MSEB issued Circular 518 dated 18 June E 1993, titled “Power Supply to closed and Sick Industrial Unit”. The aim of Circular 518 was to encourage prospective entrepreneurs to take over sick industrial units under Section 29 of the State Financial Corporation Act 1957. The Circular presented prospective owners who purchased sick/ closed industrial units in auction with two options — F either pay arrears including minimum charges to get electricity supply reconnected, or apply for a fresh connection after completing necessary formalities, without being liable for outstanding arrears of the previous owner.