B. PARDIWALA, J.] relating to sexual harassment at workplace. The 2006 Standing is reproduced below: - “DIRECTORATE GENERAL, SASHASTRA SEEMA BAL (SSB), R.K. PURAM, NEW DELHI-110066 2006 STANDING 1/2006 SUB: GRIEVANCES REDRESSAL MECHANISM : TO REDRESS GRIEVANCES OF WOMEN / SEXUAL HARASSMENT AT WORK PLACE. 1. The Constitution of India has given to women, the Fundamental Right to equality and the Right not to be discriminated against on grounds of religion, caste and sex. The constitution includes a special provision in Article 15(3), permitting the State to make special provisions in favour of women by enacting Laws/provisions so as to advance their social economic and political condition and to accord them parity. 2. Sexual harassment of women at the workplace violates their sense of dignity and right to earn a living with dignity and is against their fundamental rights and their basic human rights. The International Convention on the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) adopted in 1979 at Beijing also recognized the right of women to equality at the work place and it states that women shall not be subjected to sexual harassment at work places; as such harassment vitiates the working environment. 3. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the matter of Vishaka and others Vs State of Rajasthan and others (AIR 1997 SC 3011) while recognizing the International Convention and norms has interpreted gender of women, in relation to work and held that sexual harassment of women at the workplace, which is against their dignity is a clear violation of the fundamental rights of “Gender Equality” and the “Right to Life and Liberty” enshrined in Article -14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India. Other logical consequences of such an incident is also the violation of the victim’s fundamental right 526 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. under Article-19(1) (g) ‘to practice any profession or to carry out any occupation, trade or business’. Gender equality includes protection from sexual harassment and right to work with dignity. 4. In absence of enacted law to provide for the eff ective enforcement of the basic human right of gender equality and guarantee against sexual harassment and abuse more particularly against harassment at work place, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has laid down the guidelines and norms for compliance at all workplaces and institutions. Under Article 141 of the Constitution, these guidelines and norms of the Hon’ble Supreme Court are required to be treated as THE LAW OF THE LAND. 5. The National Commission for Women, a statutory and autonomous body constituted by the Government of India is working for justice for women, safeguarding their rights, and promoting women’s empowerment. The NCW consequently formulated a code of conduct for work place putting down the Supreme Court guidelines in a simple manner which has been widely circulated. Arrangements at various levels have been made to ensure that the women employed in Departments work with utmost dignity and are free from all types of sexual harassment. Accordingly, following scheme of arrangements has been devised for SSB: 6.DEFINITION Sexual harassment will include such unwelcome sexually determined behaviour by any person either individually or in association with other persons or by any person in authority whether directly or by implication such as:- i) Physical contact and advances.