(6) The right being B a very weak right, it can be defeated by all legitimate methods, such as the vendee allowing the claimant of a superior or equal right being substituted in his place.” 16. The afore-stated position was reiterated by this Court in Barasat Eye Hospital vs. Kaustabh Mondal3, and again in the recent decision in C case of Raghunath (Dead) by LRs. vs. Radha Mohan (Dead) Through LRs. And Others4,wherein it has been observed as under: - “14. We have given our thoughtful consideration to the aforesaid issue and in to determine the same, we had, at the inception itself, set out the in Barasat Eye Hospital case [Barasat D Eye Hospital v. Kaustabh Mondal, (2019) 19 SCC 767 : (2020) 4 SCC (Civ) 810] . We have, thus, referred to the earlier judicial view in para 10 of the extracted aforesaid. The historical perspective of the right of pre-emption shows that it owes its origination to the advent of the Mohammedan rule, based on customs, which came to be accepted in various courts largely E located in the north of India. The pre-emptor has been held by the judicial pronouncements to have two rights. Firstly, the inherent or primary right, which is the right to the offer of a thing about to be sold and the secondary or remedial right to follow the thing sold. It is a secondary right, which is simply a right of substitution F in place of the original vendee. The pre-emptor is bound to show that he not only has a right as good as that of the vendee, but it is superior to that of the vendee; and that too at the time when the pre-emptor exercises his right. In our view, it is relevant to note this observation and we once again emphasise that the right is a “very weak right” and is, thus, capable of being defeated by all G legitimate methods including the claim of superior or equal right.” 17. At this juncture, it would be also apt to mention that apart from the fact that the right of pre-emption is very weak right and capable 3 (2019) 19 SCC 767 4 (2021) 12 SCC 501 H 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A of being defeated by all legitimate methods, the pre-emptor must establish that he had the right to pre-empt on the date of sale, on the date of the filing of the suit and on the date of the passing of the decree by the Court of the first instance. The pre-emptor or the claimant-plaintiff who claims the right to pre-empt the sale on the date of sale, has also to prove that such right continued to subsist till the passing of the decree of the first B court. If the claimant-plaintiff loses that right or the vendee improves his right equal or above the right of the claimant before the adjudication of the suit, the suit for pre-emption would fail. 18. This proposition of law has been well settled by this Court since 1971, in case of Bhagwan Das (Dead) by LRS and Others vs. C Chet Ram5.