Accordingly, the applicant, being holder of a decree in capacity of allottee is a Financial Creditor. 3.3. At this juncture, this bench considers appropriate whether an allottee holding a decree from RERA would fall under the class of Home Buyers within the category of Financial Creditor or it would cease to be an allottee under the class of Home Buyers, but shall remain a Financial Creditor, to determine whether the threshold limit prescribed under section proviso to section 7(1) of the Code or under section 4 of code would apply. This bench fi nds that second proviso to section 7(1) prescribes the threshold limit specifi cally in relation to Home Buyers Class so as to discourage multiple applications being fi led by the allottees in a Real Estate Project. This bench feels that an allottee in Real Estate Project, who subsequently becomes a Decree Holder under RERA Act, continues to be a creditor in the class of Home Buyers and shall continue to be governed by the threshold limit prescribed under second proviso to section 7(1) of the Code.” 4. Mr. Gunjesh Ranjan appearing for the resolution professional resisted the appeal and contented that the appellants cannot be permitted to secure two benefi ts. Having approached the UPRERA, they fell into a diff erent sub-class of home buyers, who were entitled to specifi ed amounts and, therefore, were unsecured creditors, as compared with allottees who had not invoked RERA remedies. It is submitted that such home buyers relinquished their rights under Section 18 of the RERA Act. 5. Section 5 (7) & (8) defi nes “fi nancial creditors” and “fi nancial debt” in the following terms: “fi nancial creditor” means any person to whom a fi nancial debt is owed and includes a person to whom such debt has been legally assigned or transferred to;” (8) Financial debt means a debt along with interest, if any, which is disbursed against the consideration for the time value of money and includes – (A) money borrowed against the payment of interest; VISHAL CHELANI & ORS. v. DEBASHIS NANDA 1153 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (B) any amount raised by acceptance under any acceptance credit facility or its de-materialised equivalent; (c) any amount raised pursuant to any note purchase facility or the issue of bonds, notes, debentures, loan stock or any similar instrument; (d) the amount of any liability in respect of any lease or hire purchase contract which is deemed as a fi nance or capital lease under the Indian Accounting Standards or such other accounting standards as may be prescribed; (e) receivables sold or discounted other than any receivables sold on non-recourse basis; (f) any amount raised under any other transaction, including any forward sale or purchase agreement, having the commercial eff ect of a borrowing;[Explanation----For the purposes of this sub-clause,-- (i) any amount raised from an allottee under a real estate project shall be deemed to be an amount having the commercial eff ect of a borrowing; and (ii) the expressions, allottee and real estate project shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clauses (d) and (zn) of section 2 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 (16 of 2016);] (g) any derivative transaction entered into in connection with protection against or benefi t from fl uctuation in any rate or price and for calculating the value of any derivative transaction, only the market value of such transaction shall be taken into account; (h) any counter-indemnity obligation in respect of a guarantee, indemnity, bond, documentary letter of credit or any other instrument issued by a bank or fi nancial institution; (i) the amount of any liability in respect of any of the guarantee or indemnity for any of the items referred to in sub-clauses (a) to (h) of this clause;” The amendment of 2018 introduced an explanation below.