AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 951 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] notes the same to be a mistake and that no prejudice had A been caused as no steps were taken for their eviction before the expiry of thirty days. xviii. The contention of the respondents that the Report given by the Senior Inspector of the Waqf was an ex parte Report and they had not been given any opportunity, was found to B be factually correct. However, it is found that the Controller had found the property in question was waqf property, the Waqf was registered and, lastly, the transfer was invalid for want of permission. It is specifically found that ‘there appears no dispute on facts upon the point’. No prejudice, C it is found further to the respondents, especially in view of the full opportunity given by the Tribunal, especially when it was not contended that the Waqf was not registered or that the property was not waqf property or that permission was taken before the transfer. D xix. It was, however, found that in view of the finding that the respondents had acquired title by adverse possession, there was no merit in the Revision Petitions and, accordingly, they were dismissed. CONTENTIONS OF THE APPELLANT E 9. i. The learned Senior Counsel for the appellant, Shri Salman Khurshid, contended that Article 96 of the Limitation Act did apply. The period of limitation would commence from 1996 or from the date, when the appellant Shri Sajjad Ali F Khan was appointed Mutawalli, as twelve years had not run out from 01.05.1988, when Shri Qasim Ali Khan resigned or from the date of appointment of the present Mutawalli Shri Sajjad Ali Khan. Therefore, Shri Sayed Mohammad Ahmad Ali Khan could not acquire title by adverse possession. G ii. Article 65 of the Limitation Act did not apply. The claim of Shri Sayed Ahmad Ali Khan was based on the compromise dated 13.02.1974. It was not founded on the sale deed dated 14.10.1960. The right under the said sale deed, if any, got extinguished in view of there being no objection by him during H 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the consolidation proceedings and also the decisions of the three Consolidation Courts. iii. As regards the claim of adverse possession of Shri Syed Mohammad Ali Khan, it is contended that Article 65 was a general Article and it is Article 96, which would apply. B Appellant was appointed Mutawalli. The period would start running, when he was so appointed or from the date of the complaint filed by him in 1996. iv. The High Court erred in finding that the right of the Waqf stood extinguished by virtue of Section 27 of the Limitation C Act. As the Suit for Possession was against the transferee from the earlier Mutawalli, the possession would become adverse from the date of death or the resignation of the earlier Mutawalli under Article 134B of the earlier Limitation Act and upon the expiry of twelve years, as provided in Article 96, and not from the date of the sale deed.