Naik, who submitted his report of the preliminary inquiry on 28th May, 2021, the question of bias in the instant facts and circumstances does not arise at all and that apart, the Constitution Bench of this Court recently in Mukesh Singh vs. State (Narcotic Branch of Delhi)3, while examining the question as to whether in case investigation F is conducted by the police officer who himself is a complainant is the trial stands vitiated and the accused is entitled to acquittal and after examining the scheme of the Code, finally answered the reference as under: “13. From the above discussion and for the reasons stated above, G we conclude and answer the reference as under: 13.1. (I) That the observations of this Court in Bhagwan Singh v. State of Rajasthan [(1976) 1 SCC 15], Megha Singh v. State of Haryana [(1996) 11 SCC 709] and State v. Rajangam [(2010) H 3 2020 (10) SCC 120 OFFICE OF THE ODISHA LOKAYUKTA v. DR. PRADEEP 579 KUMAR PANIGRAHI [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 15 SCC 369] and the acquittal of the accused by this Court on the A ground that as the informant and the investigator was the same, it has vitiated the trial and the accused is entitled to acquittal are to be treated to be confined to their own facts. It cannot be said that in the aforesaid decisions, this Court laid down any general proposition of law that in each and every case where the informant B is the investigator there is a bias caused to the accused and the entire prosecution case is to be disbelieved and the accused is entitled to acquittal. 13.2. (II) In a case where the informant himself is the investigator, by that itself cannot be said that the investigation is vitiated on the C ground of bias or the like factor. The question of bias or prejudice would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case. Therefore, merely because the informant is the investigator, by that itself the investigation would not suffer the vice of unfairness or bias and therefore on the sole ground that informant is the investigator, the accused is not entitled to acquittal. The matter D has to be decided on a case-to-case basis. A contrary decision of this Court in Mohan Lal v. State of Punjab [(2018) 17 SCC 627] and any other decision taking a contrary view that the informant cannot be the investigator and in such a case the accused is entitled to acquittal are not good law and they are specifically overruled.” E (emphasis added) 38. We are of the considered view that there was no element of bias in conducting a preliminary inquiry in the instant case and the objection raised by the respondents stands overruled. 39. The further objection raised by the respondents is in reference F to the locus standi of the appellant in filing appeal in this Court and in support of his submission, counsel placed reliance on the s of this Court in National Commission for Women vs. State of Delhi and another4 and M.S.