Arif. We clarify by way of abundant C caution that being both a smaller bench and having not been called upon to consider the impact of different judges sitting in the review of an appeal confirming the death sentence, we are not deciding on the merits of the proposition. B. Background D 8. In view of the in Mohd. Arif, the dated 20 March 2013 in the present case dismissing the review petition through circulation was recalled and this review petition was heard in open court. 9. The petitioner was accused of kidnapping and murdering a 7- year-old child. The petitioner is alleged to have picked up the victim E while he was returning from school in the school van on 27 July 2009. Prosecution witnesses testified to the petitioner having picked up the victim on his motorbike. 10. Due to the victim’s absence, his mother attempted to find his whereabouts and was informed of the above sequence of events by one F of the witnesses. Accordingly, she proceeded to register a complaint at Police Station, Kammapuram on the same date. On the same night, she also received a call on her mobile phone from the petitioner, demanding a ransom of Rs. 5 lakhs for the release of the victim. Further, another ransom call was made on the succeeding day from a telephone booth. One of the witnesses is the individual who runs the booth and has testified G that the petitioner made a call enquiring regarding the payment of money. 11. On 30 July 2009 the police raided the house of the petitioner and arrested him along with a co-accused who was later acquitted. The petitioner made confessional statements on the basis of which three mobile phone sets, two of which had SIM cards, were recovered. The H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1029 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] petitioner confessed to strangling the deceased, putting his dead body in A a gunny bag and throwing it in the Meerankulam tank. The body of the deceased was recovered from the tank on the basis of the confessional statement. 12. On the basis of the investigation, the petitioner was charged under Sections 364A, 302 and 201 of the Indian Penal Code.3 The trial B was committed to the Court of the Sessions Judge on 30 July 2010. The Sessions Judge convicted the petitioner for the offences with which he was charged and sentenced him to (i) death with a fine of Rs.1000 for the offence under section 364A IPC, (ii) death with a fine of Rs.1000 for the offence under section 302 IPC; and (ii) rigorous imprisonment C for seven years and a fine of Rs.1000 for the offence under section 201 IPC. The co-accused was acquitted of all the offences. 13. The petitioner’s appeal was dismissed by the High Court of Judicature at Madras by a dated 30 September 2010. The High Court confirmed both the conviction and the award of the death D sentence.