G 3. Shri Siddharth Dave, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respective petitioners has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case the Hon’ble High Court has seriously erred in holding that the period of parole is to be excluded from the period of sentence under the Rules, 2006 while considering 14 years of actual imprisonment for the purpose of premature release. H 1032 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 3.1. It is vehemently submitted by Shri Dave learned Senior Counsel for the respective petitioners that the Hon’ble High Court has erred in relying on the Rule 335 of the Rules, 2006 to hold that since period of release on parole is counted as remission, the same cannot be counted as part of sentence. B 3.2. It is submitted that even while on parole the accused /convicts can be said to be in custody / judicial custody and therefore, period of parole is to be included while considering 14 years of actual imprisonment for the purpose of premature release. 3.3 It is vehemently submitted that as such the view taken by the C High Court is just contrary to the decision of this Court in the case of Sunil Fulchand Shah vs. Union of India reported in (2000) 3 SCC 409 as well as in the case of Avtar Singh vs. State of Haryana reported in (2002) 3 SCC 409 (para 11). 3.4. It is further submitted by Shri Dave learned senior counsel for the original writ petitioners-convicts that even as per Section 55 of D the Prisons Act, 1894, a prisoner when being taken to or from any prison in which he may be lawfully confined, shall be deemed to be in prison and therefore, deemed to be in custody and therefore, the period of parole shall have to be included as in custody for the purpose of actual period of imprisonment while considering 14 years of actual imprisonment. E Making above submissions, it is prayed to hold that the period of parole is to be included while considering 14 years of actual imprisonment for the purpose of premature release. 4. The short question which is posed for the consideration of this Court is whether the period of parole is to be excluded from the period F of sentence under the Rules, 2006 while considering 14 years of actual imprisonment for the purpose of premature release? 5. While considering the aforesaid question /issue, the object and purpose of parole is required to be taken into consideration. G Parole is a conditional release. Parole can be granted in case of short-term imprisonment. Duration of parole extends to one month. Parole is granted by the State Government. For parole, specific reason is required. Parole can be granted for number of times. 6. “Imprisonment” is defined under Rule 2(21) of the Rules, 2006. H “Imprisonment” means imprisonment of either description as defined in ROHAN DHUNGAT ETC. v. THE STATE OF GOA & ORS ETC. 1033 [M.R.