It also noted that the transfer of rights of site in Sector 19A held by the first defendant was duly noted in favour of the second defendant subject to certain conditions D on 19th December 1997. It noted that this was obviously before the 2007 Rules came into force. 88. In another second appeal before the High Court in the case of Arvind Kapoor v. Kumud Kapoor and Another14, again there was a dispute between three siblings – a brother and two sisters. The dispute E was with regard to House No. 2174, Sector 44-C, Chandigarh. The sisters had relied on the family settlement dated 13th June 2000. Arvind Kumar filed a suit seeking a declaration that the family settlement dated 13th June 2000 was obtained by fraud and as such, not binding on him. One of the sisters namely Sangeeta Chopra sought a declaration that F she was the owner of the first floor of the said house and that she be given possession of the said property along with mesne profits/damages, as the brother Arvind Kapoor had illegally occupied the same. The other sister also supported the claim of Sangeeta Chopra. With regard to scope of Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules, the learned Single Judge vide its dated 28th May 2019, observed thus: G “29. …. Yet, even if it were to be presumed that a purely legal question can be raised even at this stage, with this Court itself to decide on it as a substantial question of law, I would hold that as a matter of fact legal partition of the suit property has not been 14 Regular Second Appeal No. 1562 of 2012 dated 28.05.2019 H 650 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A sought by respondent Sangeeta Chopra once she withdrew her claim to ownership of the first floor thereof because of the statutory bar on such partition. Seeking possession of a particular floor of the property, in terms of the family settlement reached voluntarily between the parties, would not legally amount to partial partition, especially in the face of the fact that such partition in any case is B statutorily barred by the aforementioned rule, i.e., Rule 14 of the Chandigarh (Sales of Sites and Buildings) Rules, 1960. It is to be specifically noticed that the applicability of the said rule or the enactment under which the rules have been promulgated, is not denied by either party. C Further, as noticed above, there is no statutory bar on possession/occupation of individual floors, as long as joint ownership is not partitioned.” 89. It thus appears that Sangeeta Chopra withdrew her claim to ownership of the first floor of the property because of the statutory bar D on such partition and restricted her claim for seeking possession of a particular floor of the property in terms of the family settlement. The High Court therefore held that the same would not legally amount to partial partition. It held that there is no statutory bar on possession/ occupation on individual floors, as long as joint ownership is not partitioned.