A In view of this statutory mandate, the High Court has rightly held that Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 are entitled to assign the seniority from the date they were appointed in ZP. (ii) The Government Resolution dated 13.08.1990, in no uncertain terms, provides that on inclusion of the area of a B ZP within the limits of Municipal Corporation, the transferred employees shall be entitled to the benefit of their past service towards fixation of pay, seniority and retiral benefits etc. This Resolution falls within the ambit of Article 162 of the Constitution, and is binding on all inferior authorities including C the PMC. Since Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 were appointed in the ZP, their previous service cannot be ignored. He forcefully denied the Appellant’s contention that it was a case of ‘voluntary transfer’ and maintained that private respondents had no choice but to give their consent for absorption in PMC as all the schools where they were D working had been transferred to within the municipal limits. (iii) The Appellants have mis-quoted the contents of letter dated 11.10.1999. The true extracts of the letter are as follows: “xxx xxx xxx E 4. Also, it is hereby ed to absorb only those primary teachers who have consented for being transferred to the Pune Municipal Corporation and it is hereby requested to accommodate said primary teachers with Municipal Corporation. F xxx xxx xxx” (iv) Neither the Appellant nor the PMC invoked Section 3(3)(b) of MMC Act before the High Court and their reliance upon this provision has been made for the first time before this Court only. G (v) With regard to the claim raised by Appellant regarding acquiescence and estoppel, learned counsel countered by arguing that Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 were not obliged to challenge recommendations of PMC Committee specifically, given that they consequently objected to the culmination of H 992 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A those recommendations into the final seniority list dated 20th February, 2018, without any delay. ANALYSIS : 14. We have considered the rival submissions made on behalf of the parties and have minutely examined the statutory provisions relied B upon by both the sides. In our considered view, the following two questions need to be determined to resolve the controversy: (I) Whether the inter se seniority of the primary teachers who were appointed in the ZP and were later on absorbed into PMC, vis-à-vis those primary teachers who directly joined PMC, is to C be determined in accordance with Section 3(3)(b) of the MMC Act? ; (II) Alternatively, should such inter se seniority be determined in accordance with Section 493 read with Clause 5I of Appendix IV of the MMC Act? D Question No. I: 15. On a cursory look of the legislative scheme behind the MMC Act, it is evident that Section 3 falls in Chapter 1, which is captioned as ‘PRIMARY’. Since, the MMC Act was enacted in 1949, it has been suitably amended from time to time, especially after the insertion of Part E IX-A ‘Municipalities’ in our Constitution with effect from 01.06.1993.