The salient findings of the Family Court may be encapsulated as under: C i. That the respondent had filed the application seeking direction to conduct DNA test of Master “X”, only with a view to establish adultery on the part of the appellant and not to disparage the paternity of the minor child. ii. On perusal of the DNA Test Report issued by DNA Labs D India dated 24th November, 2016, the Family Court concluded that the possibility of the respondent being the biological father Master “X” has been excluded. That in view of Section 14 of the Family Courts Act, 1984 the said Report can be read as evidence. E iii. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Nandlal Wasudeo Badwaik vs. Lata Nandlal Badwaik, (2014) 2 SCC 576, to hold that Section 112 of the Evidence Act was enacted at a time when scientific advancement in the field of DNA test was not as sophisticated. That although Section 112 raises a presumption of conclusive proof on F the satisfaction of the conditions enumerated therein, the same is rebuttable. That where the truth of a fact is known, there is no need or room for any presumption. Thus, when there is a conflict between a conclusive proof envisaged under law and a proof based on scientific advancement G accepted by the world community to be correct, the latter must prevail over the former. iv. That the respondent had made out a prima-facie case justifying the Court’s exercise of discretionary power to direct conducting DNA Test by collecting blood samples of H the respondent and the minor child. APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 697 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] v. That the respondent would be able to substantiate his A allegations of adultery/infidelity on the part of the appellant, only if permission is granted for conducting a DNA test. That it would be impossible for the respondent to establish and confirm the assertions made in the pleadings, other than by way of a DNA test. That DNA Testing is the most B legitimate and scientifically perfect means, that the husband could use, to establish his assertion of infidelity. vi. That in the event that the appellant accepts the direction issued by the Court, the DNA Test will determine conclusively the veracity of the accusations levelled by the C respondent against her. In case, she declines to comply with the direction issued by the Court, the allegations would be determined by the Court, by drawing a presumption of the nature contemplated in Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act, particularly, in terms of illustration (h) thereof. D vii. That by adopting the above course, the issue of infidelity alone would be determined, without expressly disturbing the presumption contemplated under Section 112 of the Indian Evidence Act. 4.6. Aggrieved by the dated 12th August, 2021 passed by E the Family Court, Pune, the appellant filed a Writ Petition, being Civil Writ Petition No.7707 of 2021, before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, assailing the same, inter-alia, on the ground that the Family Court failed to appreciate that a strong prima-facie case is a sine qua non for directing DNA profiling and that there was no evidence to support the respondent’s prayer for DNA test.