DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 413 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 28. The writ of quo warranto is an ancient Common Law remedy of a prerogative nature. It was a writ of right used by the Crown against a person claiming any offi ce, franchise, or liberty to inquire by what authority he was in the offi ce, franchise of liberty. In case his claim was not well founded or there was non-use, neglect, misuse, or abuse of the offi ce, he was to be ousted. 29. Quo warranto is a writ that lies against a person who usurps any franchise, liberty, or offi ce. In Corpus Juris Secundum, quo warranto is defi ned thus; “Quo warranto is a proceeding to determine the right to the exercise of a franchise or offi ce and to oust the holder if his claim is not well founded, or if he has forfeited his right.” Blackstone, states: “The ancient writ of quo warranto was in the nature of a writ of right for the King against any offi ce, franchise or liberty of the Crown to inquire by what authority he supported his claim, in to determine the right.” 30. Quo warranto is a remedy or procedure whereby the State inquires into the legality of the claim which a party asserts to an offi ce or franchise, and to oust him from its enjoyment if the claim be not well founded, or to have the same declared forfeited and recover it, if, having once been rightfully possessed and enjoyed; it has become forfeited for mis-user or non-user. 31. In B.R. Kapur v. State of T.N. and Another reported in (2001) 7 SCC 231, after referring to Halsbury’s Laws of England, Words and Phrases and leading decisions on the point, it was observed that a writ of quo warranto is a writ which lies against the person who is not entitled to hold an offi ce of public nature and is only a usurper of the offi ce. Quo warranto is directed to such person who is required to show by what authority he is entitled to hold the offi ce. The challenge can be made on various grounds, including the ground that the possessor of the offi ce does not fulfi ll the required qualifi cations or suff ers from any disqualifi cation, which debars him to hold such offi ce. It was further stated that on being called upon to establish valid authority to hold a public offi ce, if such person fails to do so, a writ of quo warranto shall be directed against him. It shall be no defence by the holder of the offi ce that the appointment was made by the competent 414 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. authority, who under the law is not answerable to any court for anything done in performance of duties of his offi ce. The question of fulfi lling legal requirements and qualifi cations necessary to hold a public offi ce would be considered in the proceedings independent of the fact as to who made the appointment and the manner in which the appointment was made.