THR. PRINCIPAL 211 SECRETARY (HOME) [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] recruitment against nineteen vacancies and forty-three vacancies from A the Radio Inspectors on permanent basis for the post of Assistant Radio Inspector. These vacancies occurred in different years earlier. The Commission’s recommendations were made on 19th September 1995 for the subject posts so far as direct recruits are concerned. For promotee candidates, the recommendations were made on 26th December 1995. B Sixteen promotee candidates were issued appointment letters on 31st January 1996 out of the forty-three recommended candidates as the remaining twenty-seven selected candidates had attained the age of superannuation or died. The appointment of the direct recruits took place on 3rdJuly 1996. C 3. A combined selection list was prepared on 10thDecember 1999, but it was quashed by the High Court for being in violation of Rules 17 and 22 of the 1979 Rules, in a delivered by a Division Bench of the same Court on 12thSeptember 2012. This was a common delivered in three writ petitions. W.P. No. 711(SB) of 2000 was instituted by two Assistant Radio Officers from the reserved category claiming D promotion in the next higher post on the basis of their stand that they were the most senior officers in that category. The directly recruited candidates also questioned inter-se seniority with the promotees in Writ Petition No. 104 (SB) of 2000. In Writ Petition No. 10 (SB) of 2000, promotee candidates challenged the same seniority list on the ground E that promotee officers were appointed prior to those directly recruited and the directly recruited candidates ought not to be placed above the promotee officers in the combined selection list. The stand of the direct recruits was that as the requisitions for selection were sent to the Commission simultaneously, a common selection list ought to have been prepared and thereafter seniority should have been fixed as per Rule 22. F The other point on which the direct recruits founded their case was in relation to inclusion in the seniority list the names of those promotees, who were superannuated or had passed away. It appears that in their places in the selection list, other promotee officers were pushed up. Contention of the direct recruits before the High Court was those should G have been declared as fresh vacancies and should have been filled up through a fresh selection process. 4. The 1979 Rules lay down the procedure for promotion to the subject posts (along with other posts within the said service). So far as the present appeal is concerned, Rules 5(1), 14, 15, 17 and 22 are relevant. H 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A These Rules have been set out in the said delivered on 12th September 2012. We quote below these rules, as recorded therein:- “Uttar Pradesh Police Radio Service Rules, 1979 5. Source of recruitment :- In service the recruitment shall be made on the posts of different categories from the B following sources:- Assistant Radio officer: - a) by direct recruitment through the commission; and b) by promotion on the basis of the eligibility of the permanent radio inspectors through the commission; C However from both the above sources the recruitment shall be made in such a manner that 50 percent of the post retained by the direct recruitment and 50 percent post by the persons from promotions; (2) Additional State Radio officer:- D By promotion on the basis of the seniority while rejecting the unsuitability in the permanent Assistant Radio Officers through the commission; However if any suitable person is not available for E promotion, then the recruitment can be made from direct recruitment; (3) State Radio officer:- By promotion on the basis of the seniority while rejecting the unsuitability in the permanent Assistant Radio Officers F through the Commission; However if any suitable person is not available for promotion, then the recruitment can be made from direct recruitment; (4) Dy.