E In dealing with applications for special leave, the Court naturally takes statements of fact and grounds of fact contained in the petitions at their face value and it LPASW No. 82/2019 Page 8 would be unfair to betray the confidence of the Court by making statements which are untrue and misleading. Thus, if at the hearing F of the appeal the Supreme Court is satisfied that the material statements made by the appellant in his application for special leave are inaccurate and misleading, and the respondent is entitled to contend that the appellant may have obtained special leave from the Supreme Court on the strength of what he characterises as misrepresentations of facts contained in the petition for special G leave, the Supreme Court may come to the conclusion that in such a case special leave granted to the appellant ought to be revoked.” 43. In G. Narayanaswamy Reddy v. Govt. of Karnataka’s case (supra), this Court while noticing the fact regarding the stay passed H 1074 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A by the High Court which prevented passing of the award by the Land Acquisition Officer within the prescribed time period was concealed and in the aforesaid context, it observed that : “2. … Curiously enough, there is no reference in the special leave petitions to any of the stay s and we came to know about B these s only when the respondents appeared in response to the notice and filed their counter- affidavit. In our view, the said interim s have a direct bearing on the question raised and the non-disclosure of the same certainly amounts to suppression of material facts. On this ground alone, the special leave petitions are liable to be rejected. It is well settled in law that the relief C under Article 136 of the Constitution is discretionary and a petitioner who approaches this Court for such relief must come with frank and full disclosure of facts. If he fails to do so and suppresses material facts, his application is liable to be dismissed. We accordingly dismiss the special leave petitions.” D 44. In Dalip Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh and others (2010) 2 SCC 114, this Court noticed the progressive decline in the values of life and observed: “1. For many centuries Indian society cherished two basic values of life i.e. “satya” (truth) and “ahinsa” (non- violence). Mahavir, E Gautam Buddha and Mahatma Gandhi guided the people to ingrain these values in their daily life. Truth constituted an integral part of the justice- delivery system which was in vogue in the pre- Independence era and the people used to feel proud to tell truth in the courts irrespective of the consequences. However, post- F Independence period has seen drastic changes in our value system. The materialism has overshadowed the old ethos and the quest for personal gain has become so intense that those involved in litigation do not hesitate to take shelter of falsehood, misrepresentation and suppression of facts in the court proceedings.