v. SHRI 183 TEJRAO BAJIRAO MHASKE & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] in possession of the balance one acre. It is his case that the second A defendant had utilised the sale consideration passed on to him for different purposes, including to pay his debts. It is also relevant to note that the original petitioner in the SLP, from which this appeal arises, viz., the plaintiff, died during pendency of this proceeding and subsequently, his legal representatives got substituted as petitioners. Ergo, they are jointly B described hereafter as ‘appellants’, wherever, such reference is required. On the death of the first defendant/the original second respondent during the pendency of the Second Appeal, his legal representatives were impleaded as additional respondents and they are respondent Nos. 2 to 6 herein. For the non-compliance with the of the Hon’ble Chamber Judge, the SLP stood dismissed qua respondent No. 6, as per C dated 22.11.2017. At the stage of second appeal the legal heirs of the deceased son of the second defendant viz., the first respondent herein, were impleaded as respondents therein and they are respondents 7 to 9 herein. 3.The first defendant filed a written statement endorsing the claim D and contentions of the plaintiff and he would also state therein that after executing the sale deed, himself and the second defendant (the first respondent herein) parted with the possession of the suit land and then, the second defendant (the first respondent herein) turned dishonest and started disturbing the possession of the plaintiff. However, the second E defendant (the first respondent herein) resisted the suit by filing written statement and denying the claims and contentions of the plaintiff. His pleadings revealed from the written statement, in nutshell, read thus:- The sale deed dated 21.04.1979 (Exhibit 128) is a sham document which was never intended to be acted upon and in fact, it was never F been acted upon. His case, while admitting the execution of sale deed (Exhibit 128), is that though it was executed as a sale deed, what had actually transpired was nothing but an execution of sale deed solely as a collateral security to a money lending transaction viz., for a loan of Rs.1000/- with a promise to re-pay an amount of Rs.1500/- within 12 months. It is to be noted that in the written statement, the second G defendant (the first respondent herein) further contended that the registered sale deed executed in favour of the original first defendant was also of the very same nature. He would further plead that in the said transactions also, in fact there was no passing of sale consideration from the purchasers as in the case of Exhibit 128 sale deed so as to H 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A constitute a valid sale and the other such sale deeds were also executed without any intention to effect sale of the properties, at the time of borrowing money. To contend that the plaintiff is disentitled to any relief as sought for, he would also raise two other contentions; firstly, based on the provisions of Maharashtra Prevention of Fragmentation and Consolidation of Holdings Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as B ‘Fragmentation Act’) and secondly, in the light of the provisions under Section 10 of the Bombay Money Lenders Act, 1946, which get attracted owing to the facts that he is an original farmer owning only less than 2 hectares of land and that his annual income is less than Rs.1200/-.