998 OF 2022 10. Shri Anup G. Choudary, learned Senior Counsel assisted by Virender K. Sharma, appeared on behalf of the petitioner. It is pointed out that there is ad-hocism flowing from the legislative vacuum.Regional Commissioners have never been appointed since 1951. The role of the D Election Commission is such that in a modern election process, it can be abused by simply playing with the election schedule. The instrument of instructions which were sought even at the time of passage of amendments to the original Articlecan be filled in by judicial intervention.Appointment is reduced only to Bureaucrats, that too, majorly E IAS Officers. The IAS Officers work in close alliance to their political masters. Appointment must be from a more broad-based pool of talent like Judicial Members. The Secretariat must have sufficient manpower. E. SUBMISSIONS OF SHRI KALEESWARAM RAJ, LEARNED COUNSEL FOR THE INTERVENOR in Writ F Petition (Civil) No. 569 of 2021. 11. Shri Kaleeswaram Raj, learned Counsel for the intervenor in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 569 of 2021 would contend that the vacuum, which is projected must be conceded as a democratic space which the Founding Fathers of the Constitution, left open for the future Parliament G to fill-up. It is contended that the Constituent Assembly not being an elected Body in the real sense, left many things to Parliament, which could claim better democratic legitimacy. Relying upon the Judges’ cases, 5(2006) 8 SCC 1 6(1998) 1 SCC 226 7(1998) 7 SCC 739 H 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A he would submit that a parallel may be drawn. It’s a glaring instance of legislative inaction. Sincedenial of free and fair elections vitiates Fundamental Rights of the citizens, judicial intervention is highly necessary. The Right to Vote is now a part of the Fundamental Right. It is contended that, in fact, the Right to Vote is a Constitutional Right. He invites our attention to instances in other jurisdictions including from B neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka. F. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE LEARNED ATTORNEY GENERAL FOR THE UNION OF INDIA 12. The learned Attorney General, Shri R. Venkataramani, would C address the following submissions: Accepting the petitioners’ contention would involve nothing less than an amendment to the provisions of Article 324. The case of the petitioners is based on various Reports including that of the Central Law Commission. The premise of the petitioners’ complaint is the failure of the extant mechanism and the reluctance or failure of the Union of India D to redress the complaint. A vacuum, which is not existent, is suggested as the very foundation of the petitioners claim. There is no such vacuum. The learned Attorney General would point out that introduction of the Collegium or Body of persons to select the Chief Election Commissioner or the Election Commissioner, would necessitate the Court, trampling E upon the constitutional process of aid and advise of Ministers, contemplated under Article 74 of the Constitution of India. There cannot be merit in the contention that a tenure of six years must be inexorably guaranteed.