(3) Readjustment of the constituencies as provided under section 11 in the successor Union territory of Jammu & E Kashmir into Parliamentary Constituencies, shall be carried by the Delimitation Commission, to be constituted under the Delimitation Act, 2002 as amended by this Act, and shall take effect from such date as the Central Government may, by , published in the Official Gazette, specify. F 63. Special provisions as to readjustment of Assembly and Parliamentary Constituencies.— Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 59 to 61, until the relevant figures for the first census taken after the year 2026 have been published, it shall not be necessary to readjust the division of successor Union G territory of Jammu and Kashmir into Assembly and Parliamentary Constituencies and any reference to the “latest census figures” in this Part shall be construed as a reference to the 2011 census figures.” (emphasis added) H HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 539 ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 27. As noted earlier, the delimitation of 83 constituencies of the A Union Territory was made under the J&K Reorganisation Act and was incorporated in the Third Schedule as provided in sub-section (5) of Section 14. By virtue of the mandate of sub-section (1) of Section 60, the total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory was required to be increased from 107 to 114. Thus, by excluding 24 B seats from Pakistan occupied areas, the mandate was to increase the seats from 83 to 90. For giving effect to the increase in the number of seats as aforesaid, the exercise of delimitation for dividing the Union Territory into 90 constituencies and determining the number of seats to be reserved for Scheduled Castes and Schedule Tribes was required to be undertaken. Sub-section (1) of Section 60 provides that the said C delimitation exercise may be undertaken by the Election Commission. However, sub-section (2) of Section 62 provides that the readjustment of the constituencies as provided under Section 60 in the successor Union Territory of J & K into assembly constituencies shall be carried out by the Delimitation Commission to be constituted under the Delimitation D Act, 2002 as amended by the J&K Reorganisation Act. Sub-section (1) of Section 60, as noted earlier, provides that the exercise of the division of the newly constituted Union Territory into 90 assembly constituencies and providing for reservation may be undertaken by the Election Commission. However, the purport of Section 62 is that if a Delimitation Commission is constituted under the Delimitation Act 2002, the exercise E provided by clauses (a) to (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 60 shall be carried out by the Delimitation Commission. However, sub-section (2) of Section 62 refers to the readjustment of the constituencies. But, the purport of sub-section (2) of Section 62 is that the readjustment means the creation of 90 constituencies in the newly set up Union territory. F Thus, the process of readjustment contemplated by sub-section (2) of Section 62 is nothing but the exercise of delimitation under sub-section (1) of Section 60.