19. Having arrived at the above conclusion, the next aspect which G engages our attention is with regard to the appropriate deduction towards development charges and as to whether the Reference Court was justified in deducting 35 per cent of the value from the market value arrived at based on the document at Ex.PX. The learned counsel for the appellants contend that the acquisition in the instant case is for construction of the road and as such, the deduction was not necessary to be made. The H RAVINDER KUMAR GOEL v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 927 [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] decision in C.R. Nagaraja Shetty (2) vs. Special Land Acquisition A Officer and Estate Officer and Anr. (2009) 11 SCC 75 is relied on to contend that in the said case where the land was acquired for widening the national highway, this Court has held that there is no question of any further development, and as such the deduction on account of development charges will not be justified. The decision in Piyara Singh B & Anr. vs. State of Haryana & Ors. Etc. (2017) 2 SCALE 323, also a decision where this Court held that the deduction of 40 per cent as made in the said case when the land acquired was roughly 1 kanal to 1 acre per person which ultimately totals up to 305 acres which was acquired, is not justified is relied upon. C 20. Having bestowed our attention to that aspect of the matter, we are of the opinion that in the instant case, the said decisions relied upon by learned counsel for the appellants would not be of any assistance to them since they are rendered entirely based on the fact situation arising therein. In fact, this Court in JAG Mahender & Anr. Vs. State of Haryana & Ors. through the dated 21.09.2017 in Civil Appeal D No.15702/2017 arising out of SLP (C) No.16063 of 2016 and connected appeals had taken into consideration the entire perspective relating to the deduction of development charges with reference to the earlier decisions of this Court in Haryana State Agricultural Market Board & Anr. vs. Krishan Kumar & Ors. (2011) 15 SCC 297 and in Sabhia E Mohammed Yusuf Abdul Hamid Mulla (Dead) by Lrs. & Ors. vs. Special Land Acquisition Officer & Ors. (2012) 7 SCC 595 wherein on taking note of the nature of development that would be required in the acquired lands and also the general rule of deduction of 1/3rd of the market value towards development cost except in cases where there is no development required, this Court had ultimately arrived at the F conclusion that deduction of 25 per cent would be justified. 21. In that background, in the instant facts, the land acquired is for the construction of a new Expressway which would require not just laying of the roads but also providing several amenities through the highway and also creation of service roads, flyovers, underpass to townships across G such highway. Land is also to be left as a divider to bifurcate the two- way roads.