Advs., Naveen Kumar, Ms. Stuti Bisht, Nitesh Bhandari, Shourajeet Chakravarty, Prabhat Kumar Rai, Ms. Aprajita Bhardwaj, Ms. Kavita Jha, Anant Mann, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Mrs. Alka Agarawal, Mrs. Gargi Khanna, Rupesh Kumar, H R Rao, V C Bharathi, Prahlad Singh, Debojyoti Mukhopadhyay, Mrs. Swayam Prabha Das, Ms. Ankita A. Singh, Deepak Kumar, Mrs. Anil Katiyar, Rohit Jain, Aniket D. Agrawal, Venkatesh, Ashutosh K. Srivastava, Nihal Bhardwaj, Amar Dave, S. Ravi Shankar, Mrs. Yamunah Nachiar, Ms. Meghna Mukherjee, M/s. Khaitan & Co., Mrs. Vanita Bhargava, Ajay Bhargava, Shantanu Chaturvedi, D Nageswar Rao, Ambhoj Kumar Sinha, Akshay Uppal, V. Lakshmi Kumaran, S. Vasu Devan, Tanmay Bhatnagar, Shivam Gupta, Ms. Charanya Lakshmikumaran, Nageswar Rao, Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar, Akshay Uppal, Karun Sharma, K. R. Sasiprabhu, Amit Mathur, Vishnu Sharma A.S., Punit Dutt Tyagi, Advs. for the appearing parties. / OF THE SUPREME COURT UJJAL BHUYAN, J. There are three special leave petitions in this batch, viz., SLP (C) No.15564 of 2020, SLP (C) No.5871 of 2020 and SLP (C) No.792 of 2021. Leave in these special leave petitions are therefore granted. 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 2. Core issue raised in this batch of civil appeals being identical, those were heard together and are being disposed of by this common and . 3. We have heard Mr. Rupesh Kumar, learned counsel for the revenue representing the appellants; Mr. S. Ganesh and Mr. Percy Pardiwala, learned senior counsel as well as Mr. D. Nageswar Rao, learned counsel for the respondent assessee. 4. All the appeals are by the revenue assailing s of various high courts dismissing its appeals fi led under Section 260A of the Income Tax Act, 1961. The core and common issue raised in all the appeals is the recomputation of deduction under Section 80 IA of the Income Tax Act, 1961 by the assessing offi cer which was set aside by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and upheld by the High Courts by accepting the contention of the assessee. Revenue is aggrieved as it contends that the recomputation of deduction made by the assessing offi cer was interfered with by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal and affi rmed by the High Courts without appreciating the fact that the profi ts of eligible business of captive power generation plants of the assessees were infl ated by adopting an excessive sale rate per unit for power supply to the assessees own industrial units for captive consumption as opposed to the rate per unit at which power was supplied by the assessees to the power distributing companies i.e. the State Electricity Boards which is contended to be the market rate. 4.1. Additionally, there are three other issues which were argued by learned counsel for the appellant at the time of hearing. The fi rst additional issue is whether the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal could ignore compliance to statutory provision relating to exercise of option to adopt Written Down Value (WDV) method in place of straight line method while computing depreciation on the assets used for power generation.