The Constituent Assembly of India chose to limit the power of the Union legislature to matters specified in the IoA because of the special circumstances in the State, which were identified by Mr Ayyangar in his speech. Jammu and Kashmir had acceded to the Dominion of India. Once that was the position, there was no legal 174 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. impediment on the Constituent Assembly of India providing for the exercise of powers with respect to the State of Jammu and Kashmir at par with other states. However, it was believed by the members of the Constituent Assembly that it would send a message of goodwill if the consent of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir is obtained before the legislative competence of the Union over the State is drawn. 278. Thus, Article 370 was introduced to serve two purposes. First, an interim arrangement until the Constituent Assembly of the State was formed and could take a decision on the legislative competence of the Union on matters other than the ones stipulated in the IoA, and ratify the Constitution (the transitional purpose); and second, an interim arrangement because of the special circumstances in the State because of the war conditions of the State (the temporary purpose). b. Scope of provisions in Article 370 I. Placement in Part XXI of the Constitution and Marginal Note to Article 370 279. Article 370 was a part of the Constitution as it was originally adopted on 26 January 1950. The provision was placed in Part XXI which was titled “Temporary and Transitional provisions” when the Constitution was adopted in 1950. The Chapter heading was substituted by its present form – “Temporary, Transitional and Special provisions” – by the Constitution (Thirteenth Amendment) Act 1962222. 280. Before proceeding to analyse Article 370, it is essential to understand its contextual placement in what is described as “Temporary and Transitional provisions” at the adoption of the Constitution; subsequently extended to incorporate “Special Provisions”. 281. Article 369 entrusted Parliament, for a period of five years from the commencement of the Constitution the authority to make laws with certain specific matters as if they were enumerated in the Concurrent List. These matters were : 222 The Constitution (Thirteenth Amendment) Act 1962 came into force on 1 December 1963’ “Thirteenth Amendment” IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 175 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a. Trade and commerce within a State in and the production, supply and distribution of identified commodities including foodstuffs, cattle fodder, coal, iron, steel and mica, raw cotton, cotton seed, paper, and cotton and woollen textiles; and b. Offences dealing with the above matters and the jurisdiction and powers of all courts except the Supreme Court together with the imposition of fees223. 282. Article 371 stipulated temporary provisions with respect to Part B States, providing that for a period of ten years from the commencement of the Constitution (a period which could be extended or shortened by Parliament), the Government of a Part B State would be under the general control of and would have to comply with the directions issued by the President224.