D 33. We do not intend to prolong this discussion. We may conclude by noticing a famous statement of Lord Brougham: “an advocate, in the discharge of his duty knows but one person in the world and that person is his client”. [Ed. : The statement was made by Mr Henry Brougham, as His E Lordship then was, while defending Queen Caroline in the House of Lords. See The Whole Proceedings on The Trial of Her Majesty, Caroline Amelia Elizabeth, Queen of England, for “Adulterous Intercourse” with Bartolomeo Bergami, Vol. II, p. 2 containing Her Majesty’s Defence, printed and published by John Fairburn, Broadway, F Ludgate Hill (1820). ]” (Emphasis supplied) 102. We also refer to the decision of this Court in the case of Byram Pestonji Gariwala (supra), more particularly, the observations made in para 37, which read thus: G “37. We may, however, hasten to add that it will be prudent for counsel not to act on implied authority except when warranted by the exigency of circumstances demanding immediate adjustment of suit by agreement or compromise and the signature of the party cannot be obtained without undue H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 85 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] delay. In these days of easier and quicker communication, A such contingency may seldom arise. A wise and careful counsel will no doubt arm himself in advance with the necessary authority expressed in writing to meet all such contingencies in that neither his authority nor integrity is ever doubted. This essential precaution will safeguard the B personal reputation of counsel as well as uphold the prestige and dignity of the legal profession.” (Emphasis supplied) 103. Almost six decades back, the Madras High Court speaking through Justice Ramaswami (as His Lordship then was) in the case of C Govindammal v. Marimuthu Maistry and Others reported in AIR 1959 Mad 7 had sounded the note of caution observing as under: “5. … The decisions appear to be fairly clear that even in cases where there is no express authorization to enter into a compromise, under the inherent authority impliedly given to D the Vakil he has power to enter into the compromise on behalf of his client. But in the present state of the clientele world and the position in which the Bar now finds itself and in the face of divided judicial authority and absence of statutory backing prudence dictates that unless express power is given E in the vakalatnama itself to enter into compromise, in accordance with the general practice obtaining a special vakalatnama should be filed or the specific consent of the party to enter into the compromise should be obtained. If an endorsement is made on the plaint etc., it would be better to get the signature or the thumb impression of the party affixed F thereto, making it evident that the party is aware of what is being done by the Vakil on his or her behalf.” 104. Thus, in view of the aforesaid discussion, we hold that the High Court committed no error in holding that the settlement between the Defendant Nos.