The model rules shall be framed within four months and shall be submitted to this Court for its approval; B 28.2. The Union Government shall also frame within four months model rules prescribing objective norms for implementing the provisions of Section 10(1)(b), Section 16(1)(b) and Section 20(1)(b) in regard to the appointment of members respectively of the District Fora, State Commissions and National Commission; C 28.3. The Union Government shall while framing the model rules have due regard to the formulation of objective norms for the assessment of the ability, knowledge and experience required to be possessed by the members of the respective fora in the domain areas referred to in the statutory provisions mentioned D above. The model rules shall provide for the payment of salary, allowances and for the conditions of service of the members of the consumer fora commensurate with the nature of adjudicatory duties and the need to attract suitable talent to the adjudicating bodies. These rules shall be finalised upon due consultation with the President of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal E Commission, within the period stipulated above; 28.4. Upon the approval of the model rules by this Court, the State Governments shall proceed to adopt the model rules by framing appropriate rules in the exercise of the rule-making powers under Section 30 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986; F 28.5. The National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission is requested to formulate regulations under Section 30-A with the previous approval of the Central Government within a period of three months from today in to effectuate the power of administrative control vested in the National Commission G over the State Commissions under Section 24-B(1)(iii) and in respect of the administrative control of the State Commissions over the District Fora in terms of Section 24-B(2) as explained in this to effectively implement the objects and purposes of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986.” H 316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 6.2 That thereafter, vide a further dated 18.05.2018 State of Uttar Pradesh Vs. All Uttar Pradesh Consumer Protection Bar Association – Civil Appeal No. 2740/2007 reported in (2018) 7 SCC 423, this Court considered the draft model rules which were framed by the Union of India. Before this Court the model rules came to be accepted by the counsel representing all the parties before the Court. B Therefore, this Court directed that the State Governments shall frame appropriate rules in exercise of the rule-making power under Section 30 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 in accordance with the Final Draft Model Rules submitted by the Union of India. It appears that thereafter many States notified the Consumer Protection (appointment, salary, C allowances and conditions of service of President and Members of the State Commission and District Forum) Rules, 2017. Rules, 2017 which were adopted provided that in every cases, the selection of Members of the District Fora and State Commission shall be on the basis of a written test of two papers (Rules 5 and 7). It appears that even the State of Maharashtra also adopted and approved the model rules on 24.05.2019 D and framed Rules, 2019 which had a written examination of 200 marks.