According to the learned counsel, if the company is dissolved as a result of the resolution process, the criminal proceedings against it would stand terminated, however, the signatory to the cheque D or its erstwhile directors are not entitled in law to take advantage of such a situation created by operation of law. 23. The learned counsel appearing for the complainant, laid much stress on Section 32A of the IBC, which states that every person who was a ‘designated partner’ or an ‘officer who is in default’ or was in any E manner in charge of/responsible to the corporate debtor for the conduct of its business or associated with the corporate debtor in any manner and who was directly or indirectly involved in the commission of such offence in accordance with the report submitted or complaint filed by the investigating authority shall continue to be liable to be prosecuted and punished for such an offence committed by the corporate debtor F notwithstanding that the corporate debtor’s liability has ceased under the provision of Section 32A of the IBC. 24. In such circumstances, referred to above, the learned counsel prays that there being no merit in the present appeal, the same may be dismissed. G ANALYSIS 25. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the seminal question of law that falls for the consideration of this Court may be formulated as under: H 1004 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Whether in light of: (i) the complainant having participated in the proceedings under the IBC, 2016 by putting forward its claim and consenting to accept some share as a creditor; coupled with (ii) the approval of the resolution plan under Section 31 of the B IBC, 2016; the signatory/director in charge of the day-to- day affairs would stand discharged/relieved from the penal liability under Section 138 of the NI Act? 26. Before adverting to the rival submissions canvassed on either side, it is necessary to look into few relevant provisions of the NI Act as C well as IBC, 2016. 27. Section 138 of the NI Act reads thus: “138. Dishonour of cheque for insufficiency, etc., of funds in the account.— D Where any cheque drawn by a person on an account maintained by him with a banker for payment of any amount of money to another person from out of that account for the discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or other liability, is returned by the bank unpaid, either because of the amount of money standing to the credit of that account is insufficient E to honour the cheque or that it exceeds the amount arranged to be paid from that account by an agreement made with that bank, such person shall be deemed to have committed an offence and shall, without prejudice to any other provision of this Act, be punished with imprisonment for a term which F may be extended to two years, or with fine which may extend to twice the amount of the cheque, or with both: Provided that nothing contained in this section shall apply unless— (a) the cheque has been presented to the bank within a G period of six months from the date on which it is drawn or within the period of its validity, whichever is earlier; (b) the payee or the holder in due course of the cheque, as the case may be, makes a demand for the payment of the said amount of money by giving a notice in writing, to the H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1005 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J.