I am in full agreement with the view expressed by brother Ahmadi, J. and the E proposed by him.” 9.2 In a concurring , Justice K. Ramaswamy (as he then was) has concurred with some of the observations made by Justice M.M. Punchhi (as he then was) made in a dissenting that it might be possible to abuse the proviso to Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. by F deliberate delay in completing the investigation to facilitate the release of the accused on bail. However, thereafter has agreed with the view that the merits brought out in the chargesheet and attending circumstances are relevant, as the bail was granted due to default of the investigating officer without Court’s adverting to the merits but strong grounds are G necessary to cancel the bail and mere filing of the chargesheet itself is not sufficient. 9.3 Justice M.M. Punchhi (as he then was) in his dissenting has observed in paragraphs 23, 25, 26, 27 and 28 as under:- H 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A “23. The mere circumstance that Section 167(2) ordains that every person released on bail under this sub- section shall be deemed to be so released under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII for the purposes of that Chapter does not ipso facto mean that the bail assumes the content and character of bail s on merit, of the kind conceived of in sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section B 437 or sub-section (1) of Section 439 of the Code. The deeming requirement of Section 167(2) puts the release on bail of such person as if under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII but only for the purposes of that Chapter. In other words, it means that by this fiction the provision is to be read as a part of Chapter XXXIII so C that it invites the purposes of that chapter such as filling of bonds, provision of sureties etc., as also permitting cancellation of bail. It is on the thrust of such inclusion that cancellation under Section 437(5) can be attempted as if fictionally the bail had been passed under sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 437 but not on considerations as if the bail was on merit. Fiction of this D kind cannot be permitted to go to the length of converting an of bail not on merit as if passed on merit. XXXXXXXX 25. The emphasised words are reflective of the view that E the Court could at that stage after the challan is filed be of the opinion that there appear sufficient grounds for entertaining the view that the accused had committed a non-bailable offence and that it was necessary that he should be arrested and committed to custody. Besides the afore-mentioned ground for cancellation, a ground singularly sufficient and special to an -on-default, F the Court may also arrest and commit to custody such person on other grounds judicially noted and others relevant; such as tampering of evidence etc. The later hinted grounds are those grounds which normally weigh with a Court while cancelling a merited bail under Section 437(5) when the bail in strictu sensu G has been granted on merit under sub- sections (1) and (2) of Section 437.