A stating that since the original relief sought for was limited to the grant of providing home cooked meals to undertrial prisoners, this court is not the appropriate forum to decide on the present question of law and resolve the conflict between the two High Court s. 12. In the present case at hand, as has been mentioned above, the B learned counsels appearing on behalf of both the parties have argued at length on the merits of the case and the point of law in question. The said ambiguity in the impugned point of law, caused by the conflicting decisions the two High Courts, has the potential to cause great harm to the fundamental rights of accused persons presently dealing with similar litigations, and future accused persons who might also have to deal with C similar litigations. 13. In such a scenario, wherein such a length of time has been devoted by the parties and the court, this court sits in a unique position wherein it is equipped with all the necessary knowledge to clear the said ambiguity. If such an opportunity to clear the said ambiguity is not exercised D by this court, it would so happen that, at some point in the future, this court would again be tasked with answering the same question of law, for which, a great length of time would again be spent by the court, to complete the same task which could have been dealt with at an earlier time. Such a lack of exercise of its jurisdiction by the court would not only increase the burden on the pendency of matters, but will also subject E litigants from across the country to further pendency. It is therefore imperative that this court, at this instance, remedy such a mischief, to save the court and future litigants from multiplicity of proceedings and mischief caused by such ambiguity. 14. In so far as maintainability of the present writ petition on F grounds of deviation from the initial prayer is concerned, it has been held in a catena of s that this Court, under writ jurisdiction, is not bound by the relief sought and can go beyond the original relief in to meet the ends of justice. Further, in such a situation where there is a conflict of opinion on a legal issue between two High Courts, mere G technical objections can not be allowed to stand in the way of exercising our powers conferred by way of Article 32 of the Constitution of India. 15. The reason why Article 32 is given such importance is because the state as an organ, if left without checks and balances, has the potential to become a tyrannical institution that can take the civil and individual H liberties of its people for granted. To curb this inclination of the state at YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 921 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] its very roots, the constitutional scheme envisaged an organ within the A state machinery, namely the judicial organ, which is vested with the powers to interfere with the tyrannical tendencies of the state.