EFFECT OF THE AMENDMENT TO SECTION 13(8) OF THE SARFAESI ACT 60. Before proceeding with the analysis of the provision of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, it would be appropriate to refer to the said provision as it stood prior to the amendment and as it stands after the amendment, which is given below: - Pre-amendment Section 13(8) Post-amendment Section 13(8) (8) If the dues of the secured creditor (8) Where the amount of dues of the together with all costs, charges secured creditor together with all and expenses incurred by him are costs, charges and expenses incurred tendered to the secured creditor at by him is tendered to the secured any time before the date fi xed for creditor at any time before the date sale or transfer, the secured asset of publication of notice for public shall not be sold or transferred by the auction or inviting quotations secured creditor, and no further step or tender from public or private shall be taken by him for transfer or treaty for transfer by way of lease, sale of that secured asset. assignment or sale of the secured assets,— CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 119 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred by way of lease assignment or sale by the secured creditor; and (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of the assets before tendering of such amount under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken by such secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of such secured assets. 61. At this juncture, it would be apposite to refer to the decision of this Court in Embassy Hotels Private Ltd. v. Gajraj and Company & Ors. reported in (2015) 14 SCC 316, wherein this Court had held that the expression “by act of the parties” in the Proviso to Section 60 would include the failure of the parties to settle the dispute and by their act allowing the mortgaged property to be sold in auction. The relevant observations made in it are reproduced below: - “16. Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act protects the right of redemption available to a mortgagor by providing that the mortgagor can exercise such a right by paying the mortgaged money any time after the principal money has become due. But the proviso clarifi es that the right conferred by that section is available only if it has not been extinguished by act of the parties or by decree of the court. The act parties would cover act of the mortgagor and mortgagee, if they are unable to settle the dispute arising out of money claim covered by the mortgage and by their action, allow the mortgaged property to be sold through auction in favour of a third party. Hence, it is not possible to accept the case of the plaintiff -respondent that in spite of sale of suit property becoming fi nal through court auction, for the purpose of grant of specifi c relief to the plaintiff in the present suit, the fi rst defendant would be deemed to still retain the right to the mortgage and transfer the suit property to the plaintiff regardless of the right, title and possession already legally vested in the auction- purchaser the appellant.” (Emphasis supplied) 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.