The appellant was appointed as a substitute teacher in the pay-scale of a primary teacher. In fact, when he fi led the fi rst round of proceedings in O.A. No. 209 of 1991, no plea was raised that he worked as an Assistant Teacher in the Higher Secondary Section. Even when he obtained interim s from the Tribunal on 03.12.1990, it was only to the eff ect that the services of the appellant should not be dispensed with without the leave of the Court. Even before the Tribunal, the argument was only about regularization. Before this Court too, no claim for regularization as Assistant Teacher in the Higher Secondary Section was made. 30. The contention now raised in the present round of proceedings (O.A. No. 978 of 1998) for absorption as Assistant Teacher in the Higher Secondary Section is strongly refuted by the respondents by pointing out that his engagement as a substitute teacher was only in the pay-scale of Rs.1200-2040 which was the scale for the primary teacher. They contend that his claim that he was allowed to take classes for XI and XII is unfounded. SAMIR KUMAR MAJUMDER v. 265 THE UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [K.V.VISWANATHAN, J.] No doubt, the Central Administrative Tribunal, Calcutta Bench has recorded that the applicant had functioned as a mathematics teacher for Class XI and XII as a stop-gap measure. 31. This issue, however, need not detain the Court any longer as at no point in the fi rst round of proceedings, the appellant made such a claim; the Screening Committee having considered him, pursuant to the s of this Court, has thought it fi t to absorb him only as a primary teacher; the Screening Committee itself was pursuant to the s of this Court and based on the Master Circular of 29.01.1991 wherein the claims of the candidates like the appellant were examined; the records of his appointment as a substitute teacher admittedly show that he was only appointed as a substitute primary teacher; it is on the completion of three months as substitute primary teacher that he acquired temporary status and on absorption now he became entitled to certain benefi ts under the Circular which we have elaborated herein above. 32. In the earlier round of proceedings culminating in the of this Court dated 15.02.1996, this issue was never raised. His claim for absorption as an assistant teacher in the Higher Secondary Section is clearly barred by constructive res judicata. Law on Constructive Res Judicata: 33. Almost two centuries ago, in Henderson vs. Henderson, (1843) 3 Hare, 100, the Vice-Chancellor Sir James Wigram felicitously puts the principle thus:- “In trying this question I believe I state the rule of the Court correctly when I say that, where a given matter becomes the subject of litigation in, and of adjudication by, a Court of competent jurisdiction, the Court requires the parties to that litigation to bring forward their whole case, and will not (except under special circumstances) permit the same parties to open the same subject of litigation in respect of matter which might have been brought forward as part of the subject in contest, but which was not brought forward, only because they have, from negligence, inadvertence, or even accident, omitted part of their case.