No.6456 of 1993 was not one under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act, as the relief sought for did not fall within its scope. While, virtually, remanding the matter thereunder to the High Court for fresh disposal of the appeal the trial Court was directed to record the evidence as directed by the High Court and to submit a report thereon to the High Court to enable it to dispose of the appeal within the time stipulated. G 7. Before proceeding with the matter further, we think it appropriate to consider the impact of such an of remand as it would certainly deconvolute consideration of this appeal. There can be no doubt with respect to the settled position that the Court to which the case is remanded has to comply with the of remand and acting H SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 373 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] contrary to the of remand is contrary to law. In other words, an A of remand has to be followed in its true spirit. True that in this case the High Court, originally, as per dated 29.10.2007 remanded the matter to the trial Court for fresh disposal and while doing so, it also directed the trial Court to afford opportunity to the defendants to lead evidence. But then, the same was modified by this Court and as B per the in C.A. No.5201 of 2009 the matter was remanded to the High Court for fresh disposal of RFA No.1996 of 2007 and the further direction to the trial Court was only to record the evidence as directed by the High Court and to forward it along with report to enable the High Court to dispose of the appeal taking into account the additionally recorded evidence of the defendants as well. Thus, it is evident that the C direction to the trial Court for recording the evidence and submitting it along with report will not efface the evidence already on record or will not be having the effect of setting aside of the and decree passed by the trial Court and indisputably, its purpose was only to enable the High Court to consider RFA No.1996 of 2007 carrying challenge D against the and decree of the trial Court in O.S. No.6456 of 1993, not only based on the evidence already considered by the trial Court but also based on the additionally recorded evidence of the defendants based on its dated 29.10.2007. 8.Now, we will proceed with the matter further. In fact, in the E meanwhile, pursuant to the of remand by the High Court the Trial Court took up the matter and posted it for defendants’ evidence. The original defendant Nos. 1 and 2 (the first appellant herein and the deceased second appellant) filed an application for amendment of the written statement before the Trial Court. Besides the same, three more applications were filed before the Trial Court viz., (1) seeking permission F to file additional written statement; (2) seeking permission to produce 8 documents; and (3) to recall PW-1.