F Fresh summoning of an accused will result in delay of the trial therefore the degree of satisfaction for summoning the accused (original and subsequent) has to be different. Question (v)—Does the power under Section 319 CrPC extend to persons not named in the FIR or named in the FIR but not G charge-sheeted or who have been discharged? Answer 117.6. A person not named in the FIR or a person though named in the FIR but has not been charge-sheeted or a person who has H been discharged can be summoned under Section 319 CrPC YASHODHAN SINGH & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1209 PRADESH & ANR. provided from the evidence it appears that such person can be A tried along with the accused already facing trial. However, insofar as an accused who has been discharged is concerned the requirement of Sections 300 and 398 CrPC has to be complied with before he can be summoned afresh. (ii) While answering the questions aforesaid, this Court observed B in Hardeep Singh that if the investigating agency for any reason does not array one of the real culprits as an accused, the court is not powerless in calling the said accused to face trial. The entire effort, therefore, is not to allow the real perpetrator of an offence to get away unpunished. It is with the said object in mind that a constructive and purposive C interpretation should be adopted that advances the cause of justice and does not dilute the intention of the statute conferring powers on the court to carry out the avowed object and purpose to try the person to the satisfaction of the court as an accomplice in the commission of the offence that is the subject matter of trial. It was pertinently observed by this Court that the desire to avoid trial is so strong that an accused makes D efforts at times to get himself absolved even at the stage of investigation or inquiry even though he may be connected with the commission of the offence. (iii) While distinguishing a trial from an enquiry, it was observed by this Court that trial follows an inquiry and the purpose of the trial is to E fasten the responsibility upon a person on the basis of facts presented and evidence led. Emphasising on the word “course” used in Section 319 Cr.P.C., it was observed that the said power can be invoked under the said provision against any person from the initial stage of inquiry by the court up to the stage of conclusion of the trial. Since after the filing F of the charge-sheet, the court reaches the stage of inquiry and as soon as the court frames the charges, the trial commences. Thus, the power under Section 319(1) Cr.P.C. can be exercised at any time after the charge-sheet is filed before the pronouncement of , except during the stage of Sections 207/208 Cr.P.C., committal, etc. G (iv) Elaborating the nuances of Section 319 Cr.P.C., it was further observed in Hardeep Singh that what is essential for the purpose of Section 319 Cr.P.C.