Article 243Q(1) mandates that, in every State, the following would be constituted: (a) A nagar panchayat, for a transitional area, namely, an area in transition from rural to urban area; (b) a municipal council for a smaller urban area; and (c) a municipal corporation for a larger urban F area. The obligation was placed on every State under sub-Article (2) of Article 243Q to define ‘transitional area’, ‘a smaller urban area’ or ‘a larger urban area’. It is in discharge of this Constitutional obligation that the State of Maharashtra also amended the MMC Act thereby providing under Section 3(1) that a `larger urban area’ shall be specified by way of a Notification to be issued under Article 243Q(2) of the Constitution, G and such an area shall be deemed to be a duly constituted Municipal Corporation. Sub-Section (3) further provides that the State Government, in consultation with the Corporation, may include or exclude an area from within the limits of the Municipal Corporation. It is in this context that Clause (b) of sub-section (3) provides that when an area is included H MAHARASHTRA RAJYA PADVIDHAR PRATHAMIK SHIKSHAK VA 993 KENDRA PRAMUKH SABHA v. PUNE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] within the limits of the `larger urban area’, any appointments, notifications, A notices, taxes, s, schemes, licenses, permissions, rules, by-laws issued, imposed or granted, under the MMC Act or any other law which is for the time being in force in the larger urban area shall, notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, apply to and be in force in the additional area, from the date that area in question is included in the city. B To simplify, Clause (b) merely states that whatever appointments, notifications, notices, rules or by-laws etc. are already in force in the existing ‘larger urban area’ will mutatis mutandis come into force in the “additional area” which is included by issuing a notification under Clause (a) of Section 3(3) of the MMC Act. C 16. The purpose of Clause (b) is to ensure that any statutory or administrative decision which has already been enforced by a Municipal Corporation in its existing larger urban area shall stay in force and will become applicable automatically in the newly added area also. The expression ‘appointments’ has to be understood in this context only. D 17. The scope of Clause (b) as a provision is meant to facilitate the inclusion of newly added additional areas and to ensure that such areas do not remain in a vacuum for want of statutory or administrative decisions following the cessation of its status as part of the ZP. Clause (b) of Section (3)(3) is not concerned with the protection of conditions of service of the employees of the ZP who are absorbed into a Municipal E Corporation. When the Legislature never intended to regulate terms and conditions of the employees who are merged in a Municipal Corporation due to expansion of ‘larger urban area’, no inference in relation thereto can be drawn from the plain wording of Section 3(3)(b) of the MMC Act.