Sub section (1) of Section 173 of the CrPC provides that every investigation by the police shall be completed without unnecessary delay and sub section (2) of Section 173 of the CrPC provides that as soon as E such investigation is completed, the officer in charge of the police station shall forward to a Magistrate empowered to take cognizance of the offence on a police report, a report in the form prescribed by the State Government. Under sub section (2) of the Section 173 of the CrPC, a police F report (chargesheet or Challan) is filed by the police after investigation is complete. Sub section (8) of Section 173 of the CrPC, states that nothing in the section shall be deemed to preclude any further investigation in respect of an offence after a report under sub-section (2) has been forwarded G to the Magistrate. Thus, even where chargesheet or Challan has been filed by the police under sub section (2) of Section 173 of the CrPC, the police can undertake further investigation in respect of an offence under sub section (8) of Section 173 of the CrPC. (Reference: Article titled “Different H 156 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Aspects of Section 173(8) of the CrPC” by D. Nageswara Rao, Prl.JCJ, Manthani.) What is the meaning of the term “Further Investigation”? 48. In Rama Chaudhary Vs. State of Bihar reported in (2009) 6 SCC 346, this Court held that, “further investigation within the meaning B of provision of Section 173(8) CrPC is additional; more; or supplemental. “Further investigation”, therefore, is the continuation of the earlier investigation and not a fresh investigation or reinvestigation to be started ab initio wiping out the earlier investigation altogether.” What are the alternatives before a Magistrate when a “Final C Report” is filed? 49. Wherever a final report forwarded by the Investigating Officer to a Magistrate under Section 173(2)(i) of the CrPC is placed before him, several situations may arise. The report may conclude that an offence appears to have been committed by a particular person and persons, and D in such a case the Magistrate may either: (1) accept the report and take cognizance of offence and issue process, (2) may disagree with the report and drop the proceeding or may E take cognizance on the basis of report/material submitted by the investigation officer, (3) may direct further investigation under Section 156(3) and require police to make a report as per Section 173(8) of the CrPC. (4) may treat the protest complaint as a complaint, and proceed F under Sections 200 and 202 of the CrPC. What is the prime consideration for “Further Investigation”? 50. As observed in Hasanbhai Valibhai Qureshi v. State of Gujarat and Others reported in (2004) 5 SCC 347, the prime G consideration for further investigation is to arrive at the truth and do real and substantial justice. The hands of investigating agency for further investigation should not be tied down on the ground of mere delay. In other words, the mere fact that there may be further delay in concluding the trial should not stand in the way of further investigation if that would H STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 157 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER.