E If that authority bona fide forms that opinion the correctness of that opinion cannot be challenged before courts though it is open to an aggrieved party to contend that the requisite opinion has not been formed or the decision is based on collateral grounds or that it is an arbitrary decision.” 18. On similar lines were the observations made by this Court in F Swami Saran Saxena v. State of U.P.13 :- “3. Several contentions have been raised in this appeal by the appellant, who appears in person. In our , one of them suffices to dispose of the appeal. The contention which has found favour with us is that on a perusal of the material on the record G and having regard to the entries in the personal file and character roll of the appellant, it is not possible reasonably to come to the conclusion that the compulsory retirement of the appellant was 12 (1970) 2 SCC 458 13 (1980) 1 SCC 12 H 44 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A called for. This conclusion follows inevitably from the particular circumstances, among others, that the appellant was found worthy of being permitted to cross the second efficiency bar only a few months before. Ordinarily, the court does not interfere with the of the relevant authority on the point whether it is in the public interest to compulsorily retire a government servant. And B we would have been even more reluctant to reach the conclusion we have, when the impugned of compulsory retirement was made on the recommendation of the High Court itself. But on the material before us we are unable to reconcile the apparent contradiction that although for the purpose of crossing the second C efficiency bar the appellant was considered to have worked with distinct ability and with integrity beyond question yet within a few months thereafter he was found so unfit as to deserve compulsory retirement. The entries in between in the records pertaining to the appellant need to be examined and appraised in that context. There is no evidence to show that suddenly there was such deterioration D in the quality of the appellant’s work or integrity that he deserved to be compulsorily retired. For all these reasons, we are of opinion that the of compulsory retirement should be quashed. The appellant will be deemed to have continued in service on the date of the impugned . E 19. In Baldev Raj Chadha v. Union of India14, emphasizing the fact that exercise of powers under Fundamental Rule 56(j) must be bona fide and promote public interest, this Court observed that : - “25. The whole purpose of Fundamental Rule 56(j) is to weed out the worthless without the punitive extremes covered by Article F 311 of the Constitution. But under the guise of ‘public interest’ if unlimited discretion is regarded acceptable for making an of premature retirement, it will be the surest menace to public interest and must fail for unreasonableness, arbitrariness and disguised dismissal.