This decision too appears to have been rendered by this Court considering the special facts and circumstances. 27. Signifi cantly, the precedents which we have referred to at an earlier part of this do not appear to have been cited by the parties 240 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. in Rajendra Kumar Sitaram Pande (supra) and Jawaharlal Darda (supra) and, thus, the Hon’ble Judges on the Bench did not have the benefi t of considering the same. 28. What Aroon Purie (supra) reveals is that the operative part of the Trial Magistrate’s was extracted, wherein the decisions in Balraj Khanna (supra) and M.N. Damani (supra) were referred to; however, the case was decided without any express reference by the Court to such precedents. 29. We need not examine the facts in Aroon Purie (supra) in any great detail in view of the question of law that the Court formulated and the answer to it. The question, in paragraph 18, reads as follows: “We now turn to the question: whether the benefi t of any of the exceptions to Section 499 of the IPC can be availed of and on the strength of such exception, the proceedings can be quashed at the stage when an application moved under Section 482 of the Code is considered?” After quoting paragraphs 5 and 7 from the decisions in Jawaharlal Darda (supra) and Rajendra Kumar Sitaram Pande (supra), respectively, and conscious of the legal position, the Court cautiously proceeded to hold as follows: “21. It is thus clear that in a given case, if the facts so justify, the benefi t of an exception to Section 499 of the IPC has been extended and it is not taken to be a rigid principle that the benefi t of exception can only be aff orded at the stage of trial.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 30. Jawaharlal Darda (supra) and Rajendra Kumar Sitaram Pande (supra), we reiterate, are decisions where the disputes arising before the Court were resolved without laying down any law capable of being treated as precedents within the meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution. However, the approach adopted seems to have persuaded the Court in Aroon Purie (supra) to proceed to make the observation, highlighted above, which has opened up an arena of debate as to whether, the benefi t of an Exception to section 499, IPC could be aff orded at the stage of trial only or whether, if the M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 241 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] facts of a given case so justify, such benefi t can be extended and proceedings quashed at the stage a petition under section 482, Cr. PC is being dealt with. 31. At this stage, it would not be out of place to refer to and discuss a few other decisions of this Court which are considered relevant for the present adjudication. In all these decisions, the issue of legality of summoning s was examined and resting on the discussion of the relevant laws vis-à-vis the facts of each case, the impugned was either maintained/interdicted.