The concepts of eminent domain and police powers are borrowed from American H 37AIR 1968 SC 394 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1097 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] law. The constitutional guarantee of the due process clause in the A United States Constitution requires that no private property shall be taken for public use without just compensation. In the exercise of its police power, the State may pass regulations designed to ensure public health, public morals, public safety as also public convenience or general prosperity, see Chicago, Burlington & B Quincy Railway company v. People of the State of Illinois [200 US 561 : 50 LEd 596, 609] . In the exercise of its eminent domain power, the State may take any property from the owner and may appropriate it for public purposes. The police and eminent domain powers are essentially distinct. Under the police power many restrictions may be imposed and the property may even be C destroyed without compensation being given, whereas under the power of eminent domain, the property may be appropriated to public use on payment of compensation only. The distinction between the two powers is brought out clearly in the following passage in American Jurisprudence, 2nd Edn., Vol. 16, Article D 301 p. 592: “The state, under the police power, cannot in any manner actually take and appropriate property for public use without compensation, for such action is repugnant to the constitutional guaranty that where private property is appropriated for public E use, the owner shall receive reasonable compensation. Thus, there is a vital difference, which is recognised by the authorities, between an Act passed with exclusive reference to the police power of the state, without any purpose to take and apply property to public uses, and an Act which not only declares the existence of a nuisance created by the condition of particular property, but in F addition, and as the best means of accomplishing the end in view, authorizes the same property to be appropriated by the public.” In Sweet v. Rechel [159 US 380 : 40 LEd 188] the validity of an Act to enable the city of Boston to abate a nuisance existing therein and for the preservation of the public health in the city G by improving the drainage of the territory was sustained on the ground that the Act provided for payment of just compensation. The Court pointed out that private property the condition of which was such as to endanger the public health could not be legally taken by the Commonwealth and appropriated to public H 1098 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A use without reasonable compensation to the owner. In Delaware L. & W.R. Co. v. Morristown [276 US 182 : 72 LEd 523, 527] an Ordinance establishing a public hack stand on private property without payment of compensation was struck down on the ground that assuming that the creation of the public hack stand would be a proper exercise of the police B power it did not follow that the due process clause would not safeguard to the owner just compensation for the use of the property.