The term is also used for a note or document that confirms the availability of funds for future purchases (as when goods are paid for but later returned to the supplier)”. A “sales credit note” is defined as – “Note sent from a seller to a buyer to cancel E (partly or in total) a charge that has already been invoiced. The credit thus granted can be offset against the cost of future purchases (and is, therefore, from the seller’s point of view, better than making a cash refund”. (ii) According to the Oxford Advance Learner’s Dictionary F – “if, damaged items have to be returned, the manufacturer may issue a credit note”. (iii) According to the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary and Thesaurus – A credit note is an outstanding amount, to be used when needed. “It is the document that G a seller gives to a buyer who returns a product, which the buyer may use at a later date/time to pay for something else”. (iv) According to the Collins English Dictionary – “A credit note is a piece of paper that a shop gives when a person H 1326 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A returns goods that have been bought from it, which entitle the buyer to take goods of the same value without paying for them”. (v) According to Black’s Law Dictionary, Fifth Edition, - “Credit Memorandum” is “a document used by a seller B to inform a buyer that the buyer’s account receivable is being credited (reduced) because of errors, returns, or allowances”. (vi) Under the Goods and Services Tax Law – It has been stated that after the invoice has been issued there could be C situations where the quality of the goods or services or both supplied is not to the satisfaction of the recipient, thereby, necessitating a partial or total reimbursement on the invoice value. In to regularize these kinds of situations the supplier is allowed to issue what is called as credit note to D the recipient. Once the credit note has been issued, the tax liability of the supplier will reduce. The credit note is, therefore, a convenient and legal method by which the value of the goods or services in the original tax invoice can be amended or revised. The issuance of the credit note will easily allow the supplier to decrease his tax liability in his E returns without requiring him to undertake any tedious process of refunds. 30. Therefore, the entire controversy must be viewed in the perspective of a composite transaction and not in isolation as the dealer (assessee) would be acting under a warranty with there being a F manufacturer on one end and the purchaser or customer of an automobile at the other end and the dealer acting on behalf of the manufacturer or an intermediary between the said customer and manufacturer. The said transaction cannot be viewed in a myopic sense by truncating or excluding the role or action of a dealer under the warranty and viewing it only G from the perspective of a transaction simpliciter between manufacturer and a dealer.