9. The second appeal was heard by the High Court on the following substantial questions of law:- “(a) In view of the admission of DW1 that the properties were purchased from out of the joint family income, whether the lower appellate court has erred in modifying the decree and of trial court? (b) When the Will under Ex. B12 was not proved as per law, whether the fi nding of lower appellate court regarding truth of Ex.B12 tenable in law? (C) Whether the dismissal of suit fi led by the plaintiff in respect of the items of properties standing in the name of D1 to D4 and D8 is sustainable?” Basing on the evidence available on record, the High Court found that the properties and the business of the joint family continued to be in joint possession of both the parties and, therefore, the status of the joint family both, backwards and forward must be taken into account by the Court. The High Court eventually held that all the plaint schedule properties are joint family properties. 244 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 10. Having examined the pleadings, evidence and the s rendered by the courts below, we do not fi nd any perversity in the fi ndings recorded by the High Court holding that all the suit properties are joint family properties. However, in view of the provisions contained in Sections 15 (1) (a) and 16 of the Hindu Succession Act, 19561, the High Court is not correct in allotting 1/16th share to the plaintiff out of the share of her mother-in-law in the ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘C1” schedule properties. 11. Sections 15 and 16 of the Act need to be referred which are re- produced hereunder: “15. General rules of succession in the case of female Hindus.-(1) The property of a female Hindu dying intestate shall devolve according to the rules set out in section 16,— (a) fi rstly, upon the sons and daughters (including the children of any pre-deceased son or daughter) and the husband; (b) secondly, upon the heirs of the husband; (c) thirdly, upon the mother and father; (d) fourthly, upon the heirs of the father; and (e) lastly, upon the heirs of the mother. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),— (a) any property inherited by a female Hindu from her father or mother shall devolve, in the absence of any son or daughter of the deceased (including the children of any pre-deceased son or daughter) not upon the other heirs referred to in sub-section (1) in the specifi ed therein, but upon the heirs of the father; and (b) any property inherited by a female Hindu from her husband or from her father-in-law shall devolve, in the absence of any son or daughter of the deceased (including the children of any pre-deceased son or daughter) not upon the other heirs referred to in sub-section (1) in the specifi ed therein, but upon the heirs of the husband. 1 (for short, ‘the Act’) SACHIDHANANDAM SINCE DEAD THROUGH HIS LRS.