The ultimate A test of the said statement made by the accused having been noted down as told by the accused or not would be of paramount consideration. If the answer is in the affirmative then necessarily said statement will have to be held as passing the test of law as otherwise not. Merely because the translation was made from B Malayalam to Tamil and written down in Kannada would not suggest that such statement be held to be either not being voluntary or the said statement having been recorded improperly. Merely because PW-10 did not know how to read and write Malayalam does not ipso facto make the contents of the statement to be disbelieved. On the other hand, he states that he is from C Kerala and he knows how to speak Malayalam. What was required to be performed by him was to pose the question as stated by the witness to the accused and the answers given to such questions are to be stated to the police for being recorded as stated by the accused. In fact, there is not even a suggestion made to PW-10 D about the contents of the statement being incorrect. [Para 19][420- B-H; 421-A] 1.9. It is no doubt true that confession of PW-25 in its entirety is not admissible in view of Section 25 of the Evidence Act. However, in the teeth of Section 8 read with Section 27 of E the Evidence Act, that part of the confession which led to the recovery of the dead body of the victim would become admissible, apart from other articles of the deceased recovered at the instance of the accused has been identified by several witnesses independently. This has also persuaded the High Court to accept the statement recorded under Ex.P-2 as being admissible which F cannot be construed as highly improbable. Certain articles were recovered on the strength of confession statement made by the accused and in to prove such recovery the witnesses have been examined by the prosecution and this has also persuaded the Court to accept the findings of the High Court. [Para 20][422- G G-H; 423-A-B] 1.10. The other surrounding circumstances which prove the accused being guilty of the offence beyond reasonable doubt are the recovery of the articles belonging to the deceased and sold by the accused which were recovered on the strength of the H 402 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A voluntary statement of accused. PW-5 clearly stated as to how the accused intended to sell the immoveable property belonging to the deceased. PW 5 has clearly deposed as to how the accused was apprehended by the police when he was attempting to sell the property of the deceased. That apart the statements made by the accused that deceased had gone to Kerala or the deceased B had suffered a paralytic stroke or deceased had proceeded to America and expired there are all incorrect and conflicting statements as has been deposed by PW-5. The conclusion arrived at by the High Court is based on sound appreciation of evidence and proper application of law.