B. Applicability of the Principles of Natural Justice 62. Having thus analysed the provisions of Part III of Chapter II, we shall now analyse the impact of the requirements of natural justice. It is a well settled principle of law that natural justice postulates two requirements: fi rstly, audi alterum partem i.e. an opportunity of being heard to a person who is liable to be aff ected by an investigation, enquiry, proceeding or action; and secondly, nemo judex in causa sua, which means that the person should not be a judge in their own cause. 63. The principles of natural justice have also been expanded to require that a reasoned be passed against an individual who is liable to be aff ected. Though, at one stage, in the evolution of law, a distinction was sought to be drawn between administrative action, on one hand, and judicial or quasi-judicial, on the other, as the law has progressed, that distinction has been substantially watered down, if not obliterated. In other words, the requirement to observe the principles of natural justice arises both in the context of purely judicial or quasi-judicial action as well as administrative action which has an adverse impact on the individual or entity against which action is initiated. 64. At the same time, it needs to be noted that the principles of natural justice are not to be construed in a straitjacket. The nature of natural justice is liable to vary with the exigencies of the situation. In a given situation, it may extend to a fully-fl edged evidentiary hearing while, on the other hand, the principles of natural justice may require that a bare minimum opportunity should be given to an individual who is liable to be aff ected by an action, to furnish an explanation to the allegations or the nature of the enquiry. 1. Role of the Resolution Professional as a facilitator is to collate facts 65. In the provisions of Chapter III, particularly in Section 99, Parliament has provided for an engagement of the debtor with the resolution professional at various stages. Sub-section (2) of Section 99 stipulates that where an application has been fi led by the creditor under Section 95, the (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 602 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. resolution professional may require the debtor to prove the repayment of the debt in the manner which has been indicated in sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c). Evidently, the expression “may require the debtor to prove repayment of the debt” implicates the role of the debtor in explaining, whether, as a matter of fact, the debt remains unpaid or has been paid. 66. The resolution professional cannot decide that issue in the absence of an opportunity to the debtor to furnish an explanation and to produce material evidencing the payment of the debt. Likewise, sub-section (4) of Section 99 empowers the resolution professional, in the course of carrying out an examination of an application to seek further information or explanation in connection with the application from the debtor or the creditor.