[DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] owner / occupier of the premises, as the case may be, and the same A shall be recoverable by the Distribution Licensee as due from such legal representatives or successors-in-law or new owner / occupier of the premises. However, the proviso lays down that except in the case of a transfer of a connection to a legal heir, the liabilities which are transferred under Regulation 10.5 are restricted to a maximum period of six months B of the unpaid charges for electricity supplied to the premises. Accordingly, the dues owed by M/s Sumit Re-Rolling Mills Pvt. Ltd, Nagpur arecharged on the property purchased by the first respondent in a public auction. 222. The sale was conducted on “as is where is” basis and the respondent accordingly had adequate notice of the charge. Hence, the C distribution licensee is entitled to recover the unpaid dues from the first respondent subject to the permitted period specified in the proviso to Regulation 10.5. 223. In view of the aforesaid legal position, which has emerged, we are of the view that the impugned of the High Court cannot be D sustained. The appeal is allowed. Item 101.13: Maharashtra State Electricity Board v. M/s Jai Tirath Financiers Pvt. Ltd.; SLP(Civil) No. 10732 of 2006 224. ÿþIn 1999, liquidation proceedings were initiated against M/ s Hariganga Alloys & Steel Ltd. By a sale notice dated 2 May 2001, E offers were invited from interested bidders for purchase of properties of M/s Hariganga Alloys & Steel Ltd on “as is where is” and “as is what is” basis. The first respondent successfully purchased the assets in the auction sale and took possession of the purchased property in 2002. 225. On 17 June 2005, the respondent applied to the appellant for F a new electricity connection to the premises purchased in the auction. By a letter dated 22 June 2005, the appellant rejected the application on the ground that arrears of electricity charges of Rs 83 lakhs of the erstwhile owner were pending and a permanent electricity connection could not be released till full dues were paid. The appellant permitted release for a temporary connection. The respondent filed Company Application No. G 106 of 2005 in Company Petition No.6 of 1999 in the matter of liquidation of M/s Hariganga Alloys & Steel Ltd, seeking the release of a new electricity connection without clearance of arrears. 226. The application of the respondent was allowed by the impugned dated 10 February 2006, passed by a Single Judge at the H 744 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court. The High Court held that the appellant could not deny electricity connection to the respondent on the ground of recovery of arrears of the erstwhile owner of the plot. The High Court noted that the appellant was one of the secured creditors and directed it to make its claim before the Official Liquidator in accordance with law. B 227. The appellant preferred the present Special Leave petition.