A person who wants to obstruct the course of justice, delay the disposal of cases, abuse the process of court and wants to harass his opponent by virtue of his money power, for him the litigation should become costly which is not so now. Therefore, this provision of imposition of cost to prevent the litigant from seeking adjournment, thus, delay the disposal of cases, is to be given full eff ect. It is a weapon in the armory of the Judge to control the course of litigation and expedite trial. In spite of this provision if the Judges do not understand the signifi cance and importance of these amendments and allow the parties to control the course of litigation, it only shows either lack of will on their part to implement these statutory provisions or their inability to give eff ect to these statutory provisions. 23. When the litigants complain of delay in disposal of cases, they cannot seek adjournments as a matter of right, as it is against their 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. interest. An adjournment at the instance of one party, puts the other party to inconvenience, which in turn gives rise to such complaints. But an adjournment may become necessary for various reasons. Therefore, in such circumstances it would be in the interest of justice to grant adjournment, but at the same time the party inconvenienced has to be duly compensated. It is in this background the provision of Rule 1 of XVII of CPC as amended has to be understood and given eff ect to. A party to a litigation cannot have any grievance for day-to-day trial and on the contrary he should welcome it. It is only those litigants who want to abuse the judicial process and wants to use this legal machinery as a weapon of oppression against his opponents can have any grievance. It is there, these amended provisions come in handy to the courts to prevent such abuse of the judicial process. The Case Flow Management System Rules: An Overlooked Lifesaver 31. On the recommendation of this Court in ‘Salem Bar Association vs. Union of India AIR 2003 SC 189=2003 (1) SCC 49 a committee was appointed to study the application on implementation of Case Flow Management system in India, and in response, ‘Case Flow Management Rules for High Courts and Subordinate Courts’ were meticulously crafted. These guidelines mirrored the suggestions outlined in the ‘National Mission for Delivery of Justice and Legal Reform,’ which served as a comprehensive blueprint for judicial reforms through its strategic initiatives from 2009 to 2012. Furthermore, the introduction of the Justice A.M. Khanwilkar Committee on Case Management System aimed to align with these eff orts. On the basis of above recommendation most of the states have adopted the concept of Case Flow Management and have framed their own Rules for ensuring timely delivery of justice since 2005. However, some of the States are yet to frame the rules. We request the Hon’ble Chief Justices of those High Courts where said Rules are yet to be framed to take immediate steps to formulate such rules.