Holding that the State cannot negate the rule of law and surrender to blackmail and intimidation, this Court said that it the obligatory duty of the B Court to prevent it and protect the freedom. (vi) In Smt. Nilabati, this Court made a distinction between, (i) the decision in Kasturi Lal upholding the State’s plea of sovereign immunity for tortious acts of its servants, which was confined to the sphere of liability in tort; and C (ii) the State’s liability for contravention of fundamental rights to which the doctrine of sovereign immunity has no application in the constitutional scheme. In paragraph 34, which contains the separate but concurring opinion of Dr. A.S. Anand, J., the law was summarised as follows:- D “34. The public law proceedings serve a different purpose than the private law proceedings. The relief of monetary compensation, as exemplary damages, in proceedings under Article 32 by this Court or under Article 226 by the High Courts, for established E infringement of the indefeasible right guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution is a remedy available in public law and is based on the strict liability for contravention of the guaranteed basic and indefeasible rights of the citizen. The purpose of public law is not only to civilize public power but also to assure the citizen F that they live under a legal system which aims to protect their interests and preserve their rights. Therefore, when the court moulds the relief by granting “compensation” in proceedings under Article 32 or 226 of the Constitution seeking enforcement or protection of fundamental rights, G it does so under the public law by way of penalising the wrongdoer and fixing the liability for the public wrong on the State which has failed in its public duty to protect the fundamental rights of the citizen. The payment of compensation in such cases is not to be understood, as it is generally understood in a civil action for damages H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 671 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] under the private law but in the broader sense of A providing relief by an of making ‘monetary amends’ under the public law for the wrong done due to breach of public duty, of not protecting the fundamental rights of the citizen. The compensation is in the nature of ‘exemplary damages’ awarded against the wrongdoer B for the breach of its public law duty and is independent of the rights available to the aggrieved party to claim compensation under the private law in an action based on tort, through a suit instituted in a court of competent jurisdiction or/and prosecute the offender under the penal law.” C (vii) In Lucknow Development Authority vs. M.K. Gupta69 this Court pointed out that the administrative law of accountability of public authorities for their arbitrary and even ultra vires actions has taken many strides and that it is now accepted by both by this Court and English Courts D that the State is liable to compensate for the loss or injury suffered by a citizen due to arbitrary actions of its employees.