104. The production of a copy of an instrument, may not lead to the impounding of the copy as Section 33, which mandates impounding, applies only in regard to the original, which alone is treated as an H 368 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A instrument under Section 2(14) of the Stamp Act. We must understand the context of the ruling in Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra) and Hariom Agrawal(supra) to be that a party cannot ‘validate’ an instrument by producing a copy and by getting it impounded and paying the duty and penalty. In fact, as observed in paragraph-13 of Jupudi Kesava Rao (supra), the Court cannot be invited to act upon a copy of an instrument, B which is insufficiently stamped. Thus, such a copy, while it cannot be impounded under Section 33, it cannot also be acted upon under Section 35. O. SECTIONS 33 AND 35 OF THE STAMP ACT; THE COURT OR THE ARBITRATOR TO ACT? C 105. There was considerable debate at the Bar as regards the wisdom in relegating the issue relating to payment of stamp duty to the Arbitrator. On the one hand, the learned Amicus, supported by learned Counsel for the Respondent, would canvass that, bearing in mind the object of the Act, and in particular, Section 5 of the Act, prohibiting D judicial interference, except as provided, questions relating to non- payment of stamp duty and the amount to be paid, are capable of being dealt with by the Arbitrator. The concern of the Court, that the interest of the Revenue is protected, is best balanced with the overwhelming need to fastrack the arbitration proceedings and they are best harmonised E by ensuring that the Arbitrator will look into the matter and ensure that the interest of the Revenue is not jeopardised. On the other hand, the appellant and the intervener would point out that the Court cannot ignore the mandate of the law contained in Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act and a view taken by this Court, on the said lines, will only encourage evasion of the law, whereas, if the Court follows the mandate of Sections F 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act and adheres to what has been laid down in Garware (supra), not only would the law be observed, but, when the matter reaches the Arbitrator, the issue would have been given the quietus. Such a view would also encourage persons falling in line with the Stamp Act. G 106. We see merit in the contention of the appellant. Apart from the Court acting in consonance with the law, when it adheres to Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, where it applies, in our view, under the watchful gaze of the Court, be it the High Court or the Supreme Court, the issue relating to stamp duty, in a case where there is no stamp duty paid, is best resolved. H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 369 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.