It is obvious from the plain words of the amendment that the legislature had in view such alienations about which a right to institute suits has already become barred and therefore it wanted to provide a fresh period of limitation in regard to them. The G Legislature was also aware of the fact that according to the law as laid down by decisions prior to 1963, the date of appointment of the plaintiff as manager by an endowment did not give him fresh start of limitation for that purpose. It was only to remedy the obvious difficulties felt in the interpretation of such law that H 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A this amendment has been brought about. By virtue of this amendment, if the plaintiff had been appointed within 12 years from the date of the filing of the suit, he can question any alienation, which was not made for legal necessity or benefit to a mutt by a previous manager. The fact that 12 years have elapsed from the date of death, resignation or removal of the transferor manager B would not stand in the way of the plaintiff in such a suit from recovering the property. That is clear from the last three words in the amendment ‘whichever is later’, purposely introduced by the Legislature. In view of this amendment the courts have got to apply the plain words of the Statute to any action brought by any C manager of a Hindu, Muslim or Buddhist religious or charitable endowment, to recover possession of the movable or immovable property of an endowment which was the subject of an alienation by a previous manager for valuable consideration. It is also clear that the transferor manager need not be the immediate predecessor of the plaintiff, that files such a suit. From a reading of Article 96, D such a conclusion cannot be arrived at. It is enough if the alienation was made by a previous manager. The first column does not say that it should be by the previous manager.” 30. In the State Wakf Board, Madras, superseded by the Government of Tamil Nadu in G.O.Ms. No. 2031, dated 20th November, E 1961 and appointed by G.O.Ms. No. 2264, dated 30th December, 1967, The Special Officer for Wakfs Madras v. Subramanyam and others21, the learned Judge was, inter alia, dealing with the following facts: The suits were filed for recovery of properties alleged to belong to the waqf, which were dismissed on the ground of F limitation. The Court drew upon the later part of the third column of Article 96 and found that the suit was within time. In the said case, in fact, the Waqf Board was the plaintiff. The Single Judge found that the Waqf Board was constituted only in the year 1953. The suits were instituted in 1967. In assigning the role of the G Manager to the Board within the meaning of ‘manager appointed’ in the third column of Article 96, also, the Court drew support from the of learned Single Judge in Chinna Jeeyangar Mutt (supra).