19. On a conjoint reading of Articles 3,4 and 239A, we find that:- a) Parliament by making a law can convert an existing State into one or more Union territories; C b) Parliament is empowered by law to create a body of legislature for the Union territories of Puducherry and J&K. Accordingly, sub-Section (2) of Section 14 of the J & K Reorganisation Act provides that there shall be a Legislative Assembly for the Union Territory of J & K.; and c) Even if the law made by Parliament creating a body of D legislature for Union territories of Puducherry and J&K has the effect of amending certain parts of the Constitution, it shall not be deemed to be an amendment of the Constitution for the purposes of Article 368. 20. Now coming to the J&K Reorganisation Act, it is apparent E that the said law has been made by Parliament in the exercise of powers under Articles 3,4 and 239A. The said law created two Union territories in place of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The said law provides for the amendment of the First and Fourth schedule for giving effect to its provisions. Section 13 provides for amendment of Article 239A for F applying the same to the Union territory of J & K. Section 13 is a supplemental and consequential provision made by Parliament as provided in clause (1) of Article 4 for the purposes of giving effect to the creation of the new Union territory of J and K. In view of clause (2) of Article 4, though Section 13 has the effect of amending Article 239A, it will not be affected by Article 368 of the Constitution. G 21. Under sub-section (2) of Section 14 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, a Legislative Assembly for the Union territory of J and K has been created. Sub-section (3) provides that the total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of J & K to be filled by the persons chosen by direct election shall be 107. Clause (a) of sub-section H 534 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (4) of Section 14 provides that 24 seats in the Legislative Assembly of the said Union territory shall remain vacant until the area of the Union Territory under the occupation of Pakistan ceases to be so occupied. We may note here that under the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, the seats in the State Legislative Assembly excluding 24 seats earmarked for Pakistan occupied territory were 87 out of which 7 seats were B reserved for Scheduled Castes and Schedule Tribes. 22. As far as the number of constituencies is concerned, we must also refer to Part V of the J&K Reorganisation Act having the title “Delimitation of Constituencies”. Sub-section (1) of Section 60 provides that the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory C of J & K shall be increased from 107 to 114. However, the excluded 24 seats covered by Pakistan occupied territory remain the same.