Rules, 1960 in the Draft Lease Deed, (m) You shall have to furnish up to date Royalty Clearance, Income Tac Clearance and VAT Clearance certifi cates before execution of the Deed, (n) You shall have to submit, along with the Draft Deed, a Geo- Reference Map duly vetted by the DL&LRO and DMM, West Bengal, if not submitted, (o) You shall have obtained the permission under Section 14Y of WBLR Act, 1955 for holding the required land, (p) You have to furnish the Conversion Certifi cate for plots of land from the Appropriate Authority (Section 4C of WBLR Act, 1955), (q) You have to furnish the current Land Availability Report (LAR) from the Appropriate Authority. 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (r) In the event of non-execution of the deed within the stipulated period on compliance with the above mentioned conditions the sanctioning the lease shall be liable to be revoked, (s) You shall have to comply with all the statutory requirements before presenting the Deed of Lease of execution to this Department, (t) This Grant and subsequent execution of Lease Deed are subject to the No Objection Certifi cate (NOC) to be obtained by this Department form the Govt. of India since the applicant prayed for mining lease on the ground that the Letter of Intent (Lol) was issued for the mineral Dolomite which was a major mineral at the time of dated 10.09.2014 of the Hon’ble High Court. xx xx xx” 17. Raiyat land is to be used for cultivation, etc., and not for mining. Once the mining activity is undertaken, the Raiyats will not be able to use the land. In terms of sub-section (10) to Section 2 of the WBLR Act, 1955, a Raiyat means a person or an institution holding land for any purpose whatsoever. However, the rights of Raiyat in respect of the land in terms of sub-section (2A) to Section 4 of the WBLR Act, 1955 does not permit any other person to quarry sand from his holding, dig or use, or permit any person to dig or use, earth or clay of his holding for the manufacture of bricks or tiles except with previous permission in writing of the State Government. In case of breach of the condition, the prescribed authority may, after giving notice and opportunity to a Raiyat to show cause, can levy a monetary penalty. Further, on an being passed, the land shall vest in the State free from all encumbrances. Section 4-B of the WBLR Act, 1955 stipulates that every Raiyat holding any land shall maintain and preserve such land in a manner that the area is not diminished or its character is not changed or the land is not converted for any purpose other than the purpose for which it was settled or previously held except with the previous permission of the Collector in writing. Equally signifi cant for our purpose is Section 3A of the WBLR Act, 1955, which states that the rights and interests of all non- agricultural tenants and under-tenants shall vest in the State free from all encumbrances and provisions of Section 5 and 5A of the West Bengal Estates Acquisition Act, 1953 shall apply.