The dispute in the present G batch of cases is concerned with Chapter VIII dealing with loan frauds. 19. Chapter VI states that as a general rule, cases involving fraud/ embezzlement should invariably be referred to the state police or CBI. Chapter VIII provides for more robust safeguards which ensure that H 15 “CFR” STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 497 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] banks report frauds to investigating agencies after forming an informed A opinion. The framework for dealing with loan frauds was put in place by a circular dated 07 May 2015. The objective of the framework has been enumerated in Clause 8.2: “8.2 Objective of the framework B The objective of the framework is to direct the focus of banks on the aspects relating to prevention, early detection, prompt reporting to the RBI (for system level aggregation, monitoring & dissemination) and the investigative agencies (for instituting criminal proceedings against fraudulent borrowers) and timely initiation of the staff accountability proceedings (for determining C negligence or connivance, if any) while ensuring that the normal conduct of business of the banks and their risk taking ability is not adversely impacted and no new and onerous responsibilities are placed on the banks. In to achieve this objective, the framework has stipulated time lines with the action incumbent on D a bank. The time lines / stage wise actions in the loan life-cycle are expected to compress the total time taken by a bank to identify a fraud and aid more effective action by the law enforcement agencies. The early detection of Fraud and the necessary corrective action are important to reduce the quantum of loss which the continuance of the Fraud may entail.” E 20. Clause 8.3 deals with Early Warning Signals16 and Red Flagged Accounts.17 Under Clause 8.3.1, a RFA is one where a suspicion of fraudulent activity is thrown up by the presence of one or more EWS. EWS which should alert bank officials about wrong doings in a loan account are set out in Annexure II. Some of those enumerated are set F out below: i. a. Default in undisputed payment to statutory bodies as declared in the annual report; b. Dishonour of high value cheques; G ii. Delay in payment of outstanding dues; iii. Funds coming from other banks to liquidate the outstanding loan amount except in the normal course; 16 “EWS” 17 “RFA” H 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A iv. Exclusive collateral charged to a number of lenders without NOCs of existing charge holders; v. Dispute on title to collateral securities; and vi. Critical issues in the stock audit report. B 21. EWS provide indications of wrongdoing which may later turn out to be frauds. A bank is put on alert by the presence of EWS and must use them to trigger a detailed investigation into the concerned bank account. According to Clause 8.3.5, the officer responsible for operations in the account should promptly report any manifestation of EWS to the Fraud Monitoring Group18 constituted by the bank.