“Further” investigation, therefore, is the continuation of the earlier investigation and not a fresh investigation or reinvestigation to be started ab initio wiping out the earlier investigation altogether. The Court drew inspiration D from the fact that sub section (8) clearly envisages that on completion of further investigation, the investigating agency has to forward to the Magistrate a “further” report or reports - and not fresh report or reports - regarding the “further” evidence obtained during such investigation. The Court held that once it is accepted that an investigation undertaken by CBI pursuant to a consent granted under Section 6 of the Act is to be E completed, notwithstanding withdrawal of the consent, and that “further investigation” is a continuation of such investigation which culminates in a further police report under Section 173(8), it necessarily means that withdrawal of consent in the said case would not entitle the State Police to further investigate into the case. However, the Court further observed F thus: “To put it differently, if any further investigation is to be made, it is the CBI alone which can do so, for it was entrusted to investigate into the case by the State Government.” (Emphasis supplied). Thus, what was held by the Court was that after submission of report under Section 173(2) Cr.P.C. reinvestigation or fresh investigation is not permissible. However, it has been expressly observed that if any further G investigation is to be made, it is the CBI alone which can do so. In other words, further investigation could be carried out, but that the same could be done by the CBI alone as it was entrusted to investigate into the case by the State Government and had carried out the investigation and submitted final report in connection therewith. H 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 71. In S. Papaiah (supra) on a complaint made by the UPSC, investigation had been carried out by the CBI and final report was submitted under Section 173 of the CrPC before the Metropolitan Magistrate, before whom the first information report had been lodged, seeking closure of the case. The CBI in spite of the request made to it by the UPSC did not inform about the filing of the final report seeking B closure of the case to the UPSC. The report was returned by the learned Metropolitan Magistrate as notice had not been issued to the complainant by the CBI though the CBI had asserted that it had informed the UPSC regarding the filing of the closure report. The final report was resubmitted by the CBI to the Court of the Metropolitan Magistrate along with a C copy of the notice sent by the CBI to the UPSC. It appears that the report was again returned by the Metropolitan Magistrate seeking proof of service of notice on the de facto complainant. While the proceedings of submission of the final report were pending, the UPSC addressed a letter to the Director of CBI pointing out that the investigation had not been carried out properly and that the filing of the closure report was not D justified.