Further provision should be made that harassment and intimidation of witnesses and the complainants shall be met with severe disciplinary action. 44.5.The Bar Council of India shall ensure that all Bar Associations in the country and persons registered with the State Bar Councils follow Vishaka (Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan, (1997) 6 SCC 241 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 932) guidelines. Similarly, the Medical Council of India, Council of Architecture, Institute of Chartered Accountants, Institute of Company Secretaries and other statutory institutes shall ensure that the organisations, bodies, associations, institutions and persons registered/affi liated with them follow the guidelines laid down by Vishaka (Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan, (1997) 6 SCC 241 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 932). To achieve this, necessary instructions/circulars shall be issued by all the statutory bodies such as the Bar Council of 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. India, Medical Council of India, Council of Architecture, Institute of Company Secretaries within two months from today. On receipt of any complaint of sexual harassment at any of the places referred to above the same shall be dealt with by the statutory bodies in accordance with Vishaka (Vishaka v. State of Rajasthan, (1997) 6 SCC 241 : 1997 SCC (Cri) 932), guidelines and the guidelines in the present .” (Emphasis supplied) 36. The relevant statutory rules, applicable to the case on hand, are the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964 (for short, “the 1964 CCS Rules”) and the Central Civil Services (Classifi cation, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1965 (for short, “the 1965 CCS Rules”) enacted in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 and Clause 5 of Article 148 of the Constitution of India. 37. Part VI of the 1965 CCS Rules contains the relevant provisions relating to the disciplinary proceedings and imposition of penalties for government servants in the central civil services and posts and Rule 14 therein stipulates the ordinary procedure and process for imposition of major penalties. 38. Pursuant to the decisions of this Court in Vishaka (supra) and Medha Kotwal Lele (supra) referred to above, the CCS Rules underwent several amendments whereby new provisions specifi cally dealing with sexual harassment came to be inserted, more particularlyRule 3C in the 1964 CCS Rules along with a new Proviso to Rule 14(2) of the 1965 CCS Rules. The said provisions conjointly made sexual harassment punishable with major penalties and specifi cally made the Vishaka Guidelines applicable to the disciplinary proceedings in relation to complaints of sexual harassment. The said provisions are enumerated below: - “3C. Prohibition of sexual harassment of working women. (1) No Government servant shall indulge in any act of sexual harassment of any woman at any work place. (2) Every Government servant who is incharge of a work place shall take appropriate steps to prevent sexual harassment to any woman at the work place. UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 523 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Explanation. - (I) For the purpose of this rule, – (a) “sexual harassment” includes any one or more of the following acts or behaviour (whether directly or by implication) namely – (i) physical contact and advances; or (ii) a demand or request for sexual favours; or (iii) making sexually coloured remarks; or (iv) showing pornography; or (v) any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature.