Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan put forward the test that if a law could be made under Article 324, providing for a committee to select CECs and ECs and also for their qualifications, then, there is a void. If H 28 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A such a law cannot be made, then, there is no vacuum. Continuing with the argument about the presence of a vacuum, it is contended that the underlying rationale for the Court intervening must be the existence of a fundamental norm or a basic feature that needs to be secured. In this regard, democracy and the concomitant imperative to hold free and fair elections are projected. It is contended that the other aspect, which must B be borne in mind, is to be not oblivious to the impact of the existence of the vacuum on the rights of the members of the public, both directly and indirectly. Like the Judiciary, the Election Commission must display fearless independence. In the absence of norms regarding the appointment, a central norm, viz., institutional integrity is adversely affected. An independent appointment mechanism would guarantee C eschewing of even the prospect of bias. Favouritism would be largely reduced. Right to Vote is a Constitutional Right. With reference to law prevailing in other South Asian countries and in the United Kingdom, it is contended that clear qualification, as also eligibility conditions, have been put in place. Mandatory tenures are made available. The removal process, which is uniform, is rigorous. It is contended that there has been a sudden D change after 2001, in the matter of appointing Chief Election Commissioners. Successive Governments have decided to select increasingly older candidates. This has resulted in casting a shadow on the much-needed independence, apart from curtailing their tenure. Inaction on the part of the Election Commission even in the face of alarming increase of criminals in public life, must guide this Court. With E reference to the Article, which we have adverted to, it is pointed out that the Election Commission has indulged in the alleged misconduct and favouritism. A vigorous appeal is made to the Court to listen to the constitutional silence and understand the dire need for the Court to step- in. In this regard, we are reminded that this Court has played a very proactive role in matters relating to elections and electoral reforms. F Interference was noteworthy in matters relating to affidavits on assets, criminal antecedents, time-bound election petition trials, special courts for criminal trials of M.P.s and M.L.A.s, protection from booth capturing, freebies and NOTA. The executive underreach justifies judicial oversight and activism, particularly when more than 72 years have gone by. It is contended that no mandamus is soughtagainst Parliament or toimplement G the Gaikwad Law Commission Report. The following directions are pressed for until a law is made. A Committee of five, comprising the Prime Minister, the leader of the Opposition or of the single largest party in the Lok Sabha, the Chief Justice of India, the Speaker of the Lok Sabha and an eminent jurist selected by the first four to recommend suitable candidates, is to be appointed for appointment to the Election H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 29 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]