Therefore, it was contended that the old parts were returned to the manufacturer through the dealer for the reason that it was crucial to servicing of the warranty B obligation. The decision of this Court in Government of India vs. Madras Rubber Factory Limited, (1995) 4 SCC 349, not validating the treatment of warranty as a trade discount under excise law was also relied upon. Reliance was also placed on Devi Dass Gopal Krishnan vs. State C of Punjab, (1967) 3 SCR 557, (Devi Dass Gopal Krishnan). (iv) Learned senior counsel, Sri Gulati submitted that the enforcement of the warranty obligation presented the opposite of the contract of sale, which involves the volitional D transfer of goods. A case of discharge of a warranty is the exact opposite as both the buyer and seller agree to subsist within the existing sale to facilitate the seller to compensate the buyer for a breach or damage or defect caused to them. Reliance was also placed upon Section 59 of the Act, which E clearly stipulates that enforcement of the remedy for breach of warranty could be actualized in diminution or extinction of the sale price, and if he is not compensated, he may sue for the breach of warranty. Therefore, it was contended that a credit note is issued by the manufacturer to the dealer F as an acknowledgment of the diminution of the original sale price. Axiomatically, credit note is not a sale price or valuable consideration, as the character of credit is not towards the price of the newly replaced part, but a credit that embodies the diminution of the price already paid for the car. Therefore, it was submitted that, Mohd. Ekram Khan does G not correctly conceive and appreciate the nature of a warranty transaction, i.e., an undertaking to ensure defect- free functioning of the sold product for the stipulated period of time. Therefore, the said ought to be overruled was the submission. H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1301 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] II. Submissions of Sri S.K. Bagaria, senior counsel for the A petitioner, M/s TVS and Sons Ltd., in SLP (C) No. 14260 of 2007: (i) Sri Bagaria, learned senior counsel submitted that the nature of the transaction was not that of a sale, as the service was provided free of cost to the customer by a dealer pursuant B to a warranty clause. The property in the replaced part passed merely as an incident of the performance of the manufacturer’s warranty obligation, which forms a part of the original sale of the automobile. Sri Bagaria referred to the relevant clauses of the Dealership Agreement and C Warranty Policy to highlight two facts: (a) dealers are contractually obligated to provide free-of-cost warranty services for warranty parts to the customer and (b) defective parts are returned by the customers and become the property of the manufacturer. D (ii) Learned senior counsel clarified that the nature of the transaction was as a compensation to the buyer, and the measure thereof was equivalent to the cost of exchange of defective parts.