Counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner states that since the post in the Debt Recovery Tribunal has been filled up, the cause does not survive. E 2. The Special Leave Petition is accordingly disposed of without this Court expressing any opinion on the question of law raised. 3. Pending applications, if any, stands disposed of.” 9. Notwithstanding the s passed above by this Court, the F High Court took upon itself to decide the issues raised, on merit, by allowing the Respondents to make deferred payment in 20 installments, a relief which was more than the one prayed for. The installments were modified by the learned Division Bench in Writ Appeal No. 1492 of 2022 and 1497 of 2022, to 12 months as originally prayed for by the Respondents while declining to interfere with the decision of the learned Single Judge G on merit. Impugning the aforesaid s, the lender bank has filed the present appeals. 10. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Appellants fairly submitted that the relief granted by the High Court may not be disturbed while pressing for the reiteration of law which might guide the High H M/S SOUTH INDIAN BANK LTD. & ORS. v. NAVEEN 23 MATHEW PHILIP & ANR. ETC. ETC. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] Court in not entertaining such writ petitions in the future. It is further A submitted that the High Court has exercised writ jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, even after the Debt Recovery Tribunal became functional, in about 185 cases pertaining to the Appellants alone. After the filing of the Special Leave Petitions, 35 Writ Petitions have been filed. Resultantly, the Appellants are not in a position to proceed B further to recover the amounts due from the defaulting borrowers/ guarantors, defeating the object of the SARFAESI Act itself. 11. Learned Senior Counsel brought to the notice of this Court that a writ petition involving private individuals over a financial transaction is not maintainable. Despite the position being settled, the interference C by various High Courts continues. The very objective of the Act 54 of 2002 is being frustrated by such interference. The alternative remedy being effective and efficacious, the extraordinary jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, either be a writ of certiorari or mandamus, ought not to have been invoked. One has to see the impact on the Appellants of the repeated interference by the D High Court. The learned Senior Counsel took us through the following decisions: • Phoenix Arc Private Limited vs.Vishwa Bharati Vidya Mandir & Ors., (2022) 5 SCC 345. E • Federal Bank Ltd. vs. Sagar Thomas & Ors., (2003) 10 SCC 733. • State Bank of India vs. Arvindra Electronics (P) Ltd., 2022 SCC Online SC 1522. • United Bank of India vs. Satywati Tondon & Others, (2010) F 8 SCC 110 • Authorized Officer, State Bank of Travancore & Another vs. Mathew K.C., (2018) 3 SCC 85 • Varimadugu OBI Reddy vs. B. Sreenivasulu & Others, (2023) 2 SCC 168.