[2023] 11 S.C.R. 861 : 2023 INSC 679 CASE DETAILS KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF HARYANA (Criminal Appeal Nos. 1076-1077 of 2015) AUGUST 08, 2023 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Conviction of the appellants-accused u/ ss.201, 300, 302, IPC r/w s.34 based on circumstantial evidence, consisting of evidence of last seen, extra judicial confession, recovery of weapon of off ence and motive, if justifi ed. Evidence – Circumstantial evidence – Conviction based upon – When not justifi ed: Held: Categoric fi nding of the courts below on appreciation of the oral testimonies of the prosecution witnesses is that none of the witnesses had spoken of having lastly seen the deceased in the company of the accused alive and together – Thus, there cannot be any reason to hold that ‘last seen evidence’ is available in the instant case as a link in the chain of circumstantial evidence against the appellants– Despite such clear fi nding, the trial court presumed the presence of the deceased with the appellants at the fodder room near Katvawala passage just prior to his death, relying on certain other circumstances – Trial Court as also the High Court appreciated the evidence in an utterly perverse manner – In view of the fi ndings on each of the links in the chain of circumstances, no conviction can be entered against the appellants u/ss.201, 300 and 302 r/w s.34, IPC – They are individually or even collectively not suffi cient to connect the appellants with the crime – Impugned of High Court confi rming the of the trial Court set aside – Appellants acquitted granting benefi t of doubt. [Paras 12, 13 and 42] 861 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Evidence – Circumstantial evidence – Last seen theory – Presumption as to the presence of the deceased along with the accused just prior to the occurrence, in absence of positive ocular evidence of prosecution witnesses of having seen the deceased in the company of the accused together and alive at a time proximate to the occurrence – Impermissibility: Held: ‘Last seen’ as a link in the chain of circumstantial evidence, would suggest existence of oral testimony of at least one witness to establish that the deceased was last seen in the company of the accused – Application of the theory of ‘last seen’ in the absence of any other positive evidence to conclude that the accused and the deceased were last seen together would be hazardous – Its indirect application is also impermissible – In the present case, evidence of PW-10 is not free from suspicion and at any rate, it cannot be taken as a positive evidence suffi cient to justify the application of the theory of ‘last seen’ or to presume the presence of deceased in the company of the appellants in the evening of 25.06.1999, describing it as ‘last seen’ evidence. [Paras 8, 21 and 25] Evidence – Motive – Not proved/held to be insuffi cient – Evidence of witnesses to be scrutinized with great care and caution: Held: Motive is something which makes a man to do any particular act and it must, in all probability, exist behind every voluntary act – When the prosecution comes out with a motive and the motive is either not proved or held to be insuffi cient, the evidence of witnesses of the said fact has to be scrutinized with great care and caution.