On the other hand, an operational creditor is one to whom an operational debt is owed. “Operational debt” under Section 5(21) is “a claim in respect of provision of goods or services”. 20. Sections 7 and 8 of the IBC control the initiation of insolvency F process by financial creditors and operational creditors respectively. The corporate debtor can contest a debt within a stipulated time period. The Adjudicating Authority has to determine the existence of a default from the records of the information utility or on the basis of evidence 14UCO Bank & Anr. v. Dipak Debbarma & Ors., (2016) (11) SCR 723. G 15Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank & Anr., (2017) 8 SCR 33. 16Swiss Ribbons (P) Ltd. v. Union of India (2019) 4 SCC 17. 17 Default is defined in Section 3(12) in wide terms as, “Non-payment of debt when whole or any part or instalment of the amount of debt has become due and payable and is not paid by the debtor or the corporate debtor, as the case may be”. 18Per Section 3(11), which states that a debt is, “A liability of obligation in respect of a ‘claim’”. A ‘claim’ is inter alia defined under Section 3(6) as, “A right to payment”. H 1238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A furnished by the creditors, and communicate the same to the corporate debtor – this initiates the resolution process, which must be completed within 180 days from the date of admission of the application (Section 12), and can be extended beyond 180 days for a further period of not exceeding 90 days if the committee of creditors (hereinafter, “CoC”) by a vote of 75% of voting shares so decides. Speedy resolution thus B forms the mainstay of the entire resolution process. Upon admission of the application, a moratorium under Section 14 of the Code is to be declared by the Adjudicating Authority followed by a public announcement indicating the last date for submission of claims, along with the details of the interim resolution professional (hereinafter, C “IRP”). The management of the corporate debtor as a going concern on the instructions of the CoC is vested in the IRP (and later under the RP under Section 28), who is a trained person registered under Chapter IV of IBC, per Section 17. The CoC’s decisions have to be taken by a vote of not less than 75% of the voting share of financial creditors. Anyone interested or willing to put the corporate debtor back to its D rails can, under Section 30, submit a resolution plan to the RP, prepared on the basis of an information memorandum. When such a plan is approved by the CoC, the Adjudicating Authority has to record satisfaction of the same – it then becomes binding on the corporate debtor as well as its employees, members, creditors, guarantors and E other stakeholders. Immediately upon approval of the resolution plan, the moratorium passed by the Authority under Section 14 ceases to have effect.