Deputy Commissioner STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 969 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] was granted only on 06.12.1948 which is more than a year later than the A Sale Deed. 44.On the contrary, as per the recitals contained in the Sale Deed as extracted in Para 4 of this , it is mentioned that due permission was obtained and the consequent mutation was effected in the office of Superintendent, Tarai and Bhabar, Nainital before its execution. Hence, B this abovementioned recital leads to immense confusion as to whether any approval was ever granted at the first instance. Even if such approval was granted, no indication is given as such to actually who granted the approval and if it is assumed that a subordinate authority granted the approval, no statutory instrument is produced before us to highlight C whether this delegation was possible or not. The subordinate courts as well as the High Court have merely relied on the dated 07.08.1980 passed by the Commissioner, Kumaon to come to a sweeping conclusion that a valid approval existed in favor of the predecessor of the Respondents despite glaring contradictions which were on the face of the record. Consequently, on this issue of breach of the conditions of the D 1924 Lease Deed, we again fail to arrive at a decisive conclusion as neither the original record nor its true copies have been placed on record of this Court or the High Court as well as the other forums. 45. Finally, while the Respondents have argued that until there existed an express refusal by the Deputy Commissioner for sale of E leasehold rights, the sale was valid especially in light of post facto approval granted by the Deputy Commissioner as has been recorded in dated 07.08.1980 passed by the Commissioner. They have relied on the following observation in U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad5 – “6. This Court in Life Insurance Corpn. of India v. Escorts F Ltd. [(1986) 1 SCC 264], considering the distinction between “special permission” and “general permission”, “previous approval” or “prior approval” in para 63 held that: “We are conscious that the word ‘prior’ or ‘previous’ may be implied if the contextual situation or the object and design G of the legislation demands it, we find no such compelling circumstances justifying reading any such implication into Section 29(1) of the Act.” Ordinarily, the difference between 5 U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (n 1). H 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A approval and permission is that in the first case the action holds good until it is disapproved, while in the other case it does not become effective until permission is obtained. But permission subsequently granted may validate the previous Act. As to the word ‘approval’ in Section 33(2)(b) of the Industrial Disputes Act, it was stated in Lord Krishna B Textiles Mills Ltd. v. Workmen [AIR 1961 SC 860 : (1961) 1 LLJ 211] , that the Management need not obtain the previous consent before taking any action.