On 08.09.2014, this Court granted leave in the special leave petitions and passed an interim to the following effect. H STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. ETC. v. DR. P. A. BHATT & ORS. 307 ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] “Leave granted. A Having heard learned counsel for the parties, it is directed that the State of Gujarat shall comply with the of the High Court up to 50% within two months. Needless to say, it case the appeal is dismissed, the respondents shall be entitled to the balance 50% with interest, which shall be determined at the time of final B adjudication of the appeal. Hearing expedited.” 14. Claiming that the above interim direction issued on 08.09.2014 was not complied, a batch of contempt petitions was filed in the year 2016. Those contempt petitions were disposed of on the basis of a C statement made to the effect that the State will comply with the by the end of October, 2016. 15. However, a fresh set of three contempt petitions were filed in the year 2017, complaining of wilful disobedience of the dated 08.09.2014. These contempt petitions were directed to be listed alongwith D the main appeals and this is why we have five civil appeals and three contempt petitions on hand. Preliminary contention 16. The learned counsel for the respondents raised a preliminary issue that the question raised in these appeals is squarely covered by a E recent of this Court in North Delhi Municipal Corporation vs. Dr. Ram Naresh Sharma1 and that therefore the impugned of the High Court does not need a deeper scrutiny. Therefore, it is necessary to address this preliminary issue before we proceed to consider the rival contentions on merits. F 17. In Dr. Ram Naresh Sharma (supra), the only question that arose was as to whether the benefit of enhancement of age of retirement from 60 years to 65 years, granted in favour of Allopathy doctors, was available even for Ayurved doctors or not. It was held in the said decision as follows: G “22. The common contention of the appellants before us is that classification of AYUSH doctors and doctors under CHS in different categories is reasonable and permissible in law. This however does not appeal to us and we are inclined to agree with 1 2021 (9) SCALE 47 H 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the findings of the Tribunal and the Delhi High Court that the classification is discriminatory and unreasonable since doctors under both segments are performing the same function of treating and healing their patients. The only difference is that AYUSH doctors are using indigenous systems of medicine like Ayurveda, Unani, etc. and CHS doctors are using Allopathy for tending to their patients. B In our understanding, the mode of treatment by itself under the prevalent scheme of things, does not qualify as an intelligible differentia. Therefore, such unreasonable classification and discrimination based on it would surely be inconsistent with Article 14 of the Constitution. The of AYUSH Ministry dated C 24.11.2017 extending the age of superannuation to 65 Years also endorses such a view.