If there is a statute which appears to violate it we G can either declare it unconstitutional or we can read it down to make it constitutional c. Had there been no Constitution having fundamental rights in it then of course a plain and literal meaning could be given to Section 3(5) of TADA or Section 10 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) H 526 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Act. But since there is a Constitution in our country providing for democracy and fundamental rights we cannot give these statutory provisions such a meaning as that would make them unconstitutional.” 7.1 It is submitted that in the case of Indra Das (supra), this B Court has interpreted the relevant provisions of TADA and UAPA to bring them in conformity with the Constitution. 7.2 It is further submitted that this Court has on several occasions interpreted provisions to bring them in consonance with the Constitution and even by reading down to save the provisions from unconstitutionality. C It is submitted that in the case of People’s Union for Civil Liberties v. Union of India, (2004) 9 SCC 580 (paragraphs 48 & 49), this Court has read “mens rea” into the statute to save it from unconstitutionality. 7.3 It is submitted that in the case of State of Gujarat v. Shyamlal Mohanlal Choksi, 1965 (2) SCR 457, this Court read down Section D 94 of the Cr.P.C. to exclude persons accused from its ambit. It is submitted that Shyamlal Mohanlal Choksi (supra) was a special leave petition from a High Court decision and the Union of India was not a party to those proceedings. 7.4 On the submission made on behalf of the Union of India that E without hearing the Union of India, this Court ought not to have and/or could not have read down Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act, 1967 or Section 3(5) of TADA Act, 1987, Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel has relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Sanjeev Coke Manufacturing Company v. M/s Bharat Cooking Coal F Limited, reported in (1983) 1 SCC 147 (paragraph 25). It is submitted that in the said decision, it is observed and held by this Court that “no one may speak for the Parliament and Parliament is never before the Court.” It is further observed that “After Parliament has said what it intends to say, only the Court may say what the Parliament meant to say, none else.” It is further observed that “once a statute leaves Parliament G House, the Court’s is the only authentic voice which may echo (interpret) the Parliament and the Court will do the same with reference to the language of the statute and other permissible aids.” It is submitted that while reading down Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act and Section 3(5) of the TADA Act, this Court has interpreted the statutory provisions in H light of Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. It is submitted that ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR.