F 22. Be that as it may, we have no difficulty in proceeding to record our conclusions resting on the evidence on record as well as Ext.96, which the appellant voluntarily filed before the trial court as his response to the incriminating materials appearing in the evidence against him while being questioned under section 313, Cr. P.C, for whatever it is worth. It G appears to us to be a fair and proper disclosure of the appellant’s version as to what transpired on that fateful evening. The offensive act committed by the appellant has to be appreciated in the surrounding circumstances noted below. 23. In the normal run of events, the victim as well as P.W.2 and the appellant were not supposed to interact with each other on 26th H PREMCHAND v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 131 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] September, 2013. P.W.2 opened the shop of the victim because the victim A had not returned from the field. If P.W.2 had not opened the shop, the appellant would probably not have met him. It was by chance that the appellant and P.W.2 met each other. The victim and the appellant had no quarrel with each other; whatever was there, it was between the appellant and P.W.2. The inter se quarrel between the two had long subsided. B There is a missing link in the prosecution case as to the motive of the appellant to inflict the blow on P.W.2 first. It is in the evidence of P.W.2 that he was reading a newspaper sitting in front of the shop of the victim and that the appellant was sitting in the saloon of Baburao Sawarkar (not examined), which was opposite to the shop of the victim. The appellant, as per P.W.2, was unarmed initially. P.W.2’s further version C was that the appellant went to his house, fetched a knife and then stabbed P.W.2 on his left shoulder, neck and left-hand finger resulting in serious bleeding injuries. The reason why the appellant suddenly on seeing the septuagenarian P.W.2 would go to his house and return with a knife is not there in the evidence. We shall, for the present, assume that there D were heated exchanges and that the appellant gave a blow to P.W.2 first, and thereafter to the others one by one. Then again, the victim who, according to P.W.2, was supposed to be in the field but appeared in the scene from some other place all on a sudden, was the third in the series to be stabbed by the appellant and, thus, was not his target. Though there is no specific admission by the appellant that he had stabbed the E victim or the other injured witnesses, reading of the contents of Ext.96 does evince an act of retaliation spurred by sudden provocation resulting in a quarrel as well as a scuffle which ultimately, most unfortunately, cost the victim his life and left some others injured. The appellant too sustained injuries in the scuffle and there is evidence on record that one F of the injuries was grievous, yet, the criminal law was surprisingly not set in motion to bring to book those responsible for inflicting such injury.