However, what is necessary to be taken note is that the right which was bestowed through the notifi cation dated 11.04.2005 and 05.01.2009 insofar as the educational parity, including in the matter of appearing for the All-India Pre-Medical Test or such other tests to make them eligible for admission has been completely altered. Though the notifi cation ex facie may not specify retrospective application, the eff ect of superseding the earlier notifi cations and the proviso introduced to clause 4(ii) would make the impugned notifi cation dated 04.03.2021 ‘retroactive’ insofar as taking away the assured right based on which the petitioners and similarly placed persons have altered their position and have adjusted the life’s trajectory with the hope of furthering their career in professional education. PALLAVI vs. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 951 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 46. The learned senior counsel for the petitioners would in that context contend that since sub-section (2) to Section 7B of Act, 1955 does not exclude the right under Article 14of the Constitution, it is available to be invoked and such discrimination contemplated in the notifi cation to exclude theOCI Cardholders should be struck down. Article 14 of the Constitution can be invoked and contend discrimination only when persons similarly placed are treated diff erently and in that view the OCI Cardholders being a class by themselves cannot claim parity with the Indian citizens, except for making an attempt to save the limited statutory right bestowed. To that extent certainly the fairness in the procedure adopted has a nexus with the object for which change is made and the application of mind by the Respondent No. 1, before issuing the impugned notifi cation requires examination. 47. As noted, the right of the OCI Cardholders is a midway right in the absence of dual citizenship. When a statutory right was conferred and such right is being withdrawn through a notifi cation, the process for withdrawal is required to demonstrate that the action taken is reasonable and has nexus to the purpose. It should not be arbitrary, without basis and exercise of such power cannot be exercised unmindful of consequences merely because it is a sovereign power. To examine this aspect, in addition to the contentions urged by the learned Additional Solicitor General we have also taken note of the objection statement fi led with the writ petition. Though detailed contentions are urged with regard to the status of a citizen and the sovereign power of the State, as already noted, in these petitions the sovereign power has not been questioned but the manner in which it is exercised in the present circumstance is objected. The contention of learned Additional Solicitor General is that the intention from the beginning was to grant parity to OCI Cardholders only with NRIs. On that aspect as already noted above we have seen the nature of the benefi t that had been extended to the petitioners and the similarly placed petitioners under the notifi cations of the year 2005, 2007 and 2009.