If in that background, the observation, as contained in Smt. Pomi Sengupta (supra) is taken note, the learned Single Judge was not justified in arriving at the conclusion that if a petition under section 24 of the CPC is E entertained, it would amount to adding words to the provision.” 33. Chalasani Deepthi (supra) arose out of an application filed by the petitioner-wife seeking withdrawal and transfer of a suit for restitution of conjugal rights, instituted by the respondent-husband in the Family Court, Ranga Reddy District, Telengana to the court of the Judge, F Family Court, Vijaywada, Andhra Pradesh. A learned Judge of the (undivided) Andhra Pradesh High Court having heard the parties and the Advocates General of the States of Telengana and Andhra Pradesh and upon consideration of the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, more particularly sections 30 and 31 thereof, together G with sections 24 and 25 of the CPC as well as the decision in Durgesh Sharma (supra), held that both the courts being subordinate to the Andhra Pradesh High Court, which was till then the common High Court for the States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, the application for transfer under section 24 was maintainable. H 1006 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 34. A learned Judge of the Bombay High Court, while following the decision in Chalasani Deepthi (supra) allowed the application under section 24 of the CPC filed by the petitioner- wife seeking transfer of a matrimonial petition pending on the file of the Civil Judge in the court at Mapusa, North Goa, instituted by the respondent-husband, to the Family Court at Bandra, Mumbai, Maharashtra. Incidentally, the Bombay High B Court is the common High Court for the States of Maharashtra and Goa as well as the Union territories of Dadra & Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu. The learned Judge spurned the objection of the respondent-husband that the transfer application ought to have been filed in the Bombay High Court at Goa and not at its principal seat in Mumbai, for the reasons C recorded in the decision. Significantly, no objection was raised in this case that transfer ought to have been prayed by filing an application before this Court under section 25 of the CPC. 35. There is, therefore, a host of judicial authorities at the level of the High Courts that section 25 of the CPC would not bar entertainment D of an application under section 24 thereof by a High Court, even for an inter-State transfer, if such High Court is the common High Court for two or more States and transfer, as prayed, is not to a civil court beyond the said High Court’s jurisdiction. ANALYSIS AND DECISION E 36. As noted, the appellants as plaintiffs have instituted the civil suit in the court of the District Judge, Dimapur, Nagaland and now seek transfer of such suit to the court of the District Judge, Guwahati, Assam. Such a transfer, if allowed, no doubt would constitute an inter-State transfer.