1018 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 4.3 PW2 in her Fardbeyan [Ex 1] which was recorded right after the victim’s body was recovered does not mention anything about the Appellant in the context of a last seen evidence but improves her testimony in Court to state that the Appellant was last seen with the victim. PW2 was confronted with this improvement in her cross examination, where she merely stated that she had told that Munna Pandey had spoken to her daughter PW3 and that she did not state in her fardbeyan that PW3 saw Munna Pandey locking the door. This Hon’ble Court has held that especially in cases involving heinous crimes, where there is inadequate cross-examination by the defense counsel, the Trial Courts cannot be a mute spectator and they have the power and duty under Section 165 of the Evidence Act, 1872 to discover relevant facts when witnesses are not properly cross-examined. (Rahul v State of NCT of Delhi (2023) 1 SCC 83 para 42-45) 4.4 As per the case of the prosecution, on 31.05.2015 at 09:00 when the Appellant came to the house of PW3 to take the victim, the following persons were in the house - the victim, PW3 and Kushboo Devi (her aunt). However Kushboo Devi, the aunt was not examined as a last seen witness but only PW3 (a minor) was examined by the prosecution to prove its case. 4.5 In cases where the child witness’s testimony regarding last seen evidence is inconsistent and when the material witnesses are not examined by the prosecution, the Court has rightly disbelieved the last seen evidence. (Digamber Vaishnav v State of Chhatisgarh (2019) 4 SCC 522 para 40-43) 5. Conduct of the accused at the relevant time 5.1 Frequent quarrels used to take place between Naval Kishore Ojha @ Fucchan Pandey and Munna Pandey and hence they have been residing separately. Munna Pandey was residing separately in a diff erent house in Mali Tola. Fuchhan Pandey handed over the key to his house to Pritam Tiwari and Pritam Tiwari was residing in the house of Fucchan Pandey for the past 2 to 3 months. Further, Munna Pandey was called from elsewhere by the villagers every time, indicating that he did not reside in the said house. MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1019 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 5.2 As per the spot map and the spot mahazar, the building consists of an outer iron grill door, a verandah, 1 room in the north and 1 in the south. The room in the north belongs to Fuchhan Pandey and the room in the south belongs to Munna Pandey. Pritam was found inside the room of Fucchan Pandey and the victim was found in the room of Munna Pandey. The room of Munna Pandey also had 2 windows without any iron grill but only an outer wooden panel which was open. One window opened to the verandah and the other window opened towards the main road. The TV was in the room of Fucchan Pandey where Pritam was admittedly residing.