It is submitted that as per terms and conditions and also admitted position is that the said supply of 593 transformers had to be made within 6 months C from the date of award of said Contract/Purchase . The Petitioner herein has not produced a single document before the forums below nor before this Hon’ble Court that he was always ready to supply the 593 transformers but the respondents refused to either accept or defer the said supply. Even after 18.09.2019, the petitioner has not produced a single evidence on record to D show that he was ready to supply the said transformer which had to be supplied within 6 months from the date of purchase i.e. on or before 22 August, 2019. After considering the gross violations of terms and conditions of supply of said transformers, virtually after an expiry of more than one year, when it was found E that petitioner is not at all interested in supply the said 593 transformers, the answering respondent had no option but to terminate the said purchase vide dated 21.11.2019 which has never been challenged before any competent forum. 5. That it is further most respectfully submitted that even if it F assumed for the sake of argument, though it is not admitted, that the answering respondents himself have deferred the supply of said 593 transformers, still the adverse inference cannot be drawn against the answering respondents on the ground that it is for the petitioner-firm who has to prove on record that the 593 transformers have always been ready for supply to the answering G respondents. It is further most respectfully submitted that onus is upon the petitioner to prove that petitioner was always ready to supply the said 593 transformers but the answering respondents have refused the same or deferred the same. H ISOLATORS AND ISOLATORS THR. ITS PROP. MRS. SANDHYA MISHRA 465 v. MPMKVVCL [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 6. It is further most respectfully submitted that the letter dated A 18.09.2019 of answering respondents cannot be taken into consideration against the answering respondents in view of the fact that despite various opportunities and communications made to the petitioner by the answering respondents for supply of said 593 Transformers, the petitioner has not even pay any heed on B that and finally has chosen not to supply the said transformers on one pretext or other. The answering respondents most humbly submit that this Hon’ble Court may kindly see the reasons given in detail while cancelling the said Purchase vide dated 21.11.2019 and also while declaring the petitioner blacklisted vide dated 30.07.2020.” C 19.1. The learned counsel has submitted that keeping in view the past conduct of the appellant and violation of the terms and conditions of contract and purchase , they had rightly cancelled the same and imposed penalty on unsupplied quantity by another detailed dated 21.11.2019. It is submitted that even the said dated 21.11.2019 has D never been challenged in any forum and has attained finality. According to the learned counsel, imposition of penalty has been consequential to the aforesaid dated 21.11.2019 and the same had been as per the terms and conditions of the rate/contract/purchase .