The present appeal cannot be kept pending as the conduct of the respondent itself establishes that he is no more interested in employment what to talk of back-wages. G 9. The appeal is accordingly allowed. The impugned passed by the High Court and the award of the Labour Court are set aside. 10. A sum of ` 10,000/- which was directed to be deposited by the appellant before this Court vide dated 21.04.2011 be refunded back to the appellant. H M/S. CREATIVE GARMENTS LTD. v. KASHIRAM VERMA 961 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 11. Before parting with the , this Court would like to direct A the authorities working under the various labour laws to take some corrective steps. 12. It is a case in which permanent address of the workman has not been mentioned. The address furnished is care of Union. All efforts made to serve him at the given address remained futile. Finally, appellant B served the respondent and filed affidavit. The service was at the address of the Union, which may not be interested to pursue the case on behalf of the workman. 13. Effective relief can be granted to a worker only if the permanent address of the workman is furnished in the pleadings. C 14. Under section 15(2) and section 16 of the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, if an application is filed by an individual, there is a specific requirement of furnishing permanent address of the applicant as per Form-A. If an application is to be filed by a group of persons all the applicants are required to furnish their addresses as per Form-B annexed D to Payment of Wages (Procedure) Rules 1937. 15. Under Workman Compensation Act 1923, when an application is filed by a workman for compensation, he is required to furnish his residential address while filing an application in Form–F (see Rule 20). In cases of compensation for fatal accident a workman is required to E furnish his permanent address on Form-A (see Rule 6(1)) appended with Workman Compensation Rules ,1924. 16. Under Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, for initiating the proceedings under the Act, mentioning of addresses of the parties to the disputes is required as contained in Forms-I, J and K appended with F Industrial Dispute (Central) Rules, 1957. 17. Under section 20(2) of Minimum Wages Act, 1948 if an applicant files an application for payment of wages, he is required to mention his residential address as contained in Form-VI framed under the aforesaid Act. G 18. Under Payment of Gratuity Act 1972, when an employee makes an application for payment of Gratuity, he is required to mention full address as per Form-I (see Rule 7(1)) appended with Payment of Gratuity (Central) Rules 1972. H 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 19. If any party approaches any authority for a relief, the first thing required to be mentioned is his complete address. Mentioning of address of the representative is secondary as someone may like to appear in person. Even in Civil Procedure Code, 1908, VI Rule 14A provides that in every pleading, the parties are required to furnish their complete addresses and if there is any change it is also required to be B informed.