3.13 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on A behalf of the respective assessees in the appeals preferred by the Revenue that in all these cases, the High Court has found that there is no perversity by the Tribunal in determining the arm’s length price and therefore no substantial question of law arises as no perversity is pleaded and demonstrated. It is submitted that therefore the impugned s B and s passed by the High Court dismissing the appeals preferred by the Revenue are not required to be interfered with by this Court. 4. We have heard Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the Revenue and learned senior counsel/counsel appearing on behalf of the respective assessees at length. C 5. In the present batch of Civil Appeals preferred by the Revenue, the respective High Courts, more particularly the Karnataka High Court have/has dismissed the appeals preferred by the Revenue in which the Revenue challenged the determination of the arm’s length price by the Tribunal, relying upon and/or considering the decision of the Karnataka D High Court in the case of Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra). In the case of Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra), the High Court has taken the view that the determination of arm’s length price by the Tribunal shall be final against which an appeal under Section 260A of the IT Act is not required to be entertained. E Therefore, the short question which is posed for the consideration of this Court is, whether in every case where the Tribunal determines the arm’s length price, the same shall attain finality and the High Court is precluded from considering the determination of the arm’s length price determined by the Tribunal, in exercise of powers under Section 260A of the Act? F 6. While determining the aforesaid issue, the relevant provisions for determining the arm’s length price under the IT Act are required to be referred to. Section 92-C which is relevant, for the purpose of determining ALP inter alia, reads as follows: G “92C. (1) The arm’s length price in relation to an international transaction [or specified domestic transaction] shall be determined by any of the following methods, being the most appropriate method, having regard to the nature of transaction or class of transaction or class H 440 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of associated persons or functions performed by such persons or such other relevant factors as the Board may prescribe, namely : - (a) comparable uncontrolled price method; (b) resale price method; B (c) cost plus method; (d) profit split method; (e) transactional net margin method; (f) such other method as may be prescribed by the Board. C (2) The most appropriate method referred to in sub-section (1) shall be applied, for determination of arm’s length price, in the manner as may be prescribed: Provided that where more than one price is determined by the D most appropriate method, the arm’s length price shall be taken to be the arithmetical mean of such prices: ** ** ** (3) Where during the course of any proceeding for the assessment of income, the Assessing Officer is, on the basis E of material or information or document in his possession, of the opinion that- (a) the price charged or paid in an international transaction [or specified domestic transaction] has not been determined in accordance with sub-sections (1) and F (2); or (b) any information and document relating to an international transaction [or specified domestic transaction] have not been kept and maintained by the assessee in accordance with the provisions contained in G sub-section (1) of section 92D and the rules made in this behalf; or (c) the information or data used in computation of the arm’s length price is not reliable or correct; or H SAP LABS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED v. INCOME TAX 441 OFFICER, CIRCLE 6, BANGALORE [M. R. SHAH, J.]