2 Hereinafter, “the CPC”. 394 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. material particulars and is in violation of mandatory requirements of law was rejected by the High Court. The returned candidate is the Appellant before us. Facts: 2. The short and precise facts necessary for our consideration are as follows. The Appellant is the returned candidate to the XII Manipur Legislative Assembly, having been elected from the 15-Wangkhei Assembly Constituency. The Respondent No.1, the unsuccessful candidate moved Election Petition No. 24 of 20223 alleging violations under Sections 80, 80A, 81, 84 read with Sections 100(1)(d)(iv) and 101 of the Representation of People Act, 19514. The election petitioner prayed that the election of the Appellant be held void and also to declare him to be the elected candidate. It is important to note that the election petition alleges corrupt practice, in as much as the petitioner pleaded that the returned candidate has not provided the material particulars with respect to a fi nancial transaction relating to fi nancing a loan. 3. In response to the election petition, the Appellant moved two applications under 7 Rule 11 read with Section 151 of the CPC and under Section 86 of the Act seeking dismissal of the election petition on the grounds of – (i) non-disclosure of cause of action/triable issue vis-à -vis the alleged corrupt practice committed by the Appellant; (ii) the absence of a concise statement of facts as mandated under Section 83 of the Act; and (iii) for not serving a true self attested copy of the election petition on the returned candidate as provided under Section 81 of the Act. Apart from the above, and more importantly, the Appellant also sought dismissal of the election petition on the ground that the Form-25 affi davit as prescribed under Section 83 of the Act r/w Rule 94A of the Conduct of Election Rules, 19615 has not been fi led along-with the election petition. It was alleged that such an affi davit is mandatory, as the election petition raises allegations of corrupt practice. 4. The High Court, by the impugned, dismissed the applications under 7 Rule 11 of the CPC. The High Court observed that – (i) the election petitioner had elaborately pleaded all the material facts and set forth 3 Hereinafter, “the Election Petition”. 4 Hereinafter, “the Act”. 5 Hereinafter, the “Rules”. THANGJAM ARUNKUMAR v. YUMKHAM ERABOT SINGH 395 & ORS. [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] full particulars of all the actions and omissions of the Appellant, suffi cient to constitute a case of corrupt practice. The High Court, therefore, concluded that there is a cause of action and triable issues; (ii) the High Court also concluded that the alleged non-compliance of Section 81(3) of the Act is incorrect as the election petitioner had eff ectively attested the election petition. For this purpose, High Court relied on the decisions of this Court in Ch. Subbarao v. Member, Election Tribunal, Hyderabad & Ors.6, and also a decision of the same Court in Pukhrem Sharatchandra Singh v. Mairembam Prithviraj @ Prithibiraj Singh7, later came to be upheld by this Court in Mairembam Prithviraj @ Prithviraj Singh v. Pukhrem Sharatchandra Singh8.