13. The respondent authorities have sought to sustain the demand by virtue of Section 132(6)(1) of the Municipal Corporation Act and said provisions reads: “132. Taxes to be imposed under this Act.- (1) For the purpose of this Act, the Corporation shall, subject to any general or special which the State Government may make in this behalf, impose in the whole or in any part of the Municipal Area, the following taxes namely: - (a) a tax payable by the owners of buildings or lands situated within the city with reference to the gross annual letting value of the buildings or lands, called the property tax, subject to the provisions of Sections 135,136 and 138. (b) a water tax, in respect of lands and building to which a water supply is furnished from or which are connected by means of pipe with municipal water works. (c) a general sanitary cess, for the construction and maintenance of public latrines and for removal and disposal of refuse and general cleanliness of the city. (d) a general lighting tax, where the lighting of public streets and places is undertaken by the corporation. (e) a general fi re tax, for the conduct and management of the fi re service and for the protection of life and property in the case of fi re. 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (f) a local body tax on the entry of such goods as may be declared by the State Government by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette into the municipal area for consumption, use or sale therein at a rate not exceeding four percent of the value of goods. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (f) of sub-section (1) if in the opinion of the State Government it is expedient to do so, it may delegate the power to the Corporation to declare the goods on which local body tax shall be levied and the rates thereof. (3) The mode of assessment and collection of the local body tax shall be such as may be prescribed. (4) The water tax under the clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall be charged- (a) on buildings and lands which are exempted from property tax, at a rate as shall be determined by the Corporation. (omitted) (b) on buildings and lands which are not exempted from property tax, at a rate as determined in clause (a) plus such percentage of the property tax, as shall be determined by the Corporation. Provided that the water tax under clause (b) of sub-section (1) shall not be levied on building and land owned by freedom fi ghters during their life time, if they are exempted from Income Tax and the water connection is for domestic purpose and which does not exceed half inch connection. (5) The taxes under clause (c), (d), and (e) of sub-section (1) shall be levied at a consolidated rate as under:- (a) on buildings and lands which are exempted from property tax at a rate as determined by the corporation (omitted) (b) on buildings and lands which are not exempted from property tax at a rate prescribed under clause (a) plus such percentage of the property tax, as may be determined by the Corporation, subject to the conditions that such percentage shall not exceed ten percent of the amount of property tax.