The only other question being that the payment of 2% royalty on the price of sugar manufactured by the appellant therein was relatable to the monopoly rights and therefore was capital expenditure was considered. It was found that the payment of the 2% royalty on the price of sugar manufactured by the appellant therein had no relationship with the payment referable to the monopoly conferred under the grant. It was observed that on the facts and circumstances of the said case, the expenditure incurred, that is, payment of 2% royalty payment on the sugar manufactured was a revenue expenditure while the payment made in respect of the monopoly rights obtained was of a capital nature. 434 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. The applicability of the s discussed hereinabove to the case at hand, shall be examined at a later juncture. 15. A tabular representation outlining the classifi cation of diff erent transactions by this Court in various cases, is as under: S l . Citation Transaction In Classification Reasons for No. Question o f t h e classifi cation: Transaction in Question by this Court: 1. Assam Bengal Payment made C a p i t a l It was held that the Cement Co. Ltd. vs. by the assessee expenditure expenditure was not Commissioner of for acquiring a part of working or Income Tax, West a lease of mine operational expenses, Bengal, (1955) 27 stone quarries for but was for acquiring ITR 34 (SC). the manufacture a capital asset. The of cement, for a expenditure was West Bengal, period of twenty held to be a capital (1955) 217 ITR 34 years, on payment expenditure although (SC). of yearly rent as it was payable per well as a protection annum, as it protected fee to ward off and gave the right to competition. the assessee to carry on business unfettered by outsiders. 2. Member of L u m p - s u m C a p i t a l It was held that such the Board of payment (non- expenditure payment was not in Agricultural recurring) made the nature of rent, Income Tax, Assam by the prospective but in the nature of vs. Sindhurani tenant to the capital expenditure Chaudurani, landlord as as the same was (1957) 32 ITR 169 consideration incurred prior to the (SC). for settlement of coming into eff ect of agricultural land. the landlord-tenant relationship. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 435 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 3. Pingle Industries L u m p - s u m C a p i t a l That the assessee L t d . v s . amount, payable expenditure had acquired through Commissioner in instalments the long term lease, of Income Tax, for acquiring the right to extract (1960) 40 ITR 67 e x c l u s i v e stones and that the (SC). monopoly rights lease conveyed to the to extract flag assessee a part of the stones from land. The lease was certain quarries.