A far more just, reasonable and proper course would be to expand the options and to take over what, as a matter of fact, lawfully belongs to the Court i.e. the vast hiatus between 14 years’ imprisonment and death. It needs to be emphasised that the G Court would take recourse to the expanded option primarily because in the facts of the case, the sentence of 14 year’s imprisonment would amount to no punishment at all. (emphasis supplied) 31 2008 (13) SCC 767 H 1066 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 92. Accordingly, it is open to this Court to prescribe the length of imprisonment, especially in cases where the capital punishment is replaced by life imprisonment. Considering the facts of the instant case, we are of the considered view that the petitioner must undergo life imprisonment for not less than twenty years without remission of sentence. B F. Conclusion 93. For the reasons discussed above, we see no reason to doubt the guilt of the petitioner in kidnapping and murdering the victim. The exercise of the jurisdiction in review to interfere with the conviction is not warranted. However, we do take note of the arguments regarding C the sentencing hearing not having been conducted separately in the Trial Court and mitigating circumstances having not been considered in the appellate courts before awarding the capital punishment to the petitioner. While weighing this argument, the gruesome nature of the crime of murder of a young child of merely 7 years of age has also weighed upon D us and we do not find that a sentence of life imprisonment, which normally works out to a term of 14 years, would be proportionate in the circumstances. 94. Accordingly, we commute the death sentence imposed upon the petitioner to life imprisonment for not less than twenty years without E reprieve or remission. 95. Separately, a notice is required to be issued to the Inspector of Police, Kammapuram Police Station, Cuddalore District, State of Tamil Nadu to offer an explanation as to why action should not be taken for the filing of the affidavit dated 26 September 2021. In this case, prima F facie, material information regarding the conduct of the petitioner in the prison was concealed from this Court. Accordingly, the Registry is directed to register the matter as a suo motu proceeding for contempt of court. 96. We dispose of the review petitions in the above terms. G Nidhi Jain Review petitions disposed of. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) H