(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1) or sub- section (1A) if the Board is satisfi ed that it is necessary or expedient so to do, it may, by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette, fi x tariff values for any class of imported goods or export goods, having regard to the trend of value of such or like goods, and where any such tariff values are fi xed, the duty shall be chargeable with reference to such tariff value. (3) For the purposes of this section- (a) “rate of exchange” means the rate of exchange- (i) determined by the Board, or (ii) ascertained in such manner as the Board may direct, for the conversion of Indian currency into foreign currency or foreign currency into Indian currency; (b) “foreign currency” and “Indian currency” have the meanings respectively assigned to them in clause (m) and clause (q) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999 (42 of 1999).” 32. Section 156 of the Customs Act confers general power upon the Central Government to make rules consistent with the Customs Act to carry out its purposes. 33. In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 156 of the Customs Act read with Section 22 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 and in supersession of the Customs Valuation Rules, 1963 except in respect of things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government has 200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. made the Customs Valuation (Determination of Price of Imported Goods) Rules, 1988 (already referred to as the ‘Customs Valuation Rules’). 33.1. Rule 2(1)(c) defi nes “identical goods”. It means imported goods- (i) which are same in all respects including physical characteristics, quality and reputation as the goods being valued except for minor diff erences in appearance that do not aff ect the value of the goods; (ii) produced in the country in which the goods being valued were produced; and (iii) produced by the same person who produced the goods or where no such goods are available, goods produced by a diff erent person. However, such goods shall not include imported goods where engineering, development work, art work, design work, plan or sketch undertaken in India were completed directly or indirectly by the buyer on these imported goods free of charge or at a reduced cost for use in connection with the production and sale for export of these imported goods. 33.2. Likewise, Section 2(1)(e) defi nes “similar goods” to mean imported goods- (i) which although not alike in all aspects, have like characteristics and like component materials which enable them to perform the same functions and to be commercially interchangeable with the goods being valued having regard to the quality, reputation and the existence of trademark; (ii) produced in the country in which the goods being valued were produced; and (iii) produced by the same person who produce the goods being valued, or where no such goods are available, goods produced by a diff erent person; But it shall not include imported goods where engineering, development work, art work, design work, plan or sketch undertaken in India were completed directly or indirectly by the buyer of COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 201 OVERSEAS THR.