Thereafter, the matter should have been referred to the learned Chief Justice of the High Court for placing it before an appropriate Bench, which would proceed in accordance with law, of course, after G affording adequate opportunity to the person(s) proceeded against. 15. With regard to the High Court’s justified concern to prevent miscarriage of justice, separate/fresh proceedings could have been instituted as indicated above. We hasten to add that our observations are not to be construed to imply that the High Courts should delve into the H SANJAY DUBEY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND 945 ANOTHER [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] efficacy of investigation at the stage of bail, and the present is A not to be misread to haul up the investigative agencies/officers in all cases. 16. This Court could have interfered with the ‘direction’ for departmental proceedings against the appellant, as learned counsel for the appellant advanced, had been so done in Sangitaben Shaileshbhai B Datanta (supra) and M Murugesan (supra). However, it would be proper to take note that in the aforesaid two cases, the factual positions were quite different. In Sangitaben Shaileshbhai Datanta (supra), the Court took note of the fact that in the case involving rape of a minor, the High Court ing the accused and the appellant therein, who was C the grandmother of the victim along with parents of the victim to undergo scientific tests viz. lie detection, brain-mapping and narco-analysis was not only in contravention of the first principles of criminal law jurisprudence but also a violation of statutory requirements and thus, the bail granted to the accused was cancelled. The facts of the instant case are quite different, and ergo, Sangitaben Shaileshbhai Datanta (supra) does D not aid the appellant. 17. In M Murugesan (supra), it was noted that the jurisdiction of High Court is limited to grant or refuse to grant bail pending trial and such jurisdiction ends when the bail application is finally decided. In this background, the High Court, after taking a decision on the bail application, E having retained the file and directing the State to constitute a Committee and seek its recommendation on reformation, rehabilitation and re- integration of convicts/accused persons and best practices for improving the quality of investigation and also to obtain District-wise data from State and upon submission of final data, after reviewing the same, making F such data a part of the after decision on bail application, was held to be beyond jurisdiction. In the present case, on the date of passing of the Impugned , the bail application was still at large, and had not yet been decided one way or the other. 18. There is no quibble with the propositions lucidly enunciated in Sangitaben Shaileshbhai Datanta (supra) and M Murugesan (supra). G Yet, as our discussions in the preceding paragraphs display, the same are inapplicable to the extant factual matrix. It is too well-settled that s are not to be read as Euclid’s theorems; they are not to be construed as statutes, and; specific cases are authorities only for what they actually decide.