But the Government, before taking the decision to retire a government employee compulsorily from service, has to consider the entire record of the government servant including the latest reports.” D 22. In State of Gujarat and Another vs. Suryakant Chunilal Shah17, a case where the State Government had challenged the of the Division Bench of the High Court of Gujarat that had held that the of compulsory retirement passed against the respondent therein was bad, as there were no adverse entries in his Confidential Report and his integrity was not doubtful at any stage, this Court held thus : - E “28. There being no material before the Review Committee, inasmuch as there were no adverse remarks in the character roll entries, the integrity was not doubted at any time, the character roll subsequent to the respondent’s promotion to the post of Assistant Food Controller (Class II) were not available, it could F not come to the conclusion that the respondent was a man of doubtful integrity nor could have anyone else come to the conclusion that the respondent was a fit person to be retired compulsorily from service. The , in the circumstances of the case, was punitive having been passed for the collateral purpose of his G immediate removal, rather than in public interest.” 16 (1996) 5 SCC 331 H 17 (1999) 1 SCC 529 CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 47 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] 23. In State of Gujarat vs. Umedbhai M. Patel18, this Court A has delineated the following broad principles that ought to be followed in matters relating to compulsory retirement : - “11. The law relating to compulsory retirement has now crystallized into a definite principle, which could be broadly summarized thus: B (i) Whenever the services of a public servant are no longer useful to the general administration, the officer can be compulsorily retired for the sake of public interest. (ii) Ordinarily, the of compulsory retirement is not to be treated as a punishment coming under Article 311 of the Constitu- C tion. (iii) For better administration, it is necessary to chop off dead wood, but the of compulsory retirement can be passed after having the regard to the entire service record of the officer. (iv) Any adverse entries made in the confidential record shall be D taken note of and be given due weightage in passing such . (v) Even uncommunicated entries in the confidential record can also be taken into consideration. (vi) The of compulsory retirement shall not be passed as a short cut to avoid departmental enquiry when such course is more E desirable. (vii) If the officer was given a promotion despite adverse entries made in the confidential record, that is a fact in favour of the officer. F (viii) Compulsory retirement shall not be imposed as a punitive mea- sure. 24. In Nand Kumar Verma v. State of Jharkhand and Others19 this Court has once again highlighted the permissibility of ascertaining the existence of valid material by a Court for the authorities to pass an G of compulsory retirement and observed thus: - “34.