A the fact that possession cannot be handed over to her. On this and with reference to the observations in the case of Malay Kumar Ganguly’s case, for awarding compensation with such sum of money as to put the wronged person in the position as he would have been if he had not sustained the wrong, the State Commission straightaway jumped to the conclusion of awarding compound B interest @ 14%. Apart from other shortcomings, the State Commission, even while awarding compound interest @ 14%, did not even take into account the fact of attempted refund of money by the appellants by the cheque dated 08.11.2005 and did not specify the period of such operation of compounding of C interest. The open-ended and the assumptive by the State Commission had been bereft of logic and had been wanting in the requisite reasoning as also specification of the relief sought to be granted. The position in the National Commission had been no better and in fact, the Commissions proceeded as if nothing else was required to be considered because of Dr. Manjeet Kaur D Monga’s case. [Para 26][1149-D-G] 1.8 The impugned s are required to be set aside. However, as indicated, the pertinent factors are that Dr. Monga’s case related to the very same project and very same builder with similar grievance of the complainant. In the said case, award of E compound interest until the date of attempted refund by the builders has attained finality. In this view of the matter, even while disapproving the proposition of providing compound interest as such, it is deemed appropriate to take into consideration, only for the purpose of the instant case, the other requirements of F balancing the equities. [Para 27][1150-A-C] 1.9 When the amount payable by the appellants with reference to the principles and propositions aforesaid is calculated, it does not exceed the amount of Rs. 2,48,52,000/- together with accrued interest, which has already been received G by the respondent pursuant to the passed by this Court on 09.05.2022. Keeping in view the peculiar circumstances of this case, as an extraordinary measure, the respondent is allowed to retain the amount so received. This relaxation for the respondent is in no manner to be read as approval of the s impugned or approval of the proposition of awarding compound interest in H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1097 MERCHANT these matters. Such a proposition of awarding compound interest A in these matters by the Fora exercising jurisdiction under the Act of 1986 is disapproved. [Para 27.2, 27.3][1150-G-H; 1151-B- C] 1.10 The impugned s passed by the State Commission and National Commission are disapproved. Having regard to the B peculiar circumstances of this case, the amount already received by the respondent in the sum of Rs. 2,48,52,000/- together with accrued interest is allowed to be retained by her but, it is made clear that the appellants shall not be required to make any further payment to the respondent, whether towards refund or towards compensation or towards interest.