This is, in fact, further recognised by Section 61(i) by which the appropriate Commission, in specifying terms and conditions for determination of tariffs, G shall be guided by the National Electricity Policy and Tariff Policy. The Central Government’s role can further be seen even in Section 63, where guidelines that are binding on all are issued by the Central Government in cases where there is a transparent process of bidding. 11 Passed in Case Nos. 189 of 2013 and 140 of 2014 H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 149 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 16. Further, according to the learned Attorney General, Section A 79(4) also points in the same direction, stating that, in discharge of its functions, the Central Commission shall be guided by the National Electricity Policy, National Electricity Plan, and tariff policy published under Section 3. He also referred us to the Cabinet Committee for Economic Affairs recognising the overall B shortfall in manufacture of domestic coal and the new coal distribution policy issued in July 2013 pursuant to the Cabinet Committee which, according to him, are in the nature of binding directions making it clear that as generators of electricity, who depend upon indigenous coal, have been given less coal than was anticipated, should be allowed either to C import the coal themselves, or purchase imported coal from Coal India Ltd., with the difference in price being passed through to them. He further referred to and relied upon the revised tariff policy of 28-1-2016 for the same purpose.” [emphasis supplied] D 146. The submissions made by the learned Attorney General have to be construed in reference to the purpose for which the Electricity Act came to be enacted. Prior to the Electricity Act coming into effect, matters with regard to generation, transmission, distribution and supply of electricity were governed by three enactments, viz., the Indian Electricity E Act, 1910, the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 and the Electricity Regulatory Commission Act, 1998. The Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 mandated the creation of a State Electricity Board. However, it was found that over a period of time, the performance of the said Electricity Boards had deteriorated on account of various factors. As such, it was found F necessary to enact a new legislation to meet various challenges. The statement of objects and reasons would reveal that one of the main features for enactment of the Electricity Act was delicensing of generation and freely permitting captive generation. As such, the learned Attorney General, in the case of Energy Watchdog (supra), stated that the electricity sector, having been privatized, had largely fulfilled the G object sought to be achieved by the Electricity Act. After the enactment of the Electricity Act, delicensed electricity generation resulted in production of far greater electricity than was earlier produced. The learned Attorney General had further urged the Court not to disturb the delicate balance sought to be achieved by the Electricity Act, i.e. that H 150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.