not given much weightage so far as the letter/communication A is concerned. Therefore, it cannot be said that the appellant – accused No. 1 has been convicted on the confessional statement made in the letter/communication. 6.2 However, at the same time, it can be seen that the communication/letter received by Police on 30.12.2007 was B the cause for reopening of the case, as earlier the case was closed on 04.02.2007 as untraceable. That thereafter, the actual investigation began by PW-30. That thereafter, during investigation A-1 disclosed the place where he had buried the dead body of the deceased. The dead body was C exhumed from the place identified by A-1. Thus, it was a case of recovery of the dead body at the instance of the accused from the place which was disclosed by the accused who can be said to be in exclusive knowledge of the place where the dead body was buried. That thereafter, the super imposition test was conducted and the DNA examination D was conducted on the bones and the skull and it was proved that the dead body was that of the deceased. This is the first strong circumstance against the appellant – A-1 which has led to his conviction. 6.3 That thereafter, even the car which was driven by the E deceased at the relevant time was recovered from PW-16 which was at the instance of the accused himself. That there is a recovery of car driven by the deceased from the place and the person disclosed by the accused No. 1 – appellant. The prosecution has successfully proved the same F by examining PW-16, a person to whom the stolen car was sold by the appellant – accused No. 1. This is the second strong circumstance against the appellant – accused No. 1. 6.4 That thereafter, the prosecution has been successful in proving that the engine and gear box which were sold by G the appellant – accused No. 1 was recovered from PW-17. The engine and gear box of the stolen car were found from the custody of PW-17 on the disclosure statement made by A-1. Though, PW-17 has turned hostile, however, at the same time, the recovery of engine and gear box from PW- H 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 17 which were recovered on the disclosure statement made by A-1 has been established and proved by the prosecution by examining Police witness – PW-30, we see no reason to disbelieve PW-30 on the aforesaid. This is another circumstance against the appellant – accused No. 1. Thus on the basis of the aforesaid strong circumstances when B the learned Trial Court as well as the High Court has convicted the accused – appellant for the offences under Sections 302 and 201 of IPC, we see no reason to interfere with the same in exercise of powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. C 6.5 Now so far as the submissions made on behalf of the appellant that the prosecution has failed to prove that the death of deceased was the homicidal as in the post- mortem report the cause of death was unascertainable is concerned, it is required to be noted that as the dead body was buried D and was found after numbers of months, it may not be possible for the prosecution to prove that the death was a homicidal death.