The applications received after 24.04.2017 will not be entertained.” STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS v. DINESH SINGH 1055 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 20. It appears that there was no action taken in the direction of fi lling up vacancies pursuant to communication dated 17.04.2017. Nearly two years later, on 30th May, 2019, a fresh communication was issued from the Chief Secretary’s Offi ce requesting the Commissioner to forward ‘a list of eligible District Revenue Offi cers/ Tehsildars not more than fi ve times the number of vacancies as per rules for the aforesaid recruitment’. The relevant part of this communication is extracted below: “2. The DROs/Tehsildars whose names are to be recommended should fulfi ll the following conditions of eligibility as on 01.11.2018:- (a) (i) has completed eight years continuous Government service. However, the services rendered as Naib Tehsildars shall not be included while determining the eligibility as per interim s/ directions dated 26.04.2017 of Hon’ble High Court of Punjab and Haryana, Chandigarh passed in CWP No. 8502 of 2017-Joginder Sharma and others versus State of Haryana and others. (ii) has not attained the age of fi fty years; (iii) is not facing disciplinary proceedings and against whom action is not being contemplated; and (iv) is clear from vigilance angle; (b) is a graduate from a recognized University.” 21. What needs to be noted at the very outset is that the Respondent has not challenged the validity of Rule 9 (1)(a)(iii), which requires, as a matter of eligibility for selection, that no disciplinary proceeding be pending, or action be contemplated against him. This is signifi cant because, normally, in the context of promotion-related disputes, this Court has consistently held9 that mere pendency or contemplated initiation of disciplinary proceedings against a candidate must be considered to have absolutely no impact upon his right to be considered. Resort is often taken to the ‘sealed cover’ procedure in cases where a candidate/employee seeking promotion to a higher grade is facing disciplinary proceedings. As per this procedure, the candidate is allowed to participate in the merit-based selection process, and the results 9 State of M.P. v. Bani Singh, 1990 Supp SCC 738. 105 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of such candidate’s selection is kept in a sealed cover and opened in the event where the disciplinary proceedings are dropped/ or a fi nding of not guilty is passed. 22. Since the rule disentitling a candidate for selection if disciplinary proceeding is pending or contemplated is not under challenge in these proceedings, we must apply it as it is. Determination of the cut-off date qua the eligibility condition of pending disciplinary proceedings 23. In to fi nd an answer as to whether there was any disciplinary proceeding contemplated/pending against Dinesh Singh, we are necessarily required to determine the applicable cut-off date against which the eligibility is to be tested. In that sense, the fi nding on the latter question has a direct bearing on the outcome of the former question. Perhaps, this also explains why the Ld.