In the given fact situation, the Court granted interim injunction in favour of the General Secretary against convening C of the parallel meeting. In the present matter, no parallel meeting of General Council has been called for or requisitioned by any of the Members. The Division Bench of the High Court has rightly observed that as a general rule, it cannot be laid down that the requisitionists have no option but only to go to the Court if the meeting is not convened. It has also been pointed out that in the D past, when the interim General Secretary could not act in the year 2017, the Office Bearers stepped in and convened the meeting based on a requisition received. The present situation too, where the position as occupied earlier by the General Secretary was assigned to the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co- E ordinator in their jointness and it remains beyond a shadow of doubt that Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator do not stand in jointness and cannot act jointly, is akin to the situation when the apex position holder was not in a position to act. Obviously, a workable solution was to be found; and when the solution as found and applied, does not otherwise appear offending the spirit of F byelaws as also the norms of functioning of an association or a party, it cannot be said that declaration of the Presidium Chairman for the meeting of the General Council on 11.07.2022 and the follow-up notice by the Office Bearers at Party Headquarters had been wholly unauthorised. [Para 31][1194-F-H; 1195-A-D] G 6. It is also noteworthy that the ultimate injunction issued by the Single Judge had been that of restoring status quo ante as on 23.06.2022 and further to that, the learned Single Judge directed that the Co-ordinator and Joint Co-ordinator would have to function jointly; meetings have to be called with their joint H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1123 consent; and on being properly requisitioned, they would not A refuse to convene the General Council meeting and that they could approach the Court for necessary directions for conducting the General Council meeting. Apart from the fact that the injunction as issued by the learned Single Judge had been far away and beyond the scope of applications before him, the said injunction B could have only perpetuated the functional deadlock in the party. The passed by the learned Single Judge could not have been countenanced from any angle and thus, the Division Bench, has rightly interfered with the same. [Para 33][1196-B-D] Skyline Education Institute (India) Private Limited v. C S.L. Vaswani and Anr. (2010) 2 SCC 142; Nilkantha Sidramappa Ningashetti v. Kashinath Somanna Ningashetti and Ors. AIR 1962 SC 666 : [1962] SCR 551; Union of India and Ors. v. M/s. Raj Grow Impex LLP and Ors. 2021 SCC OnLine SC 429 – relied on. D S. Thirunavukkarasu and Anr. v. Selvi J. Jayalalitha and Anr. 1997 (III) CTC 229; Wander Ltd. and Anr.