Had the intention been to confer plenary power to amend, then section 19 would have been couched in a manner such that it provided for ‘subject to amendment’, which would have then suggested THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 169 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] that the existing inconsistent law ‘as is’ or ‘as amended’, could continue to be in force until the lapse of one year or its repeal, whichever was earlier. However, such is not the case for the nonce. 41. Further, by applying purposive construction, Section 19 of the CAA admits to the exercise of ‘curative legislative action’. This is so because with the advent of GST, as per Article 279-A(6) of the Constitution, the need for a harmonized structure of goods and services tax and for the development of a harmonized national market for goods and services was specifi cally provided within the Constitution. This harmony has been interpreted by the Supreme Court in Union of India v. VKC Footsteps India (P)Ltd25, to mean legislative harmony between the State and the Centre with a view to achieve co-operative federalism. Therefore, this avowed purpose of harmony between the Centre and the State or inter se between the States cannot be achieved if using the power of amendment under Section 19 of the Amendment, a given State enlarges the operation and sweep of an existing tax law even after the introduction of 42. It is argued that to interpret Section 19 as conferring legislative power which is non- curative and breathing more life into it than what existed earlier, would be in the teeth of constitutional morality and contrary to the principle of the ‘Pure Theory of Law’ propounded by Kelsen. This is so because plenary legislation stands at a pedestal lower than the Constitution of India and can never clash with the Grundnorm. Accordingly, whatever legislative power may be couched in Section 19 of the Amendment, will have to be subservient to Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution. If under the latter two Articles, there is no power available with the State to legislate on a subject which has been deleted or truncated from List II of the Seventh Schedule, then Section 19 of the Amendment cannot be pressed into services to override such a Constitutional restriction. Counsel urges that the entire Amendment was enacted by following the procedure under Article368 of the Constitution. While the said Article confers constituent power to the Parliament to amend the Constitution, stricto senso the enactment of Section 19 of the Amendment not being made a part of the Constitution may be viewed as not having been enacted in exercise of powers under Article 368 25 2021 (15) SCR 169 170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. of the Constitution. However, considering that along with the remaining provisions of the Amendment, Section 19 of the Amendment also went through the entire drill prescribed under the Amendment, a possible view emerges that Section 19 of the Amendment is perhaps an adjunct to exercise the powers under Article 368 of the Constitution which have been enacted using the ‘incidental and ancillary’ powers available to the Legislature.