These A directions also aim to enable faster dissemination of information by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to banks on the details of frauds, unscrupulous borrowers and related parties, based on the banks’ reporting so that necessary safeguards / preventive measures by way of appropriate procedures and internal checks B may be introduced and caution exercised while dealing with such parties by banks.” 15. The above directions were issued to achieve specific purposes: (i) early and timely detection and reporting of fraud; (ii) early and timely reporting of fraud to investigative agencies; (iii) quicker dissemination of C information pertaining to details of fraud and fraudulent borrowers to banks; and (iv) to facilitate the adoption of preventive measures by banks. These purposesare reflected in Clause 2.1.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds: “Clause 2.1.1 The Chairmen and Managing Directors/Chief D Executive Officers (CMD/CEOs) of banks must provide focus on the “Fraud Prevention and Management Function” to enable, among others, effective investigation of fraud cases and prompt as well as accurate reporting to appropriate regulatory and law enforcement authorities including Reserve Bank of India.” E (emphasis supplied) 16. Clause 2.2.1 classifies frauds based on the provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 1860: “Clause 2.2.1 In to have uniformity in reporting, frauds have F been classified as under, based mainly on the provisions of the Indian Penal Code: a. Misappropriation and criminal breach of trust b. Fraudulent encashment through forged instruments, manipulation of books of account or through fictitious G accounts and conversion of property. c. Unauthorised credit facilities extended for reward or for illegal gratification d. Cash shortages. H 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A e. Cheating and forgery f. Fraudulent transactions involving foreign exchange g. Any other type of fraud not coming under the specific heads as above.” B 17. Clause 3 advises banks to make full use of the Central Fraud Registry15 (a database created by RBI to enable banks to share information on fraudulent accounts) for timely identification, control, reporting, and mitigation of risks associated with fraud. Clause 3.3 of the said directions emphasizes theneed to provide timely information on frauds and penalizes banks for non-adherence to timelines: C “3.3.1 Banks should ensure that the reporting system is suitably streamlines so that delays in reporting of frauds, submission of delayed and incomplete fraud reports are avoided. Banks must fix staff accountability in respect of delays in reporting fraud cases to RBI. D 3.3.2. Delay in reporting of frauds and the consequent delay in alerting other banks about the modus operandi and dissemination of information through Caution Advice/ CFR against unscrupulous borrowers could result in similar frauds being perpetrated elsewhere. Banks should therefore, E strictly adhere to the timeframe fixed in this circular for reporting of fraud cases to RBI failing which they would be liable for penal action prescribed under Section 47(A) of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949.” (emphasis supplied) F 18. The Master Directions on Frauds provides a regulatory framework for four types of frauds: (i) Chapter IV deals with attempted fraud; (ii) Chapter VII deals with cheque related frauds; (iii) Chapter VIII deals with loan frauds; and (iv) Chapter X deals with cases relating to theft, burglary, dacoity, and bank robberies.