for the Appellant. 774 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Mrs. Manisha Aggarwal Narain, AAG, Samar Vijay Singh, Keshav Mittal, Ms. Sabarni Som, Sandeep Singh Somaria, Shivangi G., Advs. for the Respondent. / OF THE SUPREME COURT ARAVIND KUMAR, J. 1. dated 09-01-2020 rendered in Criminal Appeal Nos.1063 of 2017, 997 & 1043 of 2017 by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, Judicature at Chandigarh is under challenge in these appeals, whereunder the accused Nos.4, 5 and 6 (appellants herein) who were convicted for the off ences punishable under Section 302 read with Section 149 of the Indian Penal Code (for short ‘IPC’) by the Sessions Court came to be affi rmed. GIST OF PROSECUTION CASE: 2. On 22-04-2016, ASI Ram Kishan while on patrolling duty at 75 feet road, had received a telephonic information that in the village Maheshwari certain persons had fi red a gun-shot at a boy and upon reaching there, statement of Mohit @ Kala came to be recorded which was to the eff ect that at about 6.40 pm his cousins Ajay and Suraj were talking in front of the house of Ex. Sarpanch Karan Singh and they were near the house of Dharmender and he (Mohit) saw Ajay and Suraj running towards the house of Dharmender as they were being chased by three youngsters on a bullet motorcycle. It was also stated by Mohit @ Kala that bullet motorcycle was being driven by Ravi, Shoaib Khan was the pillion rider and one unknown person was sitting behind them. It was further stated that two more motorcycles having two riders each, with batons in their hands were following the Bullet motorcycle. It was also alleged that unknown person sitting on the Bullet motorcycle got down and fi red at Ajay with country- made revolver, which hit his head and Ajay fell in front of the house of Dharmender. Suraj hid in Dharmender’s house and on raising the alarm the assailants sped away on their motorcycles towards Bhiwadi; it is also stated by Mohit @ Kala that injured Ajay was shifted to the hospital; it is further stated that Ravi was studying in his school and was his junior and he used to bully and threaten all. Mohit also stated that Ajay and Suraj had a fi ght NARESH @ NEHRU v. STATE OF HARYANA 775 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] with Ravi on the day of ‘Dulhandi’ and he had threatened to kill them and Ravi along with his companions had fi red at Ajay with intend to kill him. Based on the said statement FIR under Sections 148, 149, 307 of IPC and Section 25 of the Arms Act came to be registered and on the death of Ajay (on 23-04-2016) Section 302 of IPC was substituted in place of Section 307 IPC and accused persons were apprehended; on the disclosure statement of fi rst accused (Pawan) country made pistol was recovered and as per the statement of accused No.2 (Dharmender) wooden stick was recovered apart from four motorcycles.