(v) Conducting a written examination may lengthen the entire process of appointment, which already takes 4-6 months on account of the requirement of advertisement, public E notice, receipt of applications and verification of documents, IB inputs, tax and medical reports, and then a personal interaction with the Selection Committee. This may end up increasing the number of vacancies in the tribunals, which is not desirable. (vi) Prescribing a uniform requirement of a written examination F across states would fail to take into account the local requirements of each state - for instance, the number of applications received in the smaller states such as Assam or Goa or Sikkim are very low, and sometimes even lesser than the number of posts advertised. A written examination G may lead to greater difficulties in filling up the vacant posts. (vii) Prescribing a uniform requirement of a written examination across tribunals is also not considered desirable, as each tribunal has its own eligibility criteria and different categories of persons would fall in their zone of consideration. For H 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A instance, several posts can only be manned by retired judges, and it would not be appropriate to subject judges of the Supreme Court or the High Courts to a written examination. Equally, very few people are actually eligible to be appointed as technical members to specialised tribunals such as TDSAT or APTEL, and eminent persons in the field of B telecom or electricity may not wish to write examinations to leave lucrative careers in their areas of expertise. This would lead to the tribunals losing out on desirable persons, who may otherwise wish to join these tribunals in the spirit of public service. C 3.1 Shri R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General for India has further submitted that based on the further discussions in the meeting held on 13.01.2023 between Union of India and all the States/UTs to consider the uniform measures to guide the Selection Committees in the exercise of their selection processes, it has been proposed that the D following proviso, to provide for the issuance of necessary instructions to guide the discretion available to the Selection Committee, could be considered to be inserted below Rule 6(9) of the Rules, 2020: - “Provided that the Selection Committee shall be guided by the instructions, as may be issued, by , by the Central Government E from time to time, while making assessment of a candidate in regard to his suitability for appointment as President or member in the State Commission or the District Commission.” 3.2 It is further submitted that in so far as the development of uniform measures to be applicable to appointments in the State Commissions and the District Commissions (President and Members) F across the country is concerned, the following measures, keeping in view the level of the posts, the statutory functions to be discharged by the holders of these posts, the very objective enshrined in the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, are considered to be formulated:- a.