It was submitted by the decree holder before the High Court that the dated 12.02.2013 had attained fi nality and res judicata would apply against the debtors. In support of the submission the decree holder relied upon a decision of this court given in Barkat Ali &Anr. vs. Badrinarain (D) by Lrs. 2008 (4) SCC 615, where this court reiterated the settled position of law that the principles of res judicata are not only applicable in respect of separate proceedings but the general principles of res judicata are also applicable at the subsequent stage of the same proceedings and therefore the same court will be precluded to go into that question which has already been decided, or deemed to have been decided by it in the earlier stage. In other words, it will be barred by the principle of res judicata, or at least by the principle of constructive res judicata. The logic here is that an execution proceeding works in diff erent stages and if the debtors have failed to take an objection and have allowed the preliminary stage to come to an end and the matter has moved to the next stage, the debtors cannot raise the objection subsequently, and revert back to an earlier stage of the proceeding. This is exactly one of the reasons given by the executing court in its dated 28.09.2017 which we have already referred above. Merely, because it has not specifi cally referred to the principle of res judicata will not make any diff erence. The High Court even though found substance in the arguments of res judicata, nevertheless refused to interfere in the petition. “9. The fact remains that when Exhibit-18 or Exhibit 19 was dealt with by the executing court, the issue of operation of principle of res judicata was not at all addressed by either of the parties and even the executing court so also Appellate Bench has no occasion to deal with the said issue. True it is the issue of question of law can be raised at any stage. However, that by itself will not call for exercising extraordinary jurisdiction in the present matter when aforesaid issue was not addressed before the courts below. 10. In that view of the matter, in my opinion, Petition deserves to be disposed of with the observation that the issue of res judicata as is raised by the Petitioner be also looked into while dealing with the issue raised in Applications-Exhibits-18 and 19.” 134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 8. The High Court, to our mind, committed an error by not interfering in the matter. To our mind this case has unnecessarily been dragging on for so long; which is for nearly two decades. The dated 22.12.2017 by the Appellate Court and the dated 08.01.2021 by the High Court are not sustainable in the eyes of law. We therefore allow the appeal and set aside the of the High Court dated 08.01.2021 and the of the appellate court dated 22.12.2017, while we uphold the of the executing court dated 28.09.2017.