(ix) any granting a loan or instrument of collateral A security granted under the Land Improvement Act, 1871, or the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883; or (x) any granting a loan under the Agriculturists, Loans Act, 1884, or instrument for securing the repayment of a loan made under that Act; or B [(xa) any made under the Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 (6 of 1890), vesting any property in a Treasurer of Charitable Endowments or divesting any such Treasurer of any property; or] C (xi) any endorsement on a mortgage-deed acknowledging the payment of the whole or any part of the mortgage-money, and any other receipt for payment of money due under a mortgage when the receipt does not purport to extinguish the mortgage; or D (xii) any certificate of sale granted to the purchaser of any property sold by public auction by a Civil or Revenue-Officer. [Explanation.—A document purporting or operating to effect a contract for the sale of immovable property shall not be deemed to require or ever to have required registration by E reason only of the fact that such document contains a recital of the payment of any earnest money or of the whole or any part of the purchase money. ]” 8. By Tamil Nadu Amendment Act, 2012, Section 17(1)(g) has been inserted and “explanation” to Section 17(2) has been omitted. F Section 17(1)(g) as inserted by Tamil Nadu Amendment Act, 2012, reads as under : “17(1)(g) instruments of agreement relating to sale of immovable property of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards.” G 9. Thus, on and after the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act, 2012, as per Section 17(1) (g), instrument of agreement relating to sale of immovable property of the value of Rs.100/- and upwards is required to be registered compulsorily. However, despite the same and despite the “explanation” to sub-section (2) of Section 17 has been omitted, there is H 844 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A no corresponding amendment made to Section 49 of the Registration Act. Section 49 of the Registration Act is as under : “49. Effect of non-registration of documents required to be registered.—No document required by section 17 [or by any provision of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882)], B to be registered shall— (a) affect any immovable property comprised therein, or (b) confer any power to adopt, or (c) be received as evidence of any transaction affecting such C property or conferring such power, unless it has been registered: [Provided that an unregistered document affecting immovable property and required by this Act or the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), to be registered may be received as D evidence of a contract in a suit for specific performance under Chapter II of the Specific Relief Act, 1877 (3 of 1877) , *** or as evidence of any collateral transaction not required to be effected by registered instrument. ]” 10. Thus, as per proviso to Section 49, an unregistered document E affecting the immovable property and required by Registration Act to be registered may be received as evidence of a contract in a suit for specific performance under Chapter-II of the Specific Relief Act, 1877, or as evidence of any collateral transaction not required to be effected by registered document.