Yet again on 29-04-1998, another show cause notice was issued by HSIDC, asking the appellant to indicate the steps that he had taken to put up the industrial unit and start production. However, the appellant did not apparently respond to this. Finally, on 18-09-1998, the F HSIDC communicated that it had resumed the plot and cancelled the allotment. It refunded the sum of ` 1,66,425, through a cheque, which was sent to the appellant. The latter upon receipt of this intimation did not accept the cheque and returned it back on 06-10-1998. 14. In the meanwhile, the appellant approached the District G Consumer Forum, Gurgaon, on 30-09-1998. The District Consumer Forum allowed the complaint on 16-05-2000 and directed the HSIDC to withdraw the resumption . It also directed HSIDC, not to allot the plot to any other person; HSIDC was granted 3 months’ time to comply with the requirement of allotting the plot to the appellant. The HSIDC’s H appeal was rejected on 29-04-2003 by the State Consumer Commission. AMAN SEMI- CONDUCTORS (PVT.) LTD v. HARYANA STATE 137 INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT CORP. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] It approached the NCDRC belatedly. On 10-11-2003 NCDRC dismissed A its revision petition as time-barred. Subsequently, the HSIDC approached this court, which remitted the matter by its dated 20- 01-2004 to the NCDRC for fresh consideration on merits. By the impugned , the revision petition was allowed. 15. As the previous discussion reveals the appellant’s arguments B are twofold. The first is that HSIDC violated principles of natural justice, did not grant him a hearing and unilaterally cancelled the allotment. The added point made was that the allotment was followed by payment of full consideration and that, in these circumstances, some minimum hearing ought to have been given before adverse action of resumption was taken. C It was also alleged in this regard that cancellation did not disclose any application of mind; no reasons are forthcoming. The second substantial argument made was that in the absence of essential infrastructural facilities such as roads, overall development of the industrial area availability of electricity and other amenities, HSIDC could not have expected the appellant or any other allottee to construct the plot D within the time granted, i.e two years. 16. The allotment made in favour of the appellant by HSIDC contains several conditions. The HSIDC and the appellant entered into an agreement on 27-10-1995. Clause 4 (iii) of the agreement stipulates that the allottee would enjoy the right of possession as long as he complied E with all terms and conditions of allotment contained in the agreement. Clause 6 which is important in the present context reads as follows: “6. That the allottee shall start on the site construction of building for setting up the aforesaid industry within a period of 6 months and complete the construction thereof within 1 1/ F 2 years from the date of the possession. The plans thereof shall be in accordance with the rules made as per the directions given from time to time by the Town and country planning and Urban estate Department, in this respect and approved by the Director Town & Country planning G department or any officer duly authorised by him in this behalf.