Secondly, the contractor should not have consistently underestimated his costs during pricing, ensuring that the profi t percentage was genuinely viable at that point; iii. Thirdly, there should have been no subsequent changes in the market, such that work of a comparable level of profi tability would have been available to the contractor at the time of the conclusion of the contract. c) It was further submitted that to fulfi l the aforesaid conditions, satisfactory and cogent evidence is a sine qua non even if the loss is not of a remote or imaginary nature. In the absence of cogent evidence substantiating a genuine loss of profi t or opportunity, 5 (2006) 11 SCC 181 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. it would be unjustifi able to permit the contractor to capitalize solely on the application of a formula. d) In the present case, the ASG submitted, no evidence was led by the appellant, far less, any credible or cogent evidence, to prove that it was capable of earning such price elsewhere by way of any other contract that was available to it at that time, which it could not execute due to prolongation of the contract; such an award, being perverse, confl icts with the public policy of India under Section 34(2)(b)(ii) of the Act. e) The Arbitrator’s actions present a perplexing situation: while dismissing Claim Nos. 10 (compensation for increased prices/ rates after the contract period) and 11 (compensation for the establishment, machinery, centring/shuttering, etc.) due to the absence of credible evidence, the Arbitrator, on the other hand, proceeded to grant damages for loss of profi t under Claim No. 12. This prompts a crucial question: If there was insuffi cient evidence to support Claim Nos. 10 and 11, what other evidence could possibly justify awarding loss of profi t under Claim No. 12? f) Mechanical application of Hudson’s formula would serve no purpose and burden the exchequer was the ASG’s concluding submission. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 7. We have considered the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties and also perused the materials on record. 8. The appeal is directed towards dismissal of the appellant’s claim for compensation relating to loss of profi ts (Claim No. 12). It is undeniably established that the appellant’s claim for loss of profi t stems from the delay attributed to the respondent in completing the project. It is further evident that the loss of profi t sought in the present case is primarily based on the grounds that the appellant, having been retained longer than the period stipulated in the contract and its resources being blocked for execution of the work relatable to the contract in question, it could have taken up any other work and earned profi t elsewhere. M/S UNIBROS v. ALL INDIA RADIO 695 DIPANKAR DATTA, J. 9. The contentions advanced on behalf of the appellant tasks us to resolve a recurring issue which, while not unprecedented, has consistently confronted the courts leading it to navigate various circumstances under which a claim for loss of profi t may be allowed in cases of delay simpliciter in the execution of a contract.