The period of limitation for the commencement of an arbitration runs from the date on which, had there been no arbitration clause, the cause of action would have accrued: “Just as in the case of actions the claim is not to be brought after the expiration of a specified number of years from the F date on which the cause of action accrued, so in the case of arbitrations, the claim is not to be put forward after the expiration of the specified number of years from the date when the claim accrued.” Even if the arbitration clause contains a provision that no cause of G action shall accrue in respect of any matter agreed to be referred to until an award is made, time still runs from the normal date when the cause of action would have accrued if there had been no arbitration clause. 57. In Law of Arbitration by Justice Bachawat at p. 549, commenting on Section 37, it is stated that subject to the Act 1963, every H M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 635 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] arbitration must be commenced within the prescribed period. Just as in A the case of actions the claim is not to be brought after the expiration of a specified number of years from the date when the cause of action accrues, so in the case of arbitrations the claim is not to be put forward after the expiration of a specified number of years from the date when the claim accrues. For the purpose of Section 37(1) “action” and “cause B of arbitration” should be construed as arbitration and cause of arbitration. The cause of arbitration arises when the claimant becomes entitled to raise the question, that is, when the claimant acquires the right to require arbitration. An application under Section 11 of the Act 1996 is governed by Article 137 of the Schedule to the Act 1963 and must be made within 3 years from the date when the right to apply first accrues. There is no C right to apply until there is a clear and unequivocal denial of that right by the respondent. It must, therefore, be clear that the claim for arbitration must be raised as soon as the cause for arbitration arises as in the case of cause of action arisen in a civil action. 58. Whether any particular facts constitute a cause of action has D to be determined with reference to the facts of each case and with reference to, the substance, rather than the form of the action. If an infringement of a right happens at a particular time, the whole cause of action will be said to have arisen then and there. In such a case, it is not open to a party to sit tight and not to file an application for settlement of E dispute of his right, which had been infringed, within the time provided by the Limitation Act, and, allow his right to be extinguished by lapse of time, and thereafter, to wait for another cause of action and then file an application under Section 11 of the Act 1996 for establishment of his right which was not then alive, and, which had been long extinguished because, in such a case, such an application would mean an application F for revival of a right, which had long been extinguished under the Act 1963 and is, therefore, dead for all purposes.