The ASI Lal Singh (PW 14), HC Mohan Lal (PW 12) and Constable Sant Ram (PW 13) accordingly left for Sarwari bus stand and reached there at about 6.45 pm. The offi cers were able to locate and identify the said person at the bus stand carrying a bag on his shoulder. In the presence of two independent witnesses, the said person was asked to disclose his identity. The person standing at the bus stand disclosed his identity as Ranjan Kumar Chadha son of Shri Ved Parkash Chadha resident of New Delhi. As the police offi cials suspected that he may be carrying charas, they gave him the option of being searched before the police or before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. The person concerned consented to be searched before the police. Before the search of the person of the accused was undertaken, the police offi cials got themselves searched before the witnesses. The bag which the accused was carrying along with him was also searched. The search of the bag resulted in recovery of three polythene bags containing charas. Many other articles like the driving licence, etc. were also recovered from his bag. On being weighed, the charas was found to be 1 kg. 250 gms. 4. Two samples of 25 grams each were drawn from the polythene bags containing charas and the remaining charas was sealed with seal “H”. Seal impression was also taken on the NCB form and seal was handed over to the PW 9 Surinder Kumar. The charas was taken into possession vide recovery memo Ext. PK which was signed by the witnesses PW 9 Surinder Kumar, PW 10 Karam Singh and PW 12 Mohan Lal resply. The accused was informed of the grounds of his arrest, etc. vide memo Ext. PL. Ruqua Ext. PG was prepared and sent to the police station through the Constable Sant 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Ram. The site plan Ext. PP was prepared on the spot. The statements of the witnesses were recorded. Thereafter, PW 14 came to the Police Station along with the accused and deposited the case property including the samples and the NCB form before the SHO who resealed the case property and samples with seal-X. One of the samples was sent for chemical examination to the CIL, Kandaghat and vide report Ext. PO the samples were found to be of charas having resin content of 33.58%. On this basis the accused was charge sheeted with having committed an off ence as aforesaid. 5. The accused pleaded not guilty before the Trial Court and claimed to be tried. The defence of the accused was that when the bus was about to leave for Delhi and while the accused was sitting in the bus with some other passengers, one unclaimed bag was found and the accused was wrongly stated to be the owner of the said bag. In short, the case of the accused before the Trial Court was that he was falsely implicated in the case.