xxx xxx xxx G 23. We are not persuaded by the submission made on behalf of the appellants that since no fault is attributable to them for the delay caused in determination of the amount, they cannot be saddled with the liability to pay interest on carrying cost; nor is there any substance in the argument sought to be advanced that H 9 (2023) 2 SCC 624 GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 229 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] there is no provision in the PPAs for payment of compound interest A from the date when the change in law event had occurred. 24. The entire concept of restitutionary principles engrained in Article 13 of the PPAs has to be read in the correct perspective. The said principle that governs compensating a party for the time value for money, is the very same principle that would be invoked B and applied for grant of interest on carrying cost on account of a change in law event. Therefore, reliance on Article 11.3.4 read with Article 11.8.3 on the part of the appellants cannot take their case further. Nor does the decision in Priya Vart case [Priya Vart v. Union of India, (1995) 5 SCC 437] have any application C to the facts of the present case as the said case relates to payment of compensation under the Land Acquisition Act and the interest that would be payable in case of delayed payment of compensation.” 124. It is thus clear that this Court has reiterated that once carrying D cost has been granted, it cannot be urged that interest on carrying cost should be calculated on simple interest basis instead of compound interest basis. It has been held that grant of compound interest on carrying cost and that too from the date of the occurrence of the ‘Change in Law’ event is based on sound logic. It has been held that it is aimed at restituting a party that is adversely affected by a ‘Change in Law’ event and restore E it to its original economic position as if such a ‘Change in Law’ event had not taken place. 125. The argument that there is no provision in the PPAs for payment of compound interest from the date when the ‘Change in Law’ event had occurred, has been specifically rejected by this Court. F 126. In view of this consistent position of law and application of restitutionary principles and privityof contractual obligations between the parties as contained in the PPAs, we do not find that the view taken by the learned APTEL with regard to carrying cost warrants interference. Concurrent Finding of Fact G 127. Apart from the aforesaid issues, there is one another common thread in all these appeals. Many of these appeals arise out of concurrent findings recorded by the Central/State Electricity Regulatory Commissions and the learned APTEL. H 230 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 128. This Court, in the case of MSEDCL v. APML & Ors.