On behalf of the appellant it was urged that clause (xiii) would cover the case of the appellant if only we read a few words 34 (1981) 3 SCC 508 H 1088 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A in that clause and that we should do so to avoid injustice being done to the appellant and the owners of land similarly situated. That we are afraid is not possible. We find no compelling reason for restructuring the clause, and taking acquisition of land to mean “injurious affection” of the land acquired would be inconsistent with the entire scheme of the Act. We may refer to clause B “fourthly” of Section 23(1) of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 which requires the court to take into consideration in determining the amount of compensation to be awarded for land acquired under that Act, the damage sustained by the “person interested” “by reason of the acquisition injuriously affecting his other property”. C The expression “person interested” as defined in Section 3 of the Land Acquisition Act means all persons calming an interest in compensation to be made on account of the acquisition of land under that Act. It is made clear in clause “fourthly” that the damage is for injurious affection of some property other than the land acquired. The sense in which the expression “injurious D affection” is used in Section 23(1) of the Land Acquisition Act is the generally accepted meaning of that expression and we find nothing in the Act concerned in this case that suggests that it should be construed differently.” 66. The case of a person developing land being subjected to the E requirement of leaving 10 percent of the property in a situation where more than nearly 2 and a half acres is being developed in an urban metropolis as space for communal and recreational purposes cannot be said to be a person ‘injuriously affected’ within the meaning of Section 39. F THE IMPACT OF SECTIONS 48 TO 55 67. The contention is taken that Sections 48 and 49 do not authorise or enable deprivation of a person’s property sought to be developed free of cost.Equally, it is contended that Sections 52 to 54 obligate the state to acquire lands even if permission for development is rejected or if any of G the conditions for any permission is objected or even if any modifications of already given permission is not acceptable to the owner. It is also contended that Sections 52 to 54 patently provide for compensation. Therefore, the impugned rule which provides for a compelled gift involving transfer of right to property free of cost is ultravires. It is the further contention that the legislature took extraordinary care to ensure that a H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1089 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] landowner is not affected or injured even slightly because of the planning A law. The exceptions from obligation to pay compensation are provided in Sections 17(2)(k) and (l) which relate to the use of land and do not provide for reserving any land for public purpose.