4. The woman should disclose if her children have adopted the surname of her mother, inasmuch as Khasi has been defi ned as “a person who adopts the surname of his or her mother”. 262 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 5. The woman should disclose if she gets any fi nancial assistance from her clan or family member. 6. The woman should disclose if her parents are alive more specifi cally, her mother, and how many siblings she has. 7. In event of a woman not being the youngest daughter, she has to disclose who the youngest daughter is. 8. The woman should disclose if she has any movable or any immovable property, self-acquired or inherited from her clan. 9. The woman should disclose if she is married to tribal or non- tribal. The above format may be modifi ed or adapted by the court concerned, as may be considered appropriate. Declaration 1. I declare that I have made a full and accurate disclosure of my income, expenditure, assets and liabilities from all sources. I further declare that I have no assets, income, expenditure and liabilities other than as stated in this affi davit. 2. I undertake to inform this Court immediately with respect to any material change in my employment, assets, income, expenses or any other information included in this affi davit. 3. I understand that any false statement in this affi davit, apart from being contempt of court, may also constitute an off ence under Section 199 read with Sections 191 and 193 of the Indian Penal Code punishable with imprisonment up to seven years and fi ne, and Section 209 of the Indian Penal Code punishable with imprisonment up to two years and fi ne. I have read and understood Sections 191, 193, 199, and 209 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. DEPONENT Verifi cation Verifi ed at ___on this _____day of _____ that the contents of the above affi davit are true to my personal knowledge, no part of it is false and ADITI ALIAS MITHI v. JITESH SHARMA 263 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] nothing material has been concealed therefrom, whereas the contents of the above affi davit relating to the assets, income and expenditure of my spouse are based on information believed to be true on the basis of record. I further verify that the copies of the documents fi led along with the affi davit are the copies of the originals. DEPONENT” 11. Separate Affi davits were provided for agrarian and non-agrarian deponents as the particulars to be furnished by the deponents living in the urban areas are entirely diff erent from those who are living in rural and tribal areas. Separate format of Affi davit has been provided for the residents of the State of Meghalaya considering its special status. It is predominantly a tribal area and follows matrilineal system of society. 12. In Neha Tyagi v. Lieutenant Colonel Deepak Tyagi, (2022) 3 SCC 86, this court while upholding the decree of divorce granted by the courts below, opined that even after the divorce, the husband is not absolved of his liability and responsibility to maintain child/son till he attains the age of majority.