Misc. Application Nos. 11451 of 2010 and 11452 of 2010, seeking respectively amendment of the written statement and permission to raise additional grounds viz., ground No.16 (c) and 16(d), were dismissed. Point No.3 in regard to the maintainability C of the suit raised by the appellants therein was rejected and suit was held as maintainable. On the question whether the suit is bad for non- joinder of necessary parties viz. point No.4, it was held in the negative. Based on conclusions and findings on the points formulated it was held that the respondent herein/the plaintiff is entitled to the and D decree as decreed by the Trial Court and consequently the appeal was dismissed with cost and the judgement and decree of the Trial Court was confirmed. Hence, this appeal. 10.Heard, Ms. Kiran Suri, learned Senior Counsel for the appellants and Mr. Narender Hooda, learned Senior Counsel for the respondent. E 11. The appellants have raised multiple grounds to assail the of the High Court. It is contended inter alia that the plaintiff/ the respondent herein had failed to establish his possession over plaint ‘B’ schedule property. That apart, it is contended that the High Court had failed to consider the contention that the subject suit was actually abated owing to the failure of the respondent herein/the plaintiff to bring F on record the legal representatives of Sri Hanumaiah, the third respondent who breathed his last during the pendency of the subject suit. It is their further contention that Sri Rama @ Ramamurthy, the deceased second defendant had purchased the suit property from Sriman Madhwa Sangha which is an organisation and Sri Vittal Rao as per sale deed executed on G 05.10.2000 jointly by the latter and the authorised representative of the former organisation and therefore, the High Court ought not to have confirmed the and decree of the trial Court. 12.We have already taken note of the fact that the Misc. Civil Application carrying the prayers for amendment of the written statement H 376 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A by incorporating paragraphs 26 (b) to 26 (e) and for raising additional grounds in the appeal were dismissed by the High Court. The points formulated qua those prayers were jointly considered by the High Court owing to the interlacement of the relevant facts. The avowed purpose of the proposed amendment was obviously to bring in the contention that the suit property was purchased by the deceased second appellant from B Sriman Madhwa Sangha and Sri Vittal Rao as per sale deed dated 05.10.2000. 13. Evidently, in this case the Trial Court decreed the suit on 04.07.2007 and the original defendants 1 and 2 viz., the first appellant and the deceased second appellant in this appeal, preferred appeal viz., C RFA No.1966 of 2007 challenging the same. In the said appeal, an application under XLI Rule 27 CPC seeking permission to adduce additional evidence was filed raising the contention that they were not given opportunity to adduce evidence. The said appeal came to be disposed of by the High Court as per and decree dated D 29.10.2007, whereunder the said application was allowed and the appellants therein/the original defendants 1 and 2, were given permission to lead additional evidence before the Trial Court.