i) The present appeal, with its limited scope, deserves to be dismissed. 58. Learned counsel appearing for the State of Bihar has supported the appellant. 59. Before dealing and discussing the evidence led in the Trial Court, relevant facts relating to the manner in which the trial has been conducted, deliberate lapses on the part of the Public Prosecutor in leading the prosecution witness, lapses on the part of the Trial Court in not exercising the powers vested in it to ensure a fair and just trial, the facts mentioned in the reports of the Inspecting Judge and also the fi ndings recorded by the High Court in the Division Bench, need to be mentioned. Lapses on the part of the prosecution conducting the trial and that on the part of the Investigating Agency: 60. Briefl y the lapses are summarized as under: a) No explanation was given for not producing the scribe of the FIR. In case the scribe was not available for some reason then someone else from the police station could have been produced to prove the hand writing and signature of the scribe. b) The Investigating Offi cer not produced by the prosecution, is again a clear and deliberate lapse. HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 439 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] c) Non-production of other prosecution witnesses of preparing the recovery/seizure list, inquest report, carrying the dead-body to the hospital, and absence of any eff ort to prove other formal aspects of the investigation clearly indicate malice and deliberate lapse on the part of the prosecution. d) The conduct of the Public Prosecutor in fi ling affi davits in evidence of the witnesses of fact despite directions of the High Court and further examining witnesses under 311 CrPC to strengthen the case of defence refl ects the tainted role of the Public Prosecutor. 61. The legal issues which arise for consideration in the present case may be summarized as under: A) Whether the Supreme Court, in appeal against acquittal, can consider the High Court’s judgement dated 13.03.2007 passed in the Habeas Corpus Writ Petition, which was not part of the evidence produced (although it was part of the Trial Court record) and was not relied upon by the prosecution before the Trial Court, as a piece of incriminating evidence in the nature of a Public Document and, if yes, up to what extent? B) Whether the previous or subsequent conduct of the accused, established on record, can be treated as a circumstance against the accused in view of Section 8 of the Evidence Act? C) Whether the FIR or Bayan Tahriri can be said to be proved as a piece of reliable prosecution evidence and if so, what would be the position of law on the issue of treating the FIR or Bayan Tahriri as the Dying Declaration? D) Whether the testimony of a Prosecution Witness (an old feeble, rustic, illiterate lady and mother of the deceased and an eye- witness of the incident), who stated in the end of her cross- examination that “her son (another alive son) had asked her to take the name of accused before the Court,” can be treated to be a reliable evidence against such accused, especially in view of the checkered and abnormal history of the case?