It is submitted that substantial steps taken within these three years are as under: C D E 3.9 It is submitted that in view of the timeline set out above, the learned Single Judge has completely erred in declaring the scheme as having lapsed on the ground of non-implementation of the scheme under F section 54 of the Adhiniyam. It is submitted that the words “commence implementation” occurring in Section 54 do not mean completion of implementation of the scheme. It is submitted that the only reasonable interpretation of Section 54 would be that some steps should be taken by the Authority for implementation of the scheme and must have an intention to implement the scheme. G In support of his above submission, reliance is placed on the decision of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Sanjay Gandhi Grih Nirman Sahakari Sanstha Maryadit v. State of M.P. & Others, reported in AIR 1991 MP 72. It is submitted that a special leave petition H 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A against the said decision has been dismissed by this Court. It is submitted that in the aforesaid decision, it was held as under: “S. 54 does not appear to apply when substantial steps have been taken within three years to implement the scheme. The Court had also taken into consideration S. 56, 57 and 58 of the Adhiniyam B and has taken a view that the words ‘fails to implement’ would means failure to take any substantial steps for the implementation of the scheme and if no such step is taken within three years the scheme will lapse…” It is submitted that therefore the learned Single Judge as well as C Division Bench of the High Court have materially erred in declaring the scheme as having lapsed on the ground of non-implementation of the scheme under Section 54 of the Adhiniyam. 3.10 Without prejudice to the above, it is further submitted that Section 54 of the Adhiniyam is clear in its terms that in case the Development Authority failed to commence implementation of the scheme D (which means taking substantial steps) within the period of three years from the date of notification, the scheme shall lapse but the acquisition shall not. It is averred that once the land is acquired, it vests in the Government and once it is vested in the Government, it cannot be transferred back and it becomes the property of the Government. E 3.11. As regards the finding recorded by the learned Single Judge on hostile discrimination and quashing and setting aside the entire acquisition proceedings on the ground that a huge and big chunk of land, out of the total land, has been released and therefore to continue with the acquisition with respect to rest of the land is discriminatory and violative F of Article 14 of the Constitution of India, it is submitted that the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench have not properly appreciated the grounds on which the lands were released.