Therefore, we have no manner of doubt that the appellants were under an obligation to pay stamp duty calculated C on the market value of the sale deed property on the date of execution of the sale deed. 21. As stated earlier, stamp duty was paid by the appellants by taking the market value of the sale deed property at Rs.6,67,200/-. This market value was fixed by adopting method used for levy of property D tax under the Municipal laws. Such a value cannot be taken as the basis for determining the market value for the purposes of Article 23. 22.Now we turn to the provisions of Section 47-A of the Stamp Act as applicable to the State of Uttar Pradesh at the relevant time. Section 47-A reads thus: E “47A. Instruments of conveyance etc., if undervalued, how to be dealt with: – (1)(a) If the market value of any property which is the subject of any instrument on which duty is chargeable on the market value of the property as set forth in such instrument is less than even the minimum value determined in accordance with the rules made under the Act, the registering officer appointed under F the Registration Act, 1908 shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the said Act, immediately after presentation of such instrument and before accepting it for registration and taking any action under section 52 of the said Act, require the person liable to pay stamp duty under section 29, to pay the deficit stamp duty as computed G on the basis of the minimum value determined in accordance with the said rules and return the instrument for presenting again in accordance with section 23 of the Registration Act, 1908. (b) When the deficit stamp duty required to be paid under clause (a), is paid in respect of any instrument and the instrument is H SHANTI BHUSHAN (D) THR. LR. & ORS. v. STATE OF U.P. 527 AND ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] presented again for registration, the registering officer shall certify A by endorsement thereon, that the deficit stamp duty has been paid in respect thereof and the name and the residence of the person paying them and register the same. (c) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provisions of this Act, the deficit stamp duty may be paid under clause (a) in B the form of impressed stamp containing such declaration as may be prescribed. (d) If any person does not make the payment of deficit stamp duty after receiving the referred to in clause (a) and presents the instrument again for registration, the registering officer shall, C before registering the instrument, refer the same to the Collector for determination of the market value of the property and the proper duty payable thereon. (2) Without prejudice to the provisions of sub-section (1), if such Registering Officer, while registering any instrument on which D duty is chargeable on the market-value of the property, has reason to believe that the market-value of the property, which is the subject of such instrument, has not been truly set forth in the instrument, he may, after registering such instrument, refer the same to the Collector for determination of the market-value of such property E and the proper duty payable thereon- (3) On receipt of a reference under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), the Collector shall, after giving the parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after holding an enquiry in such manner as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act, determine the market value of the property which is the subject F of the instrument and the duty as aforesaid.