The respondent was given an opportunity to fi le his reply to the allegations levelled in the complaints. On 13.12.2011, the “on-the-spot” fact fi nding inquiry was concluded, and two reports in that regard were submitted to the IG, Frontier HQ, Guwahati. a) On the fi rst complaint of sexual harassment, the staff members stated that they had not seen anything in the offi ce which could be termed as indirect teasing or harassment to the complainant. The report reads as under: - “To The Inspector General, Frontier Hqrs. SSB Guwahati, Sub: Inquiry on complaints lodged by Smt. X FA(Lady) against Shri D. Paul, Area Organiser, SSB Rangia. Sir, With reference to Ftr. Hqrs. Ghy. letter No. FG-II/VC- VIG/08(Part)/15293 dt. 01-09-11, I visited the Offi ce of the Area Organiser, SSB Rangia on 1st November, 2011 and enquired into the matter. All the staff available in the offi ce on the date, were summoned one after another individually, but none of them stated to have seen or known Shri Dilip Paul, Area Organiser misbehaving with Smt. X, FA(Lady) in the offi ce. Further most of them stated that due to reasons best known to Shri Paul, Area Organiser, she was not allotted with any work for about 3 months before her release on transfer to Ftr. Hqrs. Ghy. and hence she was often seen depress. On the other hand, in his written statement Shri Dilip Paul, Area Organiser pointed out that she was found even unfi t in any kind of assignment, and therefore, she was not assigned with any work just 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. before her transfer i.e. from 18-08-11. But it is also duty of supervisory offi cer as administrator and manager to somehow motivate his sub- ordinate staff and take work from them. In the case of Smt. X, FA(Lady), Shri Dilip Paul, Area Organiser, is found to have failed to motivate her and get work from her. Regarding allegation of tactical and indirect teasing and making her to sit in the offi ce chamber of Area Organiser, hours together, none of the staff have stated to have ever seen such situation in the offi ce. Hence the allegation of direct/indirect teasing and harassments to Smt. X, FA(L) by Shri Dilip Paul could not be ascertained. However, since Smt. X referred the case to National Women Rights Commission, New Delhi the matter may be under investigation by them. Yours faithfully Deputy Inspector General SHQ, SSB, Tezpur” b) Similarly, as per the report on the anonymous complaints, nothing substantive was found as regards the allegations. The said report further noted that during the inquiry the only thing that surfaced was the occasional rudeness and uncordial inter-personal relations of the respondent with three of his subordinate employees. Accordingly, the respondent was advised to improve his personnel management and administration of the offi ce. The said report reads as under: - “To The Inspector General, Frontier Hqrs. SSB Guwahati. Sub: Enquiry report on Anonymous Complaint against Shri D. Paul, Area Organiser, SSB, Rangia Sir, UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 485 [J.