& IPD duties and thus are not allowed to practice outside the scope of their offi cial duties and in lieu were given the Non-Practicing Allowance. j. It is submitted that those doctors are considered as AYUSH doctors who have completed the degree course either in BAMS, BHMS, BUMS, BNYS & BSM in Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Unami, Siddha, Yoga and Naturopathy and are at par with any other qualifi ed Doctors. k. The Intervenors/applicants Council is an autonomous body under the Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India and the Council has a Governing Body comprising of the Union Minister- In-Charge of AYUSH as its President and Secretary, Ministry of AYUSH as its Vice President. Its Bye-Laws reveal the pervasive control of the Union Government over the Central Council. l. The aforesaid is clearly depicted from the Bye-Laws of Intervenor/applicants council. That the Clauses - 34 and 35 of the Bye-Laws deal with the superannuation of the employees of the Council which are quoted herein below: Clauses-34 & 35 of the said Bye-Laws deal with superannuation which read as under: “34. The rules governing the retirement of employees of the Government of India as amended from time to time or as desired by the Governing Body shall apply to the employees of the Central Council. Provided that an employee can be retired in service after prescribed age of superannuation if he continues to be physically fi t and effi cient and it is in the interest of the Central Council to retain him in service. 35. The Fundamental and Supplementary Rules and General Financial Rules of Government of India as amended from time to time shall apply mutatis mutandis to employees of the Central Council.” m. That, the clarifi cation of Ministry of AYUSH vide its letter dated 31.10.2017 is not only misconceived but also uncalled for, arbitrary and discriminatory. The same is also contrary to the object for which the Central Council is established. The aforesaid clarifi cation would CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 761 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] rather frustrate the objectives for which the Central Council was established. The same is against Public Policy and liable to be struck down and the High Court of Orrisa rightly gave decision in favour of the respondent in the instant appeal. n. That the Intervenor/applicants though were appointed as researcher but along with that they have been performing duties of doctors like treating patient in OPD, IPD etc. and for which requisite certifi cate was issued to them time to time. ANALYSIS 22. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through materials placed on record the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned ? 23. The appellant Council is an autonomous body registered under the Society Registration Act, 1860 and is administratively controlled by the Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India. It is a body constituted for the purpose of undertaking, cooperating, formulating, developing and promoting the research on scientifi c guidelines in Ayurvedic Sciences.