That a binding judicial pronouncement between the parties cannot be made ineff ective with the aid of any legislative power by enacting a provision which in substance simply overrules a unless the foundation of the is removed. Referring to 40 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. several s of this court on the Doctrine of Abrogation, the following principles as to the manner in which the device of abrogation could be employed, were identifi ed as under: “It could, thus, clearly be seen that this Court has held that the eff ect of the s of this Court can nullifi ed by a legislative act removing the basis of the . It has further been held that such law can be retrospective. It has, however, been held that retrospective amendment should be reasonable and not arbitrary and must not be violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution. It has been held that the defect pointed out should have been cured such that the basis of the pointing out the defect is removed. This Court has, however, clearly held that nullifi cation of mandamus by an enactment would be impermissible legislative exercise. This Court has further held that transgression of constitutional limitations and intrusion into the judicial power by the legislature is violative of the principle of separation of powers, the rule of law and of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.” 11. What follows from the aforesaid judicial precedent is, a legislature cannot directly set aside a judicial decision. However, when a competent legislature retrospectively removes the substratum or foundation of a to make the decision ineff ective, the same is a valid legislative exercise provided it does not transgress on any other constitutional limitation. Such a legislative device which removes the vice in the previous legislation which has been declared unconstitutional is not considered to be an encroachment on judicial power but an instance of abrogation recognised under the Constitution of India. The decisions referred to above, manifestly show that it is open to the legislature to alter the law retrospectively, provided the alteration is made in such a manner that it would no more be possible for the Court to arrive at the same verdict. In other words, the very premise of the earlier should be removed, thereby resulting in a fundamental change of the circumstances upon which it was founded. 12. The power of a legislature to legislate within its fi eld, both prospectively and to a permissible extent, retrospectively, cannot be interfered with by Courts provided it is in accordance with the Constitution. NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 41 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] It would be permissible for the legislature to remove a defect in an earlier legislation, as pointed out by a constitutional court in exercise of its powers by way of judicial review. This defect can be removed both prospectively and retrospectively by a legislative process and previous actions can also be validated. However, where a legislature merely seeks to validate the acts carried out under a previous legislation which has been struck down or rendered inoperative by a Court, by a subsequent legislation without curing the defects in such legislation, the subsequent legislation would also be ultra-vires.