A consumer was billed under a particular tariff but after an audit, it was discovered that a different tariff code should have been applied. An additional bill was subsequently raised in 2014 for the period F from July 2009 to September 2011. Section 56(2) was interpreted not to preclude the licensee from raising a supplementary demand after the expiry of the period of limitation under Section 56(2) in the case of a mistake or a bona fide error. However, it did not empower the licensee to take recourse to the coercive measure of disconnection of electricity G supply for recovery of the additional demand. This Court held that the bar of limitation of two years does not preclude the licensee from resorting to other modes of recovery of electricity arrears. The court observed: 59 (2008) 12 SCC 213 60 Standing Committee of Energy- Thirteenth Lok Sabha, The Electricity Bill 2001- H Thirsty First Report, Ministry of Power (2002) K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 707 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “7.4 Sub-section (1) of Section 56 confers a statutory right to the A licensee company to disconnect the supply of electricity, if the consumer neglects to pay the electricity dues. This statutory right is subject to the period of limitation of two years provided by sub- section (2) of Section 56 of the Act 7.5The period of limitation of two years would commence B from the date on which the electricity charges became “first due” under sub-section (2) of Section 56. This provision restricts the right of the licensee company to disconnect electricity supply due to non-payment of dues by the consumer, unless such sum has been shown continuously to be recoverable as arrears of C electricity supplied, in the bills raised for the past period. If the licensee company were to be allowed to disconnect electricity supply after the expiry of the limitation period of two years after the sum became “first due”, it would defeat the object of Section 56(2). D 8. Section 56(2) however, does not preclude the licensee company from raising a supplementary demand after the expiry of the limitation period of two years. It only restricts the right of the licensee to disconnect electricity supply due to non-payment of dues after the period of limitation of two years has expired, nor does it restrict other modes of recovery which E may be initiated by the licensee company for recovery of a supplementary demand. 9. Applying the aforesaid ratio to the facts of the present case, the licensee company raised an additional demand on 18-3-2014 for the period July 2009 to September 2011. The licensee company F discovered the mistake of billing under the wrong Tariff Code on 18-3-2014. The limitation period of two years under Section 56(2) had by then already expired. 9.1. Section 56(2) did not preclude the licensee company from raising an additional or supplementary demand after G the expiry of the limitation period under Section 56(2) in the case of a mistake or bona fide error.