Therefore, we find no fault with the reasoning of the High Court. G 322. Consequently, we uphold the impugned of the High Court. The appeal shall stand dismissed. H. Equity and Fairness 323. This Court is entrusted with the constitutional authority under Article 142 of the Constitution to render complete justice. Where H 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A appropriate, this Court has to take recourse to its constitutional power under Article 142 to bring about substantial justice. 324. Since the decision of this Court in Isha Marbles (supra), the law as regards the liability of the subsequent owner for the payment of arrears of the electricity dues of the previous owner has been in flux. B Petitions challenging the decisions of different Electric Utilities were filed as early as 2001. The s of the High Courts had the effect of either directing the Electric Utilities to grant electricity connections to auction purchasers without insisting on payment of outstanding electricity dues, or directing the auction purchasers to comply with the conditions of supply or Electricity Supply Code, as the case may be. In some of the C nineteen cases, this Court while granting leave passed interim s. The legal issue of whether electricity dues constitute a charge on the property so far as the transferor and the transferee are concerned was referred to a larger bench by an of this Court way back in 2006. The litigation in this batch of cases remained pending. D 325. In the specific cases before us, where this Court has upheld the validity of the subordinate regulations (Conditions of Supply or Electricity Supply Code, as the case may be) and has held the relevant regulation to be applicable to the factual matrix, the auction purchasers would be liable to pay the outstanding dues of the previous consumer. E On behalf of the Electric Utilities, claims have been made for interest on such arrears. 326. This Court must bear in mind the element of public interest in balancing the equities, particularly, at this stage where more than two decades have passed in litigation since the issue first arose. The 2003 Act was enacted to promote the development of the electricity industry, F while protecting the interest of consumers. It must be kept in mind that many of the auction-purchasers are commercial entities who had purchased the premises for commercial ventures. Electricity being a necessity for operation of any commercial venture, denial of electricity connections to the auction-purchasers for an indefinite period of time G resulted in loss of business. The delay in the court proceedings should not be to the further detriment of the litigants. 327. Taking all facts and circumstances into consideration, including the lapse of more than two decades since the appeals were filed before this Court and the equities arising in favour of one party or the other, we H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 781 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] direct the Electric Utilities to waive the outstanding interest accrued on A the principal dues from the date of application for supply of electricity by the auction purchasers.