17. We have heard Shri Vikramjit Banerjee, learned Additional H Solicitor General, assisted by Shri Rajan Kumar Chaurasia, learned CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SHYAM BIHARI 473 & OTHERS [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Advocate for the appellant; Shri Anil K. Sharma, learned Advocate for A the respondents; and have perused the record. Submissions 18. The learned counsel for the appellants submitted that this is a case where it was proved beyond doubt that the deceased was shot by B persons who were wearing police uniform. On the night of the incident, the three accused, namely, Shyam Bihari, Anil Kumar Sharma and Arshad Ali, all armed constables, were patrolling the area, as per evidence brought on record. Soon after the incident these constables were found present at the spot. Hence, their presence at the scene of crime was confirmed not only by eye witnesses but also by circumstances including the fact C that certain empty cartridges recovered from the spot were fired from their service rifles. Thus, not only their presence was proved but another version of the incident i.e. Case Crime No.48A of 1987, depicting police action, confirmed that death was a consequence of police action. Therefore, the burden was heavy on the accused to explain these D incriminating circumstances and in absence whereof, an adverse inference ought to have been drawn against the accused persons. 19. It was also argued that even if PW-3 and PW-6 could not identify the accused persons, they corroborated the prosecution story with regard to the manner in which the incident occurred and, therefore, E their testimony could be used to corroborate the testimony of PW-15, who not only narrated the incident but could recognize and identify the accused persons. 20. Thus, according to the learned counsel for the appellant, the trial court’s verdict was perverse and rejection of the application seeking leave to appeal has resulted in grave miscarriage of justice. It has therefore F been prayed that the appeal be allowed and the matter be remitted to the High Court to accord fresh consideration on merits. 21. Per contra, the learned counsel for the respondents submitted that, firstly, PW-3 and PW-5, who were travelling with the deceased, have not been able to identify the accused as those who were involved G in the killing of the deceased; and, secondly, the deceased died of a gun- shot wound which could be ascribed to a .12 bore weapon, not a rifle which was with the accused. Moreover, some of the empty cartridges lifted from the spot did not match with the rifles of the three accused thereby giving rise to a possibility that someone else was also present H 474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A with a rifle and had used it. In these circumstances, if the trial court gave the benefit of doubt to the accused, the and of the trial court cannot be held perverse as to warrant reversal in an appeal. 22. With regard to the testimony of PW-15, the learned counsel for the respondent submitted that PW-15 has been found not reliable for B multiple reasons.