The report of the Committee is submitted for consideration of C the Authority Board.” 18. Vide dated 15.01.2009, the State Government granted its approval for payment of enhanced compensation/ex-gratia/bonus to the ‘Pushtaini’ landholders. 19. For the sake of convenience, the break-up of compensation D granted to both the categories of landowners is being produced hereunder:- E F G H RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 445 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY THE APPELLANTS A 20. The learned Counsel for the Appellants Contended that:- I. Section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act does not allow for a discrimination between Pushtaini and Gair-pushtaini landowners in determination of compensation under the Land B Acquisition Act. I. In light of the law laid down by this Court in the Nagpur Improvement Trust Case (Supra), no distinction between the abovementioned two sets of classes of landowners can be made on the basis of the date of purchase of the land C and the date of establishment of G NOIDA. The Ld. Counsel argued that all the landowners whose land was acquired should stand on the same pedestal. II. The Land of both the classes of landowners have been acquired under the same procedure, for the same public purpose and having the same market value, and hence, any D difference in the rate of compensation provided to any party is highly discriminatory and is violative of Article 14. III. Further, it has also been argued that merely by signing the agreement, the Appellants herein cannot be said to have waived their right to Appeal the compensation, especially E since the fact that the ex-gratia payment granted to the Pushtaini landowners was awarded after the agreement was signed. IV. It has also been contended that the ex-gratia payment as a form of compensation does not exist in the Land Acquisition F Act, and can only be interpreted as one of the reasons for payment within Section 23 of the Land Acquisition Act, and in such a scenario, the payment must be universally made to all parties. ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY THE RESPONDENTS G 21. The Ld. Counsel for the Respondents Contended that: I. The UP Land Acquisition Rules have been formed under the Land Acquisition Act,1894. These rules prescribe for method of compensation between the acquirer and the H 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A acquiree through an agreement. The Appellants, by way of an agreement, voluntarily accepted the compensation being granted to them. Further, while accepting the compensation, the Appellants herein also submitted an Affidavit stating that the compensation is agreed upon and accepted by the parties. It was only three years later that the Appellants B decided to file a writ challenging the compensation, after entering into the agreement and explicitly agreeing to the compensation amount. II. The Appellants had entered into an agreement as per the law of the land and had accepted the compensation granted C to them. In such a scenario, there exists no legal remedy of the Appellants to re-open the agreement on grounds of a subsequent increase in compensation to a different party.