As disputes arose between Pasupuleti Anasuya, Nalini Kanth’s guardian, and Kaliprasad as to who was entitled to receive the rents, the suit in O.S. No. 113 of 1983 came to be fi led by her on his behalf. 3. The suit was contested by Kaliprasad. He challenged the Adoption Deed as well as the Will Deed, under which Nalini Kanth claimed rights. He alleged that Venkubayamma was a resident of Srikakulam and was very old in 1982. According to him, she was senile and was not in a position to exercise free will and consciousness. He asserted that the adoption was not true, valid or binding on him. He contended that Ex. A10 Will was invalid as it was not properly attested. He claimed that Venkubayamma had brought him up and got his marriage performed and that she had always treated him as her sole heir and successor. 4. The Trial Court settled the following issues for consideration: ‘1.Whether the plaintiff is the adopted son of Venkubayamma and the Adoption Deed dated 19.04.1982 (sic) is true? 2. Whether the registered Will dated 03.05.1982 executed by late Venkubayamma is true and valid? 3. Whether the plaintiff is entitled to the possession of the suit properties? 4. To what relief?’ MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 649 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] 5. PWs 1 to 15 were examined for the plaintiff , Nalini Kanth, by his guardian. Ex. A1 to A25 were marked on his behalf. Kaliprasad examined himself as DW 1. He also examined DWs 2 and 3 but did not adduce any documentary evidence. Exs. C1 & C2 and Exs. X1 & X2 were also made part of the record. Ex C1 is the affi davit dated 16.09.1982 of Balaga Sivanarayana Rao, stating that he had scribed Ex. A10 Will Deed. It was attested by B. Prasada Rao, Advocate. Ex. C2 is stated to be the affi davit dated 16.09.1982 of Pydi Appala Suranna, an attesting witness to Ex. A10 Will Deed. It was attested by K. V. Ramanayya, Advocate. Exs. X1 and X2, as per the version of Nalini Kanth’s guardian, are the thumb marks of Venkubayamma but this is disputed by Kaliprasad. 6. At this stage, we may note that the contesting parties are all related to Venkubayamma. Kaliprasad, as stated earlier, is the son of her predeceased daughter, Varalaxmi. Nalini Kanth is the son of her brother’s son, viz., P. Panduranga Rao. Pasupuleti Anasuya, the guardian, is P. Panduranga Rao’s elder sister and the paternal aunt of Nalini Kanth. 7. Deposing as PW 1, Pasupuleti Anasuya stated as follows: Venkubayamma had extended an invitation to attend the adoption of Nalini Kanth. Ex. A1 is the invitation. The adoption took place at Raghunadha Swamy Temple, Berhampur, at 10 am on 18.04.1982 and all their relations and friends attended the ceremony. All the customary rituals for adoption took place and the natural parents physically handed over the child to Venkubayamma but she, herself, was not present when the child was physically handed over.