Further, as an interim measure, it was prayed that the respondents be directed not to give eff ect and/or further eff ect to the dated 27th June, 2019. 9. On 18th September, 2019, the High Court, inter alia, directed that the goods may be released subject to payment of the entire amount of the Goods and Service Tax (hereinafter referred to as “GST”) of ₹54,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty four lakhs) in cash to the Authority, out of which, ₹5,40,000/-(Rupees Five lakhs and forty thousand) had already been paid with the further direction that the appellant shall also pay 50% of the penalty of ₹ 54,00,000/- (Rupees Fifty four lakhs), i.e., ₹27,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty seven lakhs) in cash and the remaining 50%, i.e., ₹27,00,000/- (Rupees Twenty seven lakhs) by way of bank guarantee which should be valid for a year and be renewed every year till the disposal of the writ petition. Thereafter, the impugned was passed which is under challenge in the present proceeding. SUBMISSION BY THE APPELLANT: 10. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that though there may have been some fault on the part of the appellant with regard to the E-way bill not being valid on the day when the actual transportation of the consignment took place but the same was due to the fact that HFC could not make available any vehicle for transportation in Auraiya, Uttar Pradesh which fact was 2 Writ Petition No.15959(W) of 2019 3 Writ PeƟ Ɵ on No.17452(W) of 2019 VARDAN ASSOCIATES PVT. LTD. v. ASSISTANT 1123 COMMISSIONER OF STATE TAX CENTRAL SECTION never intimated/conveyed to the appellant, and this was the reason as to why fresh E-way bill for interstate transfer of the said consignment could not be generated by the appellant. It was further submitted that even after depositing 10% of the tax amount, which was required for fi ling an appeal and the appellant being ready to pay the remaining amount of the tax and to give a bank guarantee for the penalty, the respondents had denied release of the consignment which was arbitrary. 11. It was next submitted that the consignment has remained uncared till now and must have been damaged. Ultimately, the consignment was the property of the appellant, who was merely transporting the same from Uttar Pradesh to West Bengal and thus, there should not be any GST imposed and in this regard, actually an E-way bill was generated, but unfortunately, validity of such transportation had elapsed due to factors, which the appellant was unaware of and were beyond its control. Thus, it was submitted that in such a background, the appellant should not be saddled with huge fi nancial consequences which would be inequitable, unjustifi ed, arbitrary and dis- proportionate. The movement of the consignment was in the nature of an “inter unit transfer” of capital goods from one place to another and not a result of any transaction of sale/purchase of goods between two parties, making it liable for taxation under the GST regime.