Charting a course: Interpreting statutes using Constitutional principles 21. As noted above, the benefi ts pertaining to marriage are spread out across several incidental legislations and regulations. These statutes presently do not explicitly extend to civil unions. However, now that we have recognized the right to enter into civil unions; such statutes must be read in a manner to give eff ect to this right, together with the principle of equality and non-discrimination under Articles 14 and 15. In other words, statutory interpretation must be in consonance with constitutional principles that are enumerated by this Court. Needless to say, this should not detract from the Committee’s task of ironing out the nitty-gritties of the entitlements of civil unions. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1427 UNION OF INDIA [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 22. This exercise is necessary to foster greater coherence within the legal system as a whole, both inter se statutes and between statutes and the Constitution. Reading statutes in this manner will facilitate ‘inter- connectedness’ by allowing constitutional values to link statutes within the larger legal system. Constitutional values emanate from a living document and thus are constantly evolving. Applying constitutional values to interpret statutes helps update statutes over time to refl ect changes since the statute’s enactment. Ordinarily, constitutional principles come in contact with statutes when the validity of such statutes is being tested. However, constitutional values should play a more consistent role, which can be through the everyday task of statutory interpretation.15 23. This interpretive technique has gained currency across jurisdictions. In the famous Lüth case, the Federal Constitutional Court of Germany recognized that the constitutional right of freedom of expression as enumerated under the German Basic Law also ‘radiates’ into the statutory law of defamation. The Court noted that: “But far from being a value-free system the Constitution erects an objective system of values in its section on basic rights, and thus expresses and reinforces the validity of the basic rights. This system of values, centring on the freedom of the human being to develop in society, must apply as a constitutional axiom throughout the whole legal system: it must direct and inform legislation, administration, and judicial decision.”16 24. We may note that the Constitution of South Africa has an explicit provision which directs that the interpretation of statutory law shall be in ‘due regard to the spirit, purport and objects’ of the chapter on fundamental rights.17 The Constitutional Court of South Africa in Du Plessis v. De Klerk succinctly observed the objective and scope of this provision: “The common law is not to be trapped within the limitations of its past. It needs not to be interpreted in conditions of social and constitutional 15 William N. Eskridge, Public Values in Statutory Interpretation, 137(4) UPenn Law Rev. 1007, 1009. 16 BVerfGE 7, 198 (Lüth-decision). 17 Section 35(3) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa. 142 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. ossifi cation. It needs to be revisited and revitalized with the spirit of the constitutional values defi ned in Chapter 3 of the Constitution and with full regard to the purport and objects of that Chapter.”18 25.