It held that this legislative intent would be negated if State Human Rights Commissions were not established in every state. This Court reasoned that the consequence of this was that Section 21 of G the Protection of Human Rights Act 1993 not only conferred State Governments with the power to set up State Human Rights Commissions but also imposed on them the duty to do so. In the present case, the intention of Parliament in enacting Article 323-A of the Constitution (i.e., to reduce arrears and provide speedy justice) would not necessarily be negated in the absence of SATs in each state, for the reasons discussed H above. ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 771 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 41. We also note that in Dilip K Basu (supra), the fact that victims A or complainants would not have access to an efficacious remedy in the absence of State Human Rights Commissions weighed heavily with this Court. They would be required to approach the National Human Rights Commission, which this Court noted could prove inaccessible to people living in places far away from New Delhi where it is headquartered. B Here, the absence of SATs does not leave litigants without an efficacious remedy. The High Courts or other forums already designated for the purpose of adjudicating service matters continue to be operational in each state and the absence of SATs does not inconvenience litigants any more than they otherwise would have been. C 42. Hence, the word “may” in Article 323-A of the Constitution is not imparted with the character of the word “shall.” Article 323-A is a directory, enabling provision which confers the Union Government with the discretion to establish an administrative tribunal. The corollary of this is that Article 323-A does not act as a bar to the Union Government abolishing an administrative tribunal once it is created. D iv. Applicability of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act 43. The Union Government invoked Section 21 of the General Clauses Act read with Section 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act to rescind the notification establishing the OAT. Section 21 of the Gen- eral Clauses Act, which is a rule of construction, is extracted below: E “Power to make, to include power to add to, amend, vary or rescind, s, rules or bye-laws.— Where, by any Act or Regulation, a power to issue notifications, s, rules or bye-laws is conferred then that power includes a power, exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like sanction and conditions (if any), to add to, F amend, vary or rescind any notifications, s, rules or byelaws so issued.” 44. The appellants contend that the Union Government could not have taken recourse to Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. A two- step analysis must precede the answer to the question posed by the G appellants. a. There is no bar to the applicability of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act to the administrative establish- ing the OAT H 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.