2. The assail in this appeal is to a and dated 24th July, 2023 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad (“High Court”, hereafter) whereby a criminal miscellaneous application1 under section 389(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (“Cr. PC”, hereafter) fi led by the appellant, in connection with an appeal under section 374(2)2 thereof, was partly allowed. The sole question that emerges for a decision on this appeal is 1 No. 01/2023 2 Criminal Appeal No. 5295/2023 AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 985 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] whether the High Court was justifi ed in spurning the prayer of the appellant for stay of the appealed against while it proceeded to grant his prayer for suspension of execution of sentence, in exercise of power conferred by section 389(1) of the Cr. PC. 3. The appellant is a member of Parliament, having been elected to the 17th Lok Sabha from Ghazipur constituency in 2019. He suff ered a conviction under section 3(1) of the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti- Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 (“Gangsters Act”, hereafter) vide of the Special MP/MLA Court, Ghazipur (“Trial Court”, hereafter) dated 29th April, 20233, consequent whereto he was sentenced to four years imprisonment together with a fi ne of Rupees One lakh. Aggrieved thereby, he approached the High Court for suspension of execution of the sentence as well as for suspension of the appealed against which has succeeded in part as noted above. The refusal of the High Court to stay the conviction of the appellant has resulted in his disqualifi cation from the membership of Parliament by operation of law, i.e., section 8(3) of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (“the RoP Act”, hereafter), which has duly been notifi ed by the Lok Sabha Secretariat4. As a sequel thereto, the appellant stands barred from partaking in the electoral process for six years from the date of serving his sentence. 4. Hon’ble Surya Kant, J. in His Lordship’s has given a resume of the facts leading to the appeal carried by the appellant before this Court. Having regard thereto as well as the question that arises for decision, it is not considered expedient to repeat the same. However, in course of hearing of this appeal, the parties through their respective learned senior counsel have advanced elaborate submissions which are proposed to be noted a little later. 5. In the impugned and , the High Court determined that the threshold for suspension of the under appeal was not reached in the present case. It observed that suspension of the appealed against is not the rule but an exception to be availed only in rare cases 3 Special Sessions Trial No. 980/2012 4 vide notifi cation bearing S.O. No. 1994 published in the Gazette of India dated 1st May, 2023 986 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. and that exceptional circumstances have to be brought to the notice of the Court before the relief of such a suspension could be granted. Unless the attention of the Court is directed towards specifi c consequences that would befall the appealing convict on account of the conviction, he cannot urge for suspension of the .