The learned judges in that case were of the view that, when illegal business is business within the meaning of the Income-tax Act and if profits from illegal business are assessable to tax, there is F no reason either in principle or on authority for refusing to take into account losses from illegal business. According to these, the losses so incurred must necessarily be taken into account in to arrive at the true profits of the business and such profits may be either positive in the sense that they are actual profits or they G may be negative in the sense that they are losses and there is in principle no distinction between profits and losses of a business… xxx xxx xxx 9.Kothari’s case [[1968] 69 I.T.R. 1 (Guj.).] , as may be noticed from the facts stated therein, was not a case where a claim for H 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A deduction was made by the assessee, as he did not say that a particular expenditure incurred by him should be allowed as a permissible deduction. It is on that ground that the learned judges ruled that the decision in Commissioner of Income-tax v. Haji Aziz & Abdul Shakoor Bros [[1955] 28 I.T.R. 266 (Bom.).] ., relied upon by the revenue, where the claim for deduction under section B 10(2)(xv) of the 1922 Act was negatived, was not applicable to the case before them. Therefore, the answers given by the learned judges in Kothari’s case [[1968] 69 I.T.R. 1 (Guj.).] render no assistance at all to the assessee’s contention. 10. Here is a specific claim made by the assessee for deduction C of the value of the gold confiscated by the Central Government on the ground that it is a trading or commercial loss, though the trade was an illegal one. It should not be lost sight of when a claim for deduction is made, that the loss must be one that springs directly from the business or trade which the assessee carries on D or is incidental to the business that he carries on and not every sort or kind of loss, which has absolutely no nexus or connection with his trade or business. 11. It is well to remember that confiscation of contraband gold is an action in rem and not a proceeding in personam. As observed E by Bhagwati J. in Maqbool Hussain v. State of Bombay [[1953] S.C.R. 730, 742 (S.C.), AIR 1953 S.C. 325.] confiscation is no doubt one of the penalties which the customs authorities can impose but that is more in the nature of proceedings in rem than proceedings in personam, the object being to confiscate the offending goods which have been dealt with contrary to the F provisions of the law. To the same effect is the view expressed by S.K. Das J. in ShewpujanraiIndrasanrai Ltd. v. Collector of Customs [[1959] S.C.R. 821, 836 (S.C.), AIR 1958 S.C. 845.] that, so far as the confiscation of the goods is concerned, it is a proceeding in rem and the penalties are enforced against the goods G whether the offender is known or not known and the of confiscation under section 182 of the Sea Customs Act operates directly upon the status of the property and under section 184 transfers an absolute title to the Government.