Alternatively, the spare part could also be used from the G stock maintained by the dealer to replace a defective part when an automobile has been sold by him and the customer approaches the dealer during the warranty period when there is a defect in any part of the automobile. In such a situation, the dealer is acting on behalf of the manufacturer or as an intermediary between the H 1272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A manufacturer and the customer of the automobile and discharging his obligation under a collateral contract. Hence, it is a warranty given by the manufacturer through the dealer to the customer during the period of warranty. In such a situation, when a credit note is issued to the dealer on return of the defective part by the manufacturer is there a sale within the scope and meaning of B definition of “sale” under the Sale Tax Legislation? [Para 34][1328-G-H; 1329-A-C] 6. The argument that the purchaser or the customer seeking replacement of a defective part is distinct and disjunct from the earlier sale of the automobile by the dealer to the C customer, cannot be accepted. This is for the simple reason that the dealer discharges his warranty obligation pursuant to the earlier sale of the automobile made by him to the customer which transaction of sale is accompanied by a collateral contract in the form of a warranty. There cannot be a warranty unless there is a D sale of goods in the first place. That is why a warranty is termed as a contract collateral to the main contract of sale. But for the warranty which is a contract collateral to the main contract of sale of an automobile, the dealer would not have replaced the defective part with a spare part from his stock without any consideration from customer. This is obvious because when the E defective part is replaced by another part, no consideration passes from customer to the dealer. This could be contrasted with a situation where the dealer would have sold the same part to any other customer and received a price on the sale as well as collected the tax on the said sale. Since, the dealer does not F receive any consideration from the customer who approaches the dealer during the warranty period for replacement of a defective part and the dealer does so from his own stock of the spare parts, he receives a credit note from the manufacturer of the automobile. In both of the aforesaid situations, there is transfer of property in the goods from the dealer to the customer. G [Para 35][1329-D-H] 7. The bifurcation of the two transactions i.e., one, between the dealer and the customer for the sale of the automobile and the second, between the manufacturer and the dealer, when the H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER 1273 OF COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. dealer is discharging his warranty pursuant to the sale of the A automobile, cannot be accepted.