The High Court while passing the impugned had followed its earlier in Pritam Singh vs. Jaskaur Singh8. 26. In our opinion, it is difficult to subscribe the view taken by the G High Court in the impugned that since no instrument of partition was drawn on the date of passing of the decree by the trial court, the joint status of the parties had not come to an end. Having duly considered the provisions contained in the Punjab Land Revenue Act and also the Haryana Land Records Manual placed on record by the learned counsel H 8 1992 SCC online P&H 676 JHABBAR SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LEGAL HEIRS v. 583 JAGTAR SINGH S/O DARSHAN SINGH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] for the parties, it clearly emerges that as per Section 118 of the Land A Revenue Act, when there is a question as to the property to be divided, or the mode of making a partition, the Revenue Officer after such inquiry as he deems necessary, is required to record an stating his decision on the question and record his reasons for the decision. Sub section 2 of Section 118 provides for an appeal to be preferred from decision of the B Revenue Officer on the question of property to be divided, or the mode of making the partition. As such, there is no further appeal provided against the in appeal passed under Section 118(2) of the Land Revenue Act. Section 119 deals with the administration of the property excluded from partition referred to in Clause 2 of Section 112, with which we are not concerned. Section 120 deals with the provisions with regard C to the distribution of revenue and rent after the partition. 27. The relevant Section 121 states that when the partition is completed, the Revenue Officer shall cause an instrument of partition to be prepared, and the date on which the partition is to take effect to be recorded therein. If the said provision contained in Section 121 is closely D read, it clearly appears that it deals with the procedure to be followed by the Revenue Officer, after the partition is completed. Meaning thereby, the Revenue Officer after the Partition is completed, has to cause an instrument of partition to be prepared and record therein the date on which the partition is to take effect. Therefore, when the inquiry as contemplated in Section 118 on the question as to the property to be E divided, or the mode of making partition is made by the Revenue Officer, and an stating his decision on the question along with the reasons for such decision is passed, the partition is deemed to have completed, subject to the decision of appeal that may be preferred against such as contemplated in sub-section 2 of Section 118. F 28. It is pertinent to note that Section 117 of the Punjab Land Revenue Act confers discretion upon the Revenue Officer to decide the question as to the title in any property of which the partition is sought, either by himself or to refer the question to be determined by the competent court.