The States/UTs may adopt these guidelines or issue similar guidelines to maintain uniformity. (l) These guidelines are independent of the Guidelines for conducting written examination for persons with benchmark disabilities issued by the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities on 29.08.2018. ARNAB ROY v. CONSORTIUM OF NATIONAL LAW 473 UNIVERSITIES [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (m) The examining bodies shall ensure strict vigilance to check misuse of facility of scribe.” 11. Paragraph 4 of the Office Memorandum stipulates that all recruitment agencies, academic/examination bodies under the administrative control of each Ministry/Department may be advised appropriately to ensure compliance of the guidelines. 12. In pursuance of the interim directions of this Court, the Consortium extended necessary facilities to PwD candidates in terms of the statement which was tendered before this Court. 13. The issue which now survives is with regard to the modalities which would be followed for future examinations to be conducted by CLAT. 14. The fi rst aspect which has been drawn to the attention of the Court is that the CLAT advertisement was issued on 28 August 2022 and the registration closed on 18 November 2022. The Consortium issued its set of guidelines on 24 November 2022 and the entrance test was conducted on 18 December 2022. 15. Mr Nikhil Nayyar, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner, submits that the above sequence of events would indicate that the guidelines were issued over three months after the initial advertisement notifying CLAT. There is no reason, it was urged, why the guidelines could not be issued together with the advertisement so as to ensure that PwD candidates are not reduced to a state of uncertainty in regard to the facilities which should be made available to them during the course of the entrance test. 16. There is a considerable degree of merit in the above submission. As a matter of fact, we may also note that Mr Siddharth Aggarwal, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the Consortium has also fairly submitted that the guidelines could have been notifi ed much earlier so as to provide certainty to the students appearing for the entrance test. 17. We accept the submission which has been urged on behalf of the petitioner and direct that in future, the guidelines which shall be applicable for the facilities which should be extended to PwD candidates are to be notifi ed suffi ciently in advance and, in any event, together with 474 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the advertisement by which the schedule for the CLAT is placed in the public domain. This would ensure that candidates are not left in a state of uncertainty and know precisely the nature of the facilities and reasonable accommodation which has been made available to them consistent with the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016. 18. During the course of hearing, Mr Nikhil Nayyar, senior counsel has placed certain suggestions on the record. Mr Nayyar states that some of these suggestions have already been incorporated in the interim directions of this Court dated 15 December 2022 as well as in the guidelines of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment dated 10 August 2022.