A Shreya Bhojnagarwala, Abhishek Chaudhary, Abhishek Sharma, Mrs. Anchal Sharma, Ms. Chanda Trikha, Vivek Bansall, Vineet Bhagat, Ajay Kumar Singh, Ms. Manju Bhagat, Ms. Archna Midha, Mohit Gulati, Mrs. Anil Katiyar, Ritesh Agrawal, Tripurari Ray, Balwant Singh Billowria, Atul Wadera, Anirudh Ray, Nithyananda Murthy P., Ms. Bhanu Prabha, Vivekanand Singh, Ms. Shilpa Singh, Ajit Pandey, Naresh Kumar, Praveen B Chaturvedi, Subhashree Mohapatra, Ms. Jyoti Chaturvedi, Tejaswi Kumar Pradhan, Manoranjan Paikaray, Aniruddha Purushotham, Mohan Prasad Gupta, A. N. Arora, Jatin Zaveri, Abhinav Agrawal, Ms. Shweta Garg, Kishan Chand Jain, E. C. Agrawala, Ajay Yadav, Sushant Kumar Yadav, Prateek Yadav, Jaidev Yadav, Prithvi Yadav, Gaurav Lomes, Ankur Yadav, C Rajeev Kumar Dubey, Ashiwan Mishra, Ms. Priya Gaur, Kamlendra Mishra, T. Mahipal, Shaswat Anand, Prabhat Ranjan Raj, Gunjesh Ranjan, Rameshwar Prasad Goyal, Anurag Tomar, Chandra Shekhar, Devendra Sharma, Prashant Shekhar, Yogesh Pachaori, Sanjay Kumar Tyagi, Ashwani Saini, Ms. Harshita Raghuvanshi, Vinay Kumar Sah, M/ s. V. Maheshwari & Co., Mrs. Priyanka Swami, Ms. Sangeeta Singh, D Abhisth Kumar, Himanshu Shekhar Tripathi, Ambuj Dixit, T. N. Singh, Vikas Kumar Singh, Ms. Rajshree Singh, Dr. Sham Chand, Vikram Singh, Kunal Verma, Shantanu Sagar, Sidharth Sarthi, Mrs. Divya Mishra, Anil Kumar, Gunjesh Ranjan, Shashi Bhushan, Karan Chahar, Vinay Garg, Ms. Pooja Chahar, Ms. Shweta Garg, Advs. for the appearing parties. E The of the Court was delivered by M. R. SHAH, J. 1. As common question of law and facts arise in this group of appeals, all these appeals are decided and disposed of together, by this common and . F 2. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned (s) and (s) passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad passed in the respective writ petitions, by which the High Court has quashed and set aside the various demand notices raised by the respective Development Authorities and the State of UP, the G Development Authorities and the State of U.P. have preferred the present appeals. 2.1 Some of the appeals have been preferred by the original writ petitioners challenging the interim s passed by the High Court in the respective writ petitions refusing to stay the demand notices, however, H MATHURA VRINDAVAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & 903 ANOTHER v. RAJESH SHARMA AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] subject to the outcome of the proceedings pending before this Court A which are being disposed of by this common and and directing the respective Development Authorities that in case the decision in the present proceedings is against the Development Authorities/State of U.P., they shall refund the amount of various fees collected with 6% interest per annum. B 2.2 By the impugned (s) and (s), the High Court has set aside the various demand notices except the levy of development fees/charges. However, so far as Civil Appeal No. 4489 of 2014 (State of U.P. v. Rekha Rani & Others) is concerned, the High Court has even set aside the levy/demand of development charges/fees also. C 3. The dispute before the High Court by way of various writ petitions was with respect to challenge to the various demand notices by way of external/internal development charges, inspection fee/supervision fee while granting of sanction layout plan, development charges, sub- division charges, stacking charges and impact fee etc.