It was also observed that the “suit land” C was never used as a burial ground and that the burial ground must have been on part of T.S. 2253 and the two sites stand separated by a trunk road. 14. Not satisfied by the decision of the writ court, the claimant A.Ramaswamy Chettiar along with some others preferred writ appeals D before the Division Bench. The writ appeals were dismissed vide and dated 12.01.1965 but with the following observation: “… in each of these cases, we would commend the claim of the concerned petitioner to a recognition by government, of his right to continue in possession under section 19A of E Madras Act 26 of 1948, subject, of course to all consideration that could be urged to the contrary effect by the Muslim Burial Ground Committee, or any person interested in claiming, even at present time the communal user or nature of the property in question. Further, our remarks are subject to the condition that the petitioners claiming under section 19A of Act 26 of F 1948 are bonafide alienees for value, who have taken such properties and put them to private uses, in the genuine belief that they were dealing with land in the private ownership of vendors from the Zamindar and not with communal land. The erection of buildings thereon by these persons may also be G considered as evidence of bonafides and a fact entitling them, on equitable considerations to the benefit of action under section 19A of the Act.” 15. The above observation and direction of the Division Bench is the bone of contention leading to the present appeals. H 394 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 16. The aforesaid direction of the Division Bench was not questioned by any party in any higher forum or even otherwise rather the appellant Committee herein accepted the said by participating in the consequential proceedings without any reservation. 17. The Director of Survey and Settlement on the strength of the B above directions of the Division Bench of the High Court initiated proceedings under Section 19A of the Abolition Act and finally accepted the claims set up by claimants A.Ramaswamy Chettiar and others vide dated 31.01.1975. It was held that they have purchased the “suit land” for valuable consideration from persons who occupied the “suit land” for a very long time and that it was not required for the purposes C of burial. 18. Aggrieved by the decision of the Director of Survey and Settlement conferring rights upon claimants under Section 19A of the Abolition Act, the appellant Committee preferred revision before the Commissioner of Land Revenue, Madras. It was dismissed on D 20.04.1976. The Revenue department issued G.O.Ms.No.453 dated 14.03.1990, accepting and confirming the of the Director of Survey and Settlement allowing the claimants respondents to remain in possession over the “suit land”. At this stage, the appellant Committee invoked the writ jurisdiction of the High Court by filing writ petition No.6300 of 1990 E challenging the Government issued by the Revenue department.