8. The of rejection dated 22nd December, 2006 was assailed in the writ petitionand s were sought seeking (i) deletion of adverse entries regarding the sales tax liability of Regent and Eastman; (ii) direction upon the tehsildar to mutate the subject property, after quashing H 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of the dated 22nd December 2006;and (iii) declaring the action of the excise and taxation officeras illegal, unjust and without the authority of law. 9. Upon a contested hearing, a Division Bench of the High Court allowed the writ petition on terms noted above in paragraph 2 supra. B 10. We consider it appropriate to reproduce certain other paragraphs from the impugned dated 7th September, 2007, hereunder:- “Undoubtedly, Section 16-B of the Tax Act also contains a non-obstante clause, which makes the amount of tax payable C by a dealer to be a first charge on the property of the dealer. There is, thus, obviously a conflict between the provisions of the two statutes. The powers are absolute and in view of the non obstante clause contained in Section 35 of the Act, would have an overriding D effect over all inconsistent provisions contained in any other law. The Act being a special statute, enacted later in point in time and that too by the Central Government (sic, Parliament), in our view, would override the inconsistent provisions contained in the Tax Act. This is in the scheme of constitutional provisions also. Therefore, the Bank is well within its right to E take over the property and sell the same notwithstanding the 1st charge of the State on the property of the dealer. The issue needs to be examined from another perspective. Under the provisions of the Tax Act, the Assessing Authority is required to assess the amount of tax due from the dealer on F the basis of returns filed. If the Assessing Authority is not satisfied that the returns furnished are correct and complete or that no returns have been filed at all he shall serve a notice, give an opportunity of hearing and as the case may arise, adopt the best method and assess the amount of tax G due from the dealer. This is so provided under section 14 of the Tax Act. The amount so assessed is required to be paid by the assessee within the time stipulated in the notice to be issued by the Assessing Authority, failing which the amount due is recoverable as arrears of land revenue as provided for under section 16, which, however, in view of non obstante clause H STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. M/S A.J. 781 INFRASTRUCTURES PVT. LTD [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] contained in section 16A comes into operation only after the A dealer failed to pay the amount due when a notice in writing is issued to him. Now, in the present case no notice of demand, as stipulated under section 14(7) or section 16A has been issued to any of the dealers.The action of respondent no.