(xiii) sister, (xiv) brother’s son and daughter, (xv) sister’s son and daughter, (xvi) father’s father and mother, (xvii) mother’s father and mother, (xviii) father’s brother and sister, (xix) mother’s brother and sister, and (b) wherever the relation is that of a son, daughter, sister or brother, their spouses shall also be included;] 45.1. From the above, it is evident that a person who is a relative of the individual or a relative of the spouse of the individual would be a ‘related party’ in relation to that individual. That apart, a private company or a public company in which the individual is a director and holds along with relatives more than two percent of its share capital or paid up share capital, as the case may be, would be a ‘related party’ in relation to an individual. Further, as per the explanation, both maternal and paternal uncles would be covered within the defi nition of ‘related party’. 46. Section 29A of the Code mentions persons not eligible to be a resolution applicant. Section 29A reads as follows: - 29-A. Persons not eligible to be resolution applicant.—A person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan, if such person, or any other person acting jointly or in concert with such person,— (a) is an undischarged insolvent; (b) is a wilful defaulter in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949); (c) [at the time of submission of the resolution plan has an account,] or an account of a corporate debtor under the management or control of such person or of whom such person is a promoter, classifi ed as non-performing asset in accordance with the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India issued under the Banking Regulation Act, 1949 (10 of 1949) [or the guidelines of a fi nancial sector regulator issued under EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 899 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] any other law for the time being in force,] and at least a period of one year has lapsed from the date of such classifi cation till the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process of the corporate debtor: Provided that the person shall be eligible to submit a resolution plan if such person makes payment of all overdue amounts with interest thereon and charges relating to non-performing asset accounts before submission of resolution plan: [Provided further that nothing in this clause shall apply to a resolution applicant where such applicant is a fi nancial entity and is not a related party to the corporate debtor. Explanation I.—For the purposes of this proviso, the expression “related party” shall not include a fi nancial entity, regulated by a fi nancial sector regulator, if it is a fi nancial creditor of the corporate debtor and is a related party of the corporate debtor solely on account of conversion or substitution of debt into equity shares or instruments convertible into equity shares [or completion of such transactions as may be prescribed,] prior to the insolvency commencement date.