175. As argued by the respondent power generating companies appearing through Mr Rohatgi, Mr Singhvi, Mr Mukherjee and Ms Anand respectively, LPS is only payable when payment against monthly bills is delayed and not otherwise. D 176. The object of LPS is to enforce and/or encourage timely payment of charges by the procurer i.e. the appellant. In other words, LPS dissuades the procurer from delaying payment of charges. The rate of LPS has no bearing or impact on tariff. Changes in the basis of the rates of LPS do not affect the rate at E which power was agreed to be sold and purchased under the power purchase agreements. The principle of restitution under the change in law provisions of the power purchase agreements are attracted in respect of tariff. 177. LPS cannot be equated with carrying cost or actual cost F incurred for the supply of power. The appellant has a contractual obligation to make timely payment of the invoices raised by the power generating companies, subject, of course, to scrutiny and verification of the same. Mr Mukul Rohatgi has a point that if the funding cost was so much lesser than the rate of LPS, as contended G by the appellant, the appellant could have raised funds at a lower rate of interest, made timely payment of the invoices raised by the power generating companies, and avoided LPS. 178. The proposition that courts cannot rewrite a contract mutually executed between the parties, is well settled. The Court cannot, H through its interpretative process, rewrite or create a new contract GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 227 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] between the parties. The Court has to simply apply the terms and A conditions of the agreement as agreed between the parties, as observed by this Court in Shree Ambica Medical Stores v. Surat People’s Coop. Bank [Shree Ambica Medical Stores v. Surat People’s Coop. Bank Ltd., (2020) 13 SCC 564, para 20] , cited by Ms Divya Anand. This appeal is an attempt to renegotiate the B terms of the PPA, as argued by Ms Divya Anand as also other counsel. It is well settled that courts cannot substitute their own view of the presumed understanding of commercial terms by the parties, if the terms are explicitly expressed. The explicit terms of a contract are always the final word with regard to the intention of the parties, as held by this Court in Nabha Power C Ltd. v. Punjab SPCL [Nabha Power Ltd. v. Punjab SPCL, (2018) 11 SCC 508, paras 45 and 72 : (2018) 5 SCC (Civ) 1], cited by Ms Anand.” 121. This Court has clearly held that the DISCOMS have a contractual obligation to make timely payment of the invoices raised by D the power generating companies, subject to scrutiny and verification of the same. This Court has rejected the contention that the funding cost was much lesser than the rate of LPS. This Court has reiterated the proposition that the courts cannot rewrite a contract which is executed between the parties.