A member of the coparcenary has a right to demand partition. Until partition, the property is jointly owned by all, and individual shares cannot be predicated by coparceners. The principles enunciated in Ghamandi Ram (supra) were analysed and formulated in Controller of Estate Duty, Madras v. Alladi Kuppuswamy38,where the Court held: “33. …a Hindu coparcenary has six essential characteristics, namely, (1) that the lineal male descendants up to the third generation acquire an independent right of ownership by birth and not as representing their ancestors; (2) that the members of the coparcenary have the right to work out their rights by demanding partition; (3) that until partition, 38 (1977) 3 SCC 385 REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 345 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] each member has got ownership extending over the entire property conjointly with the rest and so long as no partition takes place, it is diffi cult for any coparcener to predicate the share which he might receive; (4) that as a result of such co-ownership the possession and enjoyment of the property is common; (5) that there can be no alienation of the property without the concurrence of the other coparceners unless it be for legal necessity; and (6) that the interest of a deceased member lapses on his death and merges in the coparcenary property.” 25. In State of Maharashtra v. Narayan Rao Sham Rao Deshmukh39, this Court while reiterating that a Hindu coparcenary is a narrower body than a joint family observed: “40… “৯…Only males who acquire by birth an interest in the joint or coparcenary property can be members of the coparcenary or coparceners. A male member of a joint family and his sons, grandsons and great grandsons constitute a coparcenary. A coparcener acquires right in the coparcenary property by birth but his right can be defi nitely ascertained only when a partition takes place. When the family is joint, the extent of the share of a coparcener cannot be defi nitely predicated since it is always capable of fl uctuating. It increases by the death of a coparcener and decreases on the birth of a coparcener. A joint family, however, may consist of female members. It may consist of a male member, his wife, his mother and his unmarried daughters.” The Court noted that the property of a joint family does not cease to belong to the family merely because only a single male member is left in the family. The Court elaborated on the distinction between the position in Mitakshara Hindu law and Dayabhaga law, observing: “40… 8… While under the Mitakshara Hindu law there is community of ownership and unity of possession of joint family property with all 39 (1985) 2 SCC 321 346 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the members of the coparcenary, in a coparcenary governed by the Dayabhaga law, there is no unity of ownership of coparcenary property with the members thereof. Every coparcener takes a defi ned share in the property and he is the owner of that share.