The Maharaja stated that while Pakistan had, responding to his request, entered into a Standstill Agreement with the State, the Dominion of India desired further discussion which could not be arranged by him in view of the grave developments which took place as elucidated in his letter. The Pakistan government, he noted, “permitted steady and increasing strangulation of supplies like food, salt and petrol” to Jammu and Kashmir in spite of the Standstill Agreement. The letter of the Maharaja spoke of the grave danger to the security and existence of Jammu and Kashmir occasioned by the infi ltration of soldiers in plain clothes who were threatening to capture Srinagar. The letter contains a statement of the position which the State of Jammu and Kashmir was confronted with, in the following extracts: “Afridis, soldiers in plain clothes, and desperadoes with modern weapons have been allowed to infl iter into the State at fi rst in Poonch and then in Sialkot and fi nally in mass area adjoining Hazara District on the Ramkot side. The result has been that the limited number of troops at the disposal of the State had to be dispersed and thus had to face the enemy at the several points simultaneously, that it has become diffi cult to stop the wanton destruction of life and property and looting. The Mohara power-house which supplies the electric current to the whole of Srinagar has been burnt. The number of women who have been kidnapped and raped and makes my heart bleed. The wild forces thus let loose on the State are marching on with the aim of capturing Srinagar, the summer Capital of my Government, as fi rst step to over running the whole State. The mass infi ltration tribesman drawn from the distant areas of the North-\Vest Frontier coming regularly in motor trucks using Mansehra- Muzaff arabad Road and fully armed with up-to-date weapons cannot possibly be done without the knowing of the Provincial Government of the North-West Frontier Province and the Government of Pakistan. In spite of repeated requests made by my Government no attempt has been made to check these raiders or stop them from coming to my State. The Pakistan Radio even put out a story that a Provisional Government has been set up in Kashmir.” IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 143 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 235. The Maharaja sought help and recognised that India would be able to lend assistance only if the State of Jammu and Kashmir acceded to India: “I have accordingly decided to do so and I attach the Instrument of Accession for acceptance by your Government. The other alternative is to leave my State and my people to free-booters. On this basis no civilized Government can exist or be maintained. The alternative I will never allow to happen as long as I am Ruler of the State and I have life to defend my country.” 236. The off er of accession noted that if the State of Jammu and Kashmir “has to be saved, immediate assistance must be available at Srinagar”.