9.8 Shri Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel for the Bank contended that the withdrawal of all series of bank notes of the two denominations of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- was well B within the jurisdiction and power conferred upon the Bank and the Central Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Actand it is incorrect to say that the process under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Acthad not been followed. Thus, the process cannot be criticized on the C ground of procedural lapse on part of the Bank or the Central Government. 9.9 Learned senior counsel for the Bank further contended that the submission of the petitioners that unless the phrase “any” in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Actis read as “some” D or “one”, the power conferred upon the Bank and the Central Government under the said section would be unguided and arbitrary, is without any basis. It was submitted that the expression “any” when construed literally refers to one, several or all of a total number. Thus, the expression “any” used in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Actis broad E enough to include “all”, and consequently, the power of the Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Actis not limited merely to a specific set or”series” alone. It was thus contended that sub-section (2) of Section 26 of theAct is an enabling provision conferring authority on the Central F Government to declare that any series of bank notes of any denomination shall cease to be legal tender on the recommendation of the Central Board. 9.10 Learned senior counsel for the Bank also submitted that the decision of the Central Board of the Bank to recommend the measure of demonetisationand the decision of the G Central Government to accept the recommendation cannot be subject to judicial review. It was further contended that in the sphere of economic policy making, the Wednesbury principles are of no or little significance and that the proportionality principle can also not be applied for judicial H 166 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A review of economic policy. Learned senior counsel thus asserted that it is imperative that no restrictions are placed on economic policies formulated by the Bank or by the Central Government. Reliance was placed on Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. vs. Reserve Bank of India (1992) 2 SCC 343 and BALCO B Employees’ Union (Regd.) vs. Union of India (2002) 2 SCC 333 to contend that courts cannot interfere with economic policy which is the function of experts. 9.11 Learned senior counsel for the Bank further submitted that the contention of the petitioners that the decision-making C process was faulty on account of not following the procedure under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, is without substance. Shri Jaideep Gupta, submitted that the procedure under sub-section (2) of Section 26 contemplates two things i.e., recommendation of the Central Board, and D the decision by the Central Government and that in the present case, both the requirements have been duly followed, thus, the argument advanced on behalf of the petitioners does not hold any water.