In case of royalty, payment is made merely to secure the right to use an asset for a stipulated duration. When the payment of royalty ceases, in most cases, the right to use the asset also ceases. Most often, the amount of royalty to be paid is dependent on the annual sales videCommissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City I vs. CIBA India Ltd., (1968) 69 ITR 692 (SC) (“CIBA India Ltd.”); Modi Revlon Pvt. Ltd.; annual profi ts vide Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Ltd.; or such other variable. Further, in to qualify as royalty, the payment must have no nexus with the acquisition of a capital asset, vide Travancore Sugars and Chemicals Ltd.; Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd. 20.1. The decision of this Court in Gotan Lime is highly instructive while attempting to draw a distinction between payment made to acquire a right, and payment of royalty for use of a right or asset. In the said case, this Court considered the issue as to the classifi cation of the annual payment made by the assessee therein, in lieu of the right to excavate limestone in a certain area. This Court, while holding that the payment in question therein was revenue expenditure, reasoned that the payment was not for securing an enduring advantage but was a royalty payment in to obtain raw material and hence, a revenue expenditure. The pertinent observations of this Court are extracted hereinunder: “We are of the opinion that in the present case the royalty payment is not a direct payment for securing an enduring advantage; it has relation to the raw material to be obtained. Ordinarily, a mining lease provides for a capital sum payment; but the fact that there is no lumpsum payment here cannot by itself lead to the conclusion that C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 459 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] yearly payments to be made under the mining lease have relation to the acquisition of the advantage. No material has been placed on the record as to how any part of the royalty must, in view of the circumstances of the case, be treated as premium and be referable to the acquisition of the mining lease.” The above dictum is clear on the aspect of the distinction between payment made to acquire a right and payment of royalty inasmuch as it lays down in express terms that if a payment is made, not towards securing an enduring advantage or asset, but towards a right to use an asset, the same would be royalty. It has further been stated in no unclear terms that where a payment is not referrable to the acquisition of a capital asset (particularly, mining lease in the said case), but only secures a right to use the asset, the same would be royalty and hence classifi able as a revenue expenditure. 20.2. Relying on the decision in Gotan Lime, this Court in Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd. while considering a transaction wherein the assessee therein paid: (a) Lump-sum payment to acquire monopoly rights for manufacture of sugar in Udaipur; and (b) payment to the ruler of Udaipur State, at the rate of 2% of the price of the sugar manufactured, held that the payment of the 2% royalty on the price of sugar manufactured by the appellant therein had no relationship with the payment referable to the monopoly conferred under the grant and hence, it was in the nature of revenue expenditure.