The entire amount of the value of the ticket cannot be considered as the capital G value for the purpose of setting off the eligible capital investment. We are also of the view that the members who have not commenced their project within the stipulated time limit i.e. on or before 30.11.2002 as envisaged under the subsequent Resolution dated 28.06.2000 by virtue of which those cases have been considered as pipeline cases are not H 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A entitled to the benefit under the Scheme and there is no infirmity in the passed by the respondent authorities while rejecting their representation for extension of time. We are also of the view that the members who are entitled to the benefit of the Scheme are entitled to claim only the amount of capital investment made by them within the stipulated time limit i.e. B 30.11.2002. If any expenditure incurred by them subsequent to this time limit or investment made by them in such eligible project after 30.11.2002 cannot be considered as an eligible investment. The respondent authorities are, therefore, directed to give effect to this and and decide each C case as per the directions issued here in this and raise the demand against the petitioners. The demand so raised will have to be paid by the members of the Association within six weeks from thereof.” 11. Mr. S.K. Bagaria, learned Senior Advocate for the State of Gujarat argued that a conjoint reading of Sections 3 and 29 of the Gujarat D Entertainment Tax Act, 1977 clarifies that eligible units were granted exemption from payment of tax and that owners were required to charge only amounts towards payment for admission to entertainment which meant that no tax was actually collected. Therefore, if any unit or multiplex collected tax which it did not pass on to the state, that would E not only be contrary to the public interest but would amount to unjust enrichment. 12. It was submitted that the impugned is in error in not appreciating that under Section 29 any entertainment or class of entertainment can be fully and partially exempted from payment of tax F and that tax exemptions are given for a particular period, and multiplex and theaters’ owners were not allowed to collect taxes. The inclusion of element of tax, meant that they were allowed to retain such amounts. Therefore, the state was justified in urging the method of calculation whereby the tax element was added to the amount already collected, for the purpose of determining the exemption units. G 13. Mr. Maninder Singh, learned counsel for the respondent(s)/ multiplex owners on the other hand urged that in the absence of any mechanism to determine the limit of exemption i.e. equivalent to 100% of the capital investment: which is an objective determinable fact, - having regard to the books of accounts and the documents available with the H multiplex owners, a feasible and reasonable method had to be taken into THE STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS.