The court in a given case, may not take cognizance of the offence for a particular period of time even after filing of the final report. In such circumstance, the accused concerned cannot claim their indefeasible right under Section 167(2) of G the CrPC for being released on default bail. What is contemplated under Section 167(2) of the CrPC is that the Magistrate or designated Court (as the case may be) has no powers to detention of the accused beyond the period of 180 days or 90 days or 60 days as the case may be. If the investigation is concluded within the prescribed period, no right accrues to the accused concerned to be released on bail under the proviso H to Section 167(2) of the CrPC. JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 33 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 44. Once a final report has been filed with all the documents on A which the prosecution proposes to rely, the investigation shall be deemed to have been completed. After completing investigation and submitting a final report to the Court, the investigating officer can send a copy of the final report along with the evidence collected and other materials to the sanctioning authority to enable the sanctioning authority to apply his mind B to accord sanction. According sanction is the duty of the sanctioning authority who is not connected with the investigation at all. In case the sanctioning authority takes some time to accord sanction, that does not vitiate the final report filed by the investigating agency before the Court. Section 173 of the CrPC does not speak about the sanction at all. Section 167 of the CrPC also speaks only about investigation and not C about cognizance by the Magistrate. Therefore, once a final report has been filed, that is the proof of completion of investigation and if final report is filed within the period of 180 days or 90 days or 60 days from the initial date of remand of accused concerned, he cannot claim that a right has accrued to him to be released on bail for want of filing of D sanction . 45. Section 173(5) of the CrPC, of course, requires all the documents or the relevant extracts thereof on which the prosecution proposes to rely on, to accompany the final report. Sanction cannot be brought within the category of those documents contemplated under E clause (5) to Section 173 of the CrPC. The grant of sanction is altogether a different act to be performed by the Government concerned under Section 45 of the UAPA. 46. In the case of Central Bureau of Investigation v. R.S. Pai and Another reported in (2002) 5 SCC 82, it was observed by this Court F that “…it cannot be held that the additional documents cannot be produced subsequently. If some mistake is committed in not producing the relevant documents at the time of submitting the report or the charge-sheet, it is always open to the investigating officer to produce the same with the permission of the court.” It was further observed that “….the word “shall” used in sub-section (5) cannot be G interpreted as mandatory, but as directory.