Adjudication of certain categories of proceedings are reserved by the legislature exclusively for public fora as a matter of public policy. Certain other categories of cases, though not expressly reserved for adjudication by public fora (courts and tribunals), may by necessary implication stand excluded from the purview of private fora. Consequently, where the cause/dispute is inarbitrable, the court where a suit is pending, will refuse to refer the parties to arbitration, under Section 8 of the Act, even if the parties might have agreed upon arbitration as the forum for settlement of such disputes.” 11. Thereafter, this Court in Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corpn., (2021) 2 SCC 1, laid down a fourfold test for determining when the subject-matter of a dispute in an arbitration agreement is not arbitrable. These were: “(1) When cause of action and subject-matter of the dispute relates to actions in rem, that do not pertain to subordinate rights in personam that arise from rights in rem. (2) When cause of action and subject-matter of the dispute aff ects third-party rights; have erga omnes eff ect; require centralised adjudication, and mutual adjudication would not be appropriate and enforceable. (3) When cause of action and subject-matter of the dispute relates to inalienable sovereign and public interest functions of the State and hence mutual adjudication would be unenforceable. SUSHMA SHIVKUMAR DAGA & ANR. v. MADHURKUMAR 917 RAMKRISHNAJI BAJAJ & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] (4) When the subject-matter of the dispute is expressly or by necessary implication non-arbitrable as per mandatory statute(s).” Nevertheless, the case before the Civil Court does not fall in any of the categories, visualised in either Booz Allen (supra) or Vidya Drolia (supra) referred above. 12. In Vidya Drolia (supra), this Court has held that Court will only decline reference under Section 8 or under Section 11 of the Act in rare cases where the Court is certain that either the arbitration agreement is non-existent, or the dispute is itself “manifestly non-arbitrable”. This was reiterated by this Court in NTPC Ltd. v. SPML Infra Ltd. (2023) 9 SCC 385. 13. In BSNL v. Nortel Networks (2021) 5 SCC 738, this court had held that reference to the Arbitral Tribunal can be declined by the Court, only if the dispute is non-arbitrable. For example, consumer disputes which are entirely diff erent nature of disputes, statutorily protected under a special legislation. (Smt. M. Hemalatha Devi & Ors. v. B. Udayasri 2023 INSC 870). 14. In any case, Section 16 of the Arbitration Act gives immense powers to the Arbitral Tribunal, including power to rule on its own jurisdiction. Section 16 of the Arbitration Act reads as under: “16. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction.—(1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,— (a) an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract; and (b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause.