2(b) . [Paras 72, 73, 76-77 and 116(ii)] Contempt of Court Act, 1971 – Contempt of court – Transfer of suit property in contempt proceedings – Power of the contempt court to declare any contemptuous transactions non est or void: 1066 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Held: Though the transfer of the suit property pendente lite may not be termed as void ab initio yet when the court is looking into such transfers in contempt proceedings the court can defi nitely declare such transactions to be void in to maintain the majesty of law – Apart from punishing the contemnor, the majesty of law may demand that appropriate directions be issued by the court either for reversal of the transactions by declaring the said transactions to be void or proceed to pass appropriate directions to the concerned authorities to ensure that the contumacious conduct on the part of the contemnor does not continue to enure to the advantage of the contemnor or anyone claiming under him – On facts, the High Court justifi ed in declaring all the sale deeds executed by the contemnors in favour of the purchasers as non est; and that the sale deeds stand cancelled and set aside – Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s. 52. [Paras 88, 89 and 116(iii)] Contempt of Court Act, 1971 – Contempt of court – Contempt proceedings – Impleadment of benefi ciaries of any contumacious transaction as necessary parties: Held: Benefi ciaries of any contumacious transaction have no right or locus to be heard in the contempt proceedings on the ground that they are bona fi de purchasers of the property for value without notice and thus, are necessary parties – Contempt is between the court and the contemnor and no third party can involve itself into the same – It was not necessary for the High Court to implead the purchasers in the contempt proceedings – Purchasers were quietly watching the proceedings – It is not as if they were not aware of what was happening however, when things went wrong, they now cry foul of not being impleaded as parties and heard by the High Court – Necessary parties. [Paras 97 and 116(iv)] Contempt of Court Act, 1971 – s. 12 – Punishment for contempt of court – Apology tendered by the contemnors – Acceptance of: Held: Apology tendered should not be accepted as a matter of course and the court is not bound to accept the same – Apology may be unconditional, unqualifi ed and bona fi de, still if the conduct is serious, which has caused damage to the dignity of the institution, the same should not be accepted – There ought not to be a tendency by courts, to show compassion when disobedience of an undertaking or an is with impunity and with total consciousness – All throughout the proceedings before the High BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1067 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. Court, the stance of the appellants was that they committed a big mistake by executing the sale deeds despite having given a clear-cut undertaking to the court that they would not do so – In such circumstances, the appellants pleaded before the High Court that their apology may be accepted and they may be discharged from the proceedings – Though the apology was tendered before the High Court in the fi rst instance, yet such apology does not deserve to be accepted and was rightly not accepted by the High Court.