If this is so, then we have no option but to reject the writ petitions of all the petitioners. 75. In our view, the case of the petitioners in Writ Petition (C) Nos. 705 and 764 fails additionally, for being directly covered by the in Gaurav Singh’scase (supra). 76. In T. Jayakumar vs. A. Gopu and Another, (2008) 9 SCC 403, it has been held that the defect in the application form which renders the candidate ineligible even if overlooked in the initial screening and even if the candidate is called for the interview, does not dis-entitle the examining body to hold the candidate ineligible for selection at a later stage, once the defect in the application comes to light. 77. Shri K. Parameshwar, learned counsel, who appeared for the petitioners in W.P. (C) Nos. 705 and 764 has submitted that the communications by the UPSC asking them to make up the defi ciencies and to produce the certifi cate on the date of the Personality Test should be treated as waiver of the rules. He submitted that the communications are a clear indicia to construe Rules 13, 27 & 28 as directory. We are not impressed with the submission. The communications do not guarantee the petitioners’ that their candidature would be accepted as valid. In any event, these communications cannot be understood de hors the rules. 78. The rules clearly mandate and as has been held in the case of Gaurav Singh (supra), any mistake/omission/ negligence cannot be condoned so as to extend the deadline for production of the documents. Neither the Offi ce Memorandum nor the rules in question can be construed as directory. They prescribe clearly the eligibility criterion and the date before which the certifi cate should be possessed and the date before which the certifi cate should be submitted. They also prescribe the consequence for the omission. As the old ditty goes for a want of a horseshoe nail, kingdoms have been lost. Here we are dealing with crucial documents 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. determining eligibility. The petitioners who did not possess the valid documentation determining their eligibility, before the prescribed cut- off date, cannot complain, if their claim for categorization as EWS was rejected. 79. Shri K. Parmeshwar, learned counsel, argued that with regard to four other candidates there has been relaxation inasmuch as they were allowed to rectify the defects in the EWS and I&AC. We asked the UPSC to respond and the response is extracted herein below :- Sl. Roll No. Name Remarks No. Rank Allocated service under EWS 1. 5409703 Ayush Gupta Minor omission in I&AC w.r.t. stamp on the photo of the candidate. The candidate was 180, IAS kept provision a land the DoP&T cleared his candidature after the omission was made up. 2. 866859 Anunay The I&AC was issued digitally. Subsequently, Anand the candidate submitted the same physically signed with the stamp of the issuing authority 185, IAS hence the candidature was cleared. 3. 834939 Sonam Her I&AC was signed by the Naib Tehsildar and issued by the Sewa Kendra of the DC offi ce, who 237, IAS is the superior authority.