arise out of land and things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth. 68. In the instant case, there exists no dispute between the parties that for conversion of one bigha, out of 3 bighas of the land in dispute, from agricultural to non-agricultural use, application was given, and conversion was made after charging conversion fee, etc. This fact clearly demonstrates that the land in dispute was agricultural land and was recorded as such in the Jamabandi (i.e., record of rights). In so far as that one bigha of land, which was converted to non-agricultural use, is concerned, no dispute survives as the appellant gave up its claim to it and the trial court passed a decree in respect thereof, which has attained fi nality. The dispute which survives is confi ned to that 2 bighas of the disputed land, which remained agricultural land. 69. Section 207 of the 1955 Act provides: “207. Suits and applications cognizable by revenue court only— (1) All suits and application of the nature specifi ed in the Third Schedule shall be heard and determined by a revenue court. (2) No court other than a revenue court shall take cognizance of any such suit or application or of any suit or application based on a cause of action in respect of which any relief could be obtained by means of any such suit or application. Explanation — If the cause of action is one in respect of which relief might be granted by the revenue court, it is immaterial that the relief asked for from the civil court is greater than, or additional to, or is not identical with, that which the revenue court could have granted.” 70. Section 256 of the 1955 Act reads: “S.256. Bar to jurisdiction of civil courts. – (1) Save as otherwise provided specifi cally by or under this Act, no suit or proceeding shall lie in any civil court with respect to any matter arising under this Act or the rules made thereunder, for which a remedy by way of suit, application, appeal or otherwise is provided therein. URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 579 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (2) Save as aforesaid no by the State Government or by any revenue court or offi cer in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act or the rules made thereunder shall be liable to be questioned in any civil court.” 71. In Pyarelal v. Shubhendra Pilania29 this Court, by relying on earlier decision of this Court in Bank of Baroda v. Moti Bai30, held that Section 207 read with Section 256 of the 1955 Act bars the jurisdiction of the civil courts in respect of suits and applications of the nature specifi ed in the Third Schedule of the 1955 Act. 72. The Third Schedule of the 1955 Act, gives a list of suits, applications and appeals which could be maintained under the Act. Entry 8A provides that a suit for injunction could be fi led before the Court of Assistant Collector within a period of three years from the date the cause of action arises.