(2) The Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director or any other offi cer shall, immediately after arrest of such person under sub- section (1), forward a copy of the along with the material in his possession, referred to in that sub-section, to the Adjudicating Authority in a sealed envelope, in the manner, as may be prescribed and such Adjudicating Authority shall keep such and material for such period, as may be prescribed. (3) Every person arrested under sub-section (1) shall, within twenty- four hours, be taken to a 1[Special Court or] Judicial Magistrate or a Metropolitan Magistrate, as the case may be, having jurisdiction: Provided that the period of twenty-four hours shall exclude the time necessary for the journey from the place of arrest to the 1[Special Court or] Magistrate’s Court.” SUBMISSIONS BY THE LEARNED COUNSELS: - 8. The Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi placing heavy reliance on the recent decision of this Court in Pankaj Bansal vs. Union of India and Others1, submitted that mere informing the accused (the appellant herein) orally about the grounds of arrest and making him read the same and obtaining his signature thereon, and not furnishing in writing the grounds of arrest to the accused has been held to be not in consonance 1 (2023) SCC Online SC 1244 750 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. with the provisions contained in Section 19(1) of the PMLA. He further submitted that taking note of the inconsistent practice being followed by the offi cers of the respondent-ED, it has been directed that it would be necessary henceforth that a copy of such written grounds of arrest is furnished to the arrested person as a matter of course and without exception. According to him, the said direction was the reiteration of the principle or doctrine already existing and also stated in V. Senthil Balaji Vs. State represented by Deputy Director and Others2 and therefore the said decision in Pankaj Bansal case (supra) is required to be applied retrospectively though the word ‘henceforth’ has been used. To buttress his submission, Mr. Singhvi has relied upon the in Assistant Commissioner, Income Tax, Rajkot vs. Saurashtra Kutch Stock Exchange Limited3, in which it was opined that a judicial decision acts retrospectively. 9. Per contra, the learned ASG, Mr. S. V. Raju vehemently submitted that the decision in case of Pankaj Bansal (supra) was per incuriam, as the two-Judge Bench in the said case had deviated from the position of law settled by the prior three-Judge Bench in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary and Others vs. Union of India and Others4 with respect to the compliance of the provisions of Section 19 of PMLA. He also submitted that a bench of two judges cannot overlook or ignore a binding precedent of larger or even co-equal bench dealing with the issue, otherwise the two- judge bench decision would fall in the category of per incuriam, in view of the decision in case of Sundeep Kumar Bafna vs. State of Maharashtra and Another5. He further submitted that at the most the direction contained in paragraph 35 of the Pankaj Bansal case (supra) to furnish the grounds of arrest in writing, would be applicable “henceforth” as mentioned therein, meaning thereby it would have the prospective and not retrospective eff ect as sought to be submitted on behalf of the appellant.