B 121. The argument of the respondent appears to be as follows: The execution of a gift deed acts as a safety valve or a safeguard to check the possibility that the developer would resile from the assurance or violate the guarantee that the land, which is reserved as an open space, will not be constructed upon. In other words, if the execution of C the gift deed is insisted upon to ensure that in the future, there would not be any contravention of the requirement, inter alia, that the area be used as an open space, then, the complaint, which is lodged against the impugned Rule, as also the Regulation, may not stand scrutiny. In regard to the impugned Regulation, it must be borne in mind, as we have already D noticed that in the additional affidavit filed by the Writ Petitioner in Writ Petition (C) No. 591 of 2015, the challenge in the writ petition has been limited to the latter part of the provision, i.e., the requirement to transfer free-of-cost, through a registered gift deed, the 10 per cent recreational area reserved for recreational purposes only and not the space set apart for roads. Here, we must observe that as already found by us, that there E is no challenge toRegulation 29(6). The writ petitioner does not seek to, bring under a cloud, Regulation 29(7)(a) otherwise. 122. The result of the above discussion is as follows: We must proceed on the basis that Regulation 29(6) holds good. This means that when the layout is above 10,000 square meters, F reservation of 10 per cent for recreational purposes has to be made. Regulation 29(6)(a) stipulates that the land for the communal and recreational purposes, is to be restricted to the ground level and in a shape and location to be specified by the Authority. It is also to be reserved free from any construction. Therefore, the reservation, which is mandated G in terms of Regulation 29(6)(a), and which cannot be a subject matter of a claim for compensation under Section 39 of the Act, is to become the subject matterof the gift deed. The execution of the gift deed, if it is understood as merely as an insurmountable obstacle for an unscrupulous developer to get around the laudable mandate to preserve the requisite H 1130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A area as open space, cannot be rendered vulnerable. Even if, no gifts were to be executed, the property covered by the open space requirement, would be put beyond the domain and control of the developer. Future generations of successors-in-interest or anyone, who claims under him, will be effectively prevented from setting up any claim over the area. Viewed in this perspective and understanding the gift as not conferring B ownership of the area comprised in the open space, we would think that the impugned provisions would pass muster. It would prevent any kind of abuse. It is clear that the Regulation, properly understood, prescribe for the open space and merely provides for the facilitation and preservation of the open space.