21.8 We fi nd that none of these witnesses, eye-witnesses as they may be, to have established beyond reasonable doubt, the guilt of the accused persons. There is a contradiction in testimonies in regard to the number of persons who formed part of the unlawful assembly- one witness testifi ed the presence of 50-60 persons while others testifi ed to the group being of 25-30 persons; there is no clarity as to how the deceased ended up in the lands of PW11 - a material contradiction between two supposed eye-witnesses, PW3 and PW15. PW3 in his Examination in Chief stated that he had signed the mahazar, but, in his cross-examination, it was stated that he was not able to read/write. No reasons stand supplied for his presence at the scene of the incident- neither is he a resident of the village, nor does he have lands in said village. Further, the reasons for him being examined thrice, are left to imagination. Similarities, diff erences in such statements, if any, have not been brought forth. After all, it is also well-settled that a testimony cannot be given value, in isolation. It does not apply to logic that a person who is not a resident of the village would visit the spot only to see as to what is happening, whereas the other close relative(s) have attempted to fl ee from the scene. We notice that the police had thrice made enquiries from him and recorded his statements. Why is it so? Is left to the imagination. His version that the accused had said “this fellow has come to end now and come let us go” is not recorded in his previous statement in which he was confronted. It has to be read as a whole. It is evident from a bare perusal of the testimony of PW15 that the deceased was seen by him in an already injured state, meaning thereby that he has not actually witnessed the accused persons assaulting the deceased. Therefore, his status as an ocular witness is rendered questionable. PW2 has deposed that he had seen a large group of people approaching from the direction of the village towards the 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. lands where they were and seeing the same, he had proceeded towards the village, i.e., in the opposite direction. PW-4 is the brother of the deceased, but his conduct at best can be described as unusual, or it other words, one that defi es logic. Despite being a relative, his act, is that of a stranger, i.e., running away from the dispute; leaving the deceased defenceless; he did not accompany the deceased who was in an injured state to the hospital. After all, immediately preceding the instant occurrence was the altercation involving him, and therefore, if the assailants had any motive- the same would be against him, and none else. Having noticed such conduct, we do not fi nd his testimony worthy of credence. 21.9 We cannot, in our considered view, say that this witness, has deposed the truth.