We may, therefore, refer to sub-rule (1A) along with the provisos thereto which read as under: (1A) The allowance under clause (i) of sub-section (1) of section 32 of the Act in respect of depreciation of assets acquired on or after 1st day of April, 1997 shall be calculated at the percentage specifi ed in the second column of the Table in Appendix IA of these rules on the actual cost thereof to the assessee as are used for the purposes of the business of the assessee at any time during the previous year: Provided that the aggregate depreciation allowed in respect of any asset for diff erent assessment years shall not exceed the actual cost of the said asset: Provided further that the undertaking specifi ed in clause (i) of sub- section (1) of section 32 of the Act may, instead of the depreciation specifi ed in Appendix IA, at its option, be allowed depreciation under sub-rule (1) read with Appendix I, if such option is exercised before the due date for furnishing the return of incomes under sub-section (1) of section 139 of the Act, (a) for the assessment year 1998-99, in the case of an undertaking which began to generate power to prior 1st day of April, 1997; and b) for the assessment year relevant to the previous year in which it begins to generate power, in case of any other undertaking : Provided also that any such option once exercised shall be fi nal and shall apply to all the subsequent assessment years. 40.1. Thus, what is noticeable is that as per sub-rule (1A), the allowance under clause (i) of sub-section (1) of Section 32 of the Act in respect of depreciation of assets acquired on or after the 1st day of April, 1997 shall be COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 519 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] calculated at the percentage specifi ed in the second column of the table in Appendix-IA to the Rules. As per the fi rst proviso, the aggregate depreciation of any asset should not exceed the actual cost of that asset. The second proviso says that the undertaking specifi ed in clause (i) of sub-section (1) of Section 32 of the Act may instead of the depreciation specifi ed in Appendix- IA may opt for depreciation under sub-rule (1) read with Appendix-I but such option should be exercised before the due date for furnishing the return of income under sub-section (1) of Section 139 of the Act. The last proviso clarifi es that any such option once exercised shall be fi nal and shall apply to all the subsequent assessment years. 41. Before we proceed further, we may briefl y refer to the relevant Appendix-1 which was applicable for assessment years 1988-1989 to 2002- 2003 as well as to Appendix-1A. Appendix-1 provides for a table of rates at which depreciation is admissible. While the fi rst column refers to the block of assets, such as, tangible assets, including buildings, furniture and fi ttings, machinery and plant etc., and intangible assets, the second column mentions the relatable depreciation allowance as per percentage of WDV.