The relevant observations are reproduced below: “12. Judicial review is not an appeal from a decision but a review of the manner in which the decision is made. Power of judicial review is meant to ensure that the individual receives fair treatment and not to ensure that the conclusion which the authority reaches is necessarily correct in the eye of the court. When an inquiry is conducted on charges of misconduct by a public servant, the Court/Tribunal is concerned to determine whether the inquiry was held by a competent offi cer or whether rules of natural justice are complied with. Whether the fi ndings or conclusions are based on some evidence, the authority entrusted with the power to hold inquiry has jurisdiction, power and authority to reach a fi nding of fact or conclusion. But that fi nding must be based on some evidence. Neither the technical rules of Evidence Act nor of proof of fact or evidence as defi ned therein, apply to disciplinary proceeding. When the authority accepts that evidence and conclusion receives support therefrom, the disciplinary authority is entitled to hold that the delinquent offi cer is guilty of the charge. The Court/Tribunal 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. in its power of judicial review does not act as appellate authority to reappreciate the evidence and to arrive at its own independent fi ndings on the evidence. The Court/Tribunal may interfere where the authority held the proceedings against the delinquent offi cer in a manner inconsistent with the rules of natural justice or in violation of statutory rules prescribing the mode of inquiry or where the conclusion or fi nding reached by the disciplinary authority is based on no evidence. If the conclusion or fi nding be such as no reasonable person would have ever reached, the Court/Tribunal may interfere with the conclusion or the fi nding, and mould the relief so as to make it appropriate to the facts of each case.” (Emphasis supplied) 43. As regards the manner in which the court ought to exercise its powers of judicial review in matters of disciplinary proceedings particularly one pertaining to sexual harassment, this Court in Apparel Export Promotion Council v. A.K. Chopra reported in (1999) 1 SCC 759 observed that the courts should not get swayed by insignifi cant discrepancies or hyper- technicalities. The allegations must be appreciated in the background of the entire case, and the courts must be very cautious before any sympathy or leniency is shown towards the delinquent. It further held that the courts are obliged to rely on any evidence of the complainant that inspires confi dence. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “28. … In a case involving charge of sexual harassment or attempt to sexually molest, the courts are required to examine the broader probabilities of a case and not get swayed by insignifi cant discrepancies or narrow technicalities or the dictionary meaning of the expression “molestation”. They must examine the entire material to determine the genuineness of the complaint.