340. In Puranlal Lakhanpal II (supra), this Court held that the power to make a ‘modifi cation’ in Article 370(1) was not limited. It would include amendments to provisions in their application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir including the power to make radical transformation. Though modifi cation includes the power to amend or radically transform the provision, there are certain implied limits to the power. When the State of Jammu and Kashmir acceded to the Dominion of India and the Maharaja issued a Proclamation ratifying and adopting the Indian Constitution, there was a rupture of monarchic governance and the simultaneous creation of a system of constitutional governance. The State of Jammu and Kashmir by ratifying the Constitution accepted the model of constitutional governance envisaged by the Indian Constitution. Accession to India could not be merely a matter of territorial integration to India without constitutional integration. Thus, there were certain fundamental precepts or features of the Indian Constitution which could not be abrogated by the exercise of the power of modifi cation under Article 370(1)(d). For instance, there can be no deviation from a democratic form of governance chosen for India. Similarly, it was not open to the State Constituent Assembly to declare that the State of Jammu and Kashmir was an independent sovereign country. The Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir could fi ll in the details and provide a pattern of governance in the state, consistent with the basic precepts of governance under the Constitution of India. Indeed, the pattern of governance in Jammu and Kashmir mirrored the governance under the articles of the Constitution of India. Though Part VI of the Constitution was inapplicable to Jammu and Kashmir, the pattern of constitutional governance under the State Constitution drew upon basic precepts of parliamentary democracy under the Constitution of India. 341. Article 370(1) required the concurrence of the Government of the State and not the concurrence of the Constituent Assembly of the State. Article 370(2) stipulates that “if” the concurrence of the Government of the State is given before the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir is convened, the concurrence shall be placed before the Assembly for its decision. The inclusion of Article 370(2) must be read with reference to the 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Explanation to Article 370. The Explanation states that the Government of the State means the person recognised by the President as the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir acting on the advice of the Council of Ministers “for the time being in offi ce under the Maharaja’s Proclamation dated fi fth day of March 1948.” The Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir by a Proclamation issued on 5 March 1948 appointed Sheikh Abdullah as the Head of Emergency Administration. The Council of Ministers of the Emergency Administration was tasked to convene the National Assembly based on Adult Suff rage. The Proclamation also notes that the National Assembly would be tasked with framing the Constitution of the State. Article 370(2) eff ectively meant that the decision which would be taken by the Government of the State before the Constituent Assembly is convened would be the decision of the emergency administration.