This is the necessary limitation fl owing from the expressions “used by him”, and “by means of self-employment” in the explanation. The ambiguity in the meaning of the words “for the purpose of earning his livelihood” is explained and clarifi ed by the other two sets of words. 15. In Lucknow Development Authority v. M.K. Gupta [(1994) 1 SCC 243] the question was whether a public authority engaged in constructing and selling houses can be said to be rendering a ‘service’ and whether the person purchasing such houses can be called a ‘consumer’ within the meaning of the said defi nition. While answering the question in the affi rmative, a Bench of this Court (Kuldip Singh and R.M. Sahai, JJ.) also examined the scheme and object of the Act and the ambit of the defi nition of the expression ‘consumer’. The following observations are apposite: (SCC pp. 251-54, paras 2 and 3) “To begin with the preamble of the Act, which can aff ord useful assistance to ascertain the legislative intention, it was enacted, ‘to provide for the protection of the interest of consumers’. Use of the word ‘protection’ furnishes key to the minds of makers of the Act. Various defi nitions and provisions which elaborately attempt to achieve this objective have to be construed in this light without departing from the settled view that a preamble cannot control otherwise plain meaning of a provision. In fact the law meets long-felt necessity of protecting the common man from such wrongs for which the remedy under ordinary law for various reasons has become illusory. *** The word ‘consumer’ is a comprehensive expression. It extends from a person who buys any commodity to consume either as eatable or otherwise from a shop, business house, corporation, store, fair price shop to use of private or public services. In Oxford Dictionary a consumer is defi ned as, ‘a purchaser of goods or services’. In Black’s Law Dictionary it is explained to mean, ‘one who consumes. Individuals who purchase, use, maintain, and dispose of products and services. A member of that broad class of people who are aff ected by pricing policies, fi nancing practices, quality of goods and services, ROHIT CHAUDHARY & ANR. v. M/S VIPUL LTD. 405 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] credit reporting, debt collection, and other trade practices for which State and Federal Consumer Protection Laws are enacted.’ The Act opts for no less wider defi nition. It reads as under: ‘ “consumer” means any person who,— (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose; or (ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any benefi ciary of such services other than the person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such services are availed of with the approval of the fi rst mentioned person; Explanation.— For the purposes of sub-clause (i), “commercial purpose” does not include use by a consumer of goods bought and used by him exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood, by means of self-employment;’ It is in two parts.