The Trial Judge dismissed the application and the judgement of the Trial Court was affirmed in revision by the High Court. Justice A.K. Sikri, while affirming the of the High Court, held:- G “9. In the first instance, it can be seen that insofar as relief of permanent and mandatory injunction is concerned that is based on a different cause of action. At the same time that kind of relief can be considered by the trial court only if the plaintiff is able to establish his locus standi to bring such a suit. If the averments made by the appellant in their written statement are correct, such H 652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A a suit may not be maintainable inasmuch as, as per the appellant it has already been decided in the previous two suits that Respondent 1-plaintiff retired from the partnership firm much earlier, after taking his share and it is the appellant (or appellant and Respondent 2) who are entitled to manage the affairs of M/s Sen Industries. However, at this stage, as rightly pointed out by the High Court, B the defence in the written statement cannot be gone into. One has to only look into the plaint for the purpose of deciding application under 7 Rule 11 CPC. It is possible that in a cleverly drafted plaint, the plaintiff has not given the details about Suit No. 268 of 2008 which has been decided against him. He has totally omitted C to mention about Suit No. 103 of 1995, the wherein has attained finality. In that sense, the plaintiff-Respondent 1 may be guilty of suppression and concealment, if the averments made by the appellant are ultimately found to be correct. However, as per the established principles of law, such a defence projected in the written statement cannot be looked into while deciding application D under 7 Rule 11 CPC.” (Emphasis supplied) Referring to Kamala (supra), the Court further observed that:- “12. … The appellant has mentioned about the earlier two cases E which were filed by Respondent 1 and wherein he failed. These are judicial records. The appellant can easily demonstrate the correctness of his averments by filing certified copies of the pleadings in the earlier two suits as well as copies of the s passed by the courts in those proceedings. In fact, copies of the s passed in judgement and decree dated 31-3-1997 passed F by the Civil Judge (Junior Division), copy of the dated 31- 3- 1998 passed by the Civil Judge (Senior Division) upholding the decree passed by the Civil Judge (Junior Division) as well as copy of the and decree dated 31-7-2014 passed by Civil Judge, Junior Division in Suit No. 268 of 2008 are placed on record G by the appellant. While deciding the first suit, the trial court gave a categorical finding that as per MoU signed between the parties, Respondent 1 had accepted a sum of Rs 2,00,000 and, therefore, the said suit was barred by principles of estoppel, waiver and acquiescence.