57. Further, explanation 1(d) to Rule 3 of the Rules, defi nes a SPV to mean a legal entity owning, operating, and maintaining a generating station with no other business or activity to be engaged in by the legal entity. Thus, SPVs have a single purpose as envisaged under the Rules, that is, owning, operating and maintaining a generating station. A SPV cannot consume the electricity generated by the CGP by itself, that is, it cannot be a captive user since its only purpose is to own, operate and maintain a generating station. Thus, the purpose and objective of companies or body corporates in setting up an SPV, which cannot enjoy the benefi ts provided to captive users itself, would be for such body corporates, companies, or other persons to enjoy the common benefi t of becoming captive users. 58. Our reasoning is in consonance with section 2(8) of the Act, which defi nes a CGP, and as noticed above categorises CGPs into two categories: i) Single User CGP – the fi rst part of Section 2(8) refers to a power plant set up by any person to generate electricity primarily for his own use; and ii) Group User CGP – the second part of Section 2(8) states that the power plant set up by any person to generate electricity primarily for their own use includes a power plant set up by any cooperative society or association of persons for generating electricity primarily for the use of members of such cooperative society or association. No other category of CGP is recognised under Section 2(8) of the Act. M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 389 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 59. The term “person”, as defi ned in Section 2(49) of the Act, covers a wide category of users, including, any company or body corporate or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not, or artifi cial juridical person. 60. The term, “association of persons”, has not been specifi cally defi ned in the Act. Conversely, the expression, “association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not”, used in the defi nition of “person” under Section 2(49) of the Act widens the scope of a “person” to include both juridical and non-juridical persons. 61. To reiterate, Section 2(8) of the Act recognises two categories of CGPs, that is, single captive users and group captive users. For group captive users, only two categories of users are recognised, that is, a cooperative society and association of persons. The fi rst proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules creates an exception for cooperative societies. It requires members of the cooperative society to only collectively satisfy the minimum ownership and electricity consumption requirements specifi ed under paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Rule 3(1)(a) of Rules. The second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a),which refers to association of persons, requires such captive users to satisfy the minimum ownership and electricity consumption requirements specifi ed under paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Rule 3(1)(a) of Rules.