59. As noticed above, the object of the Administrative Tribunals B Act is to reduce arrears and enable the provision of speedy justice to litigants. Abolishing an SAT would not frustrate this objective because SATs are not the only method by which the object is capable of being achieved. Further, the effect of such an abolition would not be to deprive litigants of a remedy because the cases before the SAT would stand C revived in the forum in which they were pending prior to the establishment of that SAT. The subject matter and the context of the Administrative Tribunals Act, too, do not militate against the application of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. There is therefore nothing in the Administrative Tribunals Act which is repugnant to the application of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. The relevant State Government has the implied D power to issue a request to abolish the SAT in its state to the Union Government. The Union Government in turn has the implied power to rescind the notification by which that SAT was established, thereby abolishing the SAT. 60. The appellants have relied on decisions of this Court in Lt. E Governor of H.P. v. Avinash Sharma22 and State of M.P. v. Ajay Singh23 to support their case. In Avinash Sharma (supra), this Court held that after the Government takes possession of land pursuant to a notification under Section 17(1) of the Land Acquisition Act 1894, the land vests with the Government and the notification cannot be cancelled F under Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. Further, the notification could not be withdrawn in exercise of the powers under Section 48 of the Land Acquisition Act 1894, once possession of the land was taken. The present case does not concern the acquisition of land, making the decision in Avinash Sharma (supra) irrelevant to the question at hand. Moreover, Section 48 of the Land Acquisition Act 1894 had a specific G provision governing a withdrawal from acquisition and hence the conditions contained in the statutory provision could not be obviated by taking recourse to Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. The scheme 22 (1970) 2 SCC 149 23 (1993) 1 SCC 302 H 778 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of the Land Acquisition Act 1894 and the scheme of the Administrative Tribunals Act are different and the scheme and context of each enactment must be considered on its own merits. 61. In Ajay Singh (supra), this Court held that the rule of construction embodied in Section 21 of the General Clauses Act did not B apply to the provisions of the Commissions of Inquiry Act 1952 because the subject-matter, context and effect of its provisions were inconsistent with the application of Section 21. In that case, the State of Madhya Pradesh had constituted a single-member high powered committee to investigate an issue of public importance that had arisen within its territory. It later attempted to reconstitute the high-powered committee by replacing C the single member.