The Actual Controversy: 12. The contention of the leaned senior counsel for the petitioners is two-fold: firstly, that sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act cannot D be interpreted as having a very wide import as it would then be lacking in guidance and being unchanneled, would bearbitrary and in violation of Article 14, and hence, unconstitutional. It was further contended that if the provision has to be saved from being declared unconstitutional, then the same has to be “read down” which means that a restrictive E interpretation must be given to the words of the provision. The second contention is with regard to the exercise of power by the Central Government by issuance of the Notification dated 8th November, 2016 and the manner in which such power was exercised and the procedure followed. The aforesaid two contentions shall be dealt with together as they are intertwined. F The Reserve Bank of India: Bulwark of the Indian Economy: 13. Before considering the aforesaid two contentions, it would be useful to discuss the unique position that the Reserve Bank of India holds in the Indian economy. G 13.1 Shri Chidambaram cited a recent of this Court in the case of Internet & Mobile Assn. of India vs. RBI (2020) 10 SCC 274 (“Internet and Mobile Assn. of India”) wherein one of us, V. Ramasubramanian, J. while dealing with the regulation of crypto-currency and virtual H currency (VC) highlighted the importance of the Reserve VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 177 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Bank of India in the Indian economy. The salient A observations made in the said may be culled out as under: a) That the Bank, established for the objects spelt out under Section 3(1) of the Act, is vested with the duty tooperate the monetary policy framework in India; take over the B management of currency from the Central Government and carry on the business of banking, in accordance with the provisions of the Act. b) That with a view to enable the Bank to perform the role spelt out above, the Act authorises it to carry on and transact C businesses, as enlisted under Section 17 of the Act; confers under Section 22, sole and exclusive right on the Bank to issue bank notes in India, except in relation to notes of denomination, Rs.1; recognises under Section 26 (1) that every note issued by the Bank shall be a legal tender; vests D with the Central Board of the Bank the power to recommend to the Central Government to declare any series of Bank notes of any denomination, to cease to be legal tender, under Section 26 (2) of the Act; prohibits under Section 38 any money from being put into circulation by the Central Government, except through the Bank. In short, it was held E that the operation/regulation of the credit/financial system of the country rests, almost entirely, on the Bank. c) That the Bank is the sole repository of power for the management of currency in India.