(8) For the purposes of this section— (a) any remuneration in respect of a period of holiday or of absence from work through sickness or other good cause shall be deemed to be wages in respect of services rendered to the company during that period; (b) the expression “accrued holiday remuneration” includes, in relation to any person, all sums which by virtue either of his contract of employment or of any enactment (including any made or direction given under any enactment), are payable on account of the remuneration which would, in the ordinary course, have become payable to him in respect of a period of holiday, had his employment with the company continued until he became entitled to be allowed the holiday; (bb) the expression “employee” does not include a workman; and (c) the expression “the relevant date” means— (i) in the case of a company ed to be wound up compulsorily, the date of the appointment (or fi rst appointment) of a provisional liquidator, or if no such appointment was made, the date of the winding up , unless in either case the company had commenced to be wound up voluntarily before that date; and (ii) in any case where sub-clause (i) does not apply, the date of the passing of the resolution for the voluntary winding up of the company. IDBI (THROUGH STRESSED ASSETS STABILIZATION FUND 1063 CONSTITUTED BY THE GoI)v. SUPT. OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS AND OTHERS [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] (9) This section shall not apply in the case of a winding up where the date referred to in sub-section (5) of Section 230 of the Indian Companies Act, 1913 (7 of 1913), occurred before the commencement of this Act, and in such a case, the provisions relating to preferential payments which would have applied if this Act had not been passed, shall be deemed to remain in full force.” 8. Section 529A of the Companies Act, a non-obstante provision, is to be given primacy in case of confl ict, and consequently, in case of disharmony, this section will override the discordant provisions of the Companies Act and all other enactments in force. Section 529A of the Companies Act was enforced by Act No. 35 of 1985 with eff ect from 24th May 1985. Therefore, when there is a clash and disagreement between section 529A of the Companies Act and another provision of the Companies Act or any other enactment in force on 24th May 1985, Section 529A prevails and the debts are to be paid in terms of Section 529A of the Companies Act. 9. As per clause (b) of sub-Section (1) to Section 529A of the Companies Act, the debts due to secured creditors to the extent such debts under clause (c) of the proviso to sub-Section (1) to Section 52917 rank pari passu with the workmen’s dues18, are to be paid in priority to all other debts. Sub-section (2) to Section 529A states that the debts payable under clauses (a) and (b) of sub-Section (1) to Section 529A shall be paid in full, unless the assets are insuffi cient to meet them, in which case they shall abate in equal proportions.