ANALYSIS 10. At the outset, it is imperative to observe that the 1995 Act did not contain a provision for reservations in ‘promotions’ for persons with disabilities appointees, unlike its successor enactment, the Rights of G Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (“2016 Act”),12 which enabled the State to do the same. Section 33 of the 1995 Act only provided for 3% reservation for posts identified under Section 32, with 1% each for persons 12 “34. Reservation. – [***] Provided that the reservation in promotion shall be in accordance with such instructions as are issued by the appropriate Government from H time to time”. RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 821 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] suffering from (i) blindness or low vision; (ii) hearing impairment; and A (iii) locomotor disability or cerebral palsy. There is no mention of this extending to promotions. In the absence of such statutory power, its inclusion in the extant provisions by this court is not beyond doubt. It cannot be said that the manner in which such reservations have been granted in promotions – even if horizontally – as a matter of right, is not B contrary to the express prohibition of the same by the nine judges in Indra Sawhney (supra). I therefore hold serious reservation in its interpretation otherwise. 11. While Indra Sawhney (supra) no doubt pertained to vertical reservations for backward classes of citizens, this understanding of C horizontal reservations infact seeded from this very .13 It cannot be said that its operative portion on reservations in promotions is inapplicable to other classes of citizens on that front alone. Such an exercise of distinguishing its application misses the crux of its reasoning – that while provision of reservations in initial appointments furthers the mandate of substantive equality, its application to promotions militates D against the same mandate. It was not the intention of Article 16 of the Constitution to compromise on administrative inefficiency by culling the spirit of competition-after all, positions gained by promotions taper higher up. To ear-mark a certain portion to one class of citizens, and not others, who may have also gained initial appointments on the strength of such E horizontality (such as women, retired/ex-servicemen, etc.) is not constitutionally protected – the only exception to reservations in promotions is SC / ST appointees, as provided under Article 16(4A). 12. Additionally, horizontal reservations, unlike their vertical counterparts, are not rigid, but have a fluidity to them, as observed in this F court’s pronouncement in Saurav Yadav v. State of Uttar Pradesh.14 A candidate eligible for horizontal reservation is not confined to their vertical category. Migrations are permissible to allow the best candidates to emerge from this interlocking framework of reservations. However, such a mechanism is unworkable in promotions, where vertical and horizontal qualifiers are absent (barring those for SC/ST candidates). G The (then) 3% reservation set aside for persons with disabilities candidates no longer remains horizontal, but is implemented vertically. While the 2016 Act enables the State to work out this mechanism, such is conspicuously absent in the 1995 Act.