It may be that the certificate containing the details in sub-section (4) of Section 65-B is E not filed in the instant case, but that does not mean that secondary evidence cannot be given even if the law permits such evidence to be given in the circumstances mentioned in the relevant provisions, namely, Sections 63 and 65. (emphasis supplied) F 32. The principle which was enunciated in Navjot Sandhu was overruled by a three judge bench of this Court in Anvar P.V. where it was held that: 22. The evidence relating to electronic record, as noted hereinbefore, being a special provision, the general law on G secondary evidence under Section 63 read with Section 65 of the Evidence Act shall yield to the same. Generalia specialibus non derogant, special law will always prevail over the general law. It appears, the court omitted to take note of Sections 59 and 65-A dealing with the admissibility of electronic record. Sections 63 H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1037 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] and 65 have no application in the case of secondary evidence A by way of electronic record; the same is wholly governed by Sections 65-A and 65-B. To that extent, the statement of law on admissibility of secondary evidence pertaining to electronic record, as stated by this Court in Navjot Sandhu case, does not lay down the correct legal position. It B requires to be overruled and we do so. An electronic record by way of secondary evidence shall not be admitted in evidence unless the requirements under Section 65-B are satisfied. Thus, in the case of CD, VCD, chip, etc., the same shall be accompanied by the certificate in terms of Section 65-B obtained at the time of taking the document, without which, the C secondary evidence pertaining to that electronic record, is inadmissible. (emphasis supplied) 33. Accordingly, in terms of the decision in Anvar P.V. for admitting D any electronic evidence by way of secondary evidence, such as CDRs, the requirements of Section 65B would necessarily need to be satisfied and no other route under the IEA may be adopted for the admission of such evidence. 34. However, a three judge bench in Tomaso Bruno v State of E Uttar Pradesh12 took a different approach and observed that secondary evidence of the contents of a document can also be led under Section 65 of the Evidence Act without referring to the decision in Anvar P.V. It held that: 24. With the advancement of information technology, scientific temper in the individual and at the institutional level is to pervade F the methods of investigation. With the increasing impact of technology in everyday life and as a result, the production of electronic evidence in cases has become relevant to establish the guilt of the Accused or the liability of the Defendant. Electronic documents stricto sensu are admitted as material evidence. With G the amendment to the Evidence Act in 2000, Sections 65-A and 65-B were introduced into Chapter V relating to documentary evidence.