FACTUAL MATRIX 4. It appears from the materials on record that the borrowers had availed credit facility from the Bank on 03.07.2017. Accordingly, the Bank sanctioned Lease Rental Discounting (for short, ‘the LRD’) credit facility to the tune of Rs. 100 crore in favour of the borrower with the respondent No. 2 standing as a guarantor. Out of the total amount sanctioned, the amount of Rs. 65 crore was adjusted against the then existing LRD facility granted by the previous bank and for the balance amount of Rs. 35 crore a security in the form of a simple mortgage was created over a parcel of land admeasuring 16200 sq. metres having buildings and ancillary structures on it at plot Nos. D-105, D-110 and D-111 respectively situated at the Trans Thane Creek Industrial Area MIDC Village Shirwane, Thane, Belapur Road, Nerul, Navi Mumbai, Thane, Maharashtra in lieu of the sanctioned credit. *Ed. Note: The pagination as per the original . CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 61 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 5. The borrower defaulted in repayment of the loan amount and accordingly the loan account was declared as a Non-Performing Asset (NPA). 6. The Bank issued a demand notice under Section 13(2) of the Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act, 2002 (for short, ‘the SARFAESI Act’) for repayment of the principal amount along with interest, cost, charges, etc. As on 30.04.23, an aggregate sum of Rs. 123.83 crore was due and payable by the borrower to the Bank. 7. Owing to the failure of the borrower & the guarantor in repaying the outstanding amount referred to above, the Bank proceeded to take measures for possession of the secured asset under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act. The Bank decided to put the secured asset to auction. It appears that between April 2022 & June 2023, the Bank attempted eight auctions but all failed. 8. In the meantime, the borrowers preferred a Securitization Application being SA No. 46 of 2022 before the Debt Recovery Tribunal-I, Mumbai (for short, “DRT”) inter alia challenging the demand notice issued under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act and also for quashing of the sale notice dated 25.03.22 in respect of the secured asset. It is not in dispute that the said application as on date is still pending before the DRT. 9. It appears that the borrowers informed the Bank that they were trying to sell the secured asset but were not getting good off ers. The borrowers informed the Bank that the maximum they might be able to fetch from the sale of the secured asset would be around Rs. 91-92 crore and they were willing to settle the entire account by off ering such amount to the Bank. 10. The Bank decided to go for one more auction. On 14.06.23, the Bank published the auction notice for the 9th time for sale of the secured asset at a reserve price of Rs. 105 crore.