Therefore, it is a foregone conclusion that disparity H C.S. GOPALAKRISHNAN ETC. v. THE STATE OF TAMIL 959 NADU & OTHERS [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] and discrimination would be writ large between the two enactments and A aspects relating to their implementation. In such a situation, the question of comparing the two legislations, for the purpose of making out a case under Article 14 of the Constitution, would not arise. Such an exercise would be akin to comparing chalk with cheese, i.e., two essentially unequal entities. B 35. Notably, in G.C.Mandawar (supra), a Constitution Bench observed that it is conceivable that, when the same legislature enacts two different laws but in substance they form one legislation, it might be open to the Court to disregard the form and treat them as one law and strike it down if, in their conjunction, they result in discrimination, but C such a course would not be open where the two laws sought to be read in conjunction are by different Governments and by different Legislatures as Article 14 does not authorize the striking down of a law of one State on the ground that, in contrast with a law of another State on the same subject, its provisions are discriminatory and nor does it contemplate a law of the Centre or of the State, dealing with similar subjects, being D held to be unconstitutional by a process of comparative study of the provisions thereof. The Bench pointed out that the sources of authority for the two statutes being different, Article 14 can have no application. This was the very logic that was applied by this Court in Ananthi Ammal (supra), while upholding the validity of the Tamil Nadu Acquisition of E Land for Harijan Welfare Schemes Act, 1978. 36.In P. Vajravelu Mudaliar (supra), a Constitution Bench was dealing with an amendment to the old LA Act brought by the Madras Legislature, whereby different principles were specified for fixing compensation for lands acquired for housing schemes when compared F with acquisition for other purposes. Significantly, this was not a case where Presidential assent was obtained under Article 254(2) of the Constitution. It was in those circumstances that the Bench observed upon a comparative study of the old LA Act and the Amending Act that, if a land is acquired for a housing scheme under the Amending Act, the claimant would get a lesser value than what he would get for the same G land if it was acquired for a different public purpose under the old LA Act and such classification between persons whose lands were acquired for housing schemes and those whose lands were acquired for other public purposes would not be a reasonable one under Article 14. It was on that ground that the Bench held the Amending Act to be void, as it H 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A clearly infringed Article 14 of the Constitution. Similar was the situation in Deputy Commissioner and Collector, Kamrup Vs. Durga Nath Sarma [AIR 1968 SC 394] and Nagpur Improvement Trust (supra), as those cases also did not involve validation of a repugnant State law under Article 254(2) of the Constitution.