This will be subject to the All India Bar Examination results being valid for a limited period of time. b. During the period between date of passing the exam and F the date of enrolment, any graduate with a degree who is yet to appear for the All India Bar Examination or get enrolled under the Advocates Act would still be able to do all the tasks allied to the legal profession other than the function of acting or pleading before the Courts. G c. The determination of seniority in case of post-enrolment examination based on the date of birth of an advocate currently has statutory recognition and a similar criterion 14 (2016) 10 SCC 554 H 15 (2012) 4 SCC 653 BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA v. BONNIE FOI LAW COLLEGE 357 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] would suit even a pre-enrolment examination. Thus, the A practice and procedure as it exists on date for post-enrolment examination would be apt for application to a pre-enrolment examination, in addition to any criterion which has been framed by the respective State Bar Councils. d. Currently, any person who is provisionally enrolled is allowed B to practice for two years, but is allowed to take the All India Bar Examination not just for those two years but for any number of times till he passes the All India Bar Examination. The date of reckoning seniority of the candidate is from the date of the provisional enrolment. C However, it was submitted that unlimited number of attempts would not be in line with the scheme proposed by this Court and must be limited to any number that this Court deems fit. e. Rule-making power under Section 49(1)(ah) of the said Act D could be invoked requiring an examination for advocates who come back into the practice after a substantial break from practice. Alternatively, if this Court holds that the Bar Council of India can make rules under Section 24(1) read with 49(1)(ag) of the said Act which governs the circumstances in which any person may be deemed E “qualified to be admitted” as an advocate, a useful inference would follow. Such rules could lay down that an enrolled advocate, having taken an employment in a non-legal context for a substantial length of time would be deemed to be a new enrolee. In to regain that qualification, that person F could be subjected to the re-examination rule and be required to take the All India Bar Examination once more. f. The validity of the result obtained by any candidate in any pre- enrolment or a post-enrolment bar examination must also be limited by time which would be a policy matter for G the Bar Council of India to consider. g. The Bar Council of India can exercise its power to issue directions under Section 48B of the said Act to ensure uniformity and fairness of the procedure followed by each of the State Bar Councils. H 358 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 15. Then Attorney General, Mr. K.K.