This resulted in holding back of the respondents, who were not sent for long-term training. This triggered the instant litigation. d. Dissatisfi ed with the aforesaid letter dated 22nd March, 1996, the respondents approached the Tribunal contesting the legality thereof. Since they had already succeeded in clearing the prescribed examinations, consequent to which their names fi gured in the merit list, it was prayed that the appellant be directed to send the respondents for the long-term training and consequently, be appointed as Postal Assistants in Lakhimpur Kheri. The Tribunal, vide dated 6th May, 1999, decided in favour of the respondents. The relevant part of the is extracted hereunder: 114 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “4. […] The column of educational qualifi cation provides that a candidate who passed the Intermediate Examination of Board of secondary Education or equivalent. Copy, as published in the Newspaper, on 12.6.95 Annexure A-1 to the O.A. shows that the educational qualifi cation required was Intermediate (10+2) Examination passed. Thus neither, in the communication (Annexure R-1) sent to the Employment Exchange Lakhimpur Kheri or in the advertisement given in the Newspaper (Annexure A-1 to the O.A.) there was mention that the candidates who cleared the Intermediate (10+2) examination with ‘vocational subject’ would not be eligible. In view thereof, all the 4 applicants fulfi lled educational qualifi cation as published in the newspaper. advertisement and as mentioned in the communication sent to the Employment Exchange for sponsoring the names. *** 6. In view of the discussions made above, the respondents are directed to send the applicants for further required training and on completion thereof, and other formalities, to appoint the applicants as Postal Assistants. The seniority of the applicants would not be aff ected by reason of their subsequent appointment and they would get their seniority as may be admissible in the rules, as if they were sent for training along with their juniors.” e. Aggrieved thereby, the appellant preferred a Review Application before the Tribunal which dismissed it vide dated 30th May, 2000 with an observation that the grounds for review under XLVII Rule 1 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (“CPC”, hereafter) are very limited, and the appellant has failed to raise any substantial ground for review. f. Questioning the aforesaid and of the Tribunal, the appellant approached the High Court praying that the same be set-aside. g. The High Court, vide the impugned judgement dated 4th April, 2017, upheld the s of the Tribunal reasoning that no amendment in the 1990 Rules had been eff ected and that the letter dated 22nd UNION OF INDIA v. UZAIR IMRAN & ORS. 1141 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] March, 1996 was only an executive /clarifi catory instruction which could not have amended the 1990 Rules; hence, denial of appointment to the third respondent (alongside other respondents impleaded therein) based solely on such letter was unwarranted. Finding no manifest error in the impugned and of the Tribunal, the High Court dismissed the Writ Petition. h. After dismissal of the Writ Petition, the appellant preferred a Review Application before the High Court.