Under sub-clause (ii), the bidder is required to submit environmental clearance for the power station. Under sub- clause (iii), the bidder is required to supply forest clearance, if applicable, D for the land for the power station. Sub-clause (iv) is the most important for the resolution of the present dispute, which reads thus: “3. Preparation for inviting bids 3.1 ………… E 3.2 (I) …………… (II) ……………… (i) ……………… (ii) ……………… (iii) ……………… F iv) Fuel Arrangements: (a) In the following cases fuel arrangements shall have to be made for the quantity of fuel required to generate power from the phase of the power station from which power is proposed to be supplied at Normative Availability for the term of the G PPA. (cid:1) In case of domestic coal, the Bidder shall have made firm arrangements for fuel tie up either by way of coal block allocation or fuel linkage H 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (cid:1) In case of domestic gas, the Bidder shall have made firm arrangements for fuel tie up by way of long term fuel supply agreement for the term & quantity as per Government of India gas allocation policy B b) Fuel arrangements in the following cases shall have to be made for the quantity of fuel required to generate power from the power station for the total installed capacity. (cid:1) In case of imported coal, the Bidder shall have C either acquired mines having proven reserves for at least 50% of the quantity of coal required OR shall have a fuel supply agreement for at least 50% of the quantity of coal required for a term of at least five (5) years or the term of the PPA, whichever is less. D (cid:1) In case of RLNG, the Bidder shall have made firm arrangements for fuel tie up by way of fuel supply agreement for at least 50% of the quantity of fuel required for a term of at least five (5) years or the term of the PPA, whichever is less. E Blending of Imported and Domestic coal may be used in which case, criteria for imported and domestic coal shall be met separately in the ratio of blending.” 51. It can thus be seen that in case of domestic coal, the bidder is required to make firm arrangements for fuel tie up either by way of coal F block allocation or fuel linkage. 52. Clause (b) of sub-clause (iv) of clause (II) of Para 3.2 deals with imported coal, in which case the bidder shall have either acquired mines having proven reserves for at least 50% of the quantity of coal required OR shall have a fuel supply agreement for at least 50% of the G quantity of coal required for a term of at least five years or the term of the PPA, whichever is less. 53. Paragraph 4 of the said Guidelines deals with Tariff Structure. It will be relevant to refer to Para 4.2, which reads thus: “4.