Such a version should have co-relation with each and every one of other supporting material such as the recoveries made, the weapons used, the manner of off ence committed, the scientifi c evidence and the expert opinion. The said version should consistently match with the version of every other witness. It can even be stated that it should be akin to the test applied in the case of circumstantial evidence where there should not be any missing link in the chain of circumstances to hold the accused guilty of the off ence alleged against him. Only if the version of such a witness qualifi es the above test as well as all other such similar tests to be applied, can it be held that such a witness can be called as a “sterling witness” whose version can be accepted by the court without any corroboration and based on which the guilty can be punished. To be more precise, the version of the said witness on the core spectrum of the crime should remain intact while all other attendant materials, namely, oral, documentary and material objects should match the said version in material particulars in to enable the court trying the off ence to rely on the core version to sieve the other supporting materials for holding the off ender guilty of the charge alleged.” PW-9, the cousin of the deceased, was examined as an eyewitness to the crime. However, the presence of PW-9 at the scene raises doubt due to contradictions. Although Suraj, who was also the deceased’s cousin, was accompanying the deceased, PW-9 never tried to contact him to ascertain the names of the accused persons. This raises a serious doubt about his presence that has been ignored by the courts below. The presence of PW-9 at the scene raises doubts and raises questions about the veracity of his evidence. This is the second lacunae in the prosecution case. 9.4 The courts below have relied on CCTV footage to convict the appellants and co-accused persons. However, we are of the considered view that said evidence could not have been relied upon, as it was infested NARESH @ NEHRU v. STATE OF HARYANA 781 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] with serious doubts and the very manner in which it came into existence itself would raise a serious doubt not only about its source but also raises a serious doubt about the presence of the appellants at the scene of crime. PW-8, who made a video from his mobile phone of the CCTV footage on 22.04.2016 and has claimed to have handed over the recorded CD (Ex.P.3) to the police on 01.06.2016. However, the video (CD) has not been forwarded by the police to the Forensic Science Laboratory. He (PW-8) claims to have downloaded the video from his mobile phone and transferred to his laptop and then prepared CD (Ex.P.3). Neither laptop nor mobile phone was produced by prosecution or had been seized by the police during the course of investigation. The trial court’s conclusion is based on inconsistent evidence and there is lack of clarity in the evidence of PW.8.