the creditors including the decree holders / arbitration award A holders / industrial award holders covered by the scheme. No creditor including decree holders etc. covered by a scheme can opt out of the scheme once the statutory requirements are complied with. It is submitted that even the binding effect of a scheme is based on the statutory B provisions. It is submitted that under such statutory provisions enabling framing and sanction of schemes and their binding effect is founded upon larger public interest. Reliance is placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Navnit R. Kamani Vs. R.R. Kamani, (1988) 4 SCC 387. It is submitted that once the rehabilitation scheme C is sanctioned under the statutory provisions of the SICA, the concerned insolvent companies can lead a debt free future life and can use this as a second chance / fresh start to succeed; (iii) That no creditor including the decree holders / arbitration D award holders / industrial award holders can claim super priority of their claims specially when the prescribed entities mentioned in Section 19(1) may be required to take severe cuts to help revive sick companies, the other creditors including the decree holders / arbitration award holders / E industrial award holders cannot claim to have better rights; (iv) Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has taken us to the object and purpose of SICA, 1985. He has also taken us to the procedure to be followed under the SICA while considering and/or sanctioning the rehabilitation F scheme under Section 18(4) read with Section 32 of SICA. It is submitted that SICA has done away with classification of creditors and shareholders, separate meetings of classes of creditors and shareholders. It submitted that done away with the vexed distinctions in law between composition, arrangements, reconstruction etc. The SICA has also done G away with individual notices to and separate meetings of unsecured creditors and shareholders. It is submitted that SICA treats all creditors including decree holders / arbitration award holders / industrial award holders as one class so as to avoid giving veto power to the minority H 1038 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A creditors in value. It is further submitted that the rehabilitation scheme under SICA discharges debt by operation of law. It is submitted that SICA, 1985 was not a consent based regime rather it was an operation by law based regime; B (v) It is further submitted by learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that in case of insolvent company, from practical and commercial point of view, there is in effect, no scaling down of debt of ordinary creditors – unsecured creditors as the real market value of debts owed to the ordinary creditors including the decree holders / C arbitration award holders / industrial award holders covered by the scheme is nothing. The nominal value of debt may appear to have been scaled down, however, in reality, the unsecured creditors normally do not get anything; (vi) It is submitted that subsequently, legislatures in response to D societal and economic changes have enacted separate insolvency legislations providing a mandatory system to reorganize business which shielded the insolvent companies with automatic stay against recovery of the debts.