9. On the other hand, learned counsel for the Respondent pleaded that in the case in hand, one of the condition in the letter of allotment was that the price of the plot was tentative; the additional price can be H HARYANA URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & ANR. v. 1159 JAGDEEP SINGH [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] demanded only on account of increase in cost of land awarded by the A competent authority under the Land Acquisition Act. It is admitted case of the Appellant that the land on which the plot in question was carved out was not acquired rather it was transferred by the Animal Husbandry Department of the State to the Appellants. The price thereof was determined at the time of transfer, however, in case later on different B price is determined, the allottees cannot be made to bear the increased cost. 10. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record and relevant documents. C 11. The fact that a plot was allotted to the Respondent vide allotment letter dated 21.08.1986 at the cost of 224.90 per sq. yard, is not in dispute. It is also the admitted case of the appellant that the land on which the plot was carved out was initially owned by the Animal Husbandry Department of the State which was transferred to the appellant. The initial price was fixed as 1,12,000/- per acre. The cost D of plot was calculated including the cost of development and allotments were made. It transpires from the record that later on, the rate at which 275.5 acres of land of Animal Husbandry Department was transferred to the Appellants was revised to 3,00,000/- per acre. Whether burden of additional cost of the land could be put on the plot E holders, was the issue before the Courts below. The relevant clause as contained in the letter of allotment regarding demand of additional price is extracted below: “Clause 9 : The above price is tentative to the extend that any enhancement in the cost of land awarded by the competent F authority under the Land Acquisition Act shall also be payable proportionately as determined by the authority the additional price determined shall paid within 30 days of its demand.” 12. The aforesaid clause was interpreted by all the courts below to mean that the additional price can be demanded in case there is G enhancement in cost of the land awarded by the competent authority under the Land Acquisition Act. It is the admitted case of the Appellants that the land for allotment of the plot was never acquired. Hence, there could not be any enhancement in the cost of the land by any authority or court under the Land Acquisition Act. H 1160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 13. From these undisputed facts on record and the terms and conditions contained in the allotment letter, there is no illegality committed by the learned court below in setting aside the demand of the additional price of the plot allotted to the Respondent.