[2023] 13 S.C.R. 1 : 2023 INSC 817 CASE DETAILS CBI v. R.R. KISHORE (Criminal Appeal No. 377 of 2007) SEPTEMBER 11, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, SANJIV KHANNA, ABHAY S. OKA, VIKRAM NATH AND J.K. MAHESHWARI, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration: Section 6A(1) of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (DSPE Act) required approval of the Central Government to conduct inquiry or investigation into any off ence alleged to have been committed by senior Government offi cers under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988; and provided a kind of immunity to such offi cers. Whether there could be a deprivation of such immunity by a retrospective operation of a of the Court, in the context of Article 20 of the Constitution of India, was the moot question that arose for determination in the present case. The question was whether the declaration made by a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, in the case of Subramanian Swamy vs. Director, Central Bureau of Investigation and another, that Section 6A of the DSPE Act being unconstitutional, can be applied retrospectively in context with Article 20 of the Constitution. The following three corollary questions also arose for consideration namely: Whether Section 6A of the DSPE Act was part of procedure or it introduced a conviction or sentence; Whether Article 20(1) of the Constitution had any bearing or relevance in the context of declaration of Section 6A of the DSPE Act as unconstitutional and Whether the declaration of Section 6A of the DSPE Act as unconstitutional and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution would have a retrospective eff ect or would apply prospectively from the date of its declaration as unconstitutional. 1 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 (DSPE Act) – s.6A – Nature of – A part of procedure or introduced a conviction or sentence. Held: Section 6A of the DSPE Act does not lay down or introduce any conviction for any off ence – It is a procedural safeguard only which is enumerated in Section 6A of the DSPE Act with regard to making of an investigation or enquiry of an off ence under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 – Section 6A of the DSPE Act also does not lay down any sentence nor does it alter any existing sentence for an off ence – s.6A of the DSPE Act is a part of the procedure only in the form of a protection to senior government servants – It does not introduce any new off ence nor it enhances the punishment or sentence. [Paras 23 and 24] Constitution of India – Art.20 – Applicability of, in context of s.6A of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. Held: Article 20(1) of the Constitution has no applicability either to the validity or invalidity of Section 6A of the DSPE Act. [Para 36] Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946 – s.6A – Declaration of s.6A as unconstitutional – Whether would have a retrospective eff ect or would apply prospectively from the date of its declaration as unconstitutional – Constitution of India – Art.