The multi- Member Commission was, however, a short-lived affair. In less than three months’ time, on 01.01.1990, exercising power under Article 324(2), the President notified, with immediate effect, the rescinding of the Notification dated 07.10.1989, by which Notification, the two posts of H 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Election Commissioner had been created. Another Notification rescinding the Notification dated 16.10.1989, by which the two Election Commissioners were appointed, came to be issued. The latter Notifications came to be challenged by Shri S.S. Dhanoa before this Court. A Bench of two learned Judges dismissed the Writ Petition. This Court took the view, inter alia, that the framers of the Constitution did B not want to give same status to the Election Commissioners as was conferred on the Chief Election Commissioner. In the course of this in S.S. Dhanoa v. Union of India and others13, this Court, inter alia, observed as follows: “17. … There is no doubt that there is an important distinction C between the Council of Ministers and the Election Commission in that whereas the Prime Minister or the Chief Minister is appointed by the President or the Governor and the other Ministers are appointed by the President or the Governor on the advice of the Prime Minister or the Chief Minister, the appointment of both the D Chief Election Commissioner and the other Election Commissioners as the law stands today, is made by the President under Article 324(2) of the Constitution. It has, however, to be noted that the provisions of the said article have left the matter of appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the other Election Commissioners to be regulated by a law to be made by E the Parliament, and the President exercises the power of appointing them today because of the absence of such law which has yet to be made. …” (Emphasis supplied) 54. We may notice paragraph 18, dealing with the manner in which F a multi-Member Commission must act. Thereafter, the Court went on to find that there was really no need to have appointed the Election Commissioners and, still further made the following observations: “26. There is no doubt that two heads are better than one, and particularly when an institution like the Election Commission is G entrusted with vital functions, and is armed with exclusive uncontrolled powers to execute them, it is both necessary and desirable that the powers are not exercised by one individual, however, all-wise he may be. It ill conforms the tenets of the H 13 (1991) 3 SCC 567 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 67 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] democratic rule. It is true that the independence of an institution A depends upon the persons who man it and not on their number. A single individual may sometimes prove capable of withstanding all the pulls and pressures, which many may not. However, when vast powers are exercised by an institution which is accountable to none, it is politic to entrust its affairs to more hands than one.