[2023] 6 S.C.R. 655 655 CHANCHALPATI DAS A v. THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL & ANR. (Criminal Appeal No. 1592 of 2023) MAY 18, 2023 B [AJAY RASTOGI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – FIR and charge-sheet – Quashing of – FIR was registered against appellant-accused u/ss. 468, 471, 406 and 120-B of IPC – Appellant-accused claim C themselves to be spiritual leaders and are related to a religious/ spiritual society – It was alleged that appellant-accused had committed theft as well as criminal breach of trust in respect of a bus – Appellant-accused sought quashing of the criminal proceedings – High Court dismissed the criminal revisions – On D appeal, held: As per the case of the complainant, the alleged incident of bus theft had taken place in the year 2001, and it was only in 2009 that the substantial complaint was made in the Court of CJM – No concrete action was taken with regard to the alleged theft of bus for a long period of eight years, till filing of complaint in the year 2009 – There is no substantial material or document produced E by the complainant to substantiate the allegations against the appellants – Even after investigation, there was no evidence collected by the investigating officer to prima facie satisfy ingredients of alleged offences – Allegations made in the complaint and the charge- sheet taken at their face value none of the ingredients of the offences F are made out – No expert opinion obtained or scientific evidence collected on documents allegedly forged to show as to by whom, when and how the theft of vehicle and forgery of documents were committed – Respondent-complainant has misused and abused the process of law to settle personal scores with the appellants – In the G facts and circumstances, criminal proceedings against the appellants quashed. Administration of Justice – Abuse of process of any Court – discussed. H 655 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. It is again pertinent to note that, even as per the case of the complainant, the alleged incident of bus theft had taken place in the year 2001, and it was only in 2009 that the substantial complaint was made in the Court of Chief Judicial Magistrate. It B is just not believable that the concerned Police Station, Kolkata would not have taken any action on the report made in 2002 on behalf of the powerful body like the religious/spiritual Society in Kolkata, or on the letter dated 30.09.2006 written by the Branch Manager of the Society, Kolkata. The respondent no. 2- complainant also did not take any concrete action for getting the C said complaint registered with regard to the alleged theft of bus for a long period of eight years, till the complaint in the Court was filed in the year 2009. In the opinion of the Court such an inordinate delay of eight years in filing the complaint in the court itself would be a sufficient ground to quash the proceedings.