13. Next, it is pointed out that Section 28 of the Nationalisation Act declares that the provisions of the said Act would prevail notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other D law in force, inter alia. (Reliance is placed on the s of this Court in Employees Provident Fund Commissioner v. Official Liquidatorof Esskay Pharmaceuticals Limited6 as also Sanwarmal Kejriwal v. Vishwa Coop. Housing Society Ltd. and Others7). Section 60 of the Act, which declares that the provisions of the Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any E other law for the time being in force, may not assist the second respondent or the CCI in the stand that a Nationalisation Act must make way for the operation of the Act on its own terms.It is contended that the appellants even if they constituted a monopoly, they cannot act independently of Presidential Directives, which are binding on them. The policy framed F by the Central Government must be mandatorily followed. This brings about an inevitable clash between the actions of the appellant with the requirements which are stipulated in the Act. The appellants are not to be driven by a profit motive. The appellants are the extended arms of the welfare State. The activities of the appellantsare not any ordinary commercial activities. They must not be so perceived when a complaint G of abuse of dominant position is considered under Section 4 of the Act. The mines in question were cost plus mines operated by the appellants to ensure more availability of coal. They may lose their viability if they are operated at notified prices. 6 (2011) 10 SCC 727 H 7 (1990) 2 SCC 288 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 14. Shri K. K. Venugopal, learned Senior Counsel, would submit that the actions of the appellants are susceptible to judicial review in proceedings under Article 226 or even Article 32. It is, infact, pointed out there are other forums such as the Coal Controller wherein complaints of the nature, viz., quality of coal as for illustration could be ventilated. Subjecting the appellants to the provisions of the Act is wholly unjustified. B SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS 15. Per contra, the learned Additional Solicitor General on behalf of the CCI,stoutly contended that the Act, indeed, applies inspite of the non-obstante clause contained in Section 28 of the Nationalisation Act. C He would point out that the object of the Act is to bring out a paradigm shift in the economic policy of the nation. There is no conflict between the Nationalisation Act and the Act inkeeping with the changing times and the imperative need to ensure the best economic interest of the Nation. The Act was born after great deal of contemplation. A Committee known as the Raghavan Committee, a high-level Committee, went into D the issue relating to State monopoly as well. A perusal of the said Report would indicate that it was realized that the operation of the State monopolies did not conduce to secure the best interest of the Nation.