The failure to explain, the circumstances in which the death occurred is sufficient to hold the convict-husband guilty of the offence. 27. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being no merit in the appeals those may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 28. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any error in passing the impugned and . 29. We take note of the following circumstances emerging from the facts on record: a. The cause of death is due to poisoning. The poison detected in the viscera was aluminium phosphide. Aluminium phosphide is used as a fumigant to control the insects and rodents in the foodgrains and fi elds. It is too much for the convicts to say that the presence of aluminium phosphide in the viscera could be due to the medicines which the deceased used to take for her heart ailment. Such medicines even in high dosage would not lead to formation of aluminium phosphide in the body. This theory which has been put forward could be termed as something very absurd. No particular question in this direction has been put to the expert witness (doctor) while he was in the witness box. In such circumstances, the only inference that can be drawn is that aluminium phosphide either in the liquid form or in the form of tablets was procured by the accused husband and the same was administered to the deceased. b. We completely rule out the theory of suicide as sought to be put forward on behalf of the appellants c. If it is the case of the convict-husband that he had taken the deceased to the Sanjay Gandhi Hospital at Delhi then he should have led some evidence to indicate how she was taken to the hospital, in what type of vehicle and who attended the deceased at the hospital? In the case of the 834 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. present type, it is very diffi cult to believe that if the deceased had been taken to the hospital and declared dead on arrival, the hospital authorities would allow the convict-husband to carry the dead body of his wife back home. It would become a medico-legal case and the hospital would defi nitely inform the police. d. The dubious conduct of the convict-husband of not informing the family members about the death of their daughter. Though in his further statement, the convict-husband has said that he had informed the family members of the deceased yet the evidence of PW3 Harender Singh (uncle of the deceased) is otherwise. In his oral evidence, he has deposed as under: “My niece Sudha had died on 13.5.2007. Information thereof was given to me by my brother Shivcharan over the telephone. Shivcharan was living in Delhi. Then I told Shivcharan to inquire into the matter. Shivcharan went to the house of Balvir but he was not there.