[Para 6][158-G-H; 159-A] 1.2 As per Section 32 of the Registration Act, every document to be registered under the Registration Act shall be presented at the proper registration office by some person C executing or claiming under the same, or, by the agent of such a person, representative or assign, duly authorised by PoA executed and authenticated in the manner mentioned in Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act. Section 33 of the Registration Act provides that for the purposes of Section 32, only those power of attorneys shall be recognised as are mentioned in Section D 33(1). As per Section 33(1)(c) of the Act, if the principal at the time of execution of the PoA does not reside in India, a PoA executed before and authenticated by a Notary Public, or any Court, Judge, Magistrate, Indian Consul or Vice-Consul, or representative of the Central Government shall be valid. In the E instant case, the requirement of Section 33(1)(c) of the Act has not been satisfied at all. Section 32 of the Act is to be read along with Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act. Only in a case where the execution of the PoA is as per Section 32 read with Section 33(1)(c) of the Act, there shall be statutory presumption under Section 60 and/or under the provisions of the Registration Act. F Therefore, the High Court committed a grave error in drawing the statutory presumption in favour of the plaintiffs and more particularly with respect to alleged PoA alleged to have been executed by the original owner in favour of plaintiff No.2. As such, there were concurrent findings recorded by both the courts below G on non-compliance and/or non-fulfilling the conditions mentioned in Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act. By drawing the statutory presumption and without properly appreciating and/or considering the fact that there is a non-compliance of Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act there cannot be any statutory H 142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A presumption, the High Court has set aside the concurrent findings recorded by both the courts below, in exercise of powers under Section 100 CPC. [Para 7][160-F-H; 161-A-D] 1.3 Even the conduct on the part of the plaintiffs, more particularly on the part of plaintiff No.2, executing the second B sale deed in favour of plaintiff No.1-his own wife as a PoA of original land owner deserves serious consideration. Even according to the plaintiffs, on the basis of the PoA alleged to have been executed by the original land owner, plaintiff No.2 executed the registered sale deed in his own favour dated 3.9.1968. If that be so, in that case, there was no reason for him to execute the C subsequent sale deed in favour of plaintiff No.1-his own wife as a PoA of the original land owner. Once he became the owner on the basis of a registered sale deed dated 3.9.1968, which was executed by him in his own name as a PoA of the original owner, he could have executed the sale deed in favour of plaintiff No.1 D as the owner and not as a PoA of the original owner.