23.10.2015) and as existing now. 9.1. Earlier, Section 8 of the Act of 1996 read as under: - H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 127 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “8. Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an A arbitration agreement.- (1) A judicial authority before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party so applies not later than when submitting his first statement on the substance of the dispute, refer the parties to arbitration. B (2) The application referred to in sub-section (1) shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied by the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy thereof: (3) Notwithstanding that an application has been made under sub-section (1) and that the issue is pending before the judicial C authority, an arbitration may be commenced or continued and an arbitral award made.” 9.2 After the amendment by Act 3 of 2016, Section 8, now, reads as under: - “8. Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an D arbitration agreement.- (1) A judicial authority, before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under him, so applies not later than the date of submitting his first statement on the substance of the dispute, E then, notwithstanding any , decree or of the Supreme Court or any Court, refer the parties to arbitration unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists. (2) The application referred to in sub-section (1) shall not be entertained unless it is accompanied by the original arbitration F agreement or a duly certified copy thereof: Provided that where the original arbitration agreement or a certified copy thereof is not available with the party applying for reference to arbitration under sub-section (1), and the said agreement or certified copy is retained by the other party to G that agreement, then, the party so applying shall file such application along with a copy of the arbitration agreement and a petition praying the Court to call upon the other party to produce the original arbitration agreement or its duly certified copy before that Court. H 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (3) Notwithstanding that an application has been made under sub-section (1) and that the issue is pending before the judicial authority, an arbitration may be commenced or continued and an arbitral award made.” 10. In the case of Sukanya Holdings (supra), while dealing with B the question of applicability of Section 8 of the Act, as then existing, this Court underscored the requirements of correlation of subject-matter of the suit and subject-matter of the arbitration agreement and, inter alia, held as under: - “12. For interpretation of Section 8, Section 5 would have no C bearing because it only contemplates that in the matters governed by Part I of the Act, the judicial authority shall not intervene except where so provided in the Act.