Merely because the Liquidator has the discretion of carrying out multiple auction it does not necessarily imply that he would abandon or cancel a valid auction fetching a reasonable price and opt for another round of auction process with the 140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. expectation of a better price. Tribunal had rightly held that there were no objective materials before the Liquidator to cancel the auction process and to opt for another round of auction.” (Emphasis supplied) 86. Thus, what is discernible from above is that, it is the duty of the courts to zealously protect the sanctity of any auction conducted. The courts ought to be loath in interfering with auctions, otherwise it would frustrate the very object and purpose behind auctions and deter public confi dence and participation in the same. 87. Any other interpretation of the amended Section 13(8) will lead to a situation where multiple redemption off ers would be encouraged by a mischievous borrower, the members of the public would be dissuaded and discouraged from in participating in the auction process and the overall sanctity of the auction process would be frustrated thereby defeating the very purpose of the SARFAESI Act. Thus, it is in the larger public interest to maintain the sanctity of the auction process under the SARFAESI Act. 88. In view of the aforesaid discussion, we hold that as per the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, once the borrower fails to tender the entire amount of dues with all cost & charges to the secured creditor before the publication of auction notice, his right of redemption of mortgage shall stand extinguished / waived on the date of publication of the auction notice in the newspaper in accordance with Rule 8 of the Rules of 2002. EXERCISE OF EXTRAORDINARY JURISDICTION BY THE HIGH COURT UNDER ARTICLE 226 OF THE CONSTITUTION IN SARFAESI MATTERS 89. We shall now consider whether in the factual score of the present matter, any interference was warranted by the High Court in exercise of its discretionary powers under Article 226. 90. The undisputed position that emerges is; (a) the appellant was the successful auction purchaser with a bid of Rs. 105.05 crore; CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 141 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (b) On 30.06.2023, the Bank confi rmed the sale of the secured asset in the appellant’s favour; (c) On 27.07.2023, the appellant had paid the entirety of the bid amount of Rs. 105.05 Crore to the Bank; (d) Out of this, a sum of Rs. 63,50,45,000/- was appropriated by the Bank against the Borrowers’ dues; (e) The Bank did not issue the sale certifi cate in the appellant’s favour which it ought to have on 27.07.2023; (f) After having initially invoked the jurisdiction of the DRT-I, Mumbai and invited an on an application for redemption, the Borrowers invoked the Writ Jurisdiction of the Bombay High Court under Article 226 apprehending that the DRT may disallow their application; (g) By the Impugned dated 17.07.2023, the Bombay High Court allowed the Writ Petition on the basis of a consent granted by the Bank to give the Borrowers, time till 31.08.2023 to repay the outstandings and this has been treated as a redemption.