There is a provision for scrutiny only wherein the answer books are seen for the purpose of checking whether all the answers given by a candidate have been examined and whether there has been any mistake in the totalling of marks of each question G and noting them correctly on the first cover page of the answer book. There is no dispute that after scrutiny no mistake was found in the marks awarded to the appellant in the General Science paper. In the absence of any provision for revaluation of answer books in the relevant H 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A rules, no candidate in an examination has got any right whatsoever to claim or ask for revaluation of his marks.” ***** ***** ***** 26. Thus, the law on the subject emerges to the effect that in the absence of any provision under the statute or B statutory rules/regulations, the Court should not generally direct revaluation.” (emphasis supplied) 12.2. Further, in the case of Ran Vijay Singh (supra), this Court has observed and held as under: - C “30. The law on the subject is therefore, quite clear and we only propose to highlight a few significant conclusions. They are: 30.1. If a statute, Rule or Regulation governing an examination permits the re-evaluation of an answer sheet or scrutiny of an answer sheet as a matter of right, then the authority conducting D the examination may permit it; 30.2. If a statute, Rule or Regulation governing an examination does not permit re-evaluation or scrutiny of an answer sheet (as distinct from prohibiting it) then the court may permit re-evaluation or scrutiny only if it is E demonstrated very clearly, without any “inferential process of reasoning or by a process of rationalisation” and only in rare or exceptional cases that a material error has been committed; 30.3. The court should not at all re-evaluate or scrutinise the F answer sheets of a candidate—it has no expertise in the matter and academic matters are best left to academics; 30.4. The court should presume the correctness of the key answers and proceed on that assumption; and 30.5. In the event of a doubt, the benefit should go to the G examination authority rather than to the candidate.” (emphasis supplied) 12.3. Recently, in the case of Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences v. Dr. Yerra Trinadh & Ors. : 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1520, this Court has, after referring to the previous decisions, including that in H DR. B R AMEDKAR UNIVERSITY, AGRA v. DEVARSH NATH 483 GUPTA & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the case of Ran Vijay Singh (supra), thoroughly disapproved the process A of the Court calling for answer sheets for satisfying as to whether there was a need for re-evaluation or not and thereafter, issuing directions for re-evaluation. This Court has observed and held as under: - “9. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions to the facts and circumstances of the case on hand, we B are of the opinion that the High Court was not at all justified in calling the record of the answer scripts and then to satisfy whether there was a need for re-evaluation or not.