4 The Consortium shall also provide appropriate support to those candidates with benchmark disabilities and candidates described in para 1 above who request such facilities, on a case-by-case basis, in to complete the CLAT 2023 successfully. In the event any such candidate requires any support in this regard, they may contact the Consortium at clat@consortiumofnlus.ac.in. 5 This statement shall be circulated to all candidates appearing for the CLAT 2023 at their registered email address with immediate eff ect.” 8. This Court directed that the above statement would guide the conduct of the ensuing examination. The fi rst respondent was directed to ensure that no disabled student is denied access to the ensuing examination and that all necessary facilities by way of reasonable accommodation are provided, having regard to the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016 and the of this Court in Vikash Kumar (supra). The fi rst respondent was also directed to place an updated status report including the number of disabled candidates who applied in the ensuing CLAT and the facilities which were extended to them. 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 9. In pursuance of the above directions, an affi davit has been fi led by the Consortium. An affi davit has also been fi led in these proceedings by the Union of India in the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities5 of the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment6. 10. Following the decision of this Court in Vikash Kumar (supra), by an Offi ce Memorandum dated 10 August 2022, guidelines have been formulated by the MSJE. This was in pursuance of an expert committee which was constituted to implement the decision in Vikash Kumar. Paragraph 3 of the Offi ce Memorandum is extracted below : “3. The Committee accordingly recommended the following guidelines for conducting written examination for persons with specifi ed disabilities covered under the defi nition of Section 2(s) of the RPwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the defi nition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. persons having less than 40% disability and having diffi culty in writing:- (a) These guidelines may be called as Guidelines for conducting written examination for persons with specifi ed disabilities covered under the defi nition of Section 2(s) of the RpwD Act, 2016 but not covered under the defi nition of Section 2(r) of the said Act, i.e. persons having less than 40% disability and having diffi culty in writing. (b) The facility of scribe and/or compensatory time shall be granted solely to those having diffi culty in writing subject to production of a certifi cate to the eff ect that person concerned has limitation to write and that scribe is essential to write examination on his/her behalf from the competent medical authority of a Government healthcare institution as per proforma at Appendix-I. (c) The medical authority for the purpose of certifi cation as mentioned in point (b) above should be a multi-member authority comprising the following:- 5 “DEPWD” 6 “MSJE” ARNAB ROY v. CONSORTIUM OF NATIONAL LAW 471 UNIVERSITIES [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] i.