46. Therefore, on a careful application of Sections 35 and 37 of the SARFAESI Act, it is evident that the situation contemplated under Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act does not exclude application of Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. As explained by this Court in Concern Readymix (supra), a restriction on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property post issuance of notice for public auction is not the same as the right of redemption available to the mortgagor. 47. In so far the present case is concerned, admittedly the bid amount of the petitioner was Rs.57.00 lakhs. Though the auction was conducted on 16.03.2021 and payment was made by the petitioner within the stipulated period, there is clear dispute between the parties as regards issuance of sale certifi cate by respondent Nos.1 and 2 in favour of the petitioner. However, admittedly there is no registration of any sale certifi cate. On the other hand, the borrower had approached respondent Nos.1 and 2 for settlement of the loan account under OTS Scheme on 18.03.2021 which was recommended by second respondent on 20.03.2021 and was accepted by fi rst respondent on 31.03.2021 for an amount of Rs.5.10 crores, which has been paid by the borrower i.e., third respondent. On the one hand petitioner’s amount was Rs.57.00 lakhs which the petitioner had paid but on the other hand third respondent has paid Rs.5.10 crores as CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 75 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] per the OTS. Lending of money, recovery of dues and entering into OTS are all commercial decisions which are taken by the banks/ fi nancial institutions in their best interest, subject of course within the statutory framework. In this case, we have already come to the conclusion that third respondent had not lost the right of redemption upon publication of notice for auction sale. If that be the position, then it should be left to the discretion of the secured creditor as to which course of action would be more benefi cial to it. Evidently, the OTS with the third respondent is much more benefi cial to the secured creditors i.e., respondent Nos.1 and 2 and as has been explained above such a course of action is not restricted or extinguished by Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act. xxx xxx xxx 50. Right to property is a valuable right. Though no longer a fundamental right, it is still a constitutional right. The interpretation which we have adopted subserves such a right. That apart, third respondent had not lost the right of redemption upon publication of notice for auction sale; his right of redemption would have been lost only upon the sale certifi cate getting registered which admittedly has not taken place. Therefore, the action of respondent Nos.1 and 2 in accepting the higher OTS amount of the third respondent though after publication of notice for public auction and auction is justifi ed and cannot be faulted.” 25.