A including the particulars of such dutiable goods in respect of which he admits short levy on account of misclassification, under-valuation or inapplicability of exemption notification [or otherwise] and such application shall be disposed of in the manner hereinafter provided : B Provided that no such application shall be made unless,— (a) the applicant has filed a bill of entry, or a shipping bill, in respect of import or export of such goods, as the case may be, and in relation to such bill of entry or shipping bill, a show cause notice has been issued to him by the C proper officer; (b) the additional amount of duty accepted by the applicant in his application exceeds three lakh rupees; and (c) the applicant has paid the additional amount of customs duty accepted by him along with interest due under section D 28AB: Provided further that no application shall be entertained by the Settlement Commission under this sub-section in cases which are pending in the Appellate Tribunal or any court : Provided also that no application under this sub-section shall E be made in relation to goods to which section 123 applies or to goods in relation to which any offence under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 (61 of 1985) has been committed : Provided also that no application under this sub-section shall be made for the interpretation of the classification of the goods under the Customs Tariff Act, 1975 F (51 of 1975).” (Emphasis Supplied) 20. The Petitioner contends that Section 123 of the Act would not apply in the present case for Settlement, as the goods of admitted foreign origin stand seized within the customs area upon crossing the green G channel. The Petitioner has placed reliance on the of the Bombay High Court in Union of India v. Suresh Raheja, 2011 (267) E.L.T. 487 (Bom. ), wherein the High Court observed that in a situation where there is no dispute as to the origin of the goods, the bar contained in the proviso to Section 127B would not come in the way, in respect of H the specified goods under Section 123. YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 935 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 21. Furthermore, the Petitioner contends that the legislative object A is to open doors for settlement and not to rigidly construe beneficial provisions in a mechanical manner that would prevent settlement of cases. Analysis and Reasoning 22. This is the plan and simple construction of the statute. On a B plain reading of Sections 127B and 123, it is evident that the proviso to Section 127B(1) specifies certain categories of goods are barred from the jurisdiction of the settlement commission. These include goods mentioned under Section 123 and goods relating to the NDPS Act. Therefore, recourse under Section 127B cannot be made if any of the above goods are involved C 23. Even without any controversy about the origin of the goods, Section 127B of the Act would not apply for settlement in respect of the goods enumerated under Section 123 as this goes against the statutory scheme of penal consequences for committing certain offences such as for evading duty, as alleged in the present case, under Section 135.