If the cultivating tenant deposits the sum as directed, he shall be deemed to have paid the rent under sub- section (3)(b). If the cultivating tenant fails to deposit the sum as E directed, the Revenue Divisional Officer shall pass an for eviction. Provided that the Revenue Divisional Officer shall not di- rect the cultivating tenant to deposit such arrears of rent as have become Time barred under any law of limitation for the time being F in force. 4. Right to restoration of possession. (1) Every cultivating tenant who was in possession of any land on the 1st December 1953 and who is not in possession thereof at the G commencement of this Act shall, on application to the Revenue’ Divisional Officer, be entitled to be restored to such possession on the same terms as those applicable to the possession of the land on the 1st December 1953. (2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to entitle any H such cultivating tenant to restoration of possession- K. CHINNAMMAL (DEAD) THR. LRS. v. L. R. EKNATH 843 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] (i) if, on the day this Act comes into force, he is in possession, A either as owner or as tenant or as both, of land exceeding the extent specified in the Explanation below or if he has been assessed to any sales-tax, profession-tax or income-tax under the respective laws relating to the levy of such taxes during 1953-54 or 1954-55; or B (ii) if the landlord, after evicting such cultivating tenant from the land [has been carrying on personal cultivation on the land], provided as follows: (a) the total extent of land held by such landlord inclusive of C the land, if any, held by him as tenant does not exceed the extent specified in the Explanation below; and (b) the landlord has not been assessed to any sales tax, profession-tax or income-tax under the respective laws re- lating to the levy of such taxes during 1953-54 or 1954-55; D or (iii) if subsequent to the 1st December, 1953, the landlord has bona fide admitted some other cultivating tenant to the possession of land and such other tenant has cultivated the land before the com- mencement of this Act; E Provided that where such other tenant is in possession, ei- ther as owner or as tenant or as both of any other land which exceeds the extent specified in the Explanation below and, the cultivating tenant who was evicted is not in possession of any land or is in possession of any other land which is less than the extent F specified in the said Explanation, the cultivating tenant shall be entitled to restoration of possession. Explanation. - The extent referred to in clauses (i) to (iii) above is 6-23 acres of wet land. G (3) Every application to a Revenue Divisional Officer un- der sub-section (1) shall be made within thirty days from the com- mencement of this Act, and shall bear a court-fee stamp of one rupee; H 844 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.