2(h) and therefore, the definition of the word ‘enterprise’ is any activity A relatable to the sovereign functions of the Government. Sovereign functions would include, undoubtedly, all activities carried on by the Departments of the Central Government, dealing with atomic energy, currency, defense and space. 81. As we have noted earlier on, in answer to a specific query, as B to whether the appellants are carrying on any sovereign functions, both Shri K.K. Venugopal and Shri Yaman Verma, would contend that they are not carrying on any sovereign functions. This relieves the Court of undertaking a discussion, which, even otherwise, may be unnecessary, having regard to the nature of the function. The first appellant is not a C Department of the Government. It is a Government Company. In fact, what is excluded from the definition of the expression ‘enterprise’, is a Government Department carrying on Government functions. Carrying on business in mining, cannot, by any stretch of imagination, be described as a sovereign function.There is nothing in the definition which excludes a State monopoly which is even set up to achieve the goals in Article D 39(b) of the Constitution. 82. As mentioned earlier, the Act aims at tabooing anti-competitive agreements and thereby promoting competition. It also prohibits abuse of dominant position. What is prohibited is, however, abuse of dominant position by an enterprise or a group. A group has been defined in the E context of Section 5 which deals with regulation of combination. We find that the appellant answers the description of an enterprise as defined. 83. When it comes to Section3, dealing with anti-competitive agreements, it encompasses a prohibition of such agreements by not merely enterprises or association of enterprises but by any person or F association of persons. 84. Dealing with abuse of dominant position being the theme of the lis, Section 4(1) declares that no enterprise or group shall abuse ‘its’ dominant position. What is dominant position? The second explanation in Section 4(2) defines that dominant position for the purposes of Section G 4 to be ‘a position of strength enjoyed by an enterprise in the relevant market in India’. Relevant market has been defined in Section 2(r) to mean “the market which may be determined by the CCI with reference to the relevant product market or the relevant geographic market or with reference to both the markets”. The words, relevant product market H 870 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A has been defined in Section 2(t) as meaning “a market comprising all of those products or services which are regarded as interchangeable or substitutable by the consumer, by reason of characteristics of its products or services, their prices and intended use”.Section 2(s) defines ‘relevant geographic market’, as meaning “a market comprising the area in which the conditions of competition for supply of goods or provision of services B or demand of goods or services are distinctly homogenous and can be distinguished from the conditions prevailing in the neighbouring areas”. Thus, the lawgiver has provided for a position of strength enjoyed by an enterprise not in the vacuum.