Therefore, the applicability of Section 11 of LA Act which deals with enquiry and award, and Section 16 of LA Act which deals with power of Collector to take possession, even in acquisition under the NIT Act is ‘sine qua non’. While making an inquiry under Section 11, the applicability of Section 9 which deals with issuance of notice to persons interested, is an integral procedure in the proceedings. Hence, for the purpose of determination of compensation to pass an award in LOONKARAN GANDHI (D) THR. LR. v. STATE OF 171 MAHARASHTRA AND ORS.[J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] case of acquisition of land under NIT Act, applicability of the said provisions of the LA Act has been duly recognised in Section 67 of the NIT Act. 18. As per Section 16 of the LA Act, the Collector on making an award may take possession of the land to vest it in the Government. Similarly, under Section 17-A added to Schedule of NIT Act, passing of an award is a necessary pre-condition to vest the land with NIT. Further, Section 48-A specifi es that if award is not passed by the Collector within a period of two years from the date of fi nal notifi cation, the land owner, if not responsible for delay to a material extent, shall be entitled to receive compensation for damages suff ered by him in consequence of delay. The said damage would be determined as per the provisions of Part-III of LA Act. 19. In view of the said basic provisions if we see the facts of this case, then it is not in dispute that the subject land was occupied by Ex-Malguzar Pande. The land owner purchased the land in auction and sale deed was executed in his favour by the Court of Wards. As per the dated 09.04.1962 passed by the SDO, Nagpur, the revenue records were corrected recording his name before issuance of preliminary notifi cation. In the said notifi cation as well as in the fi nal notifi cation dated 16.01.1969, Khasra No. 35/8 was not mentioned. The NIT had taken possession and constructed the road on the west side entrance of the High Court which is in public use. After fi nal notifi cation, statutory notice under Section 9 of LA Act was issued to all the persons interested. As per the mandate of law, such notice shall contain particulars of the land needed for acquisition with an intent to ask the aff ected parties to submit their respective claims and interests. 20. In the instant case, three notices were issued to the land owners including deceased land owner Loonkaran Gandhi on 18.07.1974, 07.09.1974 and 18.10.1977. However, as stated above, the said notices did not mention Khasra No. 35/8. Since Khasra No. 35/8 was not mentioned, land owner filed the application seeking discharge from acquisition proceedings. Pursuant thereto, SLAO separated the claim of land owner from other claimants emanating out of same notifi cation. It is pertinent to note that NIT vide letter dated 10.10.1969 informed the Collector, Nagpur that Khasra Nos.