It was further observed that a judicial verdict by the civil court should have been respected. Such reasoning is also erroneous. The fact G remained that, rightly or wrongly, the civil court had granted this opportunity to the appellant to move again for expunction of adverse remarks, which the appellant did. Having said that, firstly, the authorities were exercising the power conferred on them by H 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A statute, and secondly, any which amounts to ‘review’ (in the legal sense of the word) of an earlier by the same authority cannot be undertaken, unless specifically so conferred by the relevant statute. [Para 23][415-D-F] 1.7 The civil judge found no ground to interfere with the B adverse remarks yet granted liberty to the appellant to move for expunction thereof. The civil court erred in assuming that it had the power to do so, in the absence of any such provision in the Punjab Police Rules, 1934. There may be cases where a High Court under Articles 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India or this Court in exercise of its constitutional powers may specifically C direct for fresh consideration of a representation, even in the absence of specific provisions. [Para 24][415-G-H] 1.8 The observation by the civil court that the appellant could approach the authority, cannot be taken to mean that the appellant was granted carte blanche liberty in law to approach D the same authority. What the civil court lost sight of was that no provision permitted the course of action suggested by it. Examined from another lens, even if the civil court’s view was to be read in the appellant’s favour, at best, he may have had some justification in approaching the Director General of Police, E Haryana, being a superior authority, but the same authority could not have been approached again. On this line of reasoning, it becomes clear that even though the appellant had a window to move before the authorities again and dehors the civil court not interfering, but the same should have been to the superior authority and not the same authority, which had earlier refused F expunction. [Para 26][417-B-D] 1.9 As far back as in 1971, directions were issued by the State Government that repeated representations would not be entertained as it would be contrary to Government Letter No. 2784-3S-70 dated 22.03.1971 mandating that a second G representation against adverse remarks would not lie and which clarified the position that the same authority did not have any power of review for an passed by its predecessor-in-office. [Para 27][417-E] H AISH MOHAMMAD v. STATE OF HARYANA AND ORS. 407 1.10 The Director General of Police rightly show-caused A the appellant and took subsequent action thereupon. Considering the chain of events, the consequential action, cannot be said to be arbitrary or shocking the conscience of the Court, so as to warrant interference. For a person in uniformed service, like the police, adverse entry relating to his/her integrity and conduct is B to be adjudged by the superior authority(ies) who record and approve such entry.