A plain reading of Section 19 clarifies that though not bound by the Code of Civil Procedure, the NGT is nevertheless bound by G principles of natural justice. It is a judicial tribunal, exclusively tasked with the duty of deciding environmental disputes and causes; its remit includes wide ranging powers. In these circumstances, the NGT had to take into consideration that the nature of its directions meant that all those living or owning land near the talab, who had obtained sanctions H from the Parishad and the TCD, were condemned unheard. SHRAMJEEVI COOPERATIVE HOUSING SOCIETY LTD. v. 1079 DINESH JOSHI & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 19. The second aspect is that when some of the appellants A approached NGT, in review proceedings, those review petitions were summarily rejected. Again, these s cannot be sustained, because they do not disclose any application of mind to the existence of the Development Plan, which had permitted development of the disputed areas; the s in review also do not advert to or deal with the peculiar B circumstances, concerning the society’s plot, on which a previous litigation had been fought, ending in a decree against the state. Before this court, the Parishad has categorically deposed, and produced several documents, in support of its stand that the map placed before, and considered by the NGT, was only a draft, or proposal to increase the area of the talab. C 20. It is too well settled that parties are bound by the principle of finality, which results in a decree by a competent court, acquiring a final and binding nature, especially where it is confirmed concurrently and upheld by the highest court of the land. In Pradeep Kumar Maskara v. State of West Bengal7 this aspect was stated, in the following terms: D “24. At the very outset, we are of the view that the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to differ with the decision given by the Calcutta High Court in the writ petition filed by the appellants. The Tribunal further committed grave error in following the decision in Ganga Dhar Singh case [Ganga Dhar Singh v. State of W.B., (1997) 2 CHN 140] treating it to be a E Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court when as a matter of fact the decision in Ganga Dhar Singh case [Ganga Dhar Singh v. State of W.B., (1997) 2 CHN 140] was decided by a Single Judge of the High Court. Even the passed [Pradip Kumar Maskara v. State of W.B., F Civil Revision No. 3465 (W) of 1984, decided on 8-11-1992 (Cal)] in the appellant’s writ petition filed in 1984 was neither considered nor distinguished. 25. In the background of these facts, in our considered opinion, when the rendered by the Calcutta High Court in the case of the appellants and the said decision G having not been quashed or set aside by a larger Bench of the High Court or by this Court, the Tribunal ought not to have refused to follow the of the High Court.