For instance, if an open land without construction consists of 6000 sq metres, the computation of the ceiling area would present no diffi culty because 4000 sq metres will be taken over by the Government and 2000 sq metres will be left to the landholder. Secondly, if the entire land is covered by a building, such an area would completely fall outside the ambit of the Act and no question of computation would arise. Thirdly, a question arises 1 (1983) 4 SCC 110 M/S. KEWAL COURT PVT. LTD. AND ANR. v. THE STATE 733 OF WEST BENGAL AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] as to what would happen if there is a land on a part of which there is a building with a dwelling unit and an area (open land) which is appurtenant thereto is vacant. This category of land would doubtless present some diffi culty in making the computation and the principles on which such computation is to be made. Section 4(9) is designedly and artistically drafted to meet such a contingency which may be extracted thus: “Where a person holds vacant land and also holds any other land on which there is a building with a dwelling unit therein, the extent of such other land occupied by the building and the land appurtenant thereto shall also be taken into account in calculating the extent of vacant land held by such person.” (emphasis supplied) 17. Clause (i) gives a blanket exemption to any land situated in an urban area where the entire area is covered by land on which it is not permissible to raise a building which will not be deemed to be vacant land within the meaning of Section 2(q). This is because such land in an urban area cannot be used for building purposes but being vacant falls beyond the purview of the Act. Clause (ii) postulates that where a land is occupied by any building constructed before or on the appointed day [‘appointed day’ has been defi ned in Section 2(a) of the Act] and there is some vacant land appurtenant to the said building, land which is built upon and any area which is left out in accordance with the building regulations would not be included in the ceiling area. The term ‘land appurtenant to such building’ would mean the contiguous land which remains after giving full allowance for the area left out under the municipal or building regulations subject to a maximum of 500 sq metres and another 500 sq metres which may be left for the benefi cial use of the owner. The words ‘land appurtenant’ used in Section 4(9) takes us to its connotation as defi ned in Section 2(g)(i) and (ii) which may be extracted thus: “(g) ‘land appurtenant’, in relation to any building, means— (i) in an area where there are building regulations, the minimum extent of land required under such regulations to be 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. kept as open space for the enjoyment of such building, which in no case shall exceed fi ve hundred square metres; or (ii) in an area where there are no building regulations, an extent of fi ve hundred square metres contiguous to the land occupied by such building, and includes, in the case of any building constructed before the appointed day with a dwelling unit therein, an additional extent not exceeding fi ve hundred square metres of land, if any, contiguous to the minimum extent referred to in sub-clause (i) or the extent referred to in sub-clause (ii), as the case may be;” 19.