Therefore, it is submitted that the Division F Bench of the High Court has materially erred in restoring the of termination by observing that in a case of non- aided institution and in a case where the termination is after the disciplinary enquiry/proceedings, the prior approval of the Director of Education is not mandatory. 3.4 Making the above submissions and relying upon the decision G of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra), it is prayed to allow the present appeals. 4. Present appeals are vehemently opposed by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the management - respondent(s). H GAJANAND SHARMA v. ADARSH SIKSHA PARISAD SAMITI 955 & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.1 It is vehemently submitted by the learned counsel appearing A on behalf of the management that as such the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) and T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand as in the aforesaid decisions, it was a case of termination without holding any disciplinary enquiry/departmental proceedings. In the case of Raj Kumar (supra) B this Court was considering Section 8 of the DSE Act. It is submitted that in the present case as such the of termination was passed after following a departmental enquiry and after all the charges and the misconduct held to be proved. It is submitted that therefore first part of Section 18 of the Act, 1989 shall not be applicable. C 4.2 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the management has heavily relied upon Larger Bench decision of Rajasthan High Court in the case of Central Academy Society (supra). It is submitted that the Larger Bench of the High Court has dealt with and/or considered the very provision, namely, Section 18 of the Act, 1989 and has read down the same after considering the decision in the case of T.M.A. Pai D Foundation (supra) and has observed and held that in case of termination of an employee after departmental enquiry/proceedings, Section 18 of the Act, 1989 shall not be applicable and the prior approval of the Director of Education is not required. 4.3 It is further submitted that even otherwise in the present case, E the of termination is not required to be set aside on the ground that the prior approval of the Director of Education was not obtained as the disciplinary committee was consisted of District Education Officer. It is submitted that the Committee, of which a nominee of the District Education Officer was a member, held all the charges and the misconduct alleged proved. It is submitted that the charges and the misconduct proved F against the appellant were very serious of abusing, misbehaving, and threatening the school Principal, embezzlement of school funds and being negligent in handling school property. It is submitted that therefore, when in the disciplinary committee a nominee of the District Education Officer was member, the of termination without even the prior approval of G the Director of Education is not required to be set aside.