The Defendant No. 1 (Appellants herein) continued with the litigation by filing the Letters Patent Appeal under Chapter VI of the Rules of High Court of Orissa, 1948. The Letters Patent Appeal was filed essentially on the ground that the learned Single Judge of the High Court had failed to correctly adjudicate the issue whether some of the C properties as mentioned in the schedule to the plaint were self-acquired properties of Late Shri Kumar Sahoo or all the properties were ancestral properties. 15. The Defendant No. 1 (Appellants) went in appeal before the Division Bench of the High Court essentially on the ground that all the D properties were ancestral as the same are derived out of the same nucleus of the existing ancestral properties. The appeal before the Division Bench was registered as the Appeal bearing No. AHO No. 133 of 2000. 16. On 28.06.2001, the Defendant No. 2 (Respondent No. 2 herein) challenged the validity of the settlement deed referred to above vide E cross appeal in the AHO No. 133 of 2000. 17. In the Letters Patent Appeal filed by the Appellants herein, the Court addressed itself on the following points of determination: “(i) whether the findings and reasons recorded on the contentious issues by the learned trial judge are either F erroneous or error in law warranting interference by this Court in exercise of its power? (ii) whether the first appellate judge in not dealing with the grounds urged by the first defendant by framing appropriate point on the findings recorded on the contentious issues by G the learned trial court, this court requires interference with the impugned in this appeal though, this Court’s jurisdiction in this Letter Patent Appeal is also analogous to the first appellate court? H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 37 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (iii) whether the findings recorded in issue no.5, holding that A some of the schedule properties are self-acquired properties of late Kumar Sahoo is erroneous or error in law and liable to be interfered with by this Court in this appeal? (iv) whether the compromise petition filed by the counsel for defendants 1 & 2 In the First Appeal without special B authorization in their favour for signing the compromise petition by defendant no. 2, and plaintiff is not a party to the compromise petition, could have been accepted by the learned Single Judge and modified the of the trial court in so far as the share assigned to the defendant no.2, the same C is legal and valid? (v) what decree the parties are entitled to?” 18. The Division Bench of the High Court vide its impugned and dated 5.05.2011 dismissed the appeal i.e., the AHO No. 133 of 2000 filed by the Defendant No. 1 (Appellant herein) and D allowed the cross appeal filed by the Defendant No. 2. Thus, the Division Bench of the High Court set at naught the compromise entered into between the Defendants. 19. In such circumstances referred to above, the Appellants (Legal heirs of the Original Defendant No.