Where time gap is long it would be unsafe to base the conviction on the “last seen theory”; it is safer to look for corroboration from other circumstances and evidence adduced by the prosecution. From the facts and evidence, we fi nd no other corroborative piece of evidence corroborating the last seen theory.’ (emphasis supplied) 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 16. The cautionary note sounded in Nizam (supra) is important. The ‘last seen’ theory can be invoked only when the same stands proved beyond reasonable doubt. A 3-Judge Bench in Chotkau v State of Uttar Pradesh, (2023) 6 SCC 742 opined as under: ‘15. It is needless to point out that for the prosecution to successfully invoke Section 106 of the Evidence Act, they must fi rst establish that there was “any fact especially within the knowledge of the” appellant. …’ (emphasis supplied) 17. In the present case, given that there is no defi nitive evidence of last seen as also the fact that there is a long time-gap between the alleged last seen and the recovery of the body, and in the absence of other corroborative pieces of evidence, it cannot be said that the chain of circumstances is so complete that the only inference that could be drawn is the guilt of the appellant. In Laxman Prasad v State of Madhya Pradesh,(2023) 6 SCC 399, we had, upon considering Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v State of Maharashtra, (1984) 4 SCC 116 and Shailendra Rajdev Pasvan v State of Gujarat, (2020) 14 SCC 750, held that ‘… In a case of circumstantial evidence, the chain has to be complete in all respects so as to indicate the guilt of the accused and also exclude any other theory of the crime.’ It would be unsafe to sustain the conviction of the appellant on such evidence, where the chain is clearly incomplete. That apart, the presumption of innocence is in favour of the accused and when doubts emanate, the benefi t accrues to the accused, and not the prosecution. Reference can be made to Suresh Thipmppa Shetty v State of Maharashtra, 2023 INSC 749 . 18. That apart, in Chandrappa v State of Karnataka, (2007) 4 SCC 415, it was laid down that an appellate court, in the case of an acquittal, must bear in mind that there is a double presumption in favour of the accused. It was also emphasised that when two views are possible, the one favouring the accused is to be leaned on. The powers of the appellate Court have been recently summarised in Jafarudheen v State of Kerala,(2022) 8 SCC 440 at Paragraphs 25-27. On these factors as well, the Impugned is untenable. R. SREENIVASA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 67 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 19. For the reasons aforesaid, the appeal is allowed. The Impugned of conviction and sentence passed by the High Court is set aside. The appellant is discharged from the liability of his bail bonds. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Divya Pandey