This becomes clearer when we go to clause (d) of Section 9(3) which requires such other information as may be specified has also to be furnished along with the application.” F 29. This position is thus fairly settled, as above. On the other hand, the respondent relied on the said decision to buttress its contention that existence of ‘pre-existing dispute’ should entail dismissal of application under Section 9, IBC. 30. In Macquarie Bank Limited (supra), this Court held, at G paragraphs, 13 and 14 thus: - “13.The first thing to be noticed on a conjoint reading of Sections 8 and 9 of the Code, as explained in Mobilox 6 (2018) 2 SCC 674 H 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Innovations (P) Ltd. v. Kirusa Software (P) Ltd. (2018) 1 SCC 353, decided on 21-9-2017 at paras 33 to 36, is that Section 9(1) contains the conditions precedent for triggering the Code insofar as an operational creditor is concerned. The requisite elements necessary to trigger the Code are: B (i) occurrence of a default; (ii) delivery of a demand notice of an unpaid operational debt or invoice demanding payment of the amount involved; and (iii) the fact that the operational creditor has not received C payment from the corporate debtor within a period of 10 days of receipt of the demand notice or copy of invoice demanding payment, or received a reply from the corporate debtor which does not indicate the existence of a pre-existing dispute or repayment of the unpaid operational debt. D 14.It is only when these conditions are met that an application may then be filed under Section 9(2) of the Code in the prescribed manner, accompanied with such fee as has been prescribed ...” (emphasis supplied) E 31. In the decision in Innoventive Industries Ltd. v. ICICI Bank and Anr.7, at paragraph 29, this Court held thus: - “29. The scheme of Section 7 stands in contrast with the scheme under Section 8 where an operational creditor is, on the occurrence of a default, to first deliver a demand notice F of the unpaid debt to the operational debtor in the manner provided in Section 8(1) of the Code. Under Section 8(2), the corporate debtor can, within a period of 10 days of receipt of the demand notice or copy of the invoice mentioned in sub-section (1), bring to the notice of the operational creditor the existence of a dispute or the record of the pendency of a G suit or arbitration proceedings, which is pre-existing — i.e. before such notice or invoice was received by the corporate debtor. The moment there is existence of such a dispute, the operational creditor gets out of the clutches of the Code.” H 7 (2018) 1 SCC 407 SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 213 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 32. A scanning of the decisions referred supra, would reveal that A existence of a ‘pre-existing dispute’ should entail dismissal of an application filed under Section 9 IBC at the threshold.