We now proceed to discuss PWs 10, and 13, 36 (2020) 10 SCC 573 [3 Judge Bench] 37 Criminal Appeal No.1786 Of 2023 [2 Judge Bench] MANJUNATH & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 755 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] independently. PW5, although classifi ed as a circumstantial witness, a reading of the same suggests the witness to be an eyewitness. 24.1 PW10 stated that upon seeing the group of persons, I ran in diff erent directions with him running towards Thadhooru. While there, he heard of his brother (deceased) having sustained various injuries. Pursuant to such information he went to the hospital where he stated that the deceased himself stated that “Manjunath and his henchmen of our village assaulted him” he stated, he never went to the place where the deceased was lying nor could he say who informed him of his brother’s injuries. Hence, his statement is the nature of hearsay. 24.2 The circumstances, which are mentioned within the testimonies relied on by the trial court, we fi nd, that they do not, conclusively point to the guilt of all the accused. The following conclusions from the circumstantial evidence on record, support our conclusion- apart from PW15 none of the witnesses relied on, name all accused persons; a group of 25 to 30 people is generally referred to- a general description does not indicate guilt. Secondly, the factum of enmity although repeatedly testifi ed to by numerous witnesses, upon itself cannot thrust upon the accused, the guilt for having killed the deceased person. This view is supported by the fact that the criminal case lodged as a result of the altercation between a brother of the deceased and certain accused persons resulted in their acquittal, as has been noted by the trial court. 24.3 It is true that certain witnesses such as PW4 categorically mentioned certain accused persons holding particular weapons. As a solitary aspect, it can be seen as indicating a particular act done by the accused, aiding the death of the deceased person. However, the medical evidence of PW1 negates that possibility as well. The relevant extract of the testimony is reproduced: – “ I see the clubs at M.O. 3. they are of about 4 feet length and 3 inches in diameter. If a person is assaulted repeatedly by such clubs, he would sustain several abrasions, contusions and lacerations. When I examined the deceased Byregowda clinically, I did not found any abrasions lacerations of contusions on his back or chest and so also on the abdomen. I did not fi nd any incised injury on the body of the deceased.” 756 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 24.4 While it may be true that the deceased had died due to injuries sustained, as the above-extracted testimony of PW1 shows, the said injuries could not have been caused as a result of the weapons that the accused persons were allegedly yielding, and the ones that were supposedly recovered at their instance. 24.5 It is on both these counts, we fi nd the circumstantial evidence on record, not to conclusively point towards guilt of the accused persons.