A perusal of the said letter of MoC dated 6th November 2007 would clearly reveal that allocation of Lohara West and Lohara Extension Coal Block to APML has been specifically made to meet the coal requirements of their 1000 MW power plant in District Gondia, G Maharashtra. It is, thus, clear that the bid submitted by the appellant on the cut-off date was on the basis of the assurance that the coal would be available to it from Lohara Coal Blocks. Had the notification dated 5th May 2010 not been issued, APML could have utilized the coal from Lohara Coal Blocks which was H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 651 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. allotted to it by MoC. Apart from that, it is to be noted that A MSEDCL was a part of the Expert Committee which was constituted by MERC vide its dated 21st August 2013. Having participated in the proceedings of the meeting of the Expert Committee, MSEDCL cannot be permitted to take a stand contrary to the decision of the said Expert Committee. B Deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks was not on account of any fault of APML and this is recognized by CIL itself, inasmuch as it has returned the Bank Guarantee which was furnished by APML. No interference would be warranted with the concurrent findings of MERC and APTEL that deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks would amount to ‘Change in Law’ event as defined under the C PPA. [Paras 46-48][664-F-H; 665-A-C] 1.7 Insofar as methodology is concerned, APTEL has referred to the report of the Expert Committee appointed by MERC, which recommended determination of the price of coal from Lohara Coal Blocks using “transfer pricing method” which D is one of the commonly used methods. It has accepted the report of the Expert Committee which provided a reasonable methodology to arrive at the cost of mining from Lohara Coal Blocks. the finding of APTEL is based on the report of the Expert Committee, which was ignored by MERC. The Expert Committee E had found that APML had entered into a PPA based on the assurance of an instrumentality of the Government of India that coal would be provided to it from the Lohara Coal Blocks. However, on account of the reasons that have been elaborately discussed, Lohara Coal Blocks, which was allocated to APML, came to be deallocated for no fault on the part of APML. It is to F be noted that the Expert Committee, while arriving at its finding, had also appointed external industry experts, i.e. legal consultant, financial experts and independent auditors. It is worthwhile to mention that one of the Members of the said Expert Committee was a representative of MSEDCL. What has been granted under G the said methodology is the additional cost of transport which APML would be required to incur for transporting the coal from other locations on account of deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks. We, therefore, find no reason to interfere with the said finding H 652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.