[Para 24][1085-F-H; 1086-A-E] H AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1071 C. NATARAJAN & ANR. 1.6 There is no reason to hold that there has either been A any manifest arbitrariness or unreasonableness, which warranted interdiction with the of forfeiture. [Para 26][1087-B-C] 1.7 It has to be held that the transaction fell through by reason of the default or failure of the contesting respondent to deposit 75% of the sale price by 23rd October, 2017, as per the B terms of rule 9(4). On facts, the contesting respondent was arranging for funds when he received the summons from the DRT on 10th October, 2017. It is, therefore, clear that at least till that date, the contesting respondent was lacking in financial resources to make payment of the entire sale price. Although it is not always C necessary for an auction purchaser to arrange for funds and be ready to pay the entire sale price within 15 days of confirmation of sale, since extension of time is contemplated in rule 9, it is beyond comprehension why the contesting respondent while applying for an extension of time on 27th September, 2017 sought for only 25 days’ time and not for more time, at least up to the D entire period of ninety days, being the maximum time that he could have asked for and made available to him in terms of rule 9(4). He had also moved the DRT for extension of time, which was not granted. The DRT, however, granted him liberty to participate in the auction to be held on 5th January, 2018 but E without waiving any condition. These are circumstances which certainly are adverse to the contesting respondent. [Para 27][1087-G-H; 1088-A-C] 1.8 The terms of the auction notice made it clear that the auction sale would be conducted in terms of the provisions F contained in the SARFAESI Act. All prospective bidders were, therefore, put on guard as to what could follow in case of a default or neglect. Notwithstanding the proceedings that were initiated before the DRT by defaults of which the contesting respondent became aware on 10th October, 2017, nothing prevented him from making full payment of the balance amount and have the G sale certificate issued in his favour. It can be inferred from the facts and circumstances that the contesting respondent was seeking to buy time. Counsel for the contesting respondent has not shown how the Authorized Officer acted in derogation of the statute. Indeed, it was open to the Authorized Officer to extend the time further; equally, he was also free not to grant further H 1072 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A extension having regard to the conduct of the contesting respondent. When two options are legally open to be exercised in a given set of facts and circumstances and one option is exercised, which does not appear to be wholly unreasonable, it is not for the writ court to find fault on the specious ground that the secured creditor has not suffered any financial loss.