G 12. The learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Respondents submitted that at the time of filing the Writ Petitions, the Tribunal was not functioning. The power available under Article 226 of the Constitution of India cannot be taken away, notwithstanding the existence of the H 24 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Tribunal. While appreciating the stand taken by the Appellants, it is submitted that when extreme steps are taken, a litigant may not have any other option except to approach the writ court. 13. In view of the fair stand taken by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the Appellants, we do not wish to interfere with the B impugned s passed. We may, however, reiterate the settled position of law on the interference of the High Court invoking Article 226 of the Constitution of India in commercial matters, where an effective and efficacious alternative forum has been constituted through a statute. We are also constrained to take judicial notice of the fact that certain High Courts continue to interfere in such matters, leading to a regular supply C of cases before this Court. One such High Court is that of Punjab & Haryana. 14. A writ of certiorari is to be issued over a decision when the Court finds that the process does not conform to the law or statute. In other words, courts are not expected to substitute themselves with the D decision-making authority while finding fault with the process along with the reasons assigned. Such a writ is not expected to be issued to remedy all violations. When a Tribunal is constituted, it is expected to go into the issues of fact and law, including a statutory violation. A question as to whether such a violation would be over a mandatory prescription as E against a discretionary one is primarily within the domain of the Tribunal. So also, the issue governing waiver, acquiescence, and estoppel. We wish to place reliance on the decision of this Court in Hari Vishnu Kamath v. Syed Ahmad Ishaque, (1955) 1 SCR 1104, “Then the question is whether there are proper grounds for the issue of certiorari in the present case. There was considerable F argument before us as to the character and scope of the writ of certiorari and the conditions under which it could be issued. The question has been considered by this Court in Parry & Co. v. Commercial Employees’ Association, Madras [(1952) SCR 519], Veerappa Pillai v. Raman and Raman Ltd. & Others G [(1952) SCR 583], Ibrahim Aboobaker v. Custodian General [(1952) SCR 696] and quite recently in T.C. Basappa v. T. Nagappa [(1955) SCR 250]. On these authorities, the following propositions may be taken as established: (1) Certiorari will be issued for correcting errors of jurisdiction, as when an inferior Court or Tribunal acts without jurisdiction or in excess of it, or H M/S SOUTH INDIAN BANK LTD. & ORS. v. NAVEEN 25 MATHEW PHILIP & ANR. ETC. ETC. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.]