It further reiterates that, as per para 5.2, in to meet the domestic requirement, CIL was to import coal as required from time to time, if feasible, and adjust the overall price accordingly. G 77. Para 2 of the NCDP 2013 states that the Government has now approved a revised arrangement for supply of coal to the identified TPPs of 78,000 MW capacity commissioned or likely to be commissioned during the period from 1st April 2009 to 31st March 2015. It states that, taking into account the overall domestic availability and the likely actual requirements of these TPPs, it was decided that FSAs will be signed for H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 123 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the domestic coal quantity of 65%, 65%, 67% and 75% of ACQ for the A remaining four years of the 12th Plan for the power plants having normal coal linkages. It further states that to meet the balance FSA obligations towards the requirement of the said 78,000 MW TPPs, CIL may import coal and supply the same to the willing power plants on cost plus basis. It further states that the power plants may also directly import coal B themselves, if they so opt, in which case, the FSA obligations on the part of CIL to the extent of import component would be deemed to have been discharged. 78. Immediately thereafter, on 31st July 2013, the MoP addressed a communication to the Secretary, CERC. It will be relevant to refer to C Para 2 of the said communication, which reads thus: “2. After considering all aspects and the advice of CERC in this regard, Government has decided the following in June, 2013: i) taking into account the overall domestic availability and actual requirements, FSAs to be signed for domestic D coal component for the levy of disincentive at the quantity of 65%, 65%, 67% and 75% of Annual Contracted Quantity (ACQ) for the remaining four years of the 12th Plan. ii) to meet its balance FSA obligations, CIL may import E coal and supply the same to the willing TPPs on cost plus basis. TPPs may also import coal themselves if they so opt. iii) higher cost of imported coal to be considered for pass through as per modalities suggested by CERC.” F 79. It can thus clearly be seen that the Government, after considering all aspects and the advice of CERC in this regard, decided that the higher cost of imported coal was to be considered for pass- through as per modalities suggested by the CERC. 80. It will also be relevant to refer to Para 4 of the said G communication, which reads thus: “4. As per decision of the Government, the higher cost of import/ market based e-auction coal be considered for being made a pass through on a case to case basis by CERC/SERC to the extent of shortfall in the quantity indicated in the LoA/FSA and the CIL H 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.