14. Sub-section (1) of Section 16 provides a declaration of legitimacy (“shall be legitimate”) to a child born of a void marriage, while sub-section (2) contains a deeming consequence of the legitimacy of a child (‘shall be deemed to be their legitimate child”) born of a voidable marriage in the situations envisaged in the respective provisions. Sub-section (1) governs a situation where a marriage is null and void under Section 11. Sub-section (2) deals with a situation where a decree of nullity is granted in respect of a voidable marriage under Section 12. Sub-section (1) declares that a child born from a marriage that is void under Section 11 “shall be legitimate” if such a child would have been legitimate if the marriage had been valid. The declaration of legitimacy under sub-section (1) operates whether the person would not have been governed by the Hindu law or by any custom or usage as part of that law in respect of any of the matters dealt with herein if this Act had not been passed. Explanation. - The following persons are Hindus, Buddhists, Jainas or Sikhs by religion, as the case may be: (a) any child, legitimate or illegitimate, both of whose parents are Hindus, Buddhists, Jainas or Sikhs by religion; (b) any child, legitimate or illegitimate, one of whose parents is a Hindu, Buddhist, Jaina or Sikh by religion and who is brought up as a member of the tribe, community, group or family to which such parent belongs or belonged; and (c) any person who is a convert or re-convert to the Hindu, Buddhist, Jaina or Sikh religion. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the members of any Scheduled Tribe within the meaning of clause (25) of Article 366 of the Constitution unless the Central Government, by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette, otherwise directs. (3) The expression “Hindu” in any portion of this Act shall be construed as if it included a person who, though not a Hindu by religion, is, nevertheless, a person to whom this Act applies by virtue of the provisions contained in this section. 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. child is born before or after the commencement of Act 68 of 1976 which substituted the provisions of Section 16 and whether or not (i) a decree of nullity was granted in respect of a marriage; and (ii) the marriage was held to be void otherwise than on a petition under the enactment. 15. In contrast to sub-section (1), sub-section (2) embodies a deeming consequence of legitimacy, contingent on a decree of nullity under Section 12 where the child is “begotten or conceived” before the decree is made, if the child would have been the legitimate child of the parties to the marriage if it was dissolved instead of being annulled on the date of the decree. Once the conditions in sub-sections (1) and (2) are met, both the provisions essentially protect the legitimacy of the child.