for the Respondents. E The s* of the Court were delivered by KRISHNA MURARI, J. 1. The present writ petition filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of India raises an issue of huge importance of personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution of India, regarding the right of an accused under the Customs Act, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Customs F Act’) to settle the dispute as per provisions contained under chapter XIV A of the Customs Act. 2. The writ petitioner, who is a Non-Resident Indian (for short, ‘NRI’), was arrested on 04.10.2022 at the Delhi International Airport. It is the case of the respondent that petitioner had tried to smuggle high G value goods, mainly watches through the green channel entrance, in to escape from paying duty on the same. * Ed. Note: In view of divergence of opinion in terms of separate s pronounced by Hon’ble Mr. Justice Krishna Murari and Hon’ble Mr. Justice Sanjay Karol, the matter was directed to be placed Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for appropriate H s. 918 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 3. On suspicion of the petitioner trying to smuggle goods through customs, a detailed examination of the person and baggage of the petitioner was conducted, and it resulted in the recovery of seven wrist watches, along with a few other high value goods. Since the petitioner appeared to have committed offences under Sections 132 and 135 of the Customs act, he was arrested on 05.10.2022. After the arrest, the B petitioner herein then filed the present writ petition, wherein he sought for the issuance of directions for permission of home cooked food being granted to him. 4. The petitioner, being an NRI, has been unable to travel outside India since 06.10.2022, and as such has been amenable to settle the C dispute by approaching the settlement commission under Section 127 of the Customs Act, by paying the dues and any interest accrued thereon to the customs department in accordance with law. However, for a want of notice by the customs authorities to initiate the settlement process, the petitioner filed an I.A. seeking the same. D 5. In the abovementioned I.A. filed by the petitioner, an ex-parte dated 20.02.2023 was passed by this Court, wherein the Commissioner of Customs was directed to issue a show-cause notice to the petitioner, to initiate the proceedings. 6. The respondent then, on being served the abovementioned ex- E parte , filed an application for a recall of the said . Several grounds were raised on the issue of jurisdiction of the Settlement Commission to hear the said matter. Both the parties were heard at length, and vide dated 20.02.2023, the said ex-parte was recalled. F 7. After the recall of passed by this Court, both the parties argued at length on merits, and during the course of the said arguments, an apparent conflict between two s of the Bombay High Court and the Delhi High Court was brought to our notice by the petitioner, by way of an application for placing additional grounds, documents and prayers.