In such cases, the story of the prosecution will have to be examined de hors such omissions and contaminated conduct of the offi cials otherwise the mischief which was deliberately done would be perpetuated and justice would be denied to the complainant party and this would obviously shake the confi dence of the people not merely in the law enforcing agency but also in the administration of justice.” 91. Now further issue crops up about the treatment of the FIR/ Bayan Tahriri as dying declaration and in this respect various earlier pronouncements of this Court have clarifi ed the position of law that the statement by an injured person recorded as FIR can be treated as a dying declaration and such a statement is admissible under Section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act. It was also held that the dying declaration must not cover the whole incident or narrate the case history. Corroboration is not necessary for this situation; adying declaration can be the sole basis for conviction. 92. In the case of Munnu Raja and another v. State of M.P.15, the following observations are relevant: 14 (1998) 4 SCC 517 15 (1976) 3 SCC 104 HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 453 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] “Para 5. In regard to these dying declarations, the of the Sessions Court suff ers from a patent infi rmity in that it wholly overlooks the earliest of these dying declarations, which was made by the deceased soon after the incident in the house of one Barjor Singh. The second statement which has been treated by the High Court as a dying declaration is Ex. P-14, being the FIR which was lodged by the deceased at the police station. The learned Sessions Judge probably assumed that since the statement was recorded as a FIR, it could not be treated as a dying declaration. In this assumption, he was clearly in error. After making the statement before the police, Bahadur Singh succumbed to his injuries and therefore the statement can be treated as a dying declaration and is admissible under Section 32(1) of the Evidence Act. The maker of the statement is dead and the statement relates to the cause of his death. Para 6. The High Court has held that these statements are essentially true and do not suff er from any infi rmity. It is well settled that though a dying declaration must be approached with caution for the reason that the maker of the statement cannot be subject to cross- examination, there is neither a rule of law nor a rule of prudence which has hardened into a rule of law that a dying declaration cannot be acted upon unless it is corroborated… *** Para 10. We are in full agreement with the High Court that both of these dying declarations are true. We are further of the opinion that considering the facts and circumstances of the case, these two statements can be accepted without corroboration. Bahadur Singh was assaulted in broad day light and he knew the appellants.