D Tribunals – Quasi-judicial authorities, standards expected from the members – Held: Commissions are quasi-judicial authorities, therefore, the standards expected from the members of the tribunal should be as nearly as possible as applicable to the appointment of judges exercising such powers – Consumer Protection Act, 2019 – E Consumer Protection (Qualification for appointment, method of recruitment, procedure of appointment, term of office, resignation and removal of President and Members of State Commission and District Commission) Rules, 2020 – Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – Consumer Protection (Appointment, Salary, Allowance and F Conditions of Service of President and Members of State Commission and District Forum) Rules, 2017. Disposing of the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The High Court in the impugned and has rightly observed and held that Rule 3(2)(b), Rule 4(2)(c) G and Rule 6(9) of the Rules, 2020 which are contrary to the decisions of this Court in the cases of State of Uttar Pradesh and Others Vs. All Uttar Pradesh Consumer Protection Bar Association (UPCPBA) and the Madras Bar Association are unconstitutional and arbitrary. Even otherwise Rule 6(9) lacks transparency and it confers uncontrolled discretion and excessive power to the H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 291 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE Selection Committee. Under Rule 6(9), the Selection Committee A is empowered with the uncontrolled discretionary power to determine its procedure to recommend candidates to be appointed as President and Members of the State and District Commission. The transparency and selection criteria are absent under Rule 6(9). In absence of transparency in the matter of appointments of B President and Members and in absence of any criteria on merits the undeserving and unqualified persons may get appointment which may frustrate the object and purpose of the Consumer Protection Act. It cannot be disputed that the Commissions are empowered with the powers of court and are quasi-judicial authorities and empowered to discharge judicial powers with the C adequate powers of the court including civil and criminal. Therefore, the standards expected from the members of the tribunal should be as nearly as possible as applicable to the appointment of judges exercising such powers. Under Rule 6(9) of Rules, 2020, the Selection Committee is having power to D determine its own procedure. Such provisions are also giving excessive and uncontrolled discretionary powers to the Selection Committee. As rightly observed and held by the High Court, considering the object on behalf of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019, such uncontrolled discretion power to determine its procedure for making its recommendation for appointment of E President and Members of the District and the State Commissions is arbitrary and unreasonable. It is always desirable that while making the appointment as Members of the District Fora and/or the State Commission there is a need to assess the skill, ability, and the competency of the candidates before they are empanelled F and recommended to the State Government. The Rules, 2020 do not contemplate written examination so as to test the merits of the candidate. In the case of UPCPBA, this Court expressed deep concern over the bureaucratic and political interference in process of appointments.