This , therefore, does not aid or advance the case of the appellants. 39.Similar logic was applied by this Court in Savitri Cairae (supra), while dealing with the very same State Act of 1965. Noting that it provided C for acquisition of land in terms of the old LA Act and by reason of the legal fiction created thereunder, this Court held that, even if the acquisition was made under the State Act of 1965, if higher amount of compensation is payable under the old LA Act, such higher amount of compensation has to be paid. Pertinently, this Court observed that, ordinarily, the equality clause enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution cannot be invoked in D the matter of enforcement of a State legislation vis-à-vis Parliamentary legislation and/or legislation of another State. 40.We are, therefore, not inclined to entertain the attack launched against the Highways Act on the strength of the so-called disparity and discrimination in the norms and procedures prescribed therein when E compared with the new LA Act. In this regard, we may point out that the Highways Act in the State of Tamil Nadu stood protected even at the time the old LA Act was in force and effect, owing to the Presidential assent that it had received under Article 254(2) of the Constitution, and it continued to operate and provide altogether different yardsticks for F acquisition of land and payment of compensation till the advent of the new LA Act. 41. Even otherwise, in so far as the issue of social impact assessment and the timelines for various steps in the new LA Act are concerned, this very argument was advanced in G. Mohan Rao (supra) and this Court observed that the whole exercise of pointing out any G repugnancy after a validating Act has obtained the assent of the President is otiosefor the whole purpose of Article 254(2) of the Constitution is to resuscitate and operationalize a repugnant Act or repugnant provisions of such Act. The inescapable fact also remains that the second proviso to Section 19(7) of the new LA Act empowers the appropriate H 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Government to extend the stipulated period of 12 months for publishing the Declaration after issuance of a Preliminary Notification if, in its opinion, circumstances exist to justify the same. The third proviso requires that any such decision to extend the period shall be recorded in writing and the same shall be notified and uploaded on the website of the authority concerned. More importantly, once such extension is granted, there is B no outer limit prescribed and the proceedings would not lapse owing to a time stipulation. In T.M. Peter (supra), while dealing with the attack against absence of a time limit for Government sanction in the Town Planning Act, 1932, this Court observed that, as the scheme of the said enactment was urgent improvement of a town and it was left to the C Government to deal with it with expeditious dispatch, no precise time scale could be fixed in the Act owing to the myriad factors which would have to be considered by the Government before granting sanction to a scheme and concluded by stating that the Court would not be powerless to quash and grant relief where, arbitrary protraction or malafide inaction of the authorities caused injury to an owner.