The Sikkim High Court initially passed an interim staying further proceedings. The said interim was modified in terms of which the Department was permitted to continue with its enquiry and seek facts and information from the Directors of the assessee companies. The assessee companies were required to furnish the necessary information C and also to file returns and produce the books of accounts before the Assessing Officer, New Delhi in compliance of the notices under section 148 of the Act. Thereafter, the Sikkim High Court dismissed the writ petitions holding that it had no jurisdiction to entertain the said writ petitions since no part of the cause of action had arisen in the State of Sikkim. It D was observed that as the notices were issued by the ACIT (Investigation), Circle 7(1), New Delhi and served on the assessees in New Delhi, it had no jurisdiction over the actions of that authority. It appears that the Sikkim High Court also observed that “mere fact that the companies have registered offices in Sikkim does not confer jurisdiction on this Court.” E 2.8 It appears that in the meanwhile, on the basis of the returns filed by the assessees in Sikkim, the Income and Sales Tax Department of Government of Sikkim raised a revised demand on 30th November, 1990, cancelling the earlier demand raised on 30th July, 1990. 2.9 After the dismissal of the writ petitions by the Sikkim High Court on 20th July, 1993, the assessees filed writ petitions before the F Delhi High Court being Writ Petition Nos. 5565 to 5569 of 1993. Initially, the Delhi High Court passed an interim staying the proceedings. However thereafter on 13th August, 1998, an was passed by the Delhi High Court directing the AO to frame the assessment subject to outcome of the writ petitions. G 2.10 That thereafter on 24th August, 1998, notices were issued to the assessee companies under section 148 of the ACT by ACIT, Company Circle 2, New Delhi. 2.11 That on 09th October, 1998, separate assessment s were passed by the ACIT, Company Circle 2(2), New Delhi for each of the H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 461 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] Assessment Years in question. The Assessing Officer concluded that A each of the assessees were “intentionally trying to take advantage of the prevailing laws at Sikkim by routing money through Sikkim and ploughing back in India.” The Assessing Officer also rejected the objections raised by the assessees as to the jurisdiction. The Assessing Officer made additions to the income of the assessees for the aforesaid three Assessment B Years in question under different heads of income, namely, (i) income from commission (ii) unsecured loan from Dengzong Charitable Trust (iii) interest accrued/paid on the unsecured loans and (iv) provision for income tax (which was disallowed). Separate penalty proceedings were initiated under sections 271(1)(a). 271(1)(c), 273/274 and 271-B of the Act. C 2.12 The assessees then preferred appeals before the CIT(A). Subsequently on 08th December, 2000, the writ petitions filed by the assessees came to be dismissed by the High Court as the respective assessees moved the Appellate Authority prescribed under the statute.