No costs. Pending the determination by the Administration as to the substantial compliance with the Rules by the additional seats or C such of them as may be singled out by the Administration in each of the buildings of the licensees, the interim dated 02.08.1979 will continue in force subject to the limitation that if no determination is made in respect of each building within one month by the Administration, then those licenses in respect of whose buildings D the determination is not made shall be free to sell tickets for the additional seats in their building.” (25) It is, thereafter, that, on 06.12.1979, the appellant in purported compliance of the High Court proceeded to issue a show cause notice to the licencee of Uphaar Cinema. A committee was indeed E constituted as noticed by us earlier. Finally on 24.12.1979 purporting to act on the basis of the recommendations of the Committee, the appellant ed the removal of additional six seats from the balcony. 56 seats were directed to be removed from the other part of the theater. A total of 62 additional seats came to be ed to be removed. As we have noticed, the unfortunate fire took place nearly 17 years thereafter. F (26) Both the Courts have drawn considerable support from the stand taken by the appellant in his counter affidavit. According to the appellant, the stand taken was in keeping with the notification which was issued revoking the earlier notification and also his notice. It is the further case of the appellant that the Court must bear in mind that G whatever be his pleadings, the matter came to be considered by the High Court and the followed and the appellant was duly bound to act in conformity with it. In particular, the contention is, since what was contemplated was should there be substantial compliance, it implied that additional seats could be continued. H 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (27) It may be true that with the benefit of hindsight, following the unfortunate tragedy which took place nearly 17 years, thereafter, the loopholes fatal as it turned out to be, the action of the appellant and the members of the Committee had been laid bare. We say this, for the reason that, as pointed out by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the CBI, this aspect has received articulation at the hands of B this Court in the reported in Sushil Ansal1. In other words, there may have been, as found by this Court also, lapses. We are, in this case, confined to grapple with the contention of the appellant based on the impact of there being no sanction within the meaning of Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. When we consider the question of cognizance being taken C in the absence of sanction and thereby Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. being flouted it is not to be conflated and thereby confused with the question as to whether an offence has been committed.