132. The respondent assessee had fi led Form 1 declaring the product manufactured by it as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ which came to be adjudicated and accordingly an came to be passed by the Deputy Commissioner, whereunder the product of the assessee was classifi ed by him as ‘chewing tobacco’. The assessee fi lled another form on 28.04.2015 COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 651 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] describing the product as “Jayanti zarda/jarda scented” classifying the product under CET SH 2403 9910, culminating in another determination dated 05.05.2015, wherein the Deputy Commissioner classifi ed the product as ‘chewing tobacco’ under CET SH 2403 9910. 133. A search was conducted by the Director General of Central Excise in the factory of the petitioner after drawing the panchnama and recording the statement of Shri. Tara Chand Jain, partner of the assessee-fi rm. The samples were forwarded for chemical examination. The chemical examiner opined that the samples had a characteristic odour of odoriferous substances vide report dated 07.03.2016. Hence, a show cause notice dated 24.02.2017 came to be issued alleging that during the period March 2015 to February 2016, the assessee manufactured the product using the process in which tobacco was ground and mixed with lime, menthol, synthetic fl avouring perfumes, compound, etc. and was labelled as “Jayanti Brand Zarda”. Hence, alleging central excise duty amounting to Rs.4.81 crores was short paid and the demand came to be raised. The said show cause notice came to be adjudicated and the demand was confi rmed. However, no penalty was imposed. The tribunal by the impugned has allowed the appeal on the ground that the department itself had declared the classifi cation as ‘chewing tobacco’ though the assessee had declared the same as ‘jarda/ zarda scented tobacco’ and as such by relying upon its rendered in Urmin products private Ltd allowed the appeal. Hence, the Revenue has fi led the present appeal. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 134. We have heard the arguments of Nisha Bagchi, learned standing counsel appearing for the Revenue appellant and Mr. A.R. Madhav Rao, learned counsel appearing for the respondent assessee. It is the contention of the learned counsel appearing for the Revenue that the tribunal committed an error in arriving at a conclusion that the classifi cation of the product is ‘chewing tobacco’ and not ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’. She would contend that the Commissioner had examined the process of manufacture and taken into consideration the test reports of CRCL in the light of tariff heading and the trade opinion, including the statement of two customers to conclude that the product is ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’. She would submit that the tribunal erroneously applied the principles laid down in 652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Urmin products and Flakes N Flavours without applying its mind to the present case. She would contend that the tribunal has merely relied upon the communication of the superintendent of excise whereunder the assesses’s prayer to classify the product as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ had been rejected and classifi ed the same as ‘chewing tobacco’ to set aside the in original which classifi ed the product manufactured by the assessee as ‘chewing tobacco’.