[iv] Whether the State law encroaches upon Entry 66 of the Union List or is repugnant to the law made by the centre under Entry 25 of the Concurrent List, will have to be determined by the examination of the two laws D and will depend upon the facts of each case. [v] When there are more applicants than the available situations/seats, the State authority is not prevented from laying down higher standards or qualifications than those laid down by the centre or the Central authority to short- E list the applicants. When the State authority does so, it does not encroach upon Entry 66 of the Union List or make a law which is repugnant to the Central law. [vi] However, when the situations/ seats are available and the State authorities deny an applicant the same on the ground that the applicant is not qualified according F to its standards or qualifications, as the case may be, although the applicant satisfies the standards or qualifications laid down by the Central law, they act unconstitutionally. So also when the State authorities derecognise or disaffiliate an institution for not satisfying G the standards or requirement laid down by them, although it satisfied the norms and requirements laid down by the central authority, the State authorities act illegally.” Adverting to the facts of the said case, this Court ruled that the provisions of the Central statute on the one hand H 956 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A and of the State statutes on the other, being inconsistent and therefore, repugnant to each other, the Central statute will prevail and the derecognition by the State Government or the disaffiliation by the State University on grounds which are inconsistent with those enumerated in the Central statute were declared to be inoperative. It was observed that there B was no material on record which would demonstrate that the standards laid down by the Central Act are inadequate to ensure that the colleges eligible for recognition as per the Central Act are able to successfully conduct the relevant courses. Hence, it was held that the State Government did C not have the discretion to reject permission granted to any technical institution, or derecognise the institution because such institution has failed to satisfy the conditions laid down by the State, which were inconsistent with those enumerated in the Central statute. D iii) In Preeti Srivastava vs. State of Madhya Pradesh, AIR 1999 SC 2894, (“Preeti Srivastava”) this Court considered the question, whether, it was open to the State to prescribe different admission criteria, in the sense of prescribing different minimum qualifying marks, for special category candidates seeking admission to the post-graduate E medical courses under the reserved seats category as compared to the general category candidates. This Court observed that both the Union as well as the States have the power to legislate on education including medical education, subject, inter alia, to Entry 66 of List I which deals with F laying down standards in institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions as also coordination of such standards.