It reads: 560 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. “55. Disputes as to apportionment of compensation. - If any dispute arises as to the apportionment of compensation among persons claiming to be entitled thereto the State Government shall refer such dispute for the decision of the Court of the District Judge having jurisdiction.” 30. Section 56 confers on a person, aggrieved by the decision of the District Judge under Section 55 of the Act, a right to fi le an appeal to the High Court 31. Section 57 provides for the mode of payment of compensation, or deposit of the same in Court. 32. Section 58 empowers the Court to invest the amount of compensation deposited in court. 33. Section 59 provides that if any question or dispute arises as to the suffi ciency of the compensation paid or proposed to be paid under any provision of the Act, otherwise than under the foregoing provisions of that Chapter, the matter shall be determined by the District Judge having jurisdiction upon a reference made to him either by the Trust or by the claimant within a specifi ed period. 34. Section 60 provides for the disposal of the land by the Trust. 35. A conspectus of the provisions of Chapter VII of the 1959 Act makes it clear that once the acquisition notifi cation is published in the Offi cial Gazette under sub-section (1) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act, by virtue of sub section (4) of Section 52, the land shall, on and from the date of such publication, vest absolutely in the State Government free from all encumbrances and, thereafter, the owner or person interested in the land is entitled to receive compensation. Further, as to whom the compensation is payable and the quantum payable are all issues for which a mechanism is in place under the provisions of the 1959 Act. 36. Now, the question that falls for consideration is whether the notifi cation under sub-section (1) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act could be treated as void for non-service of notice, under sub-section (2) of Section 52, on the plaintiff and other co-owners of the land who had purchased the same from the erstwhile owners, or their predecessors, entered in the record of rights. URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 561 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 37. According to the learned counsel for the respondents, where the mandatory provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 52 of 1959 Act are not followed, the notifi cation issued thereunder would be a nullity and, therefore, the Civil Court’s jurisdiction to grant appropriate relief shall not be ousted. Taking the proposition further, it was submitted that ouster of a Civil Court’s jurisdiction cannot be a matter of course even where fi nality to the s of the Special Tribunals is provided for, particularly, where the provisions of the concerned Act have not been complied with or the statutory Tribunal has not acted in conformity with the fundamental principles of judicial procedure.