“Profession: Teacher”. Teacher in America, published by Little Brown 7 Co. in association with Atlantic Monthly Press, 1945, pp. 3-13 DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 177 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] [Provided further that every teacher appointed or in position as on the 31st March, 2015, who does not possess minimum qualifi cations as laid down under sub-section (1), shall acquire such minimum qualifications within a period of four years from the date of commencement of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (Amendment) Act, 2017.] (3) The salary and allowances payable to, and the terms and conditions of service of, teachers shall be such as may be prescribed.” 24. Whereas sub-Section (1) of Section 23 is the provision where the ‘academic authority’ has been empowered to prescribe qualifi cations for teachers in elementary schools, sub-section (2) of Section 23 empowers the Central Government to relax the minimum ‘qualifi cations’ prescribed by the ‘academic authority’, under certain circumstances and for a limited period. The ‘Academic Authority’ under Section 23(1) of the Act is the National Council for Teachers Education (NCTE), which brought a notifi cation on 23.08.2010, laying down the necessary qualifi cations for teachers, both at primary, as well as upper primary level. Inter alia, this notifi cation prescribes as under:- 1. Minimum Qualifi cations: - (i) Classes I-V (a) Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with atleast 50% marks and 2- year Diploma in Elementary Education (by whatever name known) OR Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with atleast 45% marks and 2-year Diploma in Elementary Education (by whatever name known), in accordance with NCTE (Recognition Norms and Procedure), Regulations 2002 OR Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with atleast 50% marks and 4-year Bachelor of Elementary Education (B.El.Ed.) OR 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Senior Secondary (or its equivalent) with at least 50% marks and 2-year Diploma in Education (Special Education) AND (b) Pass in the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET), to be conducted by the appropriate Government in accordance with the Guidelines framed by the NCTE for its purpose. The above notifi cation dated 23.08.2010, does not provide B.Ed. as a qualifi cation for appointment to the post of primary school teachers. Later this notifi cation was amended, but B.Ed. was never included (till the impugned notifi cation dated 28.06.2018), as an essential qualifi cation for teachers of primary school i.e. for classes I to V. A candidate for the post of a teacher in a primary school was to have these three qualifi cations. A. He must have passed higher secondary level. B. He must have a Diploma in elementary education (D.El.Ed. ), by whatever name it was called in that State. C. He should then pass an examination to be conducted by the State known as Teachers Eligibility Test or TET. 25. The academic authority, which is NCTE considered the appointment of trained and qualifi ed teachers as an absolute necessity in primary schools. It is for this reason that the qualifi cation which was prescribed for a teacher in primary school was a diploma in elementary education (D.El.Ed.