The legislature would be better placed to cater to their needs. 51. Mr. MR Shamshad, learned counsel appearing for an intervenor submitted that a declaration that non-heterosexual couples have a right to marry would confl ict with the tenets of religion where marriage is considered a heterosexual union. 52. Ms. Priya Aristotle, learned counsel appearing for an intervenor submitted that granting non-heterosexual couples parental rights would aff ect the children of heterosexual couples. 53. Mr. Sasmit Patra, learned counsel appearing for the intervenor submitted that: a. Granting legal recognition to non-heterosexual unions would require wide ranging amendments to various laws. It is only the legislature which has the capacity and functionality to deal with matters of such wide implication; b. A declaration by this Court that non-heterosexual unions have a right to marry cannot be implemented without the aid of the legislature and executive; and c. A social change of this magnitude will not be fructifi ed if the role of the polity in the process is negligent. 54. Ms. Archana Pathak Dave, learned counsel appearing for an intervenor (Ex-Servicemen Advocates Welfare Association) submitted that non-heterosexual marriages must not be permitted particularly for personnel working in the armed forces because Article 33 permits restrictions on their fundamental rights. It was submitted that granting legal recognition to non- heterosexual marriages may dilute the disciplinary code in the army, the navy, and the air force, would create confl icts in the workplace over personal and religious beliefs, and would raise concerns about shared facilities such as communal showers and shared rooms. 128 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 55. Ms. Manisha Narain Agarwal, learned counsel appearing for an intervenor submitted that the petitioners are seeking social acceptance of their relationships through an the Court. This Court does not have powers of such magnitude. 56. Mr. Atulesh Kumar, Ms. Sanjeevani Agarwal, and Mr. Som Thomas appearing on behalf of various intervenors adopted the above arguments. C*. Reliefs sought in the proceedings 57. The petitioners in this batch of petitions have made certain general prayers, in addition to the prayers specifi c to the facts of their case. The general reliefs sought are summarized below. The petitioners seek that this Court declare that: a. LGBTQ persons have a right to marry a person of their choice regardless of religion, gender and sexual orientation; b. The SMA is violative of Articles 14, 15, 19, 21, and 25 of the Constitution insofar as it does not provide for the solemnization of marriage between same-sex, gender non-conforming or LGBTQ couples; c. The SMA applies to any two persons who seek to get married, regardless of their gender identity and sexual orientation; d. The words “husband” and “wife” as well as any other gender- specifi c term in the SMA ought to be substituted by the word “party” or “spouse”; e. All rights, entitlements and benefits associated with the solemnization and registration of marriage under the SMA are applicable to LGBTQ persons; f. Sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 46 of the SMA which contain requirements regarding the publication of a public notice of a proposed marriage and the domicile of the couple, and which empower the Marriage Registrar to receive and decide objections to the proposed marriage are violative of Articles 14, 15, 19 and 21 of the Constitution; * Ed.