Notice was issued on the execution petition by an dated 25 November 2022. 5. Thus, in light of the subsequent events and the liberty granted by this Court, the present appeal has been fi led. FACTUAL BACKGROUND 6. The fi rst respondent, RGPPL is a joint venture of NTPC Ltd., Gas Authority of India Ltd8, MSEB Holding Company, ICICI, IDBI, SBI, and Canara Bank. It was established as a Special Purpose Vehicle to take over the assets of Dabhol Power Company Limited whose operations had to be closed down. The fi rst respondent is a transmission company that owns a gas-based generating station at Ratnagiri, Maharashtra. 95% of its capacity has been allocated by the Ministry of Power to the State of Maharashtra and the rest to the State of Goa, and UTs of Daman and Diu, and Dadra and Nagar Haveli. The share allocated to the State of Maharashtra is supplied 7 “PPA”. 8 “GAIL” MSEDCL. v. RATNAGIRI GAS AND POWER PVT. LTD. 765 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] to the distribution licensee MSEDCL, the appellant. The appellant and the fi rst respondent entered into a Power Purchase Agreement on 10 April 2007 for 25 years whereby the appellant would purchase power from the fi rst respondent. The tariff s for the three blocks of the generating station were determined by CERC in accordance with the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (Terms and Conditions of Tariff ) Regulations, 2004 having regard to the capital cost and plant capacity of the generating station. 7. The fi rst respondent was supposed to receive the contracted quantity of gas supply from RIL. It is stated on behalf of the fi rst respondent that the supply was received accordingly until September 2011, after which, there was a progressive decline in the gas supply. The shortfall was attributed to the low-yielding KG-D6 gas fi elds. The issue of short supply was taken up with the Central Government and was placed before the Empowered Group of Ministers in its meeting held on 24 December 2012. 8. On account of the steady decline in the supply of domestic gas since September 2011, and in to make up for the shortfall in the generation of power during 2011-2012, the fi rst respondent entered into a Gas Supply Agreement/Gas Transportation Agreement9 with GAIL for the supply of Recycled Liquid Natural Gas10 under spot cargo on a take-and-pay-contract basis. The fi rst respondent conveyed this to the appellant by a letter dated 16 December 2011. In this letter, the fi rst respondent stated that due to the shortfall in the supply of domestic gas, the fi rst respondent was unable to achieve the target availability stipulated in the tariff . According to the fi rst respondent, this, in turn, was impacting their ability to make full fi xed cost recovery and hampering the viability of the project. The appellant was requested to schedule its energy requirements accordingly based on capacity declarations made by the fi rst respondent. 9. The appellant refused to schedule power at the rates stipulated in the above letter.