As we can see, the purpose behind bringing this pathbreaking legislation was not to complete the formality of ‘free and compulsory’ elementary education for children, but to make a qualitative diff erence in elementary education and to impart it in a meaningful manner. Provisions like ‘Right to be admitted in a neighbourhood school’8, ‘No denial of admission’9 and ‘Prohibition of physical punishment and mental harassment’10, are some of the heartwarming provisions of the Act. 20. The Act sets down certain norms and standards which have to be followed in elementary schools, and this is with the purpose of providing a meaningful and ‘quality’ education. To name some of these requirements such as:- A. The necessary infrastructure requirement. B. Pupil teacher ratio which is 30:1 and C. The absolute necessity of trained as well as qualifi ed teachers. 21.Free and compulsory education for children becomes meaningless if we make compromise on its ‘quality’. We must recruit the best qualifi ed teachers. A good teacher is the fi rst assurance of ‘quality’ education in a 7 In Society for Unaided Private Schools of Rajasthan v. Union of India & Anr. [(2012) 6 SCC 1] 8 Section 3 of the Right to Education Act, 2009. 9 Section 15 of the Right to Education Act, 2009. 10 Section 17 of the Right to Education Act, 2009. 176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. school. Any compromise on the qualifi cation of teachers would necessarily mean a compromise on the ‘quality’ of education. Jacques Barzun, the American educationalist and historian, in his seminal work ‘Teacher in America’, says “teaching is not a lost art, but the regard for it is a lost tradition”11. Though this comment was for the state of higher education in America, it is equally relevant here on the treatment of Primary education in our country, as it emerges from the facts before us. 22. Elementary education in India is at two levels. A is the ‘Primary’ level i.e. class I to V, and B is the Senior primary level i.e., classes VI to VIII. Presently we are only concerned with the “primary level” of education. 23. Section 23 of the Act is extremely important as it not only provides as to who shall determine the qualifi cations of teachers in a Primary school, but as to who can relax these qualifi cations, and for how long. It reads as under :- “Section 23. Qualifi cations for appointment and terms and conditions of service of teachers.—(1) Any person possessing such minimum qualifi cations, as laid down by an academic authority, authorised by the Central Government, by notifi cation, shall be eligible for appointment as a teacher. (2) Where a State does not have adequate institutions off ering courses or training in teacher education, or teachers possessing minimum qualifi cations as laid down under sub-section (1) are not available in suffi cient numbers, the Central Government may, if its deems necessary, by notifi cation, relax the minimum qualifi cations required for appointment as a teacher, for such period, not exceeding fi ve years, as may be specifi ed in that notifi cation: Provided that a teacher who, at the commencement of this Act, does not possess minimum qualifi cations as laid down under sub-section (1), shall acquire such minimum qualifi cations within a period of fi ve years: 11 Barzun, Jacques.