These fundamental rights are however, subject to reasonable restrictions as enumerated in Articles 19(2) to (6) thereof F which could be imposed by the State. These fundamental rights are in the nature of inalienable rights of man or basic human rights which inhere in all citizens of a free country. Yet, these rights are not unrestricted or absolute, and are regulated by restrictions,which may be imposed by the State, G which have to be reasonable. The object of prescribing restraints or reasonable restrictions on the fundamental freedoms is to avoid anarchy or dis in society. Hence, the founding fathers of our Constitution while enumerating the fundamental rights, have alongside prescribed reasonable H 730 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A restrictions in clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19 and the laws enacted within the strict limits of such restrictions are constitutionally permissible. 12.2. Since, these cases involve the freedom of speech and expression, it is unnecessary to analyse the nature of the B other fundamental rights in Article 19(1) of the Constitution. Articles 19(1) (a) and 19(2) of the Constitution read as under: “19. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc.- (1) All citizens shall have the right – C (a) to freedom of speech and expression; xxx xxx xxx (2) Nothing in sub-clause (a) of clause (a) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the State D from making any law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with Foreign States, public , decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, E defamation or incitement to an offence.” 12.3. The freedom of speech and expression as envisaged under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution means the right to free speech and to express opinions through various media such as by word of mouth, through the print or electronic media, F through pictographs, writings, graphics or any other manner that can be discerned by the mind. The right includes the freedom of press. The content of this right also includes propagation of ideas through publication and circulation, the right to seek information and to acquire or impart ideas. In G short, the right to free speech would include every nature of right that would come within the scope and ambit of free speech. Hence, Article 19(1)(a) in very broad and in wide terms states that all citizens shall have the right to freedom of speech and expression. The said right can be curtailed only by reasonable restrictions which are enumerated in H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 731 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Article 19(2) there of which can be imposed by the State A under the authority of law but not by exercise of executive power in the absence of any law. Further, the nature of restrictions on right to free speech must be reasonable, and in the interest of the sovereignty and integrity of India, security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, B public , decency or morality or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence.