If the dated 29th March, 2001 is made applicable retrospectively, it would have the effect of withdrawing vested rights of Lecturers such as Respondent No. 1 and would hence be in contravention of settled principles of law that an amendment could not be made applicable retrospectively, if such G application would have the effect of nullifying vested rights. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that the present appeal be dismissed as being devoid of merit and the s of the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court of Kerala dated 13th October, 2015 and 10th August, 2016 respectively be affirmed. H 376 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Points for consideration: 6. Having heard learned Senior Counsel and learned counsel for the respective parties and on perusal of the material on record, we find that the following points would arise for our consideration: B i) Whether the High Court was right and justified in directing grant of two advance increments to Respondent No. 1 in terms of Clause 6.18 of the Government dated 21st December, 1999, on his placement as a Selection Grade Lecturer? C ii) What ? Discussion and analysis: 7. This matter calls for a determination as to whether the 29th March, 2001 was a clarification of Clauses 6.16 to 6.19 of the D Government dated 21st December, 1999, or whether, it amended or modified the same. If the subsequent Government is declared to be in the nature of a clarification of the earlier , it may be made applicable retrospectively. Conversely, if the subsequent Government is held to be a modification/amendment of the earlier , its application would be prospective as retrospective application thereof E would result in withdrawal of vested rights which is impermissible in law and the same may also entail recoveries to be made. 7.1. For a ready reference, the relevant clauses of the Government bearing number G.O. (P) No. 171/99/H.Edn. dated 21st December, F 1999 have been extracted hereinunder: “Incentives for Ph.D./M.Phil. 6.16. Four and two advance increments will be admissible to those who hold Ph.D. and M. Phil. degrees, respectively at the time of recruitment as Lecturers. Candidates with D.Litt./D.Sc. G should be given benefit on par with Ph.D. and M.Litt. on par with M.Phil. 6.17. One increment will be admissible to those teachers with M.Phil. who acquire Ph.D. within two years of recruitment. H SREE SANKARACHARYA UNIVERSITY OF SANSKRIT & 377 ORS. v. DR. MANU & ANR. [NAGARATHNA, J.] 6.18. A Lecturer with Ph.D. will be eligible for two advance A increments when she/he moves into Selection Grade/Reader. 6.19. A teacher will be eligible for two advance increments as and when she/he acquires a Ph.D. degree in her/his service career.” B 7.2. On a conjoint reading of the aforesaid Clauses of the Government dated 21st December, 1999, the following aspects would emerge: i) A Lecturer, who at the time of recruitment has a Ph.D. degree to his/her credit, would be eligible to four increments. C Such a candidate, on being placed in the Selection Grade or as a Reader, would be eligible to two additional advance increments.