As stated above, Ms. Aishwarya Bhati submitted four studies to support the claim that permitting non-heterosexual couples to adopt is not in the best interest of the child. The paper titled “Child Attention-Defi cit Hyperactivity Dis (ADHD) in same-sex parent families in the United States: Prevalence and Comorbidities,”267 examines a sample of 1,95,240 children including 512 children with same-sex parents. The paper concluded that children with same-sex parents in the United States were twice as likely to suff er from ADHD than children with opposite-sex parents. The paper titled “High School graduation rates among children of same-sex households”268 uses the 2006 Canada census to study high school graduation probabilities of children of parents belonging to the queer community. The paper concluded that children living with parents belonging to the queer community perform more poorly in school when compared to children living with married heterosexual parents. The paper titled “Children in planned lesbian families: stigmatisation, psychological adjustment and protective factors”269 conducted a study to assess the extent to which children between eight and twelve years in planned lesbian families in the Netherlands experience stigmatization. For the purpose of this assessment, data was collected from questionnaires fi lled out by mothers and by children. It was 267 D Paul Sullins, Child Attention-Defi cit Hyperactivity Dis (ADHD) in same-sex parent families in the United States: Prevalence and Comorbidities, British Journal of Medicine & Medical Research 6(10):987-998, 2015 268 Douglas W.Allen, High School graduation rates among children of same sex households, Rev Econ Household (2013) 11:635-658 269 Henry M.W Bos & Frank Van Balen, Children in planned lesbian families: Stigmatisation, psychological adjustment and protective factors, Culture, Health and Sexuality: An International Journal for Research, Intervention and Care, 10:3, 221- 236. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1399 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] concluded that higher levels of stigmatization were associated with such children. Boys were found to be more hyperactive and girls were found to suff er from a lower self-esteem. The paper titled “Children in three contexts: Family, education, and social development”270 collected a sample of 174 primary school children living with married heterosexual couples, cohabiting heterosexual couples, and homosexual couples to explore the relationship between family environment and the behaviour of primary school children. The study concluded that the children of married couples are more likely to do well at school, in academic and social terms, than children of cohabiting heterosexual and homosexual couples. However, the author cautions that there may be additional factors such as biases which the teachers may have held while assessing the children, based on their cultural beliefs. 311. On the other hand, Dr. Menaka Guruswamy appearing for the intervenor, Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights argued that there is no evidence or empirical data to show that non-heterosexual couples are unfi t to be parents or that the psychosocial development of children brought up by same-sex couples will be compromised. The learned counsel relied on the paper titled “Lesbian and Gay Parenting” by the American Psychological Association271 in which it was concluded that the home environment provided by non-heterosexual couples is not diff erent from that provided by heterosexual parents.