The concept of civil service is not new or of recent origin. Governments — whether monarchial, dictatorial or republican — have to function; and for carrying on the administration and the varied functions of the government age number of persons are E required and have always been required, whether they are constituted in the form of a civil service or not.” 101. In the Indian Constitution, an entire Part, Part XIV, is dedicated to ‘services’, indicating the great significance which the members of the Constituent Assembly reposed in the civil service officers. During the F Constituent Assembly Debates, the civil services were referred to as the “soul of administration” and it was said that the “importance of the civil services cannot be gainsaid.”32 Part XIV deals with “Services under the Union and the States”. Chapter I comprising of Articles 308 to 313 G 29 Herman Finer, The Theory and Practice of Modern Governance (New York: The Dial Press, 1932) at page 1163 30 Dr DD Basu, Commentary on the Constitution of India, 9th Edn., 2018, Vol. 13, page 13991 31 (1985) 3 SCC 398 32 Muniswamy Pillai and BN Munavalli in Constituent Assembly Debates, Vol. 9 (22nd August 1949) H 556 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A deals with services, and Chapter II comprising of Articles 315 to 323 deals with Public Service Commissions for the Union and the States. The effectiveness of the elaborate provisions of Part XIV is to a large extent dependent upon the relationship between the ministers and civil service officers. B (b) Accountability of civil servants in a Westminster parliamentary democracy 102. In a democracy, accountability lies with the people who are the ultimate sovereign. The parliamentary form of government adopted in India essentially requires that Parliament and the government, consisting of elected representatives, to be accountable to the people. The Cabinet C consisting of elected representatives is collectively responsible for the proper administration of the country and is answerable to the legislature for its actions. The Constitution confers the legislature the power to enact laws and the government to implement laws. The conduct of the government is periodically assessed by the electorate in elections D conducted every five years. The government is formed with the support of a majority of elected members in the legislature. The government responsible to the legislature is assessed daily in the legislature through debates on Bills, or questions raised during Question Hour, resolutions, debates and no-confidence motions. The government is responsible for the decisions and policies of each of the ministers and of their departments. E This creates a multi-linked chain of accountability, where the legislature is accountable to the people who elected them, and the government is collectively responsible to the legislature. This establishes a link between the electorate and the government. The government is collectively responsible for its actions. The Council of Ministers is accountable to F both the legislature and to the electorate. Collective responsibility is an important component of parliamentary democracies.33 103. Civil servants are required to be politically neutral.