It is contended that the situation which unfolded in Hotel Green Park on 20.10.2020 at about 1 PM would indicate that the said four persons acting on behalf of the Chhattisgarh Police had taken him F away from the hotel. Subsequent thereto his name has been included in FIR No.255/2020 as well, though it was an earlier registered case. 13. The learned senior counsel for respondent No.1-State would contend that the allegations are unjustified. Pursuant to the registration of the FIR, an investigation has been conducted and the charge sheet G has been filed. The contentions urged by the appellants are available to be put forth in defence, in the proceedings before the trial court where the charges have been framed and the trial is proceeding. Insofar as the allegation that he was abducted and taken away from the hotel, it is denied and contended that even though the police had gone to Odisha in connection with the earlier F.I.R., they were unable to trace the appellant H ROYDEN HAROLD BUTHELLO & ANR. v. STATE OF 157 CHHATTISGARH & ORS. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] No.1 there, but he was subsequently found to be indulging in the illegal A activity in Raipur itself when he was apprehended and proceedings have been initiated. It is contended that the claim for investigation by the CBI is without basis and the well laid down guidelines of this Court does not permit referring the investigation to CBI in every case where the accused makes an allegation against the law enforcing authorities. B 14. Having noted the rival contentions, we have also perused the impugned passed by the High Court while taking note of the plea put forth by the parties. In fact, the High Court having framed two points for its consideration, on the aspect relating to the transfer of the case to CBI as sought for, has considered it while answering point No.2. The C guidelines as laid down by this Court has been referred to in detail before adverting to the facts and has thereafter declined the prayer for referring to an investigation by CBI. In that background, as noted, the case sought to be made out seeking for CBI investigation is on the allegation that the appellant No.1 has been illegally detained and thereafter was charged with a serious offence, though he is completely innocent. In this regard, D it is contended that the allegation of the appellant No.1 being in possession of 9.240 grams of cocaine on his person and that he was attempting to sell the same near Ashram Tihara in front of Sulabh Complex in Raipur on 21.10.2020, is a false case. It is to establish this aspect of the matter it is contended that the police personnel of respondent No.1-State of E Chhattisgarh had illegally abducted him on the previous day itself i.e. on 20.10.2020 from the hotel in a different State where he was staying. According to the appellants, it is a foisted case against appellant No.1 with an illegal and ulterior motive and the matter requires a detailed investigation by the CBI.