We are of the clear view that the purport of Section 5 is not to take away the effect of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. The Court under Section 11 purporting to give effect to Sections 33 and 35 cannot be accused of judicial interference contrary to Section 5 of the Act. H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 361 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 91. It is nobody’s case that if the contract which contains the A arbitration clause is an instrument within the meaning of the Stamp Act is produced before the court under Section 11 of the Act, and it is found to be unstamped on the face of it, that Sections 33 and 35 and other allied provisions of the Stamp Act would have no play. In fact, in N.N. Global (supra), this Court directed the work (the contract containing B the arbitration clause) to be impounded. Section 11 (6A) of the Act which requires the court to examine whether an arbitration agreement exists, was the need realized and articulated by Parliament to curb the court from straying into other areas highlighted in National Insurance (supra). In other words, proceeding on the basis that an ‘unstamped agreement’ exists, it would not deflect the court of its statutory duty to follow the C regime under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. N. THE AMICUS CURIE SPRINGS A SURPRISE 92. This Court pointed out to the existence of the Scheme prepared by the Supreme Court in exercise of the powers under Section 11(10). D Paragraph 2(a) of the Scheme, inter alia, reads as follows: “2. Submission of request. -The request to the Chief Justice under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6) of section 11 shall be made in writing and shall be accompanied by- (a) the original arbitration agreement or a duly certified copy E thereof;” 93. Thereafter, when the curtains were about to be rung down on the hearing, the learned Amicus brought the following aspect to notice of the Court. He pointed out that under the Scheme, the applicant need produce only the certified copy of the Arbitration Agreement. He would F draw support from the s of this Court inJupudi Kesava Rao v. Pulavarthi Venkata Subbarao and others34 and Hariom Agrawal (supra) to contend that even applying Sections 33 and 35 by the Court at the stage of Section 11 of the Act, the certified copy cannot be impounded. He, thus, sought to take the wind out of the sail of the appellant’s contention, by contending that in most of the cases, since certified copies G are alone being filed and they cannot be impounded, and as after reference to the Arbitrator based on the certified copy, the Arbitrator is competent, in law, under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act to do the needful, this 34 (1971) 1 SCC 545 H 362 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.