[2023] 11 S.C.R. 520 : 2023 INSC 734 CASE DETAILS PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. (Criminal Appeal No. 2304 of 2023) AUGUST 16, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J.B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the Division Bench of the High Court rightly declined to interfere with the of preventive detention passed against the appellant detenu by the District Collector in exercise of his powers u/s. 3(2) of the Andhra Pradesh Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Boot-leggers, Dacoits, Drug Off enders, Goondas, Immoral Traffi c Off enders and Land Grabbers Act, 1986. Andhra Pradesh Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Boot- leggers, Dacoits, Drug Off enders, Goondas, Immoral Traffi c Off enders and Land Grabbers Act, 1986 – s. 3(2) – Preventive detention – Appellant indulging in distributing, storing, transporting and selling ID Liquor which causes huge damage to the public health as well as public peace and tranquility – of preventive detention passed by the District Collector in exercise of powers u/s. 3(2) – High Court upheld the detention – Correctness: Held: It cannot be said that the detention passed for 12 months at a stretch could be termed as without jurisdiction and contrary to the mandate of sub-section (2) of s. 3 – Period as mentioned in s. 3(2) refers to the period of delegation of powers and it has no relevance at all to the period for which a person may be detained – Period of three months stipulated in Art. 22(4) (a) is relatable to the initial period of detention up to the stage of receipt of report of the Advisory Board and does not have any bearing on the period of detention, which is continued subsequent to the confi rmatory being 520 PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 521 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. passed by the State Government on receipt of the report of the Advisory Board – Furthermore, detaining authority specifi cally stated in the grounds of detention that selling liquor by the detenu and the consumption by the people of that locality was harmful to their health – Such statement is an expression of his subjective satisfaction that the activities of the detenu is prejudicial to the maintenance of public – Thus, no error of law in the impugned of the High Court. [Paras 23, 38, 71 and 72] Andhra Pradesh Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Boot- leggers, Dacoits, Drug Off enders, Goondas, Immoral Traffi c Off enders and Land Grabbers Act, 1986 – s. 3(2) – Interpretation: Held: s. 3(2) has nothing to do with the period of detention – s. 3(2) is with respect to the delegation of powers by the State Government upon the District Magistrate or Commissioner of Police, as the case may be, for exercise of powers u/s. 3(2) – Period as mentioned in s. 3(2) refers to the period of delegation of powers by the State Government and it has no relevance at all to the period for which a person may be detained – Thus, s. 3(2) provides that if the State Government is satisfi ed having regard to the circumstances prevailing in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of a District Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police, it is necessary to empower the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, as the case may be, to exercise the powers of the State Government to detention of a person as provided by sub-section (1), then the State Government may by an in writing direct that during such period as may be specifi ed in the , the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police may also, if satisfi ed as provided in sub-section (1) exercises the powers of the State Government as conferred by sub-section (1) – Proviso to sub-section (2) thus, has nothing to do with the period of detention of a detenu – Maximum period of detention is prescribed u/s.