The shares will have to be determined in changed H 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A scenario. The severance of status cannot come in the way to give effect to statutory provision and change by subsequent event. The statutory fiction of partition is far short of actual partition, it does not bring about the disruption of the joint family or that of coparcenary is a settled proposition of law. For the reasons mentioned above, we are also of the opinion B that mere severance of status by way of filing a suit does not bring about the partition and till the date of the final decree, change in law, and changes due to the subsequent event can be taken into consideration. Xxx xxx xxx C 114. In the instant case, the question is different. What has been recognised as partition by the legislation under Section 6, accordingly, rights are to be worked out. This Court consistently held in various decisions mentioned above that when the rights are subsequently conferred, the preliminary D decree can be amended, and the benefit of law has to be conferred. Hence, we have no hesitation to reject the effect of statutory fiction of the proviso to Section 6 as discussed in Prakash v. Phulavati [(2016) 2 SCC 36 : (2016) 1 SCC (Civ) 549] and Danamma [Danamma v. Amar, (2018) 3 SCC E 343 : (2018) 2 SCC (Civ) 385]. If a daughter is alive on the date of enforcement of the Amendment Act, she becomes a coparcener with effect from the date of the Amendment Act, irrespective of the date of birth earlier in point of time.” APPLICATION OF THE AFORESAID PRINCIPLES OF LAW TO THE FACTS OF THE PRESENT CASE F 79. Let us assume for the moment that the Trial Court would have decreed the suit in favour of the plaintiff i.e., the daughter giving her 1/3rd share uniformly in all the properties including the ancestral properties. It could have been argued that the Trial Court could not have done so, having regard to the position of law, prevailing at the relevant G point of time. However, after the decision of this Court in the case of Vineeta Sharma (supra) such allotment of share would be in accordance with law. Let us also assume one another alternative. Take for instance, the Trial Court would have decreed the suit giving (i) 1/3rd share to the daughter in self-acquired property and (ii) giving 1/3rd share in the half H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 67 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] were of father’s portion of ancestral properties. This was the law A prevailing at the relevant point of time and this is exactly what the Trial Court has done in the present case, while passing the preliminary decree as affirmed by the High Court. However, the law has now changed as discussed above. 80. It is in the aforesaid background that daughters are entitled to B 1/3rd share in all the properties as scheduled in the plaint.