Thus, where one Entry is made “subject to” another E Entry, it would imply that, out of the scope of the former Entry, a field of legislation covered by the latter Entry has been reserved to be specifically dealt with by the appropriate legislature. (ii) In the instant case, it is held that the IMC Act, 1956 is a F legislation made by the Parliament for the purpose of coordination and determination of standards in medical education throughout the Country. The said law, along with the Rules and Regulations made thereunder are for the purpose of determination of standards of medical education G throughout India. Thus, determination of standards in medical education in India is as per the IMC Act, 1956 which is a Central Law. This is in respect of modern medicine or allopathic medicine within the scope of Entry 66 of List I and not under Entry 25 of List III of the Seventh Schedule. Therefore, a State Legislature which passes a H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 1017 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] law in respect of allopathic medicine or modern medicine A would be subject to the provisions of the IMC Act, 1956 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder. This would imply that no State Legislature has the legislative competence to pass any law which would be contradictory to or would be in direct conflict with the IMC Act, 1956 B and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder. In other words, the standard in medical education insofar as modern medicine or allopathy is concerned, having been set by the IMC Act, 1956 and the Rules and Regulations made thereunder or by any subsequent Act in that regard, such as the Medical Council of India Act, 2019, the State C Legislature has no legislative competence to enact a law which is in conflict with the law setting the standards of medical education in the context of modern medicine or allopathic medicine, which has been determined by Parliamentary Legislation as well as the Rules. In other D words, a State Legislature has no legislative competence to enact a law in respect of modern medicine or allopathic medicine contrary to the said standards that have been determined by the Central Law. In view of the above conclusion, we hold that decision of the Gauhati High Court holding that the Assam Act to be E null and void, is just and proper. However, the Gauhati High Court has held that the State had no legislative competence to enact the Assam Act in view of Article 254 of the Constitution on the premise that the IMC Act and the Rules and Regulations made F thereunder were holding the field and hence, on the basis of the doctrine of occupied field, the Assam Act was struck down as being repugnant to the Central Law. In view of the aforesaid conclusion, we are of the view that the said reasoning is incorrect. It is reiterated that the IMC Act and G the Rules and Regulations made thereunder, which are all Central legislations, have been enacted having regard to Entry 66 of List I and would prevail over any State Law made by virtue of Entry 25 of List III of the Constitution.