58. We do not fi nd any justifi cation to grant same scale to the appellants as was generously and wrongly granted to the respondent No. 4 by treating him equal to the Medical Offi cer working in the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. As even that scale was wrongly granted to him, there was no justifi cation for grant of higher pay scale to the respondent No. 4 vide dated 13.12.2006, with eff ect from 18.01.1999, i.e., the date of his 916 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. initial appointment. The same was certainly illegal and cannot withstand in judicial scrutiny. 59. As a consequence, the impugned s passed by the Tribunal and the High Court are quashed. The dated 04.01.2010 justifying the benefi ts granted to respondent No. 4 is set aside. As a result, even the appellants are not held entitled to higher pay scales as were granted to respondent No. 4. 60. Since during the interregnum, the respondent No. 4 had been unjustifi ably paid salary in the higher pay scale, one option could be that whatever had been paid to him till date, be left as such and his pay could be directed to be re-fi xed from a future date. However, having regard to the level of the post of the respondent No. 4 and the manner in which he was extended special treatment at every step and was granted higher pay scale, we do not propose to adopt that course as this is not a case of any bonafi de error. It was a well-planned and deliberate infraction. We therefore direct recovery of the excess amount paid to the respondent No. 4, though in instalments and/or from the offi cer(s), who were directly involved in the decision-making process of granting undue benefi t to the respondent No.4. Both should be made equally liable to reimburse the exchequer for the amount illegally disbursed to the respondent No.4. The exchequer should not be made to suff er on that account and either of two shall have to make good that loss of undue benefi t granted to the respondent No. 4. 61. The appeal is allowed in the aforesaid terms. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Nidhi Jain