Criminalisation of politics is the bane of society and negation of democracy. It is subversive of free and fair elections which is a basic feature of the Constitution. Thus, a provision made in the election law to promote C the object of free and fair elections and facilitate maintenance of law and which are the essence of democracy must, therefore, be so viewed. More elbow room to the legislature for classification has to be available to achieve the professed object.” 100. The Court also found other reasons to justify the provision. It D was noted that permitting every person in prison to vote, would lead to a resource crunch in terms of police force required to facilitate the right. The Court also went on to hold that the Right to Vote is also subject to limitations imposed by the Statute. The specific question, as to whether it constituted a Constitutional Right under Article 326, as such, was not presented for adjudication. E 101. In Shyamdeo Pd. Singh v. Nawal Kishore Yadav34, a Bench of three learned judges while dealing with a case arising out of an election petition had this to say about Article 326: “9. Article 326 of the Constitution is founded on the doctrine of F adult suffrage. It provides that every person who is a citizen of India and who is not less than 18 years of age on such date as may be fixed in that behalf by or under any law made by the appropriate legislature and is not otherwise disqualified under the Constitution or any law made by the appropriate legislature on the ground of non-residence, unsoundness of mind, crime or corrupt G or illegal practice, shall be entitled to be registered as a voter at any such election. This Article clearly contemplates law being enacted by an appropriate legislature providing for qualifications and disqualifications subject to which a citizen of India not less than 18 years of age shall be entitled to be registered as a voter H 34(2000) 8 SCC 46 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 103 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] and exercise his right to franchise. Article 327 provides for law A being made by Parliament subject to the provisions of the Constitution with respect to all matters relating to or in connection with elections to either House of Parliament or to the House or either House of the Legislature of a State which law may include provisions for the preparation of electoral rolls, the delimitation of B constituencies and all other matters necessary for securing the due constitution of such House or Houses. 102. The Court, inter alia, after referring to Section 62 of the 1951 Act, held as follows: “… A person who is not entered in the electoral roll of any C constituency is not entitled to vote in that constituency thoughhe may be qualified under the Constitution and the law to exercise the right to franchise. To be entitled to cast a ballot the person should be entered in the electoral roll…” It was further held: D “15.