Section 5 defi nes the extent of the executive and legislative power of the State in the following terms: “5. Extent of executive and legislative power of the State The executive and legislative power of the State extends to all matters except those with respect to which Parliament has power to make laws for the State, under the provisions of the Constitution of India.” 166 25 January 1957, Debates of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir 167 The Preamble to the Indian Constitution: “WE, THE PEOPLE OF INDIA, having solemnly resolved to constitute India into a SOVEREIGN SOCIALIST SECULAR DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC and to secure to all its citizens: JUSTICE, social, economic and political; LIBERTY of thought, expression, belief, faith and worship; EQUALITY of status and of opportunity; and to promote among them all; FRATERNITY assuring the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the Nation…” IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 93 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 153. Section 5 defi nes the extent of the legislative and executive power of the State by relating it to matters over which Parliament has power to make laws for the State. In other words, the residual power which is left after excluding the domain which falls within the ambit of the legislative power of Parliament in relation to the State, would be within the legislative and executive domain of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Section 5 however recognises that the legislative domain of Parliament in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir would be prescribed by the Constitution of India and necessarily therefore not by the Constitution of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. 154. Section 6 of the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution provides for Permanent residents: “Permanent residents (1) Every person who is, or is deemed to be, a citizen of India under the provisions of the Constitution of India shall be a permanent resident of the State, if on the fourteenth day of May, 1954. (a) he was a State subject of class I or of class II: or (b) having lawfully acquired immovable property in the State, he has been ordinarily resident in the State for not less than ten years prior to that date. (2) Any person who, before the fourteenth day of May, 1954 was a State subject of Class I or of Class II and who, having migrated after the fi rst day of March, 1947, to the territory -now included in Pakistan, returns to the State under a permit for resettlement in the State or for permanent return issued by or under the authority of any law made by the State Legislature shall on such return be a permanent resident of the State. (3) In this section, the expression “State subject of Class I or of Class II” shall have the same -meaning as the State Notifi cation No I-L/84 dated the twentieth April. ‘1927, read with State Notifi cation No 13/L dated the twenty- seventh June, 1932.” It is important to note that permanent residents do not possess dual citizenship – one of the State of Jammu and Kashmir and another of the 94 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.