It must be assessed on the touchstone of E numerous factors. The factors list the considerations that are undertaken in the balancing stage. The relevant observations are extracted below: “28. […] The nature of the right infringed, the underlying purpose of the restrictions imposed, the extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby, the disproportion of the imposition, F the prevailing conditions at the time, all provide the basis for considering the reasonableness of a particular provision. The procedure embodied in the Act has to be judged in the context of the urgency and the magnitude of the problem, the underlying purpose of the restrictions and the prevailing conditions.”52 The s of this Court in Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) G (supra) and Modern Dental College & Research Centre v. State of Madhya Pradesh44, establishing the proportionality 42 Om Kumar (n 16) ; Teri Oat Estates (P) Ltd. V. UT, Chandigarh, (2004) 2 SCC 130. 43 (1978) 3 SCC 544 H 44 (2016) 7 SCC 353 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 641 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] standard to test the reasonableness of the infringements on A substantive rights do not preclude the application of the proportionality standard to test the reasonableness of limitations on procedural guarantees. The standard of proportionality infuses a culture of justification, where the State has to discharge the burden of justifying that its action was reasonable and not B arbitrary.45 Once the principle of reasonableness is read into procedural requirements, there is no reason for the court to use different standards to test the reasonability of substantive and procedural actions. F. Infringement of MBL’s right to a fair hearing C 53. MBL contends that the principles of a reasoned , disclosure of relevant material, and open justice have been infringed by the of the MIB and the of the High Court. It is contended that the abrogation of these three principles infringe upon the right to a fair hearing which constitutes the core of the procedural requirements D protected under Article 21: (i) Reasoned : In the present case, the notice to show cause states that MHA has denied security clearance to MBL to operate its channel, Media One. However, it does not mention the reasons for the denial of security clearance. E Further, the dated 31 January 2022 denying the permission for renewal of license also does not provide reasons for the denial of security clearance. In such circumstances, MIB was put in a precarious position without any actual recourse to defend the case against them; (ii) Disclosure of material relevant to the decision: MHA F declined to disclose any material that was relevant to its decision. The claim of non-disclosure of relevant documents by MHA was not limited to a few ‘top secret’ documents. Rather, all documents that were relevant to the decision have not been disclosed; and G (iii) Open Justice: MHA disclosed the documents in a sealed cover to the High Court. The High Court dismissed the writ petition by relying on the material that was disclosed 45 See Justice Chandrachud’s opinion in Justice KS Puttaswamy (5J) v. Union of India (5 J), (2019) 1 SCC 1 (para 310) H 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.