This defence was carefully examined by the trial court as well as the High Court with reference to the site plan and the evidence led. After examining the same, it was found that persons who died including those who received injuries were on Street No. 300 whereas the house of Babu Ram had no opening on Street No. 300. Rather, its opening was on Street No. 400. The High Court noticed that even the back wall of the house of Babu Ram did not abut Street No. 300 where the incident occurred. Not only that, the evidence brought on record established that gunshots were fi red from the roof-top of Mangat Ram’s house (i.e. House No.354) upon persons who were standing or moving on Street No.300. In this scenario, the defence plea was found unacceptable and was therefore discarded by the trial court as well the High Court. Detailed reasons in that regard can be found in paragraphs 45 to 57 of High Court’s , extracted below: “45. In our opinion there is hardly much scope for raising a dispute pertaining to the defence of Babu Ram of having acted in self-defence. The defence is a sham. 46. The site plan, Ex.PW-56/A, prepared by Inspector Sajan Singh and the site plan to scale Ex.PVJ-7/A prepared by Tirath Raj Singh PW-7, to which we have made a detailed reference in para 11 above, show that deceased Vijay and Anil were shot dead at street No.300. Mangat Ram PW-2 also was shot at in street No.300. PW-8, PW-9, PW-13, PW-14, PW-15 and PW-27 have categorically stated that they received the gunshot injuries when they were in street No.300. These witnesses may be related to the two young boys who were shot dead as also to Mangat Ram, the complainant, but said fact alone would not render suspect their testimonies. The said six witnesses are all residents of block-D and have their houses on gali No.300 and thus their presence at the spot is natural. That all of them received gunshot wounds itself establishes their presence at the spot. A related witness is not an interested witness on account of being the relation of the complainant. An interested witness is one who has a motive to secure the false conviction of the accused and to achieve the same deposes falsely. As held in the decision reported as State of Rajasthan v. Smt Kalki & Anr (1981) 2 SCC 752:- 388 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “As mentioned above, the High Court has declined to rely on the evidence of P.W.I on two grounds: (1) she was a “highly interested” witness because she “is the wife of the deceased”, and (2) there were discrepancies in her evidence. With respect, in our opinion, both the grounds are invalid. For, in the circumstances of the case, she was the only and most natural witness; she was the only person present in the hut with the deceased at the time of the occurrence, and the only person who saw the occurrence.