He pointed out that what is at stake is the interpretation to be placed on a long term power procurement contract. It is not as if in such a contract, the matters are fixed with reference to the point of time C when the contract is entered into. It is not cast in stone, in other words. It is open to change. More appropriately, it is open to regulation. We are invited to consider that the Act represents a paradigm shift from the previous regime under which the price of power was fixed essentially at the whims and caprice of the State Electricity Boards. There was a D stagnation in the production and supply of power. It is realising the need for increasing private participation in the generation of power that the Act was enacted in the year 2003. Being the subject matter of regulations means that tariff was open to be revisited from time to time. It is precisely this regime which is reflected by Section 79 of the Act. It is further pointed out that the complaint of the appellants regarding the Tribunal in E regard to the water intake system despite agreeing with the Commission that there was no change in law rendering the findings it did and therefore, being unsustainable, the Court may consider that in fact there was a change in law. This argument is sought to be buttressed with reference to the provisions of clause (iii) of Article 13.1.1. It is contended, in other F words, that a perusal of the various clauses of the PPA would show that the procurers (the appellants) were obliged under the contract to provide initial consent. One of the initial consents related to the water linkage for the project. He would submit that in view of the provisions of Schedule II to the PPA the initial consent also consisted of carrying out the task of making available land for the power plant and for the laying of the pipeline. G Since as it turned out and as supported by the second report of the WAPCOS, there was clearly insufficient availability of water at the site supported by the first report, the first respondent was compelled to take water from a distant point of the reservoir in question. This led to the colossal increase in the expenditure towards laying of the pipeline inter alia. This constituted, therefore, a change in law. H 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (28) As far as the contention based on the disclaimer clauses which are relied upon by the appellant is concerned, it is pointed out that the width of the disclaimer clause could not be stretched to the point that is canvassed by the appellants. We are dealing with a case where a public sector unit viz., WAPCOS has given its report. Not unnaturally, the first respondent relied upon the same. It is factored in its price and B once it is found that the report was entirely fallacious, no shelter can be sought by the appellants under the disclaimer clauses.