12. Bearing in mind the afore-extracted recitals from the decisions in Gunmala Sales Private Limited’s case (supra) and S.P. Mani’s case (supra), we have carefully gone through the complaint fi led by the respondent. It is not averred anywhere in the complaint that the appellant was in charge of the conduct of the business of the company at the relevant time when the off ence was committed. What is stated in the complaint is only that the accused Nos. 2 to 6 being the partners are responsible for the day-to-day conduct and business of the company. It is also relevant to note that an overall reading of the complaint would not disclose any clear and specifi c role of the appellant. In the statutory notice dated 10.09.2015 (Annexure-P6) at paragraph 3 it was averred thus:- “3. That for liquidation of the aforesaid legal liability/outstanding, you noticee No. 2 to 6 issued cheque number 005074 dated 21.08.2015, amounting to Rs. 27,46,737/- drawn on Punjab National Bank, Ernhipalam (Kozhikode) branch in favour of my client from the account of noticee No. 1.” In response to that in Annexure- P7 reply the appellant herein stated thus:- “In this regard, I would like to convey you that, I have retired from M/s Tile store as partner way back on 28-5-2013 and I am not a partner of M/s. Tile Store any more. (Copy of Retirement deed enclosed). SIBY THOMAS v. M/S. SOMANY CERAMICS LTD. 829 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] During the time of my retirement, there were no dues to M/s. Somany Ceramics Ltd. from M/s. Tile Store as full payments were made for the consignments taken from them. (Copy of accounts statements up to 31-05-2013 enclosed)” 13. In the light of the aforesaid circumstances the averments of the respondent in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the complaint are also to be seen. In paragraph 5 of the complaint, it was alleged that accused No.1 through accused No.2 had purchased the goods from the complainant on credit basis through proper sales invoices and, in paragraph 6 it was alleged that for liquidation of legal liability outstanding accused Nos. 2 and 3 issued cheque Nos. 005074 dated 21.8.2015 amounting to Rs.27,46,737/- drawn upon Punjab National Bank, Ernhipalam (Kozhikode), in favour of the complainant from the account of accused No.1. The appellant is the accused No. 4 in the complaint. 14. In view of the factual position relating the averments revealed from the complaint as aforesaid it is relevant to refer to the decisions relied on by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant. In the decision in Anita Malhotra’s case (supra) in paragraph 22 it was held thus:- “22. This Court has repeatedly held that in case of a Director, the complaint should specifi cally spell out how and in what manner the Director was in charge of or was responsible to the accused company for conduct of its business and mere bald statement that he or she was in charge of and was responsible to the company for conduct of its business is not suffi cient.