6; it held that the sum of `3 lakhs awarded towards compensation for loss caused due to non-issue of tender document and paralysing business could not have been granted. The High Court held that it could not be said that the proceedings (in the present case) were under the Arbitration Act, 1940, and therefore, the rate of interest granted should not be 18%. The High Court referred to this court’s s in K. Marappan v. Superintending Engineer TBPHLC Circle Anantapur3, M/s Raveechee & Co. v. Union of India4 and Ambica Construction v. Union of India5 while deciding this question of pendente lite interest; it was held that the bar to award interest on the amounts payable under the contract would not be suffi cient to deny the payment of interest pendente lite. The High Court proceeded to reduce the rate of interest from 18% (as ed by the arbitrator), to 9% per annum. The remaining amount was directed to be deposited by the appellants as expeditiously as possible, with the interest accrued, not later than 12 weeks from the date of the . On other grounds, it was held that there was no scope for interference in the arbitral award. Contentions of parties 5. The ground pressed by the appellant in the present proceedings, relates to the modifi cation of the rate of interest (relating to award in Claim No. 9), and the scope of this appeal is limited to this question. 6. Mrs. Neeraj Singh, counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, submitted that their claim was in fact for 24% pendente lite interest, and the arbitrator had already reduced it to the 18% granted. Pointing to pre-amended Section 31(7)(b) of the 1996 Act, it was contended that the High Court erred in reducing the ‘statutory interest rate’; this provision prescribed that in the event the Arbitrator did not give any specifi c directions as regards rate of interest on amount awarded, such amount ‘shall’ carry interest of 18% per annum. The Arbitrator had properly considered the matter and accordingly granted 18% past pendente lite and future compound interest on 8 claims, which was affi rmed by the district court. Counsel also pointed out Clause 70 of the General Conditions of Contract (GCC), which stipulates that the award of the arbitrator shall be fi nal and binding on both parties. It was urged, therefore, that there was no justifi cation 3 [2019] 5 SCR 152 4 [2018] 5 SCR 138 5 (2017) 14 SCC 323 90 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. for judicial interference so as to reduce the statutory interest rate from 18% to 9% per annum. Counsel drew attention to Shahi v. State of UP & Ors.6 wherein this court, in light of Section 31(7), upheld 18% per annum as rate of interest, as justifi able. 7. Further, reliance was placed on this court’s in Secretary, Irrigation Department, State of Orissa v. G.C. Roy7 to argue that when the agreement between the parties does not prohibit grant of interest and where the party claims interest in the dispute referred to an arbitrator, then the arbitrator does have the power to award interest pendente lite.