It is clear that the power exercised by the Company Law Board and the powers exercised by the SEBI fall in different and distinct jurisdictional fields. Therefore, the present shall E not preclude the jurisdiction of SEBI as an adjudicating authority for deciding on the violation of SEBI Regulations as have been laid down in the present petition.” of the Appellate Tribunal: 12. The Respondents herein carried the matter to the Appellate F Tribunal in appeal. The limited question before the Appellate Tribunal was whether the Tribunal was empowered to pass an of buyback while entertaining a petition under Section 111A of the 1956 Act. The Appellate Tribunal, by its dated 06.12.2018, allowed the appeal and set aside the of the Tribunal. Unfortunately, there is neither analysis nor any reasoning in the of the Appellate Tribunal. In the G normal course, we would have set aside the of the Appellate Tribunal and remanded the matter for reconsideration. However, as a period of four years has already lapsed since the passing of the impugned , we considered it appropriate to dispose of the present appeal finally. It is in this context that the matter was heard in detail. We will now refer H 538 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A to the submissions made by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the parties. Submissions of the Parties: 13. Mr. P. Chidambaram, learned Senior Advocate on behalf of the Appellant, contended that – (i) no timely intimation in the prescribed B format was given by the Respondents when Regulation 7(1) of the SEBI (SAST) Regulations got triggered; (ii) Respondent Nos. 1 – 6, as “connected persons” (as per 2(c) of the SEBI (PIT) Regulations) were “acting in concert” (as per 2(e) of the SEBI (SAST) Regulations) thereby violating Regulations 13 and 14 of the SEBI (PIT) Regulations. C He emphasized that the Respondents have admitted to the non-disclosure, and (iii) as Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 199212, must be read in addition to, and not in derogation of the Companies Act. The Appellant is entitled to approach the Tribunal under Section 111A of the 1956 Act for rectification of the register. In support of these submissions, reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in Mannalal Khetan D & Ors. v. Kedar Nath Khetan & Ors.13, Chairman, SEBI v. Shriram Mutual Fund & Another14. 14. Mr. Shyam Divan, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the Respondents, contended that – (i) filing of a petition under Section 111A is an abuse of process; (ii) there is no violation of the SEBI (SAST) E Regulations as the Respondents had given a timely intimation in the prescribed format; (iii) the Section 111A Petition did not allege any violation of the SEBI (SAST) Regulations, and no attempt was made to make any amendment to the same; (iv) the SEBI (PIT) Regulations are not applicable to Respondent Nos. 2-6 as their individual shareholding never crossed 5%. It was only Respondent No. 1 whose shareholding crossed F 5%, which it inadvertently failed to disclose; (v) the SEBI (PIT) Regulations are not applicable to Respondent Nos.