This certificate is issued to enable the firm to obtain the required statutory clearances for laying the pipeline.” G 35. It will be noticed that the Certificate is silent as regards the storage facility and it being in the port. The Certificate does not exactly declare that there is no space at the Chennai port. Appellants may be correct in contending that edible oil is not hazardous and that edible oil imports may be necessary to meet the requirement of a growing H K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 271 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] population. It may be true that there is no manufacturing process which A may be involved in constructing or maintaining the storage facility. 36. The contention of the appellants that by decongesting the traffic and allowing the edible oil to be transferred through pipelines for onward transmission to the factories of the appellant, the baneful impact flowing from tanker lorry traffic by way of pollution is reduced, overlooks the B true purport of the 2011 notification. We must demystify the object of the law as contained in the coastal regulation notification. As far as pollution is concerned, it is the subject matter of laws specifically relating to regulation and prohibition of activities on the said score. A perusal of the 2011 notification reveals the following as the avowed objects: (i) C ensuring livelihood security to the fisher communities and other communities living in the coastal areas, (ii) conservation and protection of coastal stretches; (iii) the protection of the unique environment of the coastal stretches and its marine area; (iv) promotion or development through sustainable manner based on scientific principles taking into account the dangers of natural hazards in the coastalareas; (v) the aspect D of sea level rise due to global warming. Therefore, we are unable to agree with the appellants that as the laying of the pipeline would result in greater efficiency in the functioning of the port or for that matter, it would reduce the traffic congestion, and what is more, thereby there would be a reduction in the pollution may not by itself be relevant or for E concluding the issue. It is the duty of the Court to glean the true object of a law and give effect to it. It is equally the duty of the Court to eschew from its consideration matters which may not be strictly germane to the object. Hence, we proceed on the basis that the argument based on increased efficiency of the port and avoidance of traffic congestion, and the decreased pollution in the landward area, as it were, may not be by F themselves relevant. 37. The next argument is the argument based on the difference between the words ‘within’ as found in CRZ-I as contrasted with the word ‘in’ in CRZ-II. We are called upon to employ a purposeful interpretation bearing in mind also the distinction in the words used. Much G reliance has been placed on the reported in M. Nizamudeen (supra).The said matter arose under the coastal regulation notification issued in the year 1991.The MoEF granted permission to the respondent therein for construction for setting up of a marine terminal facility near the sea shore for receiving and transferring VCM which was one of the H 272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.