It was stated that Dr. Parshuramkar lacked the expertise to understand the treatment, yet constantly interfered, and misinformed the patient about the ‘Barium Swallow Test’, and other treatments being carried out, thereby creating unnecessary panic. The doctors prayed for the complaint to be referred to a panel of medical experts in to determine whether any negligence was committed or not. 15. According to Dr. Jaiswal, Mrs. Sunita met with a serious accident after which a ‘TT’ was done in the Gondia Hospital, only after an unsuccessful Endotracheal Intubation attempt. The patient was hospitalized in a semi-comatose state, and then immediately put on a ventilator by Dr. Jaiswal. He stated that due care was taken towards Mrs. Sunita’s treatment. A neuro-surgeon treated her for head-injuries, and a plastic surgeon treated her for mandibular fractures and oesopharyngeal trauma. Dr. Jaiswal claimed he was not responsible for removing the Ryle’s Tube or forcefully performing the ‘NI’ procedure either. It was propounded that it is common for road accident patients to develop sepsis due to contamination of their wounds. Mrs. Sunita’s complete blood count report WBC-16700 on 06.05.2004 indicated neutrophilia-84% i.e., showing signs of infection at the time of 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. her admission to Suretech Hospital. With respect to thrombocytopenia, immediate action was taken and Mrs. Sunita was given platelet concentrates on an everyday basis. Additionally, a bone-marrow examination was done to rule out any other possibility of damage to the platelets. On 27.05.2004, Mrs. Sunita’s platelets started rising gradually and reached up to 73,000 levels. Dr. Jaiswal claimed that it is possible for a tracheal stenosis to be discovered in the future, arising out of serious injuries sustained in a road accident. The doctors contented that the subsequent medical complications suff ered by Mrs. Sunita could have also come to eff ect between 04.06.2004 to 03.07.2004 when she was being treated in her own house under Dr. Kalidas Parshuramkar’s supervision. 16. Dr. Madhusudan Shendre claimed that on Dr. Jaiswal’s instructions, he attempted ‘TT’ decannulation (i.e., Removing ‘TT’) on 11.05.2004 since ‘TT’ removal had become necessary. As the crisis resulted from Mrs. Sunita being involved in a vehicular accident, she was put on a ventilator, which was weaned off on 08.05.2004. Removing the ‘TT’ would enable a normal respiratory passage. He further reasoned that long-term intubation posed a risk of infections and complications like stenosis. The Mandibular surgery was successfully done to fi x Mrs. Sunita’s lower jaw. Early in the morning, Dr. Shendre removed the ‘TT’ and covered Mrs. Sunita’s stoma wound, when she was in sustained bandage. He claimed that Mrs. Sunita started experiencing breathing diffi culty at night. Therefore, the ‘TT’ was reinserted to support her airway. A re-examination of the Tracheostomy wound indicated that the trauma to the tracheal wall extended posteriorly and superiorly, resulting in the anterior fl ap of the tracheal wall getting sucked during inspiration, thereby, obstructing tracheal lumen. A need to conduct tracheoplasty in the future was suggested, in to avoid stenosis.