F 22. Our attention was drawn by Mr. Lakshmikumaran to the decision of this Court reported in 1992 SUPP (1) SCC 443 (Union of India and Ors. Vs. Kamlakshi Finance Corporation Ltd.) in support of the proposition that in disposing of quasi-judicial issues before them, the Revenue Officers are bound by the decisions of the appellate G authorities and that the principle of judicial discipline requires that the s of the higher appellate authorities are followed unreservedly by the subordinate authorities. 23. Mr. Lakshmikumaran, accordingly, prayed that upon the revisional s being set aside, the s of the Assessing Authority H be restored. M/S GODREJ SARA LEE LTD. v. THE EXCISE AND TAXATION 887 OFFICER-CUM-ASSESSING AUTHORITY [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 24. Per contra, Mr. Alok Sangwan, learned counsel appearing A for the respondents, contended that the Revisional Authority did not exceed its jurisdiction in exercising suo motu powers under section 34 of the VAT Act. By referring to notifications issued at or about the relevant time amending Schedule C and the decision in Sonic Electrochem (supra), he sought to argue on the merits of the determination made by the B Revisional Authority and how she was right in her findings that the mosquito repellants manufactured by the appellant were liable to be taxed @ 10% in terms of the decision in Sonic Electrochem (supra), and not 4% as assessed by the Assessing Authority in the s under revision. He also submitted that the s of the Revisional Authority do not merit interference, and the appeal ought to be dismissed. C 25. At the hearing, we made it clear that the issue as to whether the impugned s of the Revisional Authority were sustainable on merits would not be examined unless the Court was persuaded by Mr. Sangwan to accept that the Revisional Authority did have the authority, competence and jurisdiction to issue the impugned show-cause notices D and pass the consequential final revisional s impugned in the writ petition enhancing the liability of the appellant to tax @ 10% instead of 4%. 26. Since section 34 of the VAT Act appears to have been the source of power exercised by the Revisional Authority, we shall first E notice its contents as it stood on the date of the impugned s, i.e. 2nd March, 2009. Prior to its amendment with effect from 20th March, 2009, section 34 read as follows: “Section 34. Revision. : - (1) The Commissioner may, on his own motion, call for the record of any case pending before, or disposed F of by, any taxing authority for the purposes of satisfying himself as to the legality or to the propriety of any proceeding or of any made therein which is prejudicial to the interests of the State and may, after giving the persons concerned a reasonable opportunity of being heard, pass such in relation thereto, as he may think fit: G Provided that no passed by a taxing authority shall be revised on an issue, which on appeal or in any other proceeding from such is pending before, or has been settled by, an appellate authority or the High Court or the Supreme Court, as the case may be: H 888 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.