In Sanjay Dutt (supra), this Court held that the indefeasible right accruing to the accused is enforceable only prior to the filing of challan and it does not survive or remain E enforceable, on the challan being filed. It was made clear that once the challan has been filed, the question of grant of bail has to be considered and decided only with reference to the merits of the case under the provisions relating to grant of bail to an accused after the filing of the challan. In light of the above findings, this Court held that the custody of the F accused after the challan has been filed is not governed by Section 167(2) but different provisions of the CrPC. 13. In Madar Sheikh (supra), which was relied upon by the learned Senior Counsel appearing for Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 and the Intervenor, the appellants therein were taken into G custody on 16.01.1993. The charge-sheet was submitted on 30.08.1993. Though the appellants were entitled to be released in view of the charge-sheet not being filed within the statutory period prescribed under Section 20(4)(b) of the Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 read with proviso (a) to Section 167(2), CrPC, they did not make an application H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 43 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] for release on bail on the ground of default in completion of A the investigation within the statutory period. After filing of the charge-sheet and cognizance having been taken, they continued to be in custody on the basis of s of remand passed under other provisions of the CrPC. Refusing to grant relief of statutory bail in the said fact situation, this Court B held that the right conferred on an accused under Section 167(2) cannot be exercised after the charge-sheet has been submitted and cognizance has been taken. A plain reading of the in Madar Sheikh (supra) would show that reference to the right of statutory bail becoming unenforceable after cognizance having been taken is in view of the facts of C the said case, where this Court denied statutory bail to the appellants therein on the ground that charge-sheet was filed and cognizance had also been taken, with s of remand passed under other provisions of the CrPC. Thereafter, they were not entitled for bail under Section 167(2). D 14. Application for bail under Section 167(2), CrPC fell for consideration of this Court in M. Ravindran (supra). In the said case, the appellant was arrested and remanded to judicial custody on 04.08.2018 for offences punishable under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. On E 01.02.2019, the appellant therein filed an application for bail under Section 167(2) on the ground that investigation was not complete and charge-sheet had not been filed within the statutory period. The trial court granted bail under Section 167(2), which was set aside by the High Court of Madras by dated 21.11.2019. Challenging the said F of the High Court, the appellant approached this Court.