The High Court of Orissa has creatively utilised technology to bridge the time taken to travel from other parts of Odisha to Cuttack. Indeed, other High Courts must replicate the use of technology to ensure that access to justice is provided to widely dispersed areas. This will B ensure that citizens have true access to justice by observing and participating in the proceedings before the High Courts in cases of concern to them. The submission made on behalf of the State of Odisha that compensation schemes may be used to alleviate financial hardships must also be taken into account. Further, legal aid programs sponsored by the C state are also useful in addressing any financial hardships, as observed by this Court in Anita Kushwaha (supra): “40. Affordability of access to justice has been, to an extent, taken care of by the State-sponsored legal aid programmes under the Legal Services Authorities Act, 1987. Legal aid programmes have D been providing the much needed support to the poorer sections of the society in accessing justice in courts.” 114. Significantly, the Orissa High Court has established benches which will operate virtually in multiple cities and towns across the state. This negates the appellants’ argument that the Orissa High Court is less E accessible than the OAT. In fact, the number of virtual benches of the High Court is greater than the number of benches of the OAT. Litigants from across the state can access the High Court with greater ease than they could access the OAT. 115. Litigants may therefore approach the Orissa High Court for the resolution of disputes. The abolition of the OAT does not leave litigants F without a remedy or without a forum to adjudicate the dispute in question. It is therefore not violative of the fundamental right of access to justice. ix. The State Government did not take advantage of its own wrong G 116. The appellants have argued that the State Government tried to take advantage of its own wrong by failing to fill the vacancies in the OAT and creating the conditions for the abolition of the OAT. 117. In paragraph 85 of this , a portion of the note pre- pared by the General Administration Department, Government of Odisha H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 801 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] dated 16 September 2015 is extracted. The note details the State A Government’s reasons for requesting the Union Government to abolish the OAT. The extract in paragraph 85 reflects data on the institution, disposal, and pendency of cases before the OAT for the year 2014. The State Government had not ceased to make appointments to the OAT at the time at which this note was prepared. At that time, the OAT was B functioning as it usually did. The State Government found the OAT’s usual performance (i.e., rate of disposal of cases) to be unsatisfactory. This aspect of the OAT’s functioning played a role in the State Government’s decision to abolish the OAT.