)” M/S. IFCI LIMITED v. SUTANU SINHA & ORS. 289 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 17. The aforesaid clause thus provides for automatic conversion into equity shares of ICTL on the relevant date for which there is no dispute i.e. 09.11.2017. 18. In to secure the appellant, it has been pointed out to us, that Clause 3.1 provides for security for the debentures. Clause 3.1 reads as under:- “3.1 Security for the Debentures The Debentures together with interest, costs, charges, expenses and other charges payable to IFCI in respect of the said Debentures under this Agreement shall be secured by the following: a) An unconditional and irrevocable Corporate Guarantee of IVRCL Assets & Holdings Limited i.e., Sponsor Company, b) Pledge of shares in Demat form of ICTL held by the Sponsor Company amounting to not less than 49% of the paid up equity capital of the SPV company, to be maintained throughout the tenure of the funding. However, pledge shall be invoked only after IVRCL Assets & Holdings Ltd., the Sponsor Company, fails to honour its guarantee obligation. c) Give an undertaking that in case of enforcement of securely by senior lenders of the project, IFCI would have a charge on the residuals available with the Sponsor Company after meeting all the requirements as per Escrow Agreement, and ICTL will route the fi nal proceeds received by it, through a separate account suggested by IFCI Ltd.” 19. We may also note the clause 3.3 which provides for an overriding eff ect of the Concessionaire Agreement and Clause (b) of the same reads as under:- “3.3 Overriding eff ect of the Concession Agreement: b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, and subject always to the overall supremacy of the Concessional Agreement, the Parties herein agree not to enforce the Put Option and/or otherwise take only direct/indirect action; without the prior written approval of NHAI when any such single and/or multiple 290 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. act(s) taken simultaneously or otherwise under and/or in pursuance of this Agreement and/or the Pledge Agreement, read with the Power of Attorney jointly or severally constitute Change in Ownership per Clause 5.3 of the Concession Agreement. Any such act(s) if taken without prior written approval of the NHAI shall be treated as having been carried out in contravention of the Concessional Agreement and thus void ab initio as per sub-clause (a) above. It is hereby specifi cally clarifi ed that for purposes ‘Change in Ownership’ under the Concession Agreement and all stipulations thereto including inter alia as provided in clause 5.3, the lender (the IFCI) shall at all times to be treated as the ‘acquirer’ of Equity and/or the person directly/ indirectly acquiring control of the Board of Directors of the Borrower (the Concessionaire).” 20. A reading of all the aforesaid leads to a conclusion that the appellant was provided security under the Debentures Subscription Agreement but the obligations are of the sponsor company. That being the position, it is diffi cult for us to appreciate how the obligation is of the SPV i.e.