At this stage, it is required to be noted that the recovery certificates were issued in favour of respondent No.1 pursuant to the award passed by C the Facilitation Council on 11.09.2014 which was in favour of respondent No.1 herein, which was under provisions of MSMED Act. The passed by the Naib Tehsildar refusing to take possession of the secured assets pursuant to the passed by the District Magistrate dated 24.09.2014 was the subject matter of writ petition before the learned Single Judge of the High Court by way of Writ Petition No.2569 of D 2016. While refusing to take possession of the secured assets pursuant to the passed by the District Magistrate under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act, Naib Tehsildar observed that MSMED Act being a special enactment enacted subsequent to SARFAESI Act would have overriding effect and therefore, MSMED Act would prevail over the E SARFAESI Act. 1.3 The learned Single Judge allowed the writ petition preferred by the bank – secured creditor and set aside the passed by the Naib Tehsildar by observing that the provisions of SARFAESI Act would prevail and if respondent No.1 is aggrieved by the passed by the F District Magistrate under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act or the measures taken under Section 13(4) of the SARFAESI Act, he may prefer an appeal/application under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act before the Debts Recovery Tribunal. 1.4 Feeling aggrieved by and dissatisfied with the and G passed by the learned Single Judge holding that the SARFAESI Act would prevail, respondent No.1 herein in whose favour there was an award under provisions of the MSMED Act and in whose favour the recovery certificates were issued, filed the present writ appeal before the Division Bench of the High Court. By the impugned and H 878 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A , the Division Bench of the High Court has allowed the said appeal and has set aside the and passed by the learned Single Judge and has observed and held that MSMED Act being the later enactment, the same shall prevail over the SARFAESI Act. 1.5 The impugned and passed by the Division B Bench of the High Court holding that MSMED Act being later enactment, the same would prevail over the SARFAESI Act the bank – secured creditor has preferred the present appeal. 2. Shri Amar Dave, learned counsel appearing for the appellant bank – secured creditor has vehemently submitted that as such, there is C no repugnancy between the provisions of SARFAESI Act and MSMED Act. It is submitted that non- obstante clause in the MSMED Act, i.e. Section 24 provides that provisions under Sections 15 to 23 shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force. It is submitted that Sections 15 to D 23 of the MSMED Act only provide for special mechanism for adjudication of the dispute along with enforcing certain other contractual and business terms on the parties such as time limit for payments and interest in case of delayed payments.