7. Sh. K.L Janjani, learned counsel appearing for the respondent- D State however submitted that the Sessions Court and the High Court having concurrently recorded findings of facts against the appellant- accused, holding him guilty under Section 376 IPC, this Court should not interfere with the same. According to him, even otherwise, the prosecution had proved beyond doubt that the appellant-accused had lured the prosecutrix to have sexual relationship with him by giving her E a false promise that he would marry her, however, he committed breach of the promise after she delivered the child, which clearly proved that her consent was obtained by the appellant under the misconception of fact. 8. Since the prosecutrix was not being represented by any lawyer, F though served, the court had appointed Ms. Indira Jaising, Senior Advocate as an Amicus Curiae to assist the Court on her behalf. She in addition to her written submissions, further submitted that there was a clear distinction between ‘rape’ and ‘consensual sex’, and that the Court was required to carefully examine as to whether the accused had with G malafide motives made false promise of marriage or it was a mere breach of promise by the accused. According to her, the courts below had rightly appreciated the evidence of the prosecutrix for arriving at 1 (2005) 1 SCC 88 2 (2013) 9 SCC 293 H 3 (2019) 18 SCC 191 NAIM AHAMED v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 1067 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] the conclusion that the consent of the prosecutrix to have sexual A relationship with the accused was under the misconception of fact under Section 90 of the IPC and therefore the case of the prosecutrix fell under the Clause - Secondly of Section 375 IPC. Ms. Indira Jaising has also relied upon various decisions of this Court in support of her submissions. B 9. For the better appreciation of the submissions made by the learned counsels for the parties, the relevant provisions contained in Section 90 and Section 375 of IPC, are reproduced below:- “90. Consent known to be given under fear or misconception.— A consent is not such a consent as it intended by any section of C this Code, if the consent is given by a person under fear of injury, or under a misconception of fact, and if the person doing the act knows, or has reason to believe, that the consent was given in consequence of such fear or misconception; or Consent of insane person.—if the consent is given by a person who, from unsoundness D of mind, or intoxication, is unable to understand the nature and consequence of that to which he gives his consent; or Consent of child.—unless the contrary appears from the context, if the consent is given by a person who is under twelve years of age. 375. Rape.- A man is said to commit “rape” if he- E (a) penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person; or (b) inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of a woman or F makes her to do so with him or any other person; or (c) manipulates any part of the body of a woman so as to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of such woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person; or G (d) applies his mouth to the vagina, anus, urethra of a woman or makes her to do so with him or any other person, under the circumstances falling under any of the following seven descriptions:- First- Against her will.