For the same reason, the submission that the suit was bad for non-joinder of necessary parties of all his legal heirs/representatives also fails. [Para 36][389-A-E] H SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 367 1.13 There is yet another reason why the contention that A suit was bad for non-joinder of necessary parties due to failure to bring on record the legal representatives of the deceased third defendant should fail. Relying on Exhibit D-1 it is contended that pursuant to the agreement for sale of the suit schedule property executed in favour of the first appellant/ the first defendant jointly B by SMS and SVR its possession was handed over to the first appellant. Its rejection by the High Court is upheld. However, what is being taken out of the said contention is that based on the same the appellants cannot raise a ground of non-joinder of necessary parties, as the first appellant was arrayed as a party in the very suit itself and he being the person in favour of whom the C same was allegedly executed. The contention raised based on Exhibit D-2 sale deed was also repelled by the High Court and is upheld. The note is taken of the same again solely to stress upon the position that the case built upon the same can in no way be the basis for raising a contention of non-joinder of necessary party/ D parties. This is because the deceased second appellant who was shown as the vendee thereunder was the original second defendant in the suit. For the reasons the contention of non- joinder of necessary parties fails. [Para 37][389-E-H; 390-A-B] 1.14 The courts below are correct in holding that the E defendants did not have a case of ownership over the suit schedule property and such a case sought to bring out based on Exhibit D- 2 was repelled by the High Court and the same is upheld. They have also failed to establish any better claim for possession. The finding of the High Court that any volume of evidence sans appropriate pleadings would be no avail is the correct exposition F of law. [Para 38][389-B-D] 1.15 In such circumstances, there is absolutely no hesitation to hold that the original defendants failed to raise sufficient and appropriate pleadings in the written statement that they have better right for possession of the suit properties. No G amount of proof offered without appropriate pleadings would have any relevance. The courts below have rightly relied on the evidence of PW-5 to hold forceful dispossession of the defendants from ‘B’ schedule property. Nothing is on record to uphold the H 368 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A said finding. As regard the issue whether the impugned is inflicted with perversity or any patent illegality warranting interference in invocation of the power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. The sound reasons given by the courts below persuade to answer it in the negative. After carefully considering the evidence on record the trial court arrived at the B conclusion that the respondent/ the plaintiff is entitled to get back the possession of suit schedule property from which he was dispossessed and even after careful consideration of the additional evidence recorded and transmitted to the High Court by the trial court and considering all contentions and aspects the C High Court only confirmed the and decree of the trial court.