(ii) Similarly, while construing Sections 223 and 226 of the Indian Succession Act, 1925 which contain a prohibition in relation to grant of Probate or Letters of Administration “to any association of individuals C unless it is a company”, this Court in Illachi Devi vs. Jain Society Protection of Orphans India (2003) 8 SCC 413, applied the plain meaning rule and held that said expression would not include a society registered under the Societies Registration D Act as a society even after registration does not become distinct from its members and does not become a separate legal person like a company. (iii) For a proper application of the plain meaning rule to a given statute, it is necessary, to first determine, E whether the language used is plain or ambiguous. “Any ambiguity”means that a phrase is fairly and equally open to diverse meanings. A provision is not ambiguous merely because it contains a word which in different contexts is capable of different meanings. It is only when a provision contains a word or phrase F which in a particular context is capable of having more than one meaning that it would be ambiguous. (iv) Hence, in to ascertain whether certain words are clear and unambiguous, they must be studied in their context. Context in this connection is used in a G wide sense as including not only other enacting provisions of the same statute, but its preamble, the existing state of the law, other statutes in parimateria and the mischief which by those and other legitimate means can be discerned that the statute was intended to remedy. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 207 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] [Source: Interpretation of Statutes by Justice G.P. A Singh, 15thEdition] 15.27 Applying the above rule, if sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is read as per the plain meaning of the words of the provision, then it does not lead to any ambiguity. The plain meaning rule is the golden rule of construction of statutes B and it does not lead to any absurdity in the instant case. On a plain reading of the provision, it is observed that the Central Government can issue a notification in the Gazette of India to demonetise any series of bank notesof any denomination but only on the recommendation of the Central Board of C the Bank. In my view sub-section (2) of Section 26 is not vitiated by unconstitutionality. This is for two reasons: firstly, the plain meaning of the words “any” series of bank notes of “any denomination” would not imply “all series” of bank notes of “all denominations”. The word “any” means specified or particular and not “all” as contended by the D respondents. If the contention of the Union of India is accepted and the word “any” is to be read as “all”, it would lead to disastrous consequences as the Central Board of the Bank cannot be vested with the power to recommend demonetisation of “all series of currency of all E denominations”.