Such exceptional cases apart, the learned Amicus would request the Court to draw comfort from the thought that the Arbitrator is fully competent by virtue of the Doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz, which stands enshrined in Section 16 of the Act, to deal with all sorts of objections. Having regard to the clear legislative intent, discernible from D the Report of the Law Commission and the amendment to Section 11 of the Act, which finds its echo in the change brought about in Section 8 of the Act, by the same amendment, the effort must be to facilitate an unhindered and smooth passage for an Application seeking reference to arbitration. The learned Amicus with reference to paragraph-18 of SBP (supra), submits that the Court in Garware (supra) erred in holding that E only if the Arbitrator was appointed, without intervention of the Court, Section 16 would have full play. It is pointed out that the in SBP(supra) will not have life, after the amendment in 2015. He would also point out that the Court in Garware (supra) erred in paragraph-19, when it suggested that the Court was only giving effect to a mandatory F enactment, which purported to protect the public revenue. While it is correct, it is pointed out that an agreement enforceable by law is a contract and Section 2(g) of the Contract Act, provides that an agreement not enforceable by law, is said to be void, non-stamping or inadequate stamping would not make an instrument void. It is pointed out that the suggestion that, an unstamped document did not become a contract, and G that it was, therefore, unenforceable in law was incorrect. He also would find fault with the Court in Garware (supra), when it found that an unstamped document would not ‘exist’ as a matter of law. The solution suggested by the learned Amicus is that an Arbitrator may be appointed and, to allow the Arbitral Tribunal to fulfil its duties under the Stamp Act. H 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A In other words, it is pointed out, in keeping with the purpose of Section 11(6A) and the need for minimal interference, as contemplated in Section 5 of the Act, on a prima facie examination as to existence of an Arbitration Agreement, a reference must be made. He further also would point out that the of Justice Sanjiv Khanna in Vidya Drolia (supra) may require a revisit. With reference to paragraph-31, wherein Sanjiv B Khanna, J., felt bound by the Constitution Bench in SBP(supra), it is pointed out that the learned Judge ignored the amendments to Sections 8 and 11 brought about by the amendment in 2015. He would further point out that in paragraphs-81 to 154, under the caption ‘Who decides non-arbitrability’, he calls for clarity to be brought. In paragraph-98, it is C pointed out that an error was occasioned in coming to the conclusion that Sections 8 and 11 were complementary in nature and in exercising power under the two provisions, the jurisdiction was complementary.