The proviso states that every metropolitan area shall be a separate session division and district. Sub-section (1) of Section 9 states that the State Government shall establish a Court of Session for every session division; every Court of Session shall be presided over by a Judge, to be appointed by the High Court; the High Court may also appoint Additional Sessions Judges to exercise jurisdiction in a Court of Session and such Judges may also sit in another division as may be directed by the High Court. 43. Section 26 of the CrPC deals with the Courts by which off ences are triable which states that subject to the other provisions of the CrPC, any 586 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. off ence under the IPC may be tried by (i) the High Court; (ii) the Court of Session; or (iii) any other Court by which such off ence is shown in the First Schedule to be triable. In case of off ences under any other law when any Court is mentioned in this behalf in such law, being tried by such Court and when no Court is mentioned may be tried by (i) the High Court; or (ii) any other Court by which such off ence is shown in the First Schedule to be triable. 44. Further, on a reading of Section 438 of CrPC, we do not fi nd that the expression “the High Court” or “the Court of Session” is restricted vis-à-vis the local limits or any particular territorial jurisdiction. However, this does not mean that if an FIR is lodged in one State then the accused can approach the Court in another State for seeking anticipatory bail. He can do so, if at the time of lodging of the FIR in any State, he is residing or is present there for a legitimate purpose in any other State. In fact, on a reading of Section 438 of CrPC, it does not emerge that the expression “the High Court” or “the Court of Session” must have reference only to the place or territorial jurisdiction within which the FIR is lodged. If that was the implication, the same would have been expressly evident in the Section itself or by a necessary implication. Further use of the word “the” before the words “High Court” and “Court of Session” also does not mean that only the High Court or the Court of Session, as the case may be, within whose jurisdiction the FIR is fi led, is competent to exercise jurisdiction for the grant of transit anticipatory bail. 45. At the same time, we are also mindful of the fact that the accused cannot seek full-fl edged anticipatory bail in a State where he is a resident when the FIR has been registered in a diff erent State. However, in view of what we have discussed above, he would be entitled to seek a transit anticipatory bail from the Court of Session or High Court in the State where he is a resident which necessarily has to be of a limited duration so as to seek regular anticipatory bail from the Court of competent jurisdiction.