Wide enough in all conscience is the field of discretion that remains.” Even so it is useful to notice the tart terms of Lord Camden that [ 1 Bovu, Law Dict., Rawles’ III Revision p. 885 — quoted in Judicial Discretion — National College of the State D Judiciary, Rano, Nevada p. 14] “the discretion of a Judge is the law of tyrants: it is always unknown, it is different in different men; it is casual, and depends upon constitution, temper and passion. In the best, it is oftentimes caprice; in the worst, it is every vice, folly and passion to which human nature is liable....” E 4. Some jurists have regarded the term “judicial discretion” as a misnomer. Nevertheless, the vesting of discretion is the unspoken but inescapable, silent command of our judicial system, and those who exercise it will remember that discretion, when applied to a Court of Justice, means sound discretion F guided by law. It must be governed by rule, not by humour; it must not be arbitrary, vague and fanciful, but legal and regular. An appeal to a Judge’s discretion is an appeal to his judicial conscience. The discretion must be exercised, not in opposition G to, but in accordance with, established principles of law. [Judicial discretion, (ibid) p. 33]” (emphasis supplied) 11. In not to prejudice either side, we are eschewing copious reference to the evidentiary material available on the record. In Niranjan H 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Singh v Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote, (1980) 2 SCC 559, this Court observed: “3… Detailed examination of the evidence and elaborate documentation of the merits should be avoided while passing s on bail applications. No party should have the B impression that his case has been prejudiced. To be satisfied about a prima facie case is needed but it is not the same as an exhaustive exploration of the merits in the itself.” (emphasis supplied) 12. In Vilas Pandurang Pawar v State of Maharashtra, (2012) C 8 SCC 795, this Court opined “…Moreover, while considering the application for bail, scope for appreciation of evidence and other material on record is limited. The court is not expected to indulge in critical analysis of the evidence on record…”. 13. Being in respectful agreement with the law exposited in these D cases, we refrain from detailing our views on the merits. 14. Having considered the matter, the Court finds that for the purposes of considering grant of bail to the Appellant, at this stage, the fact that there was only one case prior to the present case, that too of the year 2014 and the FIR thereof having been quashed by the High E Court, even prior to the filing of the charge-sheet, even for the sake of argument, if accepted, helps the Appellant and tilt the balance in his favour. The Appellant has succeeded in making out a prima facie case for the grant of bail. 15. The Appellant is in jail since 16.10.2020 viz.