The omission of any qualifi cation of the expression ‘the High Court or the Court of Session,’ ought to be constructed in a fashion that furthers the constitutional ideal of safeguarding personal liberty. It would be in furtherance of fostering personal liberty enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution of India in entrusting a wider jurisdiction to the Court of Session and the High Court in the grant of anticipatory bail, than in foreclosing the same by restructuring the exercise of jurisdiction in the matter of grant of anticipatory bail. 32. In the context of the contentions advanced by Dr. Manish Singhvi that the unbridled power to grant extra-territorial anticipatory bail would cause inconsistencies because of the varying State amendments to Section 438 of CrPC, we note that the application of the provision for anticipatory bail in the State of Uttar Pradesh had been omitted vide the enactment of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Uttar Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1976. The Uttar Pradesh State Legislature applied Section 438 of CrPC vide enactment of Code of Criminal Procedure (Uttar Pradesh Amendment) Act, 2018, pursuant to ‘continuous demand for its revival’, writ petitions before the High courts, and recommendations of the Uttar Pradesh State Law Commission in its third report in 2009. We also note that the Code of Criminal Procedure (Uttar Pradesh Amendment) Act, 2022 makes the provision of anticipatory bail inapplicable (a) in case of off ences arising out of,— (i) The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967; (ii) The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985; (iii) The Offi cial Secrets Act, 1923; (iv) The Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986; (v) PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 579 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] The Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Act, 2012; (b) to those off ences in which the death sentence may be awarded; (c) to the off ences of rape and illegal sexual intercourse enumerated in sections 376, 376-A, 376-AB, 376-B, 376-C, 376-D, 376-DA, 376-DB, 376-E of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. 33. Considering that the nature of criminal law regime in India, entwined with State amendments, the exercise of the jurisdiction for grant of extra-territorial anticipatory bail must be cognizant of the possibility of forum shopping. We also deem it necessary to take note of the evolution of the law on inter-state arrests, as this lies at the heart of ‘apprehension of arrest,’ for which the extraordinary jurisdiction of the High Court and Court of Session are attracted in case the accused resides in or is located in a territorial jurisdiction diff erent from the jurisdiction in which cognizance of crime is taken by the Court of competent jurisdiction. 34. Section 48 of CrPC permits the police to pursue an accused in other jurisdictions. A police offi cer, for the purpose of arresting without a warrant, one whom he is allowed to arrest, may pursue an individual anywhere in India. Prior to eff ecting the arrest outside a particular jurisdiction, the police is obligated to secure the transit remand i.e.