In M.R.F. Ltd. v. State of Kerala [M.R.F. Ltd. v. State of Kerala, (1998) 8 SCC 227 : 1999 SCC (L&S) 1], this Court held that in examining the reasonableness of a statutory provision one has to keep in mind the following factors: (1) The directive principles of State policy. D (2) Restrictions must not be arbitrary or of an excessive nature so as to go beyond the requirement of the interest of the general public. (3) In to judge the reasonableness of the restrictions, no abstract or general pattern or a fixed principle can be E laid down so as to be of universal application and the same will vary from case to case as also with regard to changing conditions, values of human life, social philosophy of the Constitution, prevailing conditions and the surrounding circumstances. F (4) A just balance has to be struck between the restrictions imposed and the social control envisaged by Article 19(6). (5) Prevailing social values as also social needs which are intended to be satisfied by the restrictions. G (6) There must be a direct and proximate nexus or reasonable connection between the restrictions imposed and the object sought to be achieved. If there is a direct nexus between the restrictions, and the object of the Act, then a strong presumption in favour of the constitutionality of the Act will naturally arise.” H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 131 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 268. It is pertinent to note that in the case of Modern Dental A College and Research Centre (supra), the Court was considering the validity of the Act and the Rules which regulated primarily the admission of the students in post-graduate courses in private educational institutions and the provisions made thereunder. Applying the test of proportionality, the Court held that the larger public interest warrants such a measure. It B held that, having regard to the malpracticeswhich are noticed in the Common Entrance Test (CET) conducted by such private institutions themselves, it is, undoubtedly, in the larger interest and welfare of the student community to promote merit and excellence and to curb malpractices. The Court held that the impugned provisions which may amount to “restrictions” on the right of the appellants therein to carry C on their “occupation”, are clearly “reasonable” and satisfy the test of proportionality. 269. The proportionality doctrine is sought to be placed in service on the ground that in the case of Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah (supra), the Court held the bank notes to be property and as such, impugned D Notification imposed unreasonable restrictions, violative of Article 300- A of the Constitution of India. 270. Let us test the four-pronged test culled out by Aharon Barak, former Chief Justice, Supreme Court of Israel which have been reproduced in the case of Modern Dental College and Research E Centre (supra). 271. The impugned Notification has been issued with an objective to meet the following three concerns: (i) Fake currency notes of the SBNs have been largely in circulation and it has been found to be difficult to easily F identify genuine bank notes from the fake ones; (ii) It has been found that high denomination bank notes were used for storage of unaccounted wealth which was evident from the large cash recoveries made by law enforcement agencies; and G (iii) It has also been found that fake currency is being used for financing subversive activities such as drug trafficking and terrorism, causing damage to the economy and security of the country.