In other words, the Court apparently approved of the view B taken that the Court should look at the instrument as it stood (see ILR 27 Bom 279 referred to in para 12). 32. Duncans Industries Limited (supra) is a case which arose under the Registration Act, 1908 and Section 47A of the Act [Section 47A considered in the case was an amendment by the Uttar Pradesh C Legislature]. It involved a transfer on “as is where is” basis and “as a going concern” of a fertilizer business in favour of the appellant company. This was preceded by an agreement which involved also expressly the transfer of plant and machinery. The Collector levied stamp duty and penalty on the basis that since the transfer contemplated the sale of the D unit as a going concern, the intention of the Vendor was to transfer all properties in the fertilizer business in question. The High court had held that the machineries which formed fertilizer plant was permanently embedded in the earth with an intention of running the factory. It was found that the machineries were immovable property which were permanently attached to the earth. Para 8 of the said reads as E under: “8. …The question whether a machinery which is embedded in the earth is moveable property or an immovable property, depends upon the facts and circumstances of each case. Primarily, the court will have to take into consideration the intention of the parties F (sic party) when it decided to embed the machinery, whether such embedment was intended to be temporary or permanent. A careful perusal of the agreement of sale and the conveyance deed along with the attendant circumstances and taking into consideration the nature of machineries involved clearly shows that the G machineries which have been embedded in the earth to constitute a fertilizer plant in the instant case, are definitely embedded permanently with a view to utilise the same as a fertilizer plant. The description of the machines as seen in the schedule attached to the deed of conveyance also shows without any doubt that they were set up permanently in the land in question with a view H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1131 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] to operate a fertilizer plant and the same was not embedded to A dismantle and remove the same for the purpose of sale as machinery at any point of time. The facts as could be found also show that the purpose for which these machines were embedded was to use the plant as a factory for the manufacture of fertilizer at various stages of its production……… B “10. The next question for consideration is whether the vendor did transfer the title of the plant and machinery in the instant case by the conveyance deed dated 9-6-1994. Here again, it is imperative to ascertain the intention of the parties from the material available on record. While ascertaining the intention of the parties, C we cannot preclude the contents of the agreement pursuant to which the conveyance deed in question has come into existence.