Such a right can be restricted by the appropriate legislature only on four grounds specified under Article 326.” F 128. In this regard, we may also notice the of this Court in Rajbala and others v. State of Haryana and others42. Therein a Bench of two learned Judges was dealing with the constitutionality of the Haryana Panchayati Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015, under which, certain categories of person were rendered incapable of contesting G elections. One such category was persons who did not possess specified educational qualifications. Justice Chelameswar speaking for the Bench, held as follows: 41 (2012) 7 SCC 340 42 (2016) 2 SCC 445 H 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “31. The right to vote of every citizen at an election either to the Lok Sabha or to the Legislative Assembly is recognised under Articles 325 and 326 subject to limitations (qualifications and disqualifications) prescribed by or under the Constitution. On the other hand, the right to vote at an election either to the Rajya Sabha or to the Legislative Council of a State is confined B only to Members of the electoral colleges specified under Articles 80(4) and (5) and Articles 171(3)(a), (b), (c) and (d) [ “171. (3) Of the total number of members of the Legislative Council of a State—(a) as nearly as may be, one-third shall be elected by electorates consisting of members of municipalities, district boards C and such other local authorities in the State as Parliament may by law specify;(b) as nearly as may be, one-twelfth shall be elected by electorates consisting of persons residing in the State who have been for at least three years graduates of any university in the territory of India or have been for at least three years in possession of qualifications prescribed by or under any law made by D Parliament as equivalent to that of a graduate of any such university;(c) as nearly as may be, one-twelfth shall be elected by electorates consisting of persons who have been for at least three years engaged in teaching in such educational institutions within the State, not lower in standard than that of a secondary school, E as may be prescribed by or under any law made by Parliament;(d) as nearly as may be, one-third shall be elected by the members of the Legislative Assembly of the State from amongst persons who are not members of the Assembly;(e) the remainder shall be nominated by the Governor in accordance with the provisions of clause (5).”] respectively. In the case of election to the Rajya F Sabha, the electoral college is confined to elected members of Legislative Assemblies of various States and representatives of Union Territories [ “80. (4) The representatives of each State in the Council of States shall be elected by the elected members of the Legislative Assembly of the State in accordance with the G system of proportional representation by means of the single transferable vote.”]. In the case of the Legislative Council, the electoral college is divided into four parts consisting of: (i) members of various local bodies specified under Article 171(3)(a); (ii) certain qualified graduates specified under Article 171(3)(b); (iii) persons engaged in the occupation of teaching in certain qualified institutions H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 119 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]