By virtue of Section 181(2)(x) of the 2003 Act, State Commissions are empowered to frame regulations. Section 50 E empowers the State Commissions to frame the “Electricity Supply Code” to provide for recovery of electricity charges, intervals for billing of electricity charges, disconnection of supply of electricity for non-payment, etc. These provisions in the 2003 Act and the respective Codes form the legal framework for recovery of dues by various kinds of licensees under the 2003 F Act. In the present case, the Uttar Pradesh State Commission had framed the 2005 Supply Code. Clause 6.15 of the 2005 Code enacts that recovery of arrears shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Uttar Pradesh Government Electrical Undertakings (Dues Recovery) Act, 1958. [Paras 39-41] G [1256-B-G] 1.4 A recent ruling of this court in K.C. Ninan v. Kerala State Electricity Board examined the circumstances in which such a ‘charge’ could be constituted in law. This court held that the creation of a charge need not necessarily be based on an express provision of the 2003 Act or plenary legislation, but could be H PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1227 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. created by properly framed regulations authorized under the A parent statute. In these circumstances, the argument of PVVNL that by virtue of Clause 4.3(f)(iv) of the Supply Code, read with the stipulations in the agreement between the parties, a charge was created on the assets of the corporate debtor, is merited. A careful reading of the impugned of the NCLT also reveals B that this position was accepted. This is evident from the of the NCLAT which clarified that PVVNL also came under the definition of ‘secured operational creditor’ as per law. This finding was not disturbed, but rather affirmed by the impugned . In these circumstances, the conclusion that PVVNL is a secured creditor cannot be disputed. [Paras 42, 43][1258-A-C] C K.C. Ninan v. Kerala State Electricity Board 2023 SCC Online SC 603 – relied on. 1.4 The counsel for the liquidator had submitted that dues owed to PVVNL were technically owed to the “government”, and thus occupied a lower position in the of priority of clearance. D The expression “government dues” is not defined in the IBC - it finds place only in the preamble. However, what constitutes such dues is spelt out in the ‘waterfall mechanism’ under Section 53(1)(e), which inter alia states that, “Any amount due to the Central Government and the State Government including the E amount to be received on account of the Consolidated Fund of India and the Consolidated Fund of the State” ranks lower in priority to the class of creditors described in Clauses (a) to (d) of Section 53(1). Thus, there exists a separate enumeration or specification of the Central Government and State Government dues, as a class apart from other creditors, including creditors F who may have secured interest (in respect of which amounts may be payable to them). The repeated reference of lowering of priority of debts to the government, on account of statutory tax, or other dues payable to the Central Government or State Government, or amounts payable into the Consolidated Fund on account of G either government, in the various reports which preceded the enactment of the IBC, as well as its Preamble, means that these dues are distinct and have to be treated as separate from those owed to secured creditors.