In case of B the latter option, the secured creditor has to first indicate its option, within the time prescribed (30 days, in Form C or D of Schedule II to the Liquidation Regulations). The liquidator may then, per Section 52 (3), permit the secured creditor to realize such dues as are proved to exist, as security debts. Upon C clearance by the liquidator, the secured creditor may proceed to enforce its claim, under Section 52 (4). If there is resistance during the process, the secured creditor may approach the NCLT [Section 52 (5) and (6)]. Upon enforcement, any excess amount realized should be tendered to the liquidator [Section 52 (7)]. It is thus, apparent, that a secured creditor has to take a calculated D decision, at the outset of the liquidation process, whether or not to relinquish its secured interest. In case it does so, its dues rank high in the waterfall mechanism. In case it chooses not to relinquish its security interest, and instead proceeds to enforce it without success or is unable to realize all its dues in the process E of enforcement, ithas to then perforce stand lower in priority, and await distribution of assets upon realization of the liquidation estate, by the liquidator, vis-à-vis the balance of its dues. The procedure envisioned, thus, takes a nuanced approach for the recovery of a secured creditor’s dues. In case they opt to relinquish the security, their priority is ranked high; in case, they F seek to enforce such security, subject to intimation and verification by the liquidator, they can proceed to do so. In the event of short fall, they rank lower in priority. This appears to be the reason, as is clear from the explanation provided in response to comments as a result of Parliamentary debates in 2018, that G secured creditors opting not to relinquish their security interest are “presumed that such secured creditors have recovered most of their dues by enforcement of their security outside the liquidation proceedings”.27 There is sound logic in this, because those opting to ‘stand out’ and enforce security interest, are H 1226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A permitted to do so; in the event of excess recovery, they have to intimate and hand over such excess for distribution in liquidation proceeding; in case they are unable to recover their dues, for such of the dues as are outstanding, such secured creditors are ranked low. The provisions of the IBC are carefully thought out, and give options to secured creditors, and balance their interests B with those of other creditors in a liquidation proceeding. [Paras 34-38][1249-F-G; 1250-A-F; 1251-A-B; 1256-B] Moser Baer Karamchari Union thr. President Mahesh Chand Sharma v. Union of India & Ors. (2023) SCC OnLine SC 547 – referred to. C 1.3 By virtue of Section 56 of the 2003 Act, in the event of any person’s neglect “to pay any charge for electricity or any sum other than a charge for electricity” payable “in respect of supply, transmission or distribution or wheeling of electricity to him” (after a clear fifteen days’ notice in writing) “and without D prejudice to his rights to recover such charge or other sum by suit”, a licensee (including a distribution licensee such as PVVNL) is empowered to disconnect electricity supply to such consumer or person.