The definition of Wakf contained C in Section 2(e) was as follows: “2(e) ‘Wakf’ means the permanent dedication by a person professing the Musalman faith of any property for any purpose recognized by the Musalman Law as religious, pious or charitable, but does not include any Wakf, such as is described in S.3 of the D Musalman Wakf Validation Act, 1913, under which any benefit is for the time being claimable for himself by the person by whom the Wakf was created or by any of his family or descendants.” (Emphasis Supplied) 45. Section 3 of the 1923 Act obliged the Mutawalli to furnish E statement containing certain particulars to the competent Court. Notice of the Statement was to be published under Section 4. The 1923 Act provided for audit of accounts and the provision for expense which could be incurred by the Mutawalli came to be inserted. Section 10 provided for penalty. Certain waqfs were excluded from its purview under Section F 12. In the United Provinces, which meant the United Provinces of Agra and Awadh, the 1936 Act, came to be enacted. Section 2 thereof read as follows: “2(1) Save as herein otherwise specifically stated, this Act shall apply to all Wakfs, whether created before or after this Act comes G into force, any part of the property of which is situate in the United Provinces. (2) This Act shall not apply to:- (i) a Wakf created by a deed, if any, under the terms of which not less than 75 per cent of the total income after deduction of land H 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A revenue and cesses payable to Government of the property covered by the deed of Wakf, if any, is for the time being payable for the benefit of the Wakif or his descendants or any member of his family: (ii) a Wakf created solely for either of the following purposes: B (a) The maintenance and support of any person other than the Wakf or his descendants or any member of his family, (b) The celebration of religious ceremonies connected with the death anniversaries of the Wakif or of any member of his family or any of his anscestors; C (c) The maintenance of private imambaras, tombs, and grave- yards, or (d) The maintenance and support of the Wakif or for payment of his debts, when the Wakif is a Hanafi Musalman; and D (iii) the Wakfs mentioned in the schedule. Provided that if the Mutawalli of a Wakf to which this Act does not apply wrongfully sells or mortgages, or suffers to be sold in execution of a decree against himself, or otherwise destroys the whole or any part of the Wakf property, the Central Board E may apply all or any of the provisions of this Act to such Wakf for such time as it may think necessary. Explanation-A Wakf which is originally exempt from the operation of this Act may, for any reason subsequently, become subject to such operation, for example, by reason of a higher percentage of F its income becoming available under the terms of the deed for public charities.” (Emphasis supplied) 46.