Ideally, with such assistance (which has to be real and not sham to make the effort effective and meaningful), one D would tend to believe that the courts probably are now better equipped to diligently prepare the relevant questions, lest there be any infirmity. However, judicial experience has shown that more often than not, the time and effort behind such an exercise put in by the trial court does not achieve the desired result. This is because either the accused elects to E come forward with evasive denials or answers questions with stereotypes like ‘false’, ‘I don’t know’, ‘incorrect’, etc. Many a time, this does more harm than good to the cause of the accused. For instance, if facts within the special knowledge of the accused are not satisfactorily explained, that could be a factor against the accused. Though such factor by itself is not conclusive of guilt, it becomes relevant while considering the totality F of the circumstances. A proper explanation of one’s conduct or a version different from the prosecution version, without being obliged to face cross- examination, could provide the necessary hint or clue for the court to have a different perspective and solve the problem before it. The exercise under section 313 instead of being ritualistic ought to be realistic G in the sense that it should be the means for securing the ends of justice; instead of an aimless effort, the means towards the end should be purposeful. Indeed, it is optional for the accused to explain the circumstances put to him under section 313, but the safeguard provided by it and the valuable right that it envisions, if availed of or exercised, H PREMCHAND v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 129 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] could prove decisive and have an effect on the final outcome, which A would in effect promote utility of the exercise rather than its futility. 17. Once a written statement is filed by the accused under sub- section (5) of section 313, Cr. P.C. and the court marks it as an exhibit, such statement must be treated as part of the accused’s statement under sub-section (1) read with sub-section (4) thereof. In view of the latter B sub-section, the written statement has to be considered in the light of the evidence led by the prosecution to appreciate the truthfulness or otherwise of such case and the contents of such statement weighed with the probabilities of the case either in favour of the accused or against him. 18. This is a case where it does not appear from the records that C the written statement (Ext. 96) engaged the attention of both the trial court as well as the High Court. Applying the principles noted above and for the reasons discussed below, there can be no quarrel that non- consideration of Ext. 96, to a limited extent, in relation to recording of conviction and consequently imposition of sentence, has rendered it D vulnerable to interference. 19. Ext. 96 refers to inculpatory admissions as well as seeks to bring out exculpatory circumstances.