The circumstantial evidence, in to sustain conviction, must be complete and incapable of explanation of any other B hypothesis than that of the guilt of the accused, and such evidence should not only be consistent with the guilt of the accused but should be inconsistent with his innocence.5 These were so stated in Sarad Birdichand Sarda (supra) where the court, after quoting from Hanumant, observed that: C “153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the following conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an Accused can be said to be fully established: (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. D It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned ‘must or should’ and not ‘may be’ established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between ‘may be proved’ and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra (1973) 2 SCC 793 where the E following observations were made: [SCC para 19, p. 807: SCC (Cri.) p. 1047] Certainly, it is a primary principle that the Accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long F and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions. (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the Accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the Accused is guilty, G (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and 5 Ibid 3 H JABIR & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 981 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to A leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the Accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the Accused.” 154. These five golden principles, if we may say so, constitute B the panchsheel of the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence.” These panchsheel precepts, so to say, are now fundamental rules, iterated time and again, and require adherence not only for their precedential weight, but as the only safe bases upon which conviction in C circumstantial evidence cases can soundly rest. 22. This court is of the opinion that given the testimonies of two sets of witnesses (PWs2 &3 and PW-4 &5) who deposed to seeing the deceased with Husn Jahan and the first two accused, on 8th October 1999 and 9th October 1999, respectively, and also given the serious flaws in their testimonies, with respect to the knowledge of PW-1, the flaws in D their testimonies regarding their presence at the place and time, deposed to by them, as well as other glaring inconsistencies, the prosecution cannot be said to have proved its case.