If the word “shown” has to be given its ordinary meaning then it would only require the prosecution to merely present its evidence in court, not necessarily through oral deposition, and thereupon make the accused lead detailed evidence to be followed by that of the prosecution. This procedure is unknown to common law systems, and beyond the contemplation of CrPC.” 17. In the instant case as noticed hereinabove, the parents of the deceased and other witnesses who had recorded their statement before the I.O. with regard to alleged demand of dowry have retraced their steps or in other words have turned hostile and have not supported the prosecution and have denied of having made any such statement before police. Be that as it may. This Court having arrived at a conclusion that the dying declaration made by the deceased as per Ex.P-45 being genuine and when said declaration is perused it would not suggest that there was any proximate nexus to the act of committing suicide on account of preceding demand for dowry or in other words the demand of dowry on any particular date having triggered the deceased to commit the suicide or forced her to self-immolate. This proximate link not being available in the facts obtained in the present case, we are of the considered view that conviction of the accused under Section 304B cannot be sustained. 18. In the aforesaid analysis of law, when we turn our attention to the facts on hand it would emerge from the records that appellants-accused persons have been convicted for the off ences punishable under Sections 498A, 304B of IPC and Section 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act. Section 498A of IPC prescribes imprisonment which may extend to 3 years and the Explanation thereunder has two parts. The fi rst part would relate to subjecting a married woman to cruelty for any willful conduct which is of 938 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. such a nature as is likely to drive her to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb, or health (whether mental or physical). Second Part i.e. Clause (b) of Section 498A would indicate that cruelty would encompass harassment of a married woman where such harassment is with a view to pressurize her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security on account of failure by her or any person related to her to meet such demand. 19. In Dinesh Seth v State of NCT of Delhi (2008) 14 SCC 94, this Court has examined the width and scope of two Sections i.e., 304B & 498A and was held to be diff erent. Section 304B deals with cases of death as a result of cruelty or harassment within 7 years of marriage. Whereas Section 498A has a wider spectrum and it covers all cases in which the wife is subjected to cruelty by her husband or relative of the husband which may result in death by way of suicide or cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) or even harassment caused with a view to coerce the woman or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand of property or valuable security.