According to PW2, that fateful night he left his house to visit his parents after having dinner in his own house and on way return, at 0030 Hours he witnessed the incident. This explanation is not confidence inspiring, particularly, E because his parents have not been interrogated or examined to corroborate PW-2’s visit to their house at that odd hour of the night. In view of this Court, PW-2 is a mere chance witness, whose presence at the spot, at that hour, is not satisfactorily explained therefore, bearing in mind that he kept silent for unusually long i.e., for more than three and a half months, his testimony is not F worthy of any credit. In view of this Court, the courts below erred by placing reliance on his testimony. [Para 25][22-B-E] 4. As regards the testimony of PW-5, he too, is a chance witness. As to when testimony of a chance witness could be relied, the law is settled, which is, that the evidence of a chance witness G requires a very cautious and close scrutiny and a chance witness must adequately explain his presence at the place of occurrence. Deposition of a chance witness whose presence at the place of incident remains doubtful should be discarded. The explanation offered by PW-5 for his presence at the spot at that odd hour H 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A appears false. According to PW-5, he was having an upset stomach, therefore, while watching a night show of a movie, to attend to nature’s call, he came out of the cinema hall and, while he was easing himself, he got the chance to witness the incident. It be noted that the investigating officer (PW-10) and PW-7, a gram vendor in that cinema hall, have deposed that there are B toilets in the cinema hall where no money is charged for their use. This falsifies the explanation of PW-5 that he went out of the cinema hall to ease himself because cinema hall charged money for use of the toilet. Otherwise also, PW-10 in his deposition had stated that he was not shown the place where PW-5 squatted to C ease himself. [Paras 26-27][22-F-H; 23-A-C] 5. Besides that, PW-5 is not consistent because, in his statement under section 161 Cr.P.C., with which he was confronted during the course of his deposition, he had indicted ‘G’ along with two accused persons by stating that all three were D present with the deceased but, during his deposition in Court, he stated that ‘G’ was not present. He is also not consistent with regard to the place where his statement was recorded. At one place he states that it was recorded at the police station and at another place he states that it was recorded at his shop. [Para 28][23-C-D] E 6. Another important feature of the case is that, according to PW-10, PW-5’s statement was recorded by him on 01.11.2001 at PW5’s house. What was the reason for the police to go to the residence of PW-5 to record his statement is not disclosed by the prosecution.