Act to have overriding effect:—The provisions of this Act, shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent contained in any other law for the time being in force or in any instrument having effect by virtue of any law other than this Act.” D 26. Sub-section (1) of Section 38 of the NGT Act repeals the following enactments:- (i) The National Environment Tribunal Act, 1995 (ii) The National Environment Appellate Authority Act, 1997 E 27. Apart from repealing the above two enactments expressly under sub-section (1) of Section 38, the NGT Act also contains a provision in sub-Section (8) of Section 38 which deals with implied repeal. Sub- Section (8) of Section 38 reads as follows:- F “(8) The mention of the particular matters referred to in sub- sections (2) to (7) shall not be held to prejudice or affect the general application of section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897) with regard to the effect of repeal.” 28. In so far as the execution of the s of NGT are concerned, G Section 25 confers two types of powers as noted below:- (a) The power to execute the award by itself, as if the award is a decree of a civil court and (b) The power to transmit the award to a civil court for its execution. H 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 29. As stated earlier, the failure of any person to comply with the award of the NGT is also made punishable under Section 26, with imprisonment for a term that may extend to three years or with fine which may extend to ten crore rupees or with both. Section 27 makes every company and every person directly in charge of the affairs of the company liable to prosecution. Section 28 makes even the Government B Departments liable to be prosecuted and punished. Such powers are not available for the Loss of Ecology Authority. 30. Though Sub-Section (2) of Section 26 makes offences under the AGT Act known cognizable, Section 30(1)(b) entitles any person who has given notice of not less than sixty days in the prescribed manner, C of the alleged offences and of his intention to prosecute, to file a complaint before the competent court. Interestingly, Section 30(1)(b) does not even use the expression “aggrieved person”. It uses only an expression “any person”. 31. The 186th Report of the Law Commission, submitted in 2003, D eventually paved the way for the enactment of the NGT Act. This can be seen from the relevant portion of the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the NGT Act which read as follows:- “4. The National Environment Tribunal Act, 1995 was enacted to provide for strict liability for damages arising out of any accident E occurring while handling any hazardous substance and for the establishment of a National Environment Tribunal for effective and expeditious disposal of cases arising from such accident, with a view to giving relief and compensation for damages to persons, property and the environment.