After the recording of F.I.R. No. 122 of 2013 (Exhibit P-106), she had received two medical reports of the victim (Exhibits P1 to P-3 and P-12 F respectively), a copy of the statement of the victim (PW-5)under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. (Exhibit P-7) etc. There upon, the Investigating Officer – Chanchal Mishra (PW-43) had proceeded to record the statement of the victim (PW-5) under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. (Exhibit D-2) which was videographed. Thereafter, the Investigating Officer – Chanchal G Mishra (PW-43) had visited the place of occurrence. Clearly, it is not the prosecution’s case and version that the police team/officers had not visited the place of occurrence or scene of the crime on 21.08.2013. When we refer to the quoted paragraphs in the trial court , paragraph ‘301.’ specifically records that a photograph of the room where the incident allegedly occurred was published in ‘Dainik Bhaskar’ H STATE OF RAJASTHAN v. ASHARAM @ ASHUMAL 13 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] newspaper on 22.08.2013, in which we note a police officer can be A seen. Therefore, the presence of a police team on 21.08.2013 in the ‘Kutiya’ is not disputed; it is an accepted position. The case of the prosecution, as held by the trial court in paragraphs 298 to 303, as quoted above, is that the victim (PW-5) was not tutored and, therefore, her version as to the details of the ‘Kutiya’ were narrated by her to the B police without being taken inside the room or the bathroom. This version and stand of the prosecution, as accepted by the trial court, is not on the ground and reason that the police team had not gone inside the room or the bathroom on 21.08.2013, but by rejecting the argument that the police officer or the Investigating Officer had prompted or tutored the victim (PW-5) to give the description and details of the room and bathroom. C This finding recorded by the trial court is based onthe detailed examination of the evidence of the victim (PW-5), as well as the Investigating Officer – Chanchal Mishra (PW-43). Whether this finding is correctwill be tested in the appeal, albeit the reasoning given in the impugned to summon and examine Ajay Pal Lamba as a court witness cannot be D sustained on the ground that Ajay Pal Lamba had purportedly recorded a video on his mobile phone. The statement made by Ajay Pal Lamba in the Book, as quoted above, which statement is heavily relied upon by the learned Senior Advocate for the respondent – Asharam @ Ashumal, nowhere mentions that the video, which he had purportedly recorded on his mobile phone, was handed over, given or transferred by him to the E Investigating Officer – Chanchal Mishra (PW-43), or that it was shown by him to the victim (PW-5). In our opinion, when the prosecution states that on 21.08.2013 the police team had visited the scene of the crime, that is, the ‘Kutiya’, the plea to examine Ajay Pal Lamba on the ground that he had purportedly recorded a video of the ‘Kutiya’ on his mobile F phone is completely inconsequential and irrelevant to the factual matrix of the presentcase.