F xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx (5) Pending Criminal cases i)I declare that there is no pending criminal case against me. G (Tick this alternative if there is no criminal case pending against the Candidate and write NOT APPLICABLE against alternative. (ii) below) OR H BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN 1231 RAO AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] ii) The following criminal cases are pending against me: A (if there are pending criminal cases against the candidate, then tick this alternative and score off alternative (i) above, and give details of all pending cases in the Table B C D E (6) Cases of conviction (i) I declare that I have not been convicted for any criminal F offence. (Tick this alternative, if the candidate has not been convicted and write NOT OR G (ii) I have been convicted for the offences mentioned below: NOT APPLICABLE (if the candidate has been convicted, then tick this alternative and score off alternative (i) above, and give details in the Table below): H 1232 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Table B C (6A) I have given full and up to date information to my political party about all pending criminal cases against me and about D all cases of conviction as given in paragraphs (5) and (6): Yes.” 16. The election petitioner/respondent contends that the disclosure in this case was false because the appellant was earlier convicted in cases concerning violation of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 and the Payment of Wages Act, 1936. The appellant counters this and, in his E application, contended that no such disclosure was essential by reason of the fact that under Section 33A, a candidate who is accused of any offence punishable with imprisonment for two years or more in a pending case in which a charge has been framed by the court of competent jurisdictionhas to furnish such information [Section 33A(1)(i)]. It is also F contended that in cases of conviction, the requirement of disclosure is by reason of Section 33A(1)(ii) only where she or he is convicted of an offence and sentenced to imprisonment for one year or more, other than offences expressly mentioned in Section 8(1) or (2) or (3). It is submitted that since the provisions of the Act, in fact, mandate disclosure only in respect of those classes of offences expressly stated, the non-disclosure G of information with respect to criminal cases pending where the accused candidate can face punishment for less than two years or has not been convicted of an offence and sentenced to imprisonment for one year or more is not required. H BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN 1233 RAO AND ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 17. The election petitioner had alleged in the election petition that A with respect to withholding of vital information inasmuch as – as mentioned earlier – particulars of offences under the Minimum Wages Act and Payment of Wages Act where the candidate had been convicted as well as where he was facing criminal trial under the Indian Forest Act, were not disclosed.