Thereafter, it has come on record that the counsel engaged also passed away on 10.04.2021. 20. This Court has in several cases held that when counsel does not appear in a criminal case, the Court is obliged to appoint an amicus. [See Mohd. Sukur Ali v. State of Assam, (2011) 4 SCC 729]. It has also been held that in the absence of counsel, the case should not be decided and that a criminal case cannot be dismissed for default. [See Madan Lal Kapoor v. Rajiv Thapar and Others, (2007) 7 SCC 623 and Bani Singhand Others v. State of U.P., (1996) 4 SCC 720]. This Court has held that free legal assistance for the poor and indigent at State cost is a fundamental right of a person accused of an off ence even if the accused does not seek. [See Suk Das v. Union Territory of Arunachal Pradesh, (1986) 2 SCC 401]. In Madhav Hayawadanrao Hoskot v. State of Maharashtra [(1978) 3 SCC 544] right to counsel to a prisoner has been recognised and traced to Article 21. 21. Since the matter directly engages with Article 21, there is a positive obligation vested on the part of the jail authorities to communicate to the Court information about their surrender and period of detention irrespective of whether the convict has engaged a counsel or not. 22. In M.H. Hoskot (supra), it has been also recognised that procedural safeguards are the indispensable essence of liberty. Prisoners being confi ned to the four walls of jail are very often incommunicado with the outside world. This has been reiterated by this Court in several s. 23. In this case, as is clear from the facts while the factum of surrender happened, it is only in the communication of the surrender that there was a lapse. 24. A positive obligation vests in the jail authorities to communicate the factum of surrender of the convict to the Court. This is a means of providing SANJIT SAHA & ANR. v. THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL 95 access to justice, which again is a facet of Article 21. The Chamber Judge/ Court may depending on the information received, thereafter pass such s as are deemed fi t. 25. The Model Prison Manual, 2016, para 8.62 states as under:- “Communication of Appellate s 8.62 On receipt of an disposing of an appeal, the purport thereof shall be communicated to the prisoner concerned in the presence of the Superintendent who shall enter on the a certifi cate to the eff ect that it has been so communicated. Whenever a prisoner has been transferred before the receipt of s on his/her appeal, such s shall be forwarded, without delay, to the Superintendent of the prison in which the prisoner is confi ned.” 26. It appears from the record that the petitioners, even though in custody, were not apprised by the jail authorities of the peremptory dismissal of the Special Leave Petition(s). If even the peremptory dismissal of the Special Leave Petitions had been communicated to the petitioners herein by the jail authorities, they perhaps would have taken remedial steps without loss of time.