The Schedule as referred to in Section 61 has made the modifi cation in the LA Act. Some of the modifi cations made in clause 6 adding Section 17-A and clause 14 adding Section 48-A are relevant for the purpose of this case, in addition to other provisions as referred hereinabove. Therefore, for ready reference, they are reproduced as thus – “17-A. Transfer of land to Trust – In every case referred to in section 16 or section 17, the Collector shall, upon payment of the cost of acquisition, make over change of the land to the Trust and the land shall thereupon vest in the Trust, subject to the liability of the Trust to pay any further costs which may be incurred on account of its acquisition.” 170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “48-A. Compensation to be awarded when land not acquired within two years – (1) If within a period of two years from the date of the publication of the declaration under section 6 in respect of any land, the Collector has not made an award under section 11 with respect to such land, the owner of the land shall, unless he has been to a material extent responsible for the delay, be entitled to receive compensation for the damage suff ered by him in consequence of the delay. (2) The provisions of Part III of this Act, shall apply so far as may be, to the determination of the compensation payable under this section.” Section 67 of the NIT Act makes it clear that for the purpose of determining the compensation and to pass an award, the provisions of the LA Act would be applicable. Thus, LA Act has its application to such extent for land acquired by the NIT subject to the modifi cations made under the NIT Act. In view of the provisions of the NIT Act, the preliminary notifi cation of the land acquisition shall be under Section 39, and the fi nal Notifi cation shall be under Section 45 for compulsory acquisition as specifi ed in Section 59 of the NIT Act. It is to be noted here that, Section 16 of the LA Act deals with the power of Collector to take possession of the land after he has made an award under Section 11 and the said land shall thereupon vest absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances. Section 17 of LA Act deals with the special powers in case of urgency, but the said provision is not relevant in the facts of the present case. Further, Section 17-A of the LA Act as modifi ed in the Schedule referred to in Section 61 of NIT Act adopts the procedure specifi ed in Section 16 or 17 of the LA Act. Section 17-A prescribes that the Collector upon payment of the cost of acquisition shall make over change of the land to the Trust and the land shall thereupon vest in the Trust subject to discharge of liability and payment of any further cost which may be incurred on account of acquisition.