The period as mentioned in Section 3(2) of the Act refers to the period of delegation and it has no relevance at all to the period for which a person may be detained. Since the Act does not require the detaining authority to specify the period for which a detenu is required to be detained, of detention is not rendered invalid or illegal in the absence of such specification.” (Emphasis supplied) 28. The above referred decision of this Court in T. Devaki (supra) was later relied upon by a three Judge Bench, in the case of Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu Public (Law and ) Revenue Department and Another v. Kamala and Another reported in (2018) 5 SCC 322, for the proposition that the detaining authority is not obliged to specify the period for which a detenue is required to be detained. In Secretary to Government of Tamil Nadu (supra), the High Court had set aside the detention issued under Section 3(1)(ii) of the Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act, 1974 (COFEPOSA) on the ground that the period of detention was not specifi ed. The High Court relied on the decision in the Commissioner of Police and Another v. Gurbux Anandram Bhiryani reported in (1988) Supp SCC 568, which came to be overruled by a subsequent decision of a larger Bench in T. Devaki (supra). The Bench speaking through one of us, Justice Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud held that since the legislation does not require detaining authority to specify the period for which a detenu is required to be detained the of detention would not be rendered invalid or illegal in absence of such specifi cation. 29. The discussion as aforesaid has a diff erent angle too. We may elaborate the same a little further. Whether determining the period of detention in the of detention, would render the bad and illegal? To put it in other words, what would have been the legal implications had the detaining authority stated in the detention that the detenu be detained for a period of one year? In this context, we must look into a Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Makhan Singh v. State of Punjab reported in AIR 1952 SC 27. 558 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 30. In the said case, the petitioner therein was arrested and detained under dated 01.03.1950 by the District Magistrate, Amritsar under Section 3(1) of the Preventive Detention Act, 1950. The petitioner therein challenged the validity of the said on various ground but during the pendency of the said petition the petitioner was served with another detention dated 30.07.1951 on 16.08.1951 under the amended provisions of the Preventive Detention Act. By the said the petitioner therein was to be detained upto 31.03.1952 the date on which the said Act was to expire. 31. In Makhan Singh (supra), this Court observed:- “6.Whatever might be the position under the Act before its amendment in February 1951, it is clear that the Act as amended requires that every case of detention should be placed before an Advisory Board constituted under the Act (Section 9) and provides that if the Board reports that there is suffi cient cause for the detention “the appropriate Government may confi rm the detention and continue the detention of the person concerned for such period as it thinks fi t” (Section 11).