In fact, it was on the basis that under paragraph-8 of the 2011 Notification, storage of edible oil, inter alia, was permissible ‘in’ the limits of a notified port. The attempt of the appellants to support the clearance with reference to the fact that under permitted activities in CRZ I, storage of non-hazardous cargo, including edible oil, was permitted B ‘within’ the limits of a port anda distinction, therefore, existed between the words ‘within’ and ‘in’, did not find favour with the NGT. It was the contention of the appellants that being two different words and a meaningful interpretation being warranted in the case of CRZ I, the activity to be permitted had to be strictly within the limits of the port. Both, taking into account the difference in the words used, as also the C fact that CRZ II contemplated a less harsh regime, the case of the appellants was that a purposeful interpretation would warrant the view that the storing of the edible oil in the CRZ II area, could be permitted even outside the limits of the port. It is this argument that failed. 10. The NGT has found the impugned of the first respondent D illegal. The construction of the storage facility and the pipeline were directed to be removed. The appellant in the first appeal was directed to pay environmental compensation in a sum of Rs.25 lakhs. We may only elucidate that the appellant in the connected appealhad initially succeeded before the Tribunal. However, it was after allowing a Review Petition, E which decision was not challenged and, on hearing the Appeal again, that the present impugned came to be passed.Noting that the appellant in the connected case was earlier visited with environmental compensation, no compensation was imposed on it. 11. We heard Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned Senior Counsel for the F appellant in the first appeal and also Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned Senior Counselfor the appellant in the other appeal. We further heard Ms.Anitha Shenoy, learned senior Counsel on behalf of respondent No.5 and Shri Anand Tiwari, learned Counsel on behalf of respondents 2 and 3. We also further heard Mr. Archana Pathak Dave, learned Counsel on behalf of Union of India. G 12. Shri Ranjit Kumar, learned Senior Counsel would submit that the appellant was engaged in the manufacture of edible oil. In to avoid the traffic snarls and the congestion it caused in the Chennai Port, it was the Chennai Port itself which suggested that the appellant may H 260 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A draw the pipeline from the Port area so that the edible oil which was downloaded on import could be taken to a storage facility and from there carried to the factory of the appellant. He would submit that the provisions of 2011 Notification would reveal that paragraph-3 declares activities which are prohibited. The storage tank has been put up in CRZ-II area. There are construction activities permitted in CRZ-I area B which is the most fragile area.