793 INFRASTRUCTURES PVT. LTD [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 2016. Chapter A IV-A was introduced in the SARFAESI Act, with effect from 24th January, 2020, containing, inter alia, section 26E which accorded priority in payment to a secured creditor over all other dues in enforcement of the security, subject to conditions specified elsewhere in the said chapter.Prior thereto, with effect from 1st September, 2016, section 31B B was introduced in the DRT Act extending similar benefit of priority to a secured creditor.We need not dilate here on the amended provisions for obvious reasons. 38. What appears to be of significance in the light of the decision in Central Bank of India (supra) is that the findings in the s C and s disposing of the writ petitions impugned in two of the four civil appeals ~ the first dated 7th September, 2007 and the other dated 2nd January, 2008 ~with regard to the scope, ambit and applicability of section 35 of the SARFAESI Act, more particularly the latter holding section 16-B of the HPGST Act as ultra vires the Constitution and the Banking Companies Act, loses its basis and can no longer be held to be D legal and valid. Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act could not have been construed as conferring any right on a secured creditor to claim priority over dues of the State in the absence of a provision in that behalf which presently can now be claimed, subject to other conditions being fulfilled, in view of section 26E of the SARFAESI Act. E 39. Pertinently, the High Court while seized of the writ petition of PNB was not at all concerned with the SARFAESI Act as such. The matter had travelled to the High Court from proceedings under the DRT Act. There was, thus, no occasion for the High Court to pronounce on the validity of section 16-B of the HPGST Act based on what was held F by its coordinate Bench in M/s A.J.Infrastructures Pvt. Ltd. (supra). The High Court, in our considered view, was therefore in clear error. 40. In the light of the above, while answering the second issue we hold that section 16-B of the HPGST Act is a perfectly valid piece of legislation and is not ultra viresthe Constitution and/or the Banking Companies Act as erroneously held in the decision of the High Court G dated 2nd January, 2008. Also, following the decision in Central Bank of India (supra), we hold that any observation in the decision dated 7th September, 2007 touching upon section 16-B of the HPGST Act vis-à- vis section 35 of the SARFAESI Act is of no effect. H 794 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 41. It is now time to consider the third issue. 42. As noted above, C.A. Nos.9212-9213 of 2012 have been dismissed qua the writ petitioner, i.e., PNB. Having regard to such position, it would not be proper to delve deep into the question as to whether the State has the first charge over the property in question or not.