The price agreed to between the appellant and Respondent No. 1 was 2.64/- per unit or Pooled Power Purchase Cost of the subsequent year, whichever was lower. 19 Dated 10.07.2013, which inter alia, stated that “Some of the stakeholders have suggested to clarify as to whether the PPAs executed at G price lower than APPC would become ineligible under REC Mechanism. It is felt that the tariff for electricity component lower or higher than APPC may lead to avoidable loss or profit to RE generator. The Commission would like to clarify that the intention is not to debar the projects that have executed PPA at tariff lower than APPC. This amendment will apply prospectively and as such will not affect the” already executed PPAs at lower than APPC.” H 688 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 22. The appellants argue that till 11.07.2013 none of the WPDs/ respondents raised any issue on the tariff of 2.64/kWh for the entire duration of the PPA. It was only on 10.12.2013, the first two respondents filed Petition No.1363/ 2013 before the State Commission claiming that the tariff should be the APPC cost year-on-year basis instead of a fixed 2.64/kWh. This was contrary to the decision by CERC on the B application of Second Amendment only prospectively -which is, for PPAs entered on or after 11.07.2013. The state commission by its (dated 01.07.2015) allowed the respondent’s petition and further directed that the is generic in nature and applicable to all similarly placed WPDs- which was affirmed by the first impugned . The appellants argue C that the governing Regulations for PPAs adopting the REC Mechanism are 2010 REC Regulations and the state commission cannot decide on tariff contrary to the same. When the Central Commission clarified that for PPAs entered into prior to 11.07.2013, the tariff mutually agreed is valid for the entire duration of the PPA (25 years), the state commission and APTEL fell into error in substituting a new tariff at the instance of D the WPDs/Respondents. It is pointed out that Rule 820 of the Electricity Rules, 2005, notified by the Central Government, is binding, and specifically provides that tariff determined by the Central Commission (CERC) shall not be subject to re-determination by the GERC/State Commission. E 23. Learned senior counsel argued that if at the time of signing the PPAs WPDs-Respondents had sought for tariff at APPC on year- on-year basis, the appellants would not have entered into PPAs under the REC mechanism route and would have only adopted the alternate route where the price was fixed and in addition, the appellants would F have been entitled to RPO benefits. This is also clear as the appellants did not sign any PPAs after the Second Amendment for procuring power under the REC mechanism. The appellants urge that the Impugned is contrary to the decision of this court in Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam 20 Rule 8 reads as follows: “8. Tariffs of generating companies under section 79. –The tariff determined by the G Central Commission for generating companies under clause (a) or (b) of subsection (1) of section 79 of the Act shall not be subject to redetermination by the State Commission in exercise of functions under clauses (a) or (b) of sub section (1) of section 86 of the Act and subject to the above the State Commission may determine whether a Distribution Licensee in the State should enter into Power Purchase Agreement or procurement process with such generating companies based ,on the tariff determined by the Central H Commission.” GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 689 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT.