It can thus be seen that no adjustment is to be provided for heat rate degradation of the generating stations. Even in case of bids based on net heat rate, the bidder shall factor in site conditions, loading conditions, frequency variations etc. and no adjustment shall be allowed on the quoted net heat rate for the duration of the contract. E 60. The NCDP 2007 would be of vital importance. Clause 2.2 thereof deals with Power Utilities including Independent Power Producers (IPPs)/Captive Power Plants (CPPs) and Fertilizer Sector. Clause 2.2 reads thus: “2. Distribution and Pricing of coal to different consumers/ F sector(s): 2.1. ……………… 2.2 Power Utilities including Independent Power Producers (IPPs)/Captive Power Plants(CPPs) and Fertilizer Sector G 100% of the quantity as per the normative requirement of the consumers would be considered for supply of coal, through Fuel Supply Agreement (FSA) by Coal India Limited (CIL) at fixed prices to be declared/notified by CIL. The units/power plants, which are yet to be commissioned but whose coal requirements has already been assessed and accepted by Ministry of Coal and H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 115 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] linkage/Letter of Assurance (LoA) approved as well as future A commitments would also be covered accordingly.” 61. It can thus be seen that the NCDP 2007 assured 100% of the quantity as per the normative requirement of the consumers for supply of coal, through FSA by CIL at fixed prices to be declared/notified by CIL. It further provided that the units/power plants, which are yet to be B commissioned but whose coal requirements has already been assessed and accepted by MoC and linkage/Letter of Assurance (LoA) approved as well as future commitments would also be covered in accordance therewith. 62. It will also be relevant to note the following part of clause 5.2 C of the NCDP 2007. “5. Policy for New Consumers 5.1. …………… 5.2. ……………In to meet the domestic requirement D of coal, CIL may have to import coal as may be required from time to time, if feasible. CIL may adjust its overall price accordingly. Thus, it will be the responsibility of CIL/Coal companies to meet full requirement of coal under FSAs even by resorting to imports, if necessary.” E 63. It can thus be seen that clause 5.2 of the NCDP 2007 provides that in to meet the domestic requirement of coal, CIL may have to import coal as may be required from time to time, if feasible. It further provided that CIL would adjust its overall price accordingly. The NCDP 2007 emphasizes the responsibility of CIL/Coal Companies to meet full requirement of coal under FSAs even by resorting to imports, if necessary. F 64. It will also be relevant to refer to the communication addressed by the MoP dated 9th May 2013 to the Secretary, CERC. “Subject: Impact on tariff on the concluded PPAs due to domestic coal availability. G Sir, Coal linkages have been granted for power projects under the New Coal Distribution Policy 2007 (NCDP), which mandates that CIL will meet 100% of normative requirement of power sector.