It is submitted that therefore, the disjunctive “or” between clauses (a) and (b) of section 34(2) cannot be read as the conjunctive “and”. D 3.4 It is further submitted that the ratio of this Court in the case of Fiza Developers(supra) was for framing of issues which is not required in section 34(2) proceedings. It is submitted that in the case of Emkay Global Financial Services Limited v. Girdhar Sondhi, reported in (2018) 9 SCC 49, this Court has explained the decision in the case of E Fiza Developers (supra) and has expressly held that only section 34(2) (a) contemplates furnishing proof. It is submitted that the subsequent decision of this Court in the case of Canara Nidhi Limited v. M. Shashikala, reported in (2019) 9 SCC 462 has approved the interpretation of section 34(2)(a) in Emkay Global (supra). F 3.5 It is further submitted that in the case of Gemini Bay Transcription Private Limited v. Integrated Sales Service Limited, reported in (2022) 1 SCC 753, this Court has treated 2019 amendment to section 34(2)(a) as clarificatory, while considering section 48(1) which are broadly in pari materia with section 34(2)(a) and 34(2)(b) as they stood prior to the 2019 amendment. It is submitted that this Court in the G aforesaid decision in paragraphs 39 & 40 held that grounds under unamended section 48 including conflict with public policy in section 48(2) are to be established only on basis of “record of arbitral tribunal” in the interest of speedy enforcement of foreign award. H 998 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 3.6 It is submitted that as such there is no legal bar to the Parliament to provide two different procedures for two different sets of grounds in a proceeding or even having two different procedures for the same relief. It is submitted that the Parliament intended that grounds in section 34(2) (b) must be established on the basis of the record of the arbitral tribunal. It is submitted that even assuming proof is required under section 34(2) B (b), it does not apply to a case of alleged conflict of an award with statute. Being a pure question of law, it can be considered on the findings/ directions recorded in the award. 3.7 It is further submitted that even otherwise on merits also, general rule is that unless exceptional circumstances are made out, no C additional evidence is permissible. It is submitted that the present case does not fall within the meaning of “exceptional circumstances” as held by this Court in the case of Canara Nidhi (supra). It is submitted that the directions in the award that the parties shall apply for statutory permissions is the legally correct decree to pass in a suit for specific D performance. Therefore, the award cannot be said to be in conflict with “public policy of Indian law.” 3.8 It is submitted that the respondents’ contention that the award is frustrated because corporation refused permission for clubbing of khatas which is the basis for award to be executed does not fall within the E conflict with public policy ground under section 34(2)(b) because it is the award and not its execution that must conflict with the public policy of India.