59.In view of the testimonies of PW-7 and PW-8, motive stands clearly established that the appellant used to beat his wife and F children under the influence of liquor. He suspected that the children did not belong to him but belong to someone else. The appellant informed PW-1, PW-4 and PW-6 that the children had drowned, whereas as per the testimony of PW-14, Dr. V.K. Jha, external injuries were found on the dead bodies and the cause of death was manual strangulation. Thus, in our view, the conduct of G the appellant also points towards his guilt. 60.In the light of the testimonies discussed above, the submission of learned counsel for the appellant that the appellant has been falsely implicated or that there are material discrepancies in their testimonies or the fact that the wife of the appellant has turned H 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A hostile thus there is no ground to convict the appellant, are all without any force. The Trial Court has passed a well-reasoned taking into consideration the testimonies of all the material witnesses which have been discussed hereinabove. 61.We find that there is no merit in the present appeal and the B same is accordingly dismissed.” Rival Submissions 10. Assailing the and aforesaid, learned counsel for the appellant has put forward a variety of submissions to argue that conviction of the appellant remains unsustainable. The learned counsel C has contended that the chain of circumstances in this case is not complete, particularly when the allegations of strained relationship of the appellant and his wife have not been proved and in any case, the prosecution has failed to establish motive for the appellant to murder his own children; that the appellant was incapable of understanding the nature of his act when admittedly he was in the habit of consuming liquor, was admitted D to rehabilitation centre, and his discharge was taken against the advice of the centre; that the Trial Court failed in its duty to examine the mental capacity of the appellant in terms of Section 329 CrPC and hence, the entire trial stood vitiated; and that in any case, mens rea could not be imputed on the appellant, who deserves to be given benefit of doubt or at E least the benefit of the Exceptions to Section 300 IPC. 10.1. In the first place, learned counsel for the appellant has contended that in case of circumstantial evidence, there ought to be a complete chain of circumstances pointing towards nothing else but guilt of the accused; and in such cases, motive is of critical importance. In F the present case, according to the learned counsel, the motive set up by the prosecution about the alleged strained relationship of the appellant with his wife was not a motive strong enough for the appellant to commit the murder of his children and, in any event, wife of the appellant, PW- 9, did not support the case of the prosecution regarding such allegations. The learned counsel would, therefore, contend that an important link in G the chain of circumstances, i.e., motive, having not been established, the appellant deserves to be acquitted.