Therefore, the respondent-husband would first need G to dislodge the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act and thereafter seek a direction to conduct a DNA test of Master ‘X”. 14. The evidentiary value of blood tests for determining paternity, has been discussed in Rayden and Jackson on Divorce and Family Matters, (1983) Vol. I, at Pg. 1054, in the following words: H 718 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “…depending on the type of litigation, samples of blood, when subjected to skilled scientific examination, can sometimes supply helpful evidence on various issues, to exclude a parentage set up in the said case. But the consideration remains that the party asserting the claim to have a child and the rival set up parents put to blood test must establish his right to do so. The courts exercise B protective jurisdiction on behalf of an infant. In my considered opinion, it would be unjust and not fair either to direct a test for a collateral reason to assist a litigant in his or her claim. The child cannot be allowed to suffer because of his incapacity; the aim is to ensure that he gets his rights. C If in a case the court has reason to believe that the application for the blood test is of a fishing nature or designed for some ulterior motive, it would be justified in not according to such a prayer.” (Emphasis by us) D 15. It is trite that the burden is on a litigating party to prove his case by adducing evidence in support of his plea. The Court is not to compel one party to the dispute to assist the other contesting party, vide Ashok Kumar. Therefore, DNA tests are not to be directed on a routine basis, merely to enable a party to prove his case of adultery. E The right of children not to have their legitimacy questioned frivolously in Courts of Law: 16. The default position in India is that for many reasons, parents are presumed to be the decision makers for their children, in so far as healthcare, consent for genetic testing etc. are concerned. Justifications F for this position include that parents are free within very broad limits to decide how to bring up their children, parents are thought to be most likely to act in their child’s best interests, children generally lack the capacity to make fully competent decisions so someone else must, and state intervention is rarely appropriate. Genetic information is broadly understood as shedding light on a person’s essence, as going to the very G heart of who he/she is. That kind of intimate, personal information, which is so highly valued in our society, is precisely what the law protects in the right of privacy, which extends even to children. 17. Further, children have the right not to have their legitimacy questioned frivolously before a Court of Law. This is an essential attribute H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 719 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]