(iv) The State Government could not have ignored the notifi cation of NCTE dated 28.06.2018 while issuing advertisement for REET. However, when we have declared that this notifi cation is illegal and are in the process of setting aside, the issue becomes one of academic value. 35. One important aspect of the present case must now be dealt with, on which much emphasis was laid by the counsel for the appellant. 192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. The submission is that the Central Government in any case is the fi nal authority in deciding as to what qualifi cation has to be there for teachers and the NCTE is bound to follow the directions of the Central Government in this regard. Reliance was placed on two provisions of National Council for Teacher Education Act, (NCTE Act), Section 12A and Section 29. We must examine these provisions in the light of the submissions made before us. Section 12A of the Act, reads as under: “12A. Power of Council to determine minimum standards of education of school teachers. — For the purpose of maintaining standards of education in schools, the Council may, by regulations, determine the qualifi cations of persons for being recruited as teachers in any pre-primary, primary, upper primary, secondary, senior secondary or intermediate school or college, by whatever name called, established, run, aided or recognised by the Central Government or a State Government or a local or other authority: Provided that nothing in this section shall adversely affect the continuance of any person recruited in any pre-primary, primary, upper primary, secondary, senior secondary or intermediate schools or colleges, under any rule, regulation or made by the Central Government, a State Government, a local or other authority, immediately before the commencement of the National Council for Teacher Education (Amendment) Act, 2011 (18 of 2011) solely on the ground of non-fulfi lment of such qualifi cations as may be specifi ed by the Council: Provided further that the minimum qualifi cations of a teacher referred to in the fi rst proviso shall be acquired within the period specifi ed in this Act or under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 (35 of 2009). ]” Section 12A was inserted in the NCTE Act that is after the enactment of Right to Education Act, 2009. Section 12A only compliments Section 23 of the Right to Education Act, which we have already discussed in the preceding paragraphs. Next, we come to the Section 29 of the NCTE Act which is as under: DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 193 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] “29. Directions by the Central Government : (1) The Council shall, in the discharge of its functions and duties under this Act be bound by such directions on questions of policy as the Central Government may give in writing to it from time to time. (2) The decision of the Central Government as to whether a question is one of policy or not shall be fi nal.” It was submitted that by a notifi cation dated 28.06.2018, NCTE has only followed the directions of the Central Government which are in the nature of a policy.