IMPCL has been established to cater to the needs of the Central Government Health Programs and for ensuring the quality of AYUSH medicines; (ii) Due to the unique organizational set-up of IMPCL, it is most suited to supply quality medicines at an affordable H price. The prices of the medicines manufactured by IMPCL M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 483 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] are vetted by the Union Ministry of Finance from time to A time. The procurement of medicines from other organizations is alsoat the rates of IMPCL as these rates are considered the best possible rates. Further, IMPCL is the only government manufacturing company for Ayurvedic medicines with its own certified drug testing laboratory; B (iii) On 16 July 1994, the Government of India issued an where it had resolved that Ayurvedic medicines cannot be purchased through tenders because (a) there is a wide variation in the prices of raw materials required for making drugs and the cost of the drug will vary based on the quality C of the raw material used; and (b) it is not possible to test the exact composition of drugs in terms of the raw materials and their quality; (iv) The Ministry of AYUSH, Government of India has on various occasions recommended purchasing Ayurvedic D medicines directly from IMPCL; (v) Procurement may be through tender only where the state proposes to dispose of property. Since in this case, there is no disposal of state property, the High Court should have only looked at the relevant material to determine whether E an oblique motive is involved in purchasing medicines from IMPCL; (vi) IMPCL is not a private enterprise. There is no scope for monopoly when the sale is not in an open market, where the prices of the medicines are vetted by the Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, and the establishment F is managed by the officials of the Ministry of AYUSH; (vii) Paragraph 4(vi)(b) of the Operational Guidelines distinguishes IMPCL from other PSUs, pharmacies under the State Government, and cooperative societies by the use of the term “or”. Paragraph 4(vi)(b) emphasises ensuring G the quality of AYUSH drugs and medicines. The phrase ‘atleast’ in paragraph 4(vi)(b) only provides a minimum benchmark for procurement and does not prescribe an upper limit; and H 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A (viii) A combined reading of paragraphs 4(vi)(b) and 4(vi)(c) elucidates that the states have the discretion to procure medicines from IMPCL or any other PSUs, and pharmacies under the State Government and cooperatives. The budget, if any, that is remaining after purchasing medicines from the establishments mentioned in paragraph 4(vi)(b) may be B utilized for purchasing medicines from other GMP-compliant establishments. 9. Mr Kaleeswaram Raj, counsel appearing for the first respondent urged the following submissions: C (i) Paragraph 4(vi) only depicts the establishments from which the medicines can be procured- i.e the whom question and not the how question: (a) Paragraph 4(vi)(b) of the Operational Guidelines stipulates the establishments from whichat least 50 percent of the medicines must be procured.