In absence of amendment of pleadings, the Appellate Tribunal could not have taken such purported acknowledgement of debt for the purpose of extending the limitation period. Requirement of specifi c pleading on facts constituting acknowledgement or admission of claim has been recognised in the of this Court in the case of Reliance Asset Reconstruction Company Limited -vs- Hotel Poonja International Private Limited [(2021) 7 SCC 352]. Broadly a similar view has been taken by this Court in the case of Babulal Vardharji Gurjar -vs- Veer Gurjar Aluminium Industries Private Limited and Another [(2020) 15 SCC 1]. In this also, the necessity of averments to overcome the limitation question has been emphasised by this Court. The argument of the appellant on the basis of Section 25 (3) of the Contract Act, 1872 is anchored on the letter dated 29.01.2020. This letter reads:- “To The Assistant General Manager Union Bank of India, Industrial Finance Branch, 6-3-1090/B/4/101, 1st Floor, “The Grand” Raj Bhavan Road, Somajiguda, Hyderabad-500 082. Mail-ifbhyderabad@unionbankofi ndla.com (Through to the Lead Bank) Dear Sir, Sub:- Request for OTS with Consortium Banks Ref:- Totem Infrastructure Limited We thank you very much for the support that has been extended by your bank throughout my business operations with your branch. With reference to your letter/Notice from your branch, we have taken note of it and we have discussed about this elaborately with our business partners. In principle, we have agreed among ourselves to repay the amount due to your bank. As you are aware, we are undergoing through rough phase in our business activities along with fi nancial crisis. At this 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. juncture we require your bank support to come out of these problems and to repay the amounts due to your bank. In this regard, we request you to inform us to the exact outstanding amount payable to your bank as on the date of our account became Non Performing Asset (NPA) in your bank. We also request you to waive off all the penal interests levied by your bank on the Loan outstanding amount from the date of account became irregular to till date of your notifi cation to us It would be of great relief to us, if you can waive off all the penal interests and penalties and other charges levied on our account and inform us to enable us to plan for repayments. So in this regard we further request you to consider this as One Time Settlement (OTS) option extended to us. We also request you to allow us to repay the said amount in at least 4 to 6 Instalments spread over a period of one year. We are highly indebted to your bank in supporting us in all our tough times and believing us. We are always committed for repayment of your outstanding dues. Finally we request you not to issue any public notifi cations or such actions which will spoil our reputation as well as closes all options for us to raise funds or to make alternative arrangements to repay the loan outstanding amounts.