Road, Saket, New Delhi on 26-2-2013. The appellants is at liberty to fi le a reference under Section 18 of the Act and to pursue the remedies available to him under the Act. Needless to say that the appellants shall be entitled to all statutory benefi ts. 31. Recently, the similar approach was adopted in the case of “Delhi Airtech Services Pvt. Ltd. and Another Vs. State of U.P. and Another, (2022) SCC Online SC 1408”, wherein 3-Judge Bench of this Court in a reference while dealing with the divergent views of two Judges relating to taking over of possession without following the mandate of Section 17 of the LA Act, vis-a-vis violation of constitutional guarantee to a citizen under Article 300-A of the Constitution of India, the Court answered the said reference as thus – 25. On weighing all aspects of the matter, we deem it appropriate that it will serve the ends of justice to direct the respondents to determine the market value insofar as the appellant’s land is concerned by reckoning the relevant date as 09.06.2008 (i.e. the date on which the award was ultimately passed), by applying the yardstick under Act, 1894. It is made clear that only the market value be determined as on that date but for awarding the statutory benefits, it shall be calculated from the date of the original notifi cation since admittedly the appellant has been dispossessed on 04.02.2003 pursuant to the notifi cation dated 17.04.2002. Further, from the date on which the fresh award is passed pursuant to this , the appellant would get the cause of action for seeking reference if dissatisfi ed with the quantum of compensation awarded. It is made clear that the determination of compensation, in this case, shall not give rise to any right in favour of any other land loser whose land was acquired under the same notifi cation, LOONKARAN GANDHI (D) THR. LR. v. STATE OF 179 MAHARASHTRA AND ORS.[J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] to seek for re-determination of compensation where the same has already attained fi nality. * * * * 27. In the result, we pass the following : (i) The provision contained in Section 11A of Act, 1894 shall be applicable to cases in which the acquiring authority has not complied with the requirement of sub-section (3A) to Section 17 of Act, 1894 by tendering and paying eighty per centum of the estimated compensation before taking possession since possession in such cases cannot be considered to be taken in accordance with law and the vesting is not absolute. (ii) If the requirement is complied and possession is taken after tendering and paying eighty per centum, though there is need to pass an award and pay the balance compensation within a reasonable time, the rigour of Section 11A of Act, 1894 will not apply so as to render the entire proceedings for acquisition to lapse in the context of absolute vesting. The right of land loser in such case is to enforce passing of the award and recover the compensation.