But if the decision is successfully challenged, on the ground that it has been reached by a process which is unfair, then the Government is under an obligation to produce evidence that the decision was in fact based on grounds C of national security. Authority for both these points is found in The Zamora [1916] 2 A.C. 77.” On a perusal of the evidence on record, the Court was satisfied that the departure was justified because it involved national security concerns. D 70. Lord Scarman in his opinion observed that the observations in The Zamora (supra) were not indicative of an abdication of judicial function but were an indication that evidence was required by the Court. In this context, it was observed that it has to be established by evidence that the interest of national security arises in judicial proceedings: E “My Lords, I conclude, therefore, that where a question as to the interest of national security arises in judicial proceedings the court has to act on evidence. In some cases a judge or jury is required by law to be satisfied that the interest is proved to exist: in others, the interest is a factor to be considered in the review of the exercise F of an executive discretionary power. Once the factual basis is established by evidence so that the court is satisfied that the interest of national security is a relevant factor to be considered in the determination of the case, the court will accept the opinion of the Crown or its responsible officer as to what is required to meet it, unless it is possible to G show that the opinion was one which no reasonable minister advising the Crown could in the circumstances reasonably have held. There is no abdication of the judicial function, but there is a common sense limitation recognised by the judges as to H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 653 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] what is justiciable: and the limitation is entirely consistent with the A general development of the modern case law of judicial review.” (emphasis supplied) On a perusal of the evidence, it was held that work at the headquarters involved matters of grave national security, and that if the B employees and trade unions were consulted before the decision then the security would have been compromised. Lord Scarman observed that the Minister did not consult the employees because she feared that a union-organised disruption of services could occur. It was held that this conclusion by the Minister could have been reached reasonably. C 71. In Rehman (supra), the appellant, a Pakistani National whose parents were British citizens, applied for indefinite leave to remain in the United Kingdom. The Secretary of State refused his application on the ground that he was involved with a terrorist organization. The Secretary of State also added that his deportation from the United Kingdom would be conducive to public good and ‘in the interests of national security’. D The Special Immigration Appeals Commission allowed the appeal against the decision of the Secretary of State observing that the standard of civil balance of probabilities had not been satisfied.