C 36. Section 16 of SICA 1985 deals with the conduct of an inquiry by BIFR and the manner in which BIFR is expected to deal with the matter upon receipt of a reference under Section 15 of SICA 1985. Section 16 vests BIFR with very wide powers of inquiry and passing appropriate s. Section 16(2) empowers BIFR to pass an , in its discretion, directing any operating D agency to inquire into and to make a report with regard to the matters as may be specified in the . Such operating agency is expected to complete the inquiry expeditiously and preferably within 60 days from the date of commencement of inquiry. BIFR is vested with powers such as appointing special Directors for the E sick company and issuing directions to the special Directors in relation to discharge of their duties and to improve the performance of any or all of the functions postulated under Section 16(6) of SICA 1985. 37. After the inquiry by BIFR or by the operating agency is F completed, BIFR if satisfied that the company has become sick and upon considering all relevant facts and circumstances of the case in exercise of its powers under Section 17 of SICA 1985, may pass s requiring the company to make its net worth exceed the accumulated losses within a reasonable time and for that purpose it may impose such restrictions or conditions as may G be specified in the in terms of Section 17(2) of SICA 1985. Further, where BIFR decides that it is not practicable for a sick industrial company to make its net worth exceed the accumulated losses within a reasonable time and that it is otherwise necessary or expedient in public interest to adopt all or any of the measures H 1056 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A specified in Section 18 of SICA 1985 in relation to the said company, it may, having regard to the guidelines, as may be specified, pass an formulating a scheme providing for such measures in relation to the sick industrial company. In the event of non- compliance with the restrictions or conditions specified in the of BIFR or where the company fails to revive itself in pursuance B to the , BIFR can pass any of the directions/s as required under Section 17(4) of SICA 1985. 38. Section 18 of SICA 1985 again is a remedial provision which contains specified guidelines for the preparation and sanction of the schemes for the revival of the sick industrial company. C Where an is made under Section 17(3) in relation to a sick industrial company, the operating agency is required to prepare, as expeditiously as possible, ordinarily within 90 days from the date of such , a scheme with respect to such company providing for any one or more of the measures stated under clauses D (a) to (f) of Section 18(1) of SICA 1985. The scheme so framed may provide for any one or more of the measures stated under clauses (a) to (m) of Section 18(2) of SICA 1985.