Explanation I.-The expression “law in force” in this article shall include a law passed or made by a Legislature or other competent authority in the territory of India before the commencement of this Constitution and not previously repealed, notwithstanding that it or parts of it may not be then in operation either at all or in particular areas. Explanation II.-Any law passed or made by a Legislature or other competent authority in the territory of India which immediately before the commencement of this Constitution had extra-territorial eff ect as well as eff ect in the territory of India shall, subject to any such adaptations and modifi cations as aforesaid, continue to have such extra-territorial eff ect. Explanation III.-Nothing in this article shall be construed as continuing any temporary law in force beyond the date fi xed for its expiration or the date on which it would have expired if this Constitution had not come into force. Explanation IV.-An Ordinance promulgated by the Governor of a Province under section 88 of the Government of India Act, 1935, and in force immediately before the commencement of this Constitution shall, unless withdrawn by the Governor of the corresponding State earlier, cease to operate at the expiration of six weeks from the fi rst meeting after such commencement of the Legislative Assembly of that State functioning under clause (1) of article 382, and nothing in this article shall be construed as continuing any such Ordinance in force beyond the said period. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 177 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] years but was substituted by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act 1951 to three years. 284. Article 373 contained transitional provisions pertaining to preventive detention. Clause (7) of Article 22 of the Constitution empowers Parliament to prescribe by law the circumstances under which and the cases in which a person may be detained for a period of more than three months under a law providing for preventive detention and the maximum period for which a person may be detained. Article 373 contained provisions which would operate until a provision was made by Parliament under clause (7) of Article 22 or for a period of one year from the commencement of the Constitution whichever was earlier. For that period, it was stipulated that the reference to Parliament in clauses (4) and (7) of Article 22 would be substituted by a reference to the President and a reference to a law enacted by Parliament would be substituted by a reference to an made by the President. 285. Article 374 provided that the judges of the Federal Court, who held offi ce before the commencement of the Constitution would unless they elected otherwise become judges of the Supreme Court on the commencement of the Constitution and cases pending before the Federal Court would be transferred to the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. 286. Article 375 stipulated that all courts, authorities and offi cers would continue to function under the Constitution. Article 376 provided for the continuation of judges appointed to the High Courts before the commencement of the Constitution.