Undoubtedly such injuries are severe, serious and grievous in nature. Thus, the prosecution has established the case of homicidal death beyond any doubt. 10. The question which arises for consideration is: as to who E committed the dastardly crime? Was it only the appellant or someone else? 11. For ascertaining such fact, we now proceed to examine the prosecution case as set out in different stages, be it investigation or trial. 12. The FIR dated 12.6.2010 (Ext.44), so registered on the F complaint of PW 1 (Ext.19 which forms part of Ext.1), records that in the morning of 12th June, 2010 the dead body of the prosecutrix was found floating in the Nala, in close proximity to her house. She had been sexually assaulted and killed by an “unidentified person”, after which the body was thrown into the nala with the objective of destruction of evidence of such assault. G 13. Significantly, none is suspected at this stage. The said FIR was recorded by Police Officer - PW 11. The investigation consequent thereto was conducted by three people – PW 6, PW 12, and PW 13. 14. PW 6 (the 1st Investigating Officer) in the presence of Panch Witnesses – PW 9 and PW 10, recovered the body of the prosecutrix H PRAKASH NISHAD @ KEWAT ZINAK NISHAD v. STATE OF 161 MAHARASHTRA [SANJAY KAROL, J.] and sent it for post-mortem, which was conducted by PW 4. This A Investigating Officer only conducted the spot search. His role ends here. 15. Thereafter, PW 12 (the 2nd Investigating Officer) based on certain inputs (not disclosed), arrested the appellant from his workplace on 13.6.2010 and searched his house in the presence of two independent witnesses, namely, PW 5 and Piyush Ramesh Kumar Jain (not examined). B The search resulted in recovery of certain incriminating articles vide memo Ext.35. The appellant was in no manner associated with such a search. 16. Thereafter, further investigation was entrusted to PW 13 - the Deputy Commissioner of Police (the third Investigating Officer), who, C on the basis of disclosure statement of the appellant, conducted the search at two places, including the house of the appellant previously searched on 13.6.2010. Such searches were conducted on 16th and 17th of June, 2010, leading to the recovery of certain incriminating articles linking the appellant to the crime, which stood established in DNA reports (Ext.85 & 86) prepared by the forensic experts through scientific analysis. The D Investigating Officer found tell-tale signs of the appellant in the shape of stains of his semen, on the vaginal smear slide of the prosecutrix and blood stains of the prosecutrix on the banian (vest) of the appellant, linking the appellant to the crime. As such, on completion of the investigation, a challan was presented in the Court for trial. E 17. In the aforesaid backdrop, we now proceed to examine the testimonies of the witnesses as categorized above. 18. On oath, PW 1, (father of the prosecutrix) categorically admits that he had not expressed any doubt on any person for having caused the death of his daughter.