[2023] 9 S.C.R. 1199 : 2023 INSC 656 1199 EX SEPOY MADAN PRASAD A v. UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No. 246 of 2017) JULY 28, 2023 B [HIMA KOHLI AND RAJESH BINDAL, JJ.] Army Act, 1950 – s.39 (b) – Dismissal from service – Overstaying the leave – Appellant was enrolled in the Army service Corps as a Mechanical Transport Driver – Initially leave for 39 C days granted to appellant – Further extension of leave was also granted on compassionate grounds – However, further request for extension of leave was rejected – Appellant failed to join – Court of Inquiry conducted – Appellant was declared deserter – Appellant finally surrendered after 108 days – Charges were framed – Appellant was held guilty and awarded punishment of dismissal from D service – Appeal preferred was dismissed – Writ petition filed before the High Court, subsequently transferred to AFT was also dismissed – On appeal, held: Appellant had made a habit of remaining absent without leave even on earlier occasions – Earlier, punishments for overstayal of leave were also imposed – This was his sixth infraction E for the very same offence – Gross indiscipline on the part of the appellant who was a member of the Armed Forces could not be countenanced – He remained out of line far too often for seeking condonation of his absence of leave, this time, for a prolonged period of 108 days which if accepted, would have sent a wrong signal to others in service – No infirmity found in the impugned F passed by the AFT – Appellant deserves no leniency – Impugned upheld – Service Law. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD : 1. The appellant did not place any document on G record by way of the treatment summary or medical certificate of his wife to demonstrate that she was seriously ill and required his presence for constant treatment. Instead, a bald statement was made by him during the Summary of Evidence to the effect that he had remained absent without leave on account of his wife’s ill health. Moreover, the appellant failed to cross-examine any of H 1199 1200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the prosecution witnesses produced by the respondents during the Summary of Evidence conducted on 12th July, 1999. Further, the appellant pleaded guilty to the charge levelled against him of having failed to rejoin duty on expiry of the leave granted to him from 8th November, 1998 to 15th January, 1999. [Para 8][1204- E-G] B 3. Appellant had made a habit of remaining absent without leave even on earlier occasions. It is apparent from the table that the appellant was a habitual offender. Such gross indiscipline on the part of the appellant who was a member of the Armed Forces could not be countenanced. He remained out of line far C too often for seeking condonation of his absence of leave, this time, for a prolonged period of 108 days which if accepted, would have sent a wrong signal to others in service.