If the shares are issued in the larger interest of the Company, the decision to issue E shares cannot be struck down on the ground that it has incidentally benefited the Directors in their capacity as shareholders. We must, therefore, reject Shri Seervai’s argument that in the instant case, the Board of Directors abused its fiduciary power in deciding upon the issue of rights shares.” F (Emphasis supplied) 27. While on the said decision, we find it apposite that bearing in mind the complaint of Shri Nitin Rai, learned Senior Counsel that the shares were not got valued and they were issued without a premium that we notice the following statement: G “120. Finally, it is also not true to say, as a statement of law, that Directors have no power to issue shares at par, if their market price is above par. These are primarily matters of policy for the Directors to decide in the exercise of their discretion and no hard and fast rule can be laid down to fetter that discretion. As observed H 266 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A by Lord Davey in Hilder v. Dexter [(1902) AC 474, 480: 71 LJ Ch 781 : 87 LT 311 : 18 TLR 800] : “I am not aware of any law which obliges a company to issue its shares above par because they are saleable at a premium in the market. It depends on the circumstances of each case whether it will be prudent or even possible to do so, and it is a question for the directors to decide.” B What is necessary to bear in mind is that such discretionary powers in company administration are in the nature of fiduciary powers and must, for that reason, be exercised in good faith. Mala fides vitiate the exercise of such discretion. We may mention that in the past, whenever the need for additional capital was felt, or for C other reasons, NIIL issued shares to its members at par.” 28. Quite apart from the fact that, as noticed by us earlier that Shri Nitin Rai had stated fairly that this point was not urged as such, the aforesaid statement of the law, assures the Court that there may be no merit in the said contention as well, in the facts. D 29. Next, we may notice the of this Court in Dale& Carrington Invt. (P) Ltd. (supra). The said case has been referred to by the NCLAT as also the learned Counsel for the respondents. This Court has proceeded to take the view that Directors of a private limited company are to be tested on a much finer scale in to rule out E misuse of power.The Court held: “11. … It follows that in the matter of issue of additional shares, the Directors owe a fiduciary duty to issue shares for a proper purpose. This duty is owed by them to the shareholders of the company. Therefore, even though Section 81 of the Companies Act, 1956 which contains certain requirements in the matter of F issue of further share capital by a company does not apply to private limited companies, the Directors in a private limited company are expected to make a disclosure to the shareholders of such a company when further shares are being issued.