Having thus noted the relevant provisions in the Constitution, the Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code and the DSPE Act, F we wish to deal with the questions referred for our consideration in seriatim. The first question framed for the consideration of the Constitution Bench reads as under : (V. Sriharan case [Union of India v. V. Sriharan, (2014) 11 SCC 1 : (2014) 3 SCC (Cri) 1] , SCC p. 19, para 52) G “52.1. Whether imprisonment for life in terms of Section 53 read with Section 45 of the Penal Code meant imprisonment for rest of the life of the prisoner or a convict undergoing life imprisonment has a right to claim remission and whether as per the principles enunciated in paras 91 H 676 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A to 93 of Swamy Shraddananda (2) [Swamy Shraddananda (2) v. State of Karnataka, (2008) 13 SCC 767 : (2009) 3 SCC (Cri) 113], a special category of sentence may be made for the very few cases where the death penalty might be substituted by the punishment of imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term in excess of fourteen years and to B put that category beyond application of remission?” 10. While answering the question, the Constitution Bench (majority view) held that imprisonment for life in terms of Section 53 read with Section 45 of the IPC means imprisonment for the rest of the life of the convict. In such a case, right to claim remission, commutation etc. in C accordance with law will always be available. Thereafter, in paragraph 105, the Constitution Bench held thus: “105. We, therefore, reiterate that the power derived from the Penal Code for any modified punishment within the punishment provided for in the Penal Code for such D specified offences can only be exercised by the High Court and in the event of further appeal only by the Supreme Court and not by any other court in this country. To put it differently, the power to impose a modified punishment providing for any specific term of incarceration or till the end of the convict’s life as E an alternate to death penalty, can be exercised only by the High Court and the Supreme Court and not by any other inferior court.” (emphasis added) 11. What is held by the Constitution Bench, cannot be construed in a narrow perspective. The Constitution Bench has held that there is a F power which can be derived from the IPC to impose a fixed term sentence or modified punishment which can only be exercised by the High Court or in the event of any further appeal, by the Supreme Court and not by any other Court in this country. In addition, the Constitution Bench held that power to impose a modified punishment of providing any specific term of incarceration or till the end of convict’s life as an G alternative to death penalty, can be exercised only by the High Court and the Supreme Court and not by any other inferior Court.