This is unconscionable. No civilised society would expect or require or steal someone’s property for their betterment and the Rule of Equality requires the beneficiary to share the costs. Appellants rely on Rustom Cavasjee Cooper (Banks Nationalisation) v. Union of India3, Nagpur Improvement Trust and E another v. Vithal Rao and others4, K.T. Plantation Private Limited and another v. State of Karnataka5. The appellant would pray that the Rule be declared null and void and it be declared that the ownership of the OSR lands revert back to the appellants. SUBMISSIONS OF MS. V. MOHANA, SENIOR F ADVOCATE ON BEHALF OF THE WRIT PETITOINER IN WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 591 OF 2015. 19. The objections to the challenge to the Regulation on the ground that the Rule/Regulation had continued on the Rule Book for long, cannot, by itself, be a ground to repel the challenge. [See ShayaraBano v. Union of India and others6 and Indian Young Lawyers Association G (Sabarimala Temple-IN RE) v. State of Kerala and others7]. Doctrine 3 (1970) 1 SCC 248 4 (1973) 1 SCC 500 5 (2011) 9 SCC 1 6 (2017) 9 SCC 1 H 7 (2019) 11 SCC 1 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1047 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] of Laches and Delay cannot become a constitutional limitation on court’s A power. Expropriation of property can only be done by plenary legislation, i.e., by Parliament or by State Legislature. Rule, made under the Rule- making power cannot empower the deprivation of any substantive right, which include property. An expropriatory law must, at any rate, be construed strictly and must not be brought to life in the absence of specific B express provisions [See Nareshbhai Bhagubhai and others v. Union of India and others8]. The State is blowing hot and cold in regard to power to make Regulations. Reference is made to Sections 47 and 55 to contend that the bar on compensation will not apply in case of deprivation of property. Neither the provisions of the master plan nor provision relating to control of development, authorised deprivation of property without C payment of compensation. The present is a case of no compensation and not nil compensation. The decision in K.T. Plantations Limited v. State of Karnataka9, is relied upon. The laudable object cannot legitimise the violation of the Fundamental Right or Constitutional Guarantee. It is pointed out that in Ground-K of the Writ Petition, it is contented that D arbitrary restrictions on the petitioner to use his property through Executive action, attracted Article 14. It is further pointed out that Fundamental Right violation is projected in Grounds-L, M and N. Equally, Article 300A and Article 14 forms the subject matter of Grounds-C, D, E, F, G, H, I and J, it is submitted. It is contended that the repeal of the Regulation, which is impugned, by the Rules of 2019, would not save the Regulation E from the vice of invalidity. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in Behram Khurshid Pesikaka v. State of Bombay10.