39 Written Submissions on Behalf of Mr. Kapil Sibal. 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the procedure specifi ed under Article 368, followed by its extension to the State of Jammu and Kashmir by Article 370(1)(d). After the enactment of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and the consequent cessation of the Constituent Assembly of the State, Article 370(1) alone survives since the only mechanism of its repeal i.e. Article 370(3) could not be resorted to, without the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly. As such, the dual constitutional arrangement between the State and the Union attained fi nality. 40 28. Contrary to the position taken by the senior counsel for certain Petitioners that Articles 370(1) and 370 (3) are permanent facets of the Constitution of India, after the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly, Mr Dinesh Dwivedi, senior counsel argues that Article 370 was a temporary provision. The interim arrangement in the form of Article 370 ceased to operate after the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was enacted. Article 370 ceased to be a source of power for the President, as was originally intended.41 Mr Dinesh Dwivedi disagreed with the proposition that since the Constituent Assembly chose to not recommend the abrogation of Article 370, Article 370(3) would continue to operate after the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly.42 He challenges the impugned actions on the ground that any power under Article 370 could no longer be exercised. A temporary provision could not be made a permanent source of power to bring about the impugned Constitutional s or the Reorganisation Act. After January 1957, no provisions of the Constitution of India could be applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir could not be repealed, being entirely independent from the Constitution of India.43 29. Unlike the other States, the State of Jammu and Kashmir retained a part of the sovereignty even while acceding to the Dominion of India: a. There was no merger agreement between the Dominion of India and the State of Jammu and Kashmir, unlike other states. The terms of their relationship were defi ned in the Instrument of Accession44 whereby though certain matters were acceded to the Union; residual 40 Written Submissions Of Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, Senior Counsel. 41 Written Submissions By Shri Dinesh Dwivedi, Senior Advocate. 42 Written Submissions By Shri Dinesh Dwivedi, Senior Advocate. 43 Written Submissions By Shri Dinesh Dwivedi, Senior Advocate. 44 “IoA” IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 37 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] sovereignty was retained by the Maharaja in accordance with Clause 8 of the Instrument. This position – that the residual sovereignty vested with the Maharaja was affi rmed by this Court as well45; b. The very recognition of a separate Constituent Assembly for a state by the Constitution of India indicates that the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir which was the creation of a sovereign body, represented the sovereignty of the state of Jammu and Kashmir. Once the Constituent Assembly ceased to exist, the sovereignty was transferred to the Constitution.