After the court undertakes this exercise, it would be futile for the head of the department to again decide if the disclosure would be injurious to public interest; (iii) The burden of establishing the claim for immunity is on the C person making the claim; (iv) When a claim of public interest immunity is made, the court must on a perusal of the affidavit filed by the Minister or the head of the department decide if the disclosure would be injurious to public interest. The Court may inspect the D document if it doubts the claim of the State and is unable to satisfy itself on a perusal of the affidavit. This power of inspection of the Court is not excluded by the operation of Section 162 of the Evidence Act; (v) Protection from disclosure must not be granted to documents E merely because disclosure would lead to political criticism. The right to access information cannot be limited due to fear of criticism of actions of the government in a democratic society premised on open government; (vi) Disclosure cannot be denied per se merely because the documents belong to a noxious ‘class’. The court must still F conduct a balancing exercise. Class immunity ‘is not absolute or inviolable’. It is not a rule of law to be applied mechanically in all cases; (vii) The court must determine if: (a) the disclosure of the document would in effect be against public interest (the G effect test), and (b) if so, whether the public interest in disclosure is ‘so strong’ that it must prevail over the public interest in the administration of justice (the balancing test); and H 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (viii) While undertaking the balancing test, the Court should consider the following lines of enquiry: (a) On facts: Whether the non-disclosure would injure the interest of the party of the case. Injury due to non-disclosure must be determined on the basis of B the nature of the proceedings in which the disclosure is sought, the relevance of the document, the degree of likelihood that the document will be of importance to the litigation, and whether allowing the claim of non-disclosure would render the issue non-justiciable; and C (b) On principle: Whether non-disclosure would affect a constitutional principle other than administration of justice. 121. We think that it is important to refer to the approach of courts across jurisdictions towards balancing the different conceptions of public D interest in the context of public interest immunity claims. This is necessary because the law on public interest immunity that was developed in India in SP Gupta (supra) heavily relied on the jurisprudence emanating from other common law countries. In fact, Chief Justice Ray records in paragraph 41 of the Constitution Bench in Raj Narain (supra) E that the foundation of the law behind Section 123 and Section 162 of the Evidence Act is the same as in English law. H. 2 United Kingdom 122. The account of this subject in the United Kingdom began with the decision of the House of Lords in Duncan v. Cammell Laird94.