However, if the offence committed as alleged is against F the Government of a foreign country, the Court shall not take cognizance without the previous sanction of the Central Government. It is pertinent to mention here that for the offence enumerated under Chapters IV and VI resply, only the Central or State Government, as the case may be, are authorised to grant sanction. G 36. We must read Section 45 of the UAPA referred to above along with the Rules 3 and 4 respectively of the 2008 Rules. We quote Rules 3 and 4 respectively as under: “3. Time limit for making a recommendation by the Authority .—The Authority shall, under sub-section (2) of H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 29 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] section 45 of the Act, make its report containing the A recommendations to the Central Government or, as the case may be, the State Government within seven working days of the receipt of the evidence gathered by the investigating officer under the Code. 4. Time limit for sanction of prosecution .—The Central B Government or, as the case may be, the State Government shall, under sub-section (2) of section 45 of the Act, take a decision regarding sanction for prosecution within seven working days after receipt of the recommendations of the Authority.” C 37. The Rules 2008 referred to above, would indicate that the authority shall, under sub section (2) of Section 45 of the UAPA make its report containing the recommendations to the Central Government (or as the case may be, the State Government) within 7 working days of the receipt of the evidence gathered by the investigating officer under D the CrPC. The Central Government (or as the case may be, the State Government) is obliged under sub section (2) of Section 45 of the UAPA to take a decision regarding sanction for prosecution within 7 working days after receipt of the recommendations of the authority. 38. In the aforesaid context, our attention was drawn by the learned E counsel appearing for the appellants to the speech of the Hon’ble Home Minister while moving the draft Bills in the Rajya Sabha and in his speech, the Hon’ble Home Minister clearly stated as under: “Finally, Sir, we have incorporated a very salutary provision. To the best of our knowledge-I don’t know, I may be corrected by the Law Minister or the Law Secretary later - it is the first F time we are introducing this. In a prosecution under the UAPA, now, it is the executive Government which registers the case through a police officer. It is the executive Government which investigates the case through an investigating agency, namely, the police department. It is the executive Govt. which sanctions G U/s.45. Therefore, there is a fear that a vindictive or a wrong executive Govt. could register a case, investigate and sanction prosecution. There is a fear. May be, it is not a fear that is entirely justified but you cannot say that it is entirely unjustified.