7.11. That the writ petitions filed challenging the selection process E were not maintainable, the same being defective as all the appointees were not impleaded as parties. 7.12. Specific submissions were made by learned Senior Counsel Mr. Patwalia as regards the selection of Mr. Pankaj Malhotra, Mr. Ashish Gupta and Ms. Rumeesa Mohammad. It was submitted that that there F is no discrepancy in the selection of the aforesaid three individuals as doubted by the High Court as all three individuals comfortably find a place in the Select List even if no weightage for the M. Pharma degree is added to their score. As to the alleged discrepancies in the selection of the aforesaid three individuals as pointed out by the Writ Court, the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioners submitted as under: G i) Rumeesa Mohammad: That her M. Pharma degree was not given weightage at the time of her selection as grades were allotted to her by her University for the said degree and the formula for conversion of such grades into percentage was not known. That even without such H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 741 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] weightage, she was selected at rank 17. Subsequently, she A made a representation to the Board along with the conversion formula, pursuant to which weightage was given to her M. Pharma degree vide dated 30th November, 2010, revising her rank from 17 to 4. ii) Ashish Gupta: That the final award roll records a remark B that his M. Pharma degree was from Baba Mast Nath University and Vanika Mission. The Committee had his degree but it required a clarification about the institute that issued the degree as Baba Mast Nath University was derecognized and he was shifted to Vinayaka Mission under C Court s. It was submitted that he got his degree from Vinayaka Mission and even if no weightage was given to his M. Pharma degree, his rank in the Select List would shift from 14 to 29 whereas the cutoff rank was 42. iii) Pankaj Malhotra: It was submitted that he could not enclose D his marksheet along with his application as he had obtained the final marksheet only after submitting his application, however, he produced his final marksheet for the M. Pharma course at the time of the interview. He could not produce the original degree as it had not been issued by then, although he had passed the course. Thus, he had “acquired” the E qualification of M. Pharma at the time of the interview. That even if no weightage was given to his M. Pharma degree, his rank in the Select List would shift from 2 to 14 and the cutoff rank was 42. 8. Sri Sanjay Hegde, learned Senior Counsel for the appellants in F Diary No. 1194 of 2022, i.e., persons who were appointed as drug inspectors in the Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe and residents of the Actual Line of Control (A.L.C.)