The second change that has been brought is that such extension in service does not exceed two years or the period provided in the respective Act or rules made thereunder, under which their appointments are made. G 98. Since we have already held that the amendment to clause (d) of Section 25 of the CVC Act and to sub-section (1) of Section 4B of the DSPE Act is not unconstitutional, we see no reason to hold that the amendment to Fundamental Rules, 1922 is impermissible in law. Consequently, we are of the considered view that the challenge to validity H 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A of Central Vigilance Commission (Amendment) Act, 2021, the Delhi Special Police Establishment (Amendment) Act, 2021, and the Fundamental (Amendment) Rules, 2021 fails and the writ petitions at the behest of the petitioners to that extent are liable to be rejected. 99. That leaves us with the next question, as to whether the B impugned s dated 17th November, 2021 and 17th November 2022, which grant extension for a period of one year each, are valid in law or not. 100. In the case of Common Cause (2021), what was under challenge was the dated 13th November 2020, vide which the President of India had approved the modification of the dated 19th C November 2018, by amending the period of appointment from two years to three years. As such, in effect, what was under challenged was one year’s extension granted to the tenure of the second respondent. It was sought to be urged before this Court that it was not permissible for the Government to extend the period of tenure beyond two years. In D paragraph 15, this Court posed the following question for consideration: “The question that remains to be answered is whether there can be extension of tenure of a person who has been appointed as a Director of Enforcement for a period of two years and who has attained the age of superannuation in the interregnum i.e. before E the expiry of two years.” 101. In paragraph 20, this Court observed thus: “20. We have already held that Section 25(f) of the CVC Act has to be read as the tenure of office of the Director of Enforcement is for a minimum period of two years. There is no proscription on F the Government to appoint a Director of Enforcement beyond a period of two years. The reasons for fixing the tenure for a minimum period of two years have been discussed in the earlier paragraphs. We are not in agreement with the submissions made by the learned Senior Counsel for the Petitioner that extension of tenure for officers above the rank of Deputy Director of G Enforcement provided in sub-Section (f) of Section 25 has to be read as a bar on the power of the Government to extend tenure of the Director of Enforcement. As the tenure of appointment of Director of Enforcement is not a maximum period of two years, a person can be appointed as Director of Enforcement for a period H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS.