14. Aggrieved by the said dated 16.08.1983 of the G Commissioner, the Respondents filed a revision before the Board of Revenue, which was heard by a Single Member who vide its dated 22.01.1993 (hereinafter, ‘Single Member’s ’) set aside the Expunction . The Single Member’s noted that the Expunction was not passed under the Government Grants Act of 1895 but H 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A under the applicable land revenue laws, making it susceptible to revisionary jurisdiction. It furthermore noted that no enquiry report was ever obtained nor was any opportunity given to Respondents for being heard while passing the Expunction . 15. Against the Single Member’s , the District Magistrate B of Nainital wrote a letter to the Board of Revenue seeking permission to challenge the same through a writ petition and during the interregnum, the State filed a writ petition in 1996 against the Single Member’s (hereinafter, ‘First Writ Petition’). Meanwhile, the Board of Revenue acted on the abovementioned letter addressed by the District Magistrate of Nainital and constituted a Three Member Bench to scrutinise the C Single Member’s . 16. The Three Member Bench in turn vide its dated 20.12.1996 (hereinafter, ‘Three Member Bench’s ’) held that Single Member’s was without any jurisdiction as no power for revision existed under the land revenue laws and also noted that the D Expunction was passed under the Government Grants Act of 1895. It furthermore noted that the Collector had rightly issued the Expunction as the Respondents illegally obtained revenue entries in their favour in collusion with revenue officials after the expiry of the initial lease period of thirty years. Hence, it observed that the Suit Land E stood automatically resumed in favour of the State after the expiry of the lease period, and no notice was required to be given to the Respondents at the time of passing the Expunction . Against this Three Member Bench’s , Respondents filed a writ petition in 1997 (hereinafter, ‘Second Writ Petition’). 17. Afterwards, a review petition was filed before the Single F Member of the Board of Revenue in view of the observations in the Three Member Bench’s . Accordingly, the Single Member on 03.03.1997 directed that the review petition be placed before the same bench that rendered the Three Member Bench’s . In turn, the said bench on 18.12.1997 is said to have passed an stating that Three G Member Bench’s did not alter the Single Member’s and directed that the review should be filed before the Single Member only. Though, it is stated by the Respondents that no such review proceedings took place as none of the parties pursued it any further and instead the matter was kept pending in the writ proceedings as noted above. However, it has come on record that a review was indeed filed by the Appellants, H STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 953 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] which was directed to be heard urgently and later on was transferred to A the revenue court of Additional Chief Revenue Commissioner, Nainital after the formation of State of Uttarakhand.