Limited v. Shailesh S. Shah (2019) SCC D OnLine Bom 563 – referred to. Heyman v. Darwins Limited (1942) AC 356 HL – referred to. per C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J. (concurring) 1. Receiving the very ‘instrument’ which is carrying the E arbitration agreement or containing an arbitration clause from the party who asserts its existence is essentially an act of receiving the evidence, in that limited sense. Therefore, how can the Court, which is having authority and competence to receive evidence, for the purpose of invoking the power under Section 11 (6), abstain F from proceeding further in terms of Section 33 if it appears to it that such instrument produced before it, though required to be stamped, is unstamped or is not duly stamped. In terms of the mandate under Sub-section (2) of Section 33, for that purpose, the Section 11 Judge who received evidence shall ‘examine’ the instrument so chargeable and so produced in to ascertain G whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law in force in India, when such instrument was executed or first executed. Proviso (b), would only permit a Judge of the High Court for delegation of the duty of examining and impounding any such instrument to such officer as the Court may H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 291 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. appoint in that behalf. Thus, it only gives discretion to a Judge of A the High Court to delegate the duty of examining and impounding any such instrument in the manner mentioned under the said proviso if he chooses not to proceed in the manner provided for impounding the instrument in accordance with the relevant provision, by himself. When that be the provision under Section B 33 (1) and (2), a conjoint reading of which obviously makes it mandatory for the Court exercising the power under Section 11 (6) to proceed in terms of the mandate under Section 33 when the circumstances legally invites its invocation. A contra view, would render Sub-section (2) of Section 33 and proviso (b) redundant and would defeat the very soul of the provisions as C relates their application in respect of application filed under Section 11(6) of the Act. [Para 5][379-C-H] 2. What is permissible to be produced as secondary evidence i.e., other than the original document in terms of Section 2(a) of the scheme framed under Section 11(10) of the Act, is D nothing but certified copy. But such a certified copy, would not be available to be proceeded with under Section 33 of the Stamp Act if it is unstamped or insufficiently stamped. In such circumstances, such certified copy shall not be acted upon. [Para 18][384-C-D] E SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd. and another (2005) 8 SCC 618 : [2005] 4 Suppl. SCR 688 – followed. Mt. Bittan Bibi & Anr. v. Kuntu Lal & Anr. ILR [1952] 2 All 984 – referred to. per AJAY RASTOGI, J.