A proposal, when accepted, becomes a promise;” 13 Section 2(d), Indian Contract Act 1872 reads: “(d) When, at the desire of the promisor, the promisee or any other person has done or abstained from doing, or does or abstains from doing, or promises to do or to abstain from doing, something, such act or abstinence or promise is called a consideration for the promise;” 14 Section 9, Indian Contract Act 1872 reads: “9. Promises, express and implied.—In so far as the proposal or acceptance of any promise is made in words, the promise is said to be express. In so far as such proposal or acceptance is made otherwise than in words, the promise is said to be implied.” 15 Section 10, Indian Contract Act 1872 reads: “10. What agreements are contracts. —All agreements are contracts if they are made by the free consent of parties competent to contract, for a lawful consideration and with a lawful object, and are not hereby expressly declared to be void.” 16 Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation, (2021) 2 SCC 1, para 24 [2020 INSC COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 721 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] 9. Arbitration Agreement must be in writing, as against an oral agreement. However, it need not be signed document: India has adopted the UNCITRAL model17 which lays emphasis on the substance of an agreement, rather than its form, to determine the existence of the agreement to arbitrate. Sub-Section (2) of Section 7 incorporates this principle and recognises an agreement, either in the form of an arbitration clause in the contract or in the form of a separate agreement. 10. Section 7(3) mandates that an arbitration agreement shall be in writing, meaning that the arbitration agreement must be in express terms. Subsequently, Section 7(4) declares that an arbitration agreement “is in writing” if it is contained in: (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) exchange of correspondence that provides the record of the agreement; and (c) admission in the proceedings, i.e., the statement of claim and defence. It is evident from the deliberate language of Section 7 that the arbitration agreement must be in a written form, in contradistinction to an oral agreement, and at the same time, that it is not necessary for it to be signed by the parties.18 A signed document containing the arbitration agreement is only one of the written forms, where the signature of the party is absolute proof for the existence and privity of the contract. 11. Section 7 therefore comprehensively defi nes what an arbitration agreement is and also from where it is to be identifi ed. The referral court under Sections 8, 11 or 45 of the Act, or the arbitral tribunal, is the forum that identifi es and deciphers the existence of an arbitration agreement and its parties. The real question, however, is how must the court or tribunal make this determination, particularly when a non-signatory seeks to initiate arbitration, or is sought to be made party by a signatory.