The annual payments of licence fee as also the entry fee relate to a singular purpose, i.e., the acquisition of the right to carry on the business of rendering telecommunication services. This right being in the nature of a capital asset, any payment(s) made towards the acquisition of the right, whether in lump-sum or in annual instalments dependent on the AGR, would be in the nature of capital disbursement(s). Where the periodic payments are referrable to or have a nexus with the original obligation undertaken by the assessee as consideration for acquisition of a right, the periodic payments would be in the nature of capital expenditure, notwithstanding the fact that they are payable as a percentage of profi ts, gross revenue or sales. In the present case, since the entry fee as well as variable licence fees are traceable to the same source, they would both have to be held to be capital in nature, notwithstanding the fact that the variable licence fee is paid in a staggered manner. [Paras 22, 22.1, 22.2, 23.3, 23.4 and 24] 2. The payment of entry fee as well as the variable annual licence fee paid by the respondents-assessees to the DoT under the Policy of 1999 are capital in nature and may be amortised in accordance with Section 35ABB of the Act. The High Court of Delhi was not right in apportioning the expenditure incurred towards establishing, operating and maintaining telecom services, as partly revenue and partly capital by dividing the licence fee into two periods, that is, before and after 31 July, 1999 and accordingly holding that the licence fee paid or payable for the period upto 31 July, 1999 C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 373 i.e. the date set out in the Policy of 1999 should be treated as capital and the balance amount payable on or after the said date should be treated as revenue. The nature of payment being for the same purpose cannot have a diff erent characterisation merely because of the change in the manner or measure of payment or for that matter the payment being made on annual basis. In the ultimate analysis, the nomenclature and the manner of payment is irrelevant. The payment post 31 July, 1999 is a continuation of the payment pre 31 July, 1999 albeit in an altered format which does not take away the essence of the payment. It is a mandatory payment traceable to the foundational document i.e., the license agreement as modifi ed post migration to the 1999 policy. Consequence of non-payment would result in ouster of the licensee from the trade. Thus, this is a payment which is intrinsic to the existence of the licence as well as trade itself. Such a payment has to be treated or characterized as capital only. [Paras 26 and 27] Tax / Taxation: Expenditure – Whether a given expenditure is capital or revenue in nature – Determination of – Principles and Tests – Considerations which are immaterial in determining the question – Discussed.