4. The city of Mumbai has a maximum number of recorded slums in the country and as per the 2011 census, 42 percent of its population stays in slums. Very little attention was paid to the slum dwellers in their initial period during the late 19th century and early 20th century, during colonial Rule. After the 1896 bubonic plague the Government recognised the need for improvement in the housing and sanitary conditions, in the city. This resulted in the formation of Bombay Improvement Trust (for short ‘BIT’) in 1898, and later Bombay Development Department (for short ‘BDD’) in the year 1920. BDD in particular, inter alia, had a mandate to construct low-cost houses for the workers who were manning the factories and the mills in the city; and for the workers in ports and railway station as well. All the same, not much was done by these bodies as far as improvement of living conditions of the workers in these areas or for providing them with a decent housing or sanitary conditions. 5. With independence, initially the approach of the authorities towards slums was also largely focused on clearing the slum areas, rather than improving their conditions. The Slum Areas (Improvement and Clearance) Act, 1956 was enacted by the Parliament for declaring the areas as slum area, and clearing it. The competent authority could declare an area as a slum area and would thereafter pass demolition or clearance s. There was no purposeful welfare, socially sensitive, provision in the Act for redevelopment of the area after its clearance and this was left to the satisfaction of the competent authority, which may redevelop an area, subject to his or her satisfaction (see Section 11 of the Act). 6. This approach of the executive and the legislature subsequently changed with the concept of welfare state taking hold and the growth of awareness of the inhabitants towards their rights under the Constitution. The Maharashtra Slum Areas (Improvement, Clearance and Redevelopment) Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as ‘1971 Act’) was enacted which had 728 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. provisions for redevelopment of area and other benefi ts for the inhabitants. In 1971 Act the purpose of the Act was “improvement and clearance of slums areas in the State and for their redevelopment and for the protection or occupiers from eviction, distress and warrants; and for matters enacted with the purposes aforesaid; …………………”. The main authorities in the 1971 Act are the competent authority to be appointed under Section 3 of the Act and more importantly the Slum Rehabilitation Authority for implementing slum rehabilitation scheme. The Slum Rehabilitation Authority or SRA is a creature of the statute of “1971 Act” and as a body corporate consisting of following: “3-A……………. (1)…………….. (2) Every Slum Rehabilitation Authority shall consist of a Chairman, a Chief Executive Offi cer and fourteen other members, all of whom shall be appointed by the State Government.” Slum areas are defi ned under Section 2(ga) of the 1971 Act as follows: “Slum area means any area declared as such by the Competent Authority under sub-section (1) of Section 4 [and includes any area deemed to be a slum area under Section 4-A” Section 4 and 4A of the 1971 Act is regarding declaration of slum areas, which are as follows: “4.