The award also gave reasons for such finding. Even if it be assumed that another view is possible, it cannot be said that the Arbitral Tribunal has taken such a view which no fair- F minded and reasonable person could have ever taken. 31. The High Court has again justified its interference in this item in the following terms: - “148. According to us, the impugned Award on the aspect of netting out is again vitiated by perversity and patent illegality. The G note dated 13/8/2014, as well as the communication dated 18/9/ 2014 on its plain terms, refers only to the determination of a rate of Rs. 3.78 P. KWh. for applying the contractual provisions concerning netting. This note or this communication was necessitated because for the relevant proximate billing period there H 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A were no supplies made by the Respondent to the Appellant and therefore there was no ready rate available based on which the contractual provisions could be worked for netting out. Therefore, the Appellant determined the rate of Rs. 3.78 P. KWh. as the base rate for purposes of netting out. There is nothing either in the noting or in the communication dated 18/9/2014 to even remotely B suggest that by determining such base rate, the parties intended to give a complete go-by to the clear and specific contractual provisions for the multiplication of this base rate into 1.25 for purposes of netting out in the eventuality of an unscheduled shut down of the power plant by the Respondent. Therefore, based on C the noting and the communication dated 18/9/2014, the finding or the conclusion that the parties had agreed to do away with the clear and specific contractual provisions, is not even a plausible finding or conclusion. Such a finding or a conclusion is vitiated by perversity and patent illegality on the face of the record. The Award of an amount of Rs. 2.36 crores (approximately) to the D Respondent on this score is, therefore, liable to be set aside on the grounds of perversity and patent illegality on the face of the record.” 31.1. On this item too, the High Court has substituted its own view and has reinterpreted the documentary evidence before it for setting E aside the award. Such a substitution of view is not permissible for the Court under Section 34 of Act. There arise no question of it being permissible under Section 37 of the Act. Interest in award 32. It has been argued on behalf of the State that the High Court F ought not to have rejected its contention with regard to the interest for pre-reference period since the liability to pay interest would arise only once the amount to be paid has been determined. 32.1. In regard to the question of interest, the High Court has rightly held that the Arbitral Tribunal was justified in following the G contractual provisions and the provisions of Section 31(7) of the Act; and has rightly not interfered with the award of interest for the pre- reference period and the period during which the proceedings were pending before the Arbitral Tribunal.