[DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 40. Keeping the aforesaid principles and the relevant statutory A provisions in view, we may take up the points arising for determination in this case. Point A – Valuation: Regulations 27 and 35 41. The Appellate Tribunal has laid great emphasis on the point B that commercial wisdom of CoC was materially affected for want of existence of a valid and actual valuation report and sharing of all the relevant facts pertaining to the valuation with the members of CoC leading to violation of Regulations 27 and 35 of the CIRP Regulations. We are unable to agree. C 41.1.It has rightly been contended on behalf of the appellants that the members of CoC were provided with fair value and liquidation value after obtaining a confidentiality undertaking. We have reproduced hereinbefore all the material parts of the minutes of the meetings of CoC and it is at once clear that the members of CoC were fully satisfied with and endorsed the process of valuation and even re-evaluation as D undertaken by the resolution professional. Particularly, the minutes of second, fourth, sixth and seventh CoC meetings stand testimony to the fact that the requirements of Regulation were scrupulously followed and complied with and there had not been any doubt in CoC as regards the process of valuation as also supplying of fair and liquidation value to E the members of CoC. The detailed findings of the Adjudicating Authority in this regard (reproduced in paragraph 15.1.1. hereinabove) make it clear that the Adjudicating Authority independently applied its mind to the process of valuation and presentation of the matter to CoC. Rejection of all the objections in that regard by the NCLT, called for no interference. 41.2. The Appellate Tribunal appears to have unnecessarily and F rather unjustifiably presumed that there had been blatant statutory violations and irregularities. Even if certain issues were raised in some of the meetings of CoC as regards the process of valuation, the clarifications from the resolution professional and the steps taken by him for valuation and re-valuation had been to the satisfaction of CoC. It has G rightly been contended on behalf of the appellants with reference to the decision in Maharashtra Seamless (supra) that resolution plan is not required to match the liquidation value as such. 41.3. The findings of the Appellate Tribunal in regard to the question of valuation and thereby taking the resolution plan to be in contravention H 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A of Sections 30(2) and 61(3) of the Code cannot be approved and are required to be set aside. Point B – Publication of Form G: Regulation 36-A 42. A long deal of discussion of the Appellate Tribunal had been diverted towards purported non-compliance of Regulation 36-A(2)(iii) B of the CIRP Regulations for want of publication of Form G on the designated website with the Appellate Tribunal assuming that want of compliance of mandatory requirements had been of material irregularity on the part of the resolution professional.