[PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] the medical record, the patient complained of sweating only around 09:00 p.m. on which Dr. Tyagi spoke to the patient. 28. In the matter of Bombay Hospital (supra) this Court has elaborately considered previous s on the subject to hold thus: “16.………..It was argued that the professional competence of Doctor has not been doubted even by the Commission but two factors have been taken against the Doctor for holding him negligent; fi rst, that he did not visit the patient soon after the surgery till 9/9.30 a.m. on the next day to verify the blood fl ow after the surgery, and second, he did not visit the patient from 29.4.1998 to 9.5.1998 when he was in Mumbai and from 9.5.1998 to 7.6.1998 when he went abroad for attending medical conferences. XXX 23 ……… There is no proof that there was any negligence in performing the surgery on 23.4.1998 or in the process of re-exploration on 24.4.1998. The allegation is of failure of the Doctor to take the follow-up action after surgery on 23.4.1998, a delayed decision to amputate the leg subsequent to re-exploration on 24.4.1998, and the alleged undue foreign visit of the Doctor. 29. In Martin F. D’Souza v. Mohd. Ishfaq(2009) 3 SCC 1, this court observed that the doctor cannot be held liable for medical negligence by applying the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur for the reason that a patient has not favourably responded to a treatment given by a doctor or a surgery has failed. There is a tendency to blame the doctor when a patient dies or suff ers some mishap. This is an intolerant conduct of the family members to not accept the death in such cases. The increased cases of manhandling of medical professionals who worked day and night without their comfort has been very well seen in this pandemic. This Court held as under: “40. Simply because a patient has not favourably responded to a treatment given by a doctor or a surgery has failed, the doctor cannot be held straightaway liable for medical negligence by applying the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur. No sensible professional would intentionally commit an act or omission which would 108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. result in harm or injury to the patient since the professional reputation of the professional would be at stake. A single failure may cost him dear in his lapse. ××× ××× ××× 42. When a patient dies or suff ers some mishap, there is a tendency to blame the doctor for this. Things have gone wrong and, therefore, somebody must be punished for it. However, it is well known that even the best professionals, what to say of the average professional, sometimes have failures. A lawyer cannot win every case in his professional career but surely he cannot be penalised for losing a case provided he appeared in it and made his submissions.” XXX 32. In C.P. Sreekumar (Dr.), MS (Ortho) v. S. Ramanujam[(2009) 7 SCC 130], this Court held that the Commission ought not to presume that the allegations in the complaint are inviolable truth even though they remained unsupported by any evidence.