I am ready for the B examination of my own free will. (unclear 3 line) Physical Development: Medium Teeth: Upper 15 Lower 15 Ht 5’9" Wt 68 kg C Secondary Sex Characters Male: Moustache: Present Beard: Shaved D Pubic Hair: Present Voice: normal Genitals: normal Medicolegal exam: X Ray plate no R180( 4) date: 23/8/05 E (unclear medical description) Conclusion: From clinical & radiological examination the age of the patient on date 24/8/05 ‘more than twenty two years but less than forty years (40 years)’ including margin of error. F Signed in the presence of: Sd/- B G More Sd/- G Dr. M.S. Vable Prof. & Head / Assec. Prof. / Asstt. Lect. Department of Forensic Medicine, B. J. Medical College, Pune – 411001" H (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1069 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] 5.It was in the early part of 2006, we are apprised by Mr. Basant, A learned senior counsel representing the applicant, that his cause was taken up by certain human rights groups. Some public spirited individuals espousing the applicant’s cause on the point of juvenility had written to the President of India on 24th January 2006 requesting cancellation of award of death penalty on the ground that he was a juvenile at the time B of commission of the offence. A copy of the said communication, captioned “Mercy Petition”, has been annexed as A-7 to the application. The text of this petition is reproduced below: - “President’s Secretariat CA II Section C Date- 24/1/2006 Dy. No. 03-/06 M.P. Mercy Petition on behalf of a juvenile to the President Hon. Excellency D The Hon. President of India, Rashtrapati Bhavan, New Delhi To his Excellency, the President of the Republic of India E We are an organization Human Rights and Law Defenders (HRLD) working on different issues on Human Rights violations. We also work in the Yerawada Central Prison, Pune and provide free legal aid to the prisoners in peril. It is due to the extremity of the matter before us that we·take the liberty of corresponding with your Hon. Self to make you F aware that one person names Niranaram Chetanram Chaudhary, born on 1/2/1982, who has been awarded the death penalty in a murder case in languishing in the Yerawada Central Prison, Pune. Therefore, this applicant was around 13 years of age at the time of committing this offence. Your G Excellency, your office has received a mercy petition from his co-accused Jitendra Nainsingh Gehlot DY no 7/27 on 8/11/ 2004. You are indeed suitably in receipt of all the relevant case material which has been earlier sent to you office. H 1070 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A The prison authorities have also requested us that we should attract your attention to the fact that Niranaram Chetanram Chaudhary was a juvenile at the time of offence so that death penalty awarded is a mistake of the law. It should also be well noted that there are various judgement given by the High Court and the Apex Court and numerous and substantive laws B to confirm that if any person had been a juvenile at the time of committing the offence, it can be a strong ground for consideration at any stage of the case.