On the said complaint an enquiry was E made where the Sarpanch PW 11 had to tender public apology. Defence also suggested that in the night itself after the deceased was taken to the hospital, a meeting was called by the Sarpanch where the appellant was forced to confess. The said meeting has been admitted by PW-5. It was suggested that appellant in the meeting had stated that he had seen the deceased tripping and F falling on the sharp object resulting into the injury which proved fatal. It is possible that on account of the influence of the Sarpanch that the appellant has been falsely implicated. The defence also elicited during cross- examination of PW 6 that the weapon of assault recovered and produced before him could not have caused G the injury in view of the size of the weapon of assault and the size of the injury which had no match. The defence also suggested that in fact the deceased was heavily drunk and had fallen on a sharp-edged object because of which he had received the injury. This appears probable for two reasons: firstly, that PW 6 had H SHATRUGHAN v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 761 stated that there was sufficient alcohol in the body of the deceased A and secondly that the weapon of assault produced by the prosecution did not match with the injury. The injury could have been caused by the deceased slipping and falling on a sharp object. [Para 34][772-D-H; 773-A-E] B 1.5 From the narration of the evidence and analysis, it is evident that the testimony of PW 1 was not reliable and could not have formed the basis of conviction. Apparently, he was influenced by Sarpanch whose active participation in the proceedings subsequent to the incident cannot be ruled out. The medical evidence did not support the prosecution case as the weapon of C assault could not have caused injury on the deceased as noticed in the post-mortem report. There was no motive as to why the appellant would commit the murder of an acquaintance and a friend for no reason. The defence version that the deceased was under the influence of alcohol and could have tripped and fallen on a D sharp object resulting into the ante-mortem injury reported in the post-mortem was quite possible. The same is clearly borne out from the record. The explanation for delayed lodging of the FIR is not satisfactory. [Para 35][773-E-H] 1.6 The appellant would be entitled to acquittal. The E conviction and sentence of the appellant are set aside. He is acquitted of all the charges. [Para 37][774-A-B] CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 437 of 2016. F From the and dated 06.04.2015 of the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur in CRLA No. 03 of 2010. Ms. Anu Gupta, Sanjay Mani Tripathi, Kamal Kant Tripathi, Suraj Kumar Singh, Advs. for the Appellant. G Sumeer Sodhi, Ms. Shreya Singh, Advs. for the Respondent. H 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A The of the Court was delivered by VIKRAM NATH, J.