On the night of 13 May 2007 at 10:00 pm, she had an attack and did not regain consciousness. I took her to Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital, where she was declared dead by the Doctor”. This witness gave statement in his cross-examination that deceased died at Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital regarding which no document was fi led. Although this witness in his cross- examination also admitted that he was told this by Balvir Singh. This witness is supporting defence, but this witness statement is contrary to BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 827 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the oral and documentary evidence in the fi le. If the accused admitted deceased to Sanjay Gandhi Memorial Hospital after she had an attack on 13.5.2007, then there are no documents regarding this in the fi le and the defence has not given any statement as to this. 23. Defence has argued that deceased Sudha died on 13.5.2007. On 13.5.2007 her last rites were performed and complainant got the case registered under· section 156(3) on 2.6.2007. Application was fi led very late and this delay has not been. explained. I am not in agreement with this argument of defence. Victim died on 13.5.2007 and it is said that on 13.5.2007 her last rites were performed, but on receiving the news of death prosecution witness immediately put forward his doubt. In inquest report it is clearly written that deceased Sudha’s death is suspicious, and postmortem should be done. In above said inquest report PW-1 is one of the witnesses, he is deceased’s father too. and was examined as PW1. During evidence witness has said that “Balvir lives in Mangolpuri at Delhi. Shivcharan was informed by neighbours that Sudha had died and they brought the dead body to Ratanpur. Next day I came to Kotdwar. I gave this information to Police station. Then Police and I came to Ratanpur. There police prepared inquest report. In inquest report I too was made a witness”. As soon as witness received this information he raised a suspicion on the incident. Police station was informed. This witness further said “I wrote a letter to Police station to investigate into her death. In this regard I made a written complaint to S.D.M., Kotdwar”. This witness further said “then, with my lawyer’s help I fi led a petition under section156(3) of Criminal Procedure Code on which court ed to register a case”. This witness on receiving information about incident immediately raised suspicion and asked for a postmortem to be carried out. On 14.5.2007 an application was written to Police station to investigate into the death of the Deceased. Police made inquest report and conducted postmortem. In this situation, defence cannot take benefi t of the fact that complaint was registered under section 156(3) of Criminal Procedure Code, because this witness had informed Police station and S.D.M. Because of this information given by him to police, police came to spot and made inquest report. 828 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 24.