8.1 In view of the above and for the reason stated above present appeals succeed. The impugned and passed by the High Court is hereby quashed and set aside and the passed by the G assessing officer, CIT(A) and the ITAT are hereby restored. Present appeals are accordingly allowed. No costs. M. M. SUNDRESH, J. 1. The present appeal is filed by the Revenue, challenging the H decision of the Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court at Jaipur, THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 101 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] drawing a distinction between a claim for deduction of a loss incurred in A an illegal business, as against a claim of a loss qua a legitimate business, though an illegality is attached to it. The aforesaid issue is to be tested on an offence committed leading to either a penalty or confiscation. 2. Heard Mr. Balbir Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General, Mr. AK Shrivastava, learned seniorcounsel for the Appellant and Mr. B Arjit Prasad, learned senior counsel for the Respondents. 3. I have gone through the well-merited rendered by my learned brother, Justice M.R. Shah. While concurring with the ultimate conclusion arrived at in overturning the decision of the High Court, I would like to give my own reasoning on the aforesaid aspect. The facts C being narrated with utmost clarity by my learned brother, only those which are required in support of the reasoning are being recorded. 4. The Director of Revenue Intelligence set out a search at the business premises of the Respondent/assessee. The recovery yielded silver slabs/silver ingots. The assessee was in the business of making D jewellery. 5. The Respondent/assessee filed his return for the Assessment Year 1989-1990 followed by a petition before the Income Tax Settlement Commission.The Collector of Customs vide dated 18.12.1990 ed confiscation of goods and imposed penalty. It was done on the E premise that the goods were smuggled by the assessee. A claim was made by the assessee that the loss on account of confiscation would be allowable as trading loss being incidental to the business, and hence, deductible. This argument was duly rejected as he was neither doing the business of smuggling, nor he owned the silver. The plea of ownership was given up by the Respondent/assessee before the High Court, and F therefore, the decision of the assessing officer in bringing the loss suffered under Section 69A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act”), has become final. 6. Before the Hight Court, the Respondent/assessee placing reliance upon the of this Court in Commissioner of Income G Tax v. Piara Singh(1980) Supp. SCC 166, inter alia contended that smuggling by itself being prohibited in law, any loss occurred thereunder is liable for deduction. The aforesaid argumentmade, found acceptance at the hands of the High Court, which is sought to be impugned by the Revenue before us. H 102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF THE INCOME TAX ACT, 1961 “2.Definitions.- In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— xxx xxx xxx B (13)”business” includes any trade, commerce or manufacture or any adventure or concern in the nature of trade, commerce or manufacture;” 7.