However, aforesaid argument is not acceptable for the following reasons: a. The Companies Act, 1956 does not contemplate a ‘statutory testament’ that stands over and above the laws of succession, b. The Companies Act, 1956 as iterated above is concerned with regulating the aff airs of corporates and is not concerned with laws of succession. c. The ‘statutory testament’ by way of nomination is not subject to the same rigours as is applicable to the formation & validity of a will under the succession laws, for instance, S. 63 of the Indian Succession Act, wherein the rules for execution of a Will are laid out. 42. Therefore, the argument by the appellants of nomination as a ‘statutory testament’ cannot be countenanced simply because the Companies Act, 1956 does not deal with succession nor does it override the laws of succession. It is beyond the scope of the company’s aff airs to facilitate succession planning of the shareholder. In case of a will, it is upon the administrator or executor under the Indian Succession Act, 1925, or in case of intestate succession, the laws of succession to determine the line of succession. CONCLUSION 43. Consistent interpretation is given by courts on the question of nomination, i.e., upon the holder’s death, the nominee would not get an absolute title to the subject matter of nomination, and those would apply to the Companies Act, 1956 (pari materia provisions in Companies Act, 2013) and the Depositories Act, 1996 as well. 44. An individual dealing with estate planning or succession laws understands nomination to take eff ect in a particular manner and expects the implication to be no diff erent for devolution of securities per se. 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Therefore, an interpretation otherwise would inevitably lead to confusion and possibly complexities, in the succession process, something that ought to be eschewed. At this stage, it would be prudent to note the signifi cance of a settled principle of law. In Shanker Raju v. Union of India, the Court held:22 “10. It is a settled principle of law that a , which has held the fi eld for a long time, should not be unsettled. The doctrine of stare decisis is expressed in the maxim stare decisis et non quieta movere, which means “to stand by decisions and not to disturb what is settled”. Lord Coke aptly described this in his classic English version as “those things which have been so often adjudged ought to rest in peace”. The underlying logic of this doctrine is to maintain consistency and avoid uncertainty. The guiding philosophy is that a view which has held the fi eld for a long time should not be disturbed only because another view is possible.” 45. The vesting of securities in favour of the nominee contemplated under S. 109A of the Companies Act 1956 (pari materia S. 72 of Companies Act, 2013) & Bye-Law 9.11.1 of Depositories Act, 1996 is for a limited purpose i.e., to ensure that there exists no confusion pertaining to legal formalities that are to be undertaken upon the death of the holder and by extension, to protect the subject matter of nomination from any protracted litigation until the legal representatives of the deceased holder are able to take appropriate steps.