The statement of the victim must be appreciated in the background of the entire case. Where the evidence of the victim inspires confi dence, as is the position in the instant case, the courts are obliged to rely on it. Such cases are required to be dealt with great sensitivity. Sympathy in such cases in favour of the superior offi cer is wholly misplaced and mercy has no relevance. The High Court overlooked the ground realities and ignored the fact that the conduct of the respondent against his junior female employee, Miss UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 539 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] X, was wholly against moral sanctions, decency and was off ensive to her modesty. Reduction of punishment in a case like this is bound to have demoralising eff ect on the women employees and is a retrograde step. There was no justifi cation for the High Court to interfere with the punishment imposed by the departmental authorities. The act of the respondent was unbecoming of good conduct and behaviour expected from a superior offi cer and undoubtedly amounted to sexual harassment of Miss X and the punishment imposed by the appellant was thus commensurate with the gravity of his objectionable behaviour and did not warrant any interference by the High Court in exercise of its power of judicial review. “29. At the conclusion of the hearing, learned counsel for the respondent submitted that the respondent was repentant of his actions and that he tenders an unqualifi ed apology and that he was willing to also go and to apologise to Miss X. We are afraid, it is too late in the day to show any sympathy to the respondent in such a case. Any lenient action in such a case is bound to have demoralising eff ect on working women. Sympathy in such cases is uncalled for and mercy is misplaced.” (Emphasis supplied) 44. Similarly, in Union of India and Others v. Mudrika Singh reported in 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1173, this Court speaking through one of us Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI., cautioned the courts from invalidating inquiries into sexual harassment on specious pleas and hyper-technical interpretations of the service rules. The relevant observations are reproduced hereunder: - “47.Before we conclude our analysis, we would also like to highlight a rising trend of invalidation of proceedings inquiring into sexual misconduct, on hyper-technical interpretations of the applicable service rules. For instance, the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition, and Redressal) Act 2013 penalizes several misconducts of a sexual nature and imposes a mandate on all public and private organizations to create adequate mechanisms for redressal. However, the existence of transformative legislation may not come to the aid of persons aggrieved of sexual harassment if the appellate mechanisms turn the process into a punishment. It is important that 540 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. courts uphold the spirit of the right against sexual harassment, which is vested in all persons as a part of their right to life and right to dignity under Article 21 of the Constitution.