The answer, in our view, is clearly in the negative and B against the assessee. Having taken all the advantages and still taking all the advantages under the contract without any hindrance or obstruction on the part of anyone including the vendor which the vendor could not do in view of Section 53-A of the Transfer of Property Act, the assessee cannot now turn back and say that C because of its default in having a deed registered at its sweet will it was not an owner within the meaning of Section 22 of the Act. It may bear repetition to say that it was on account of these facts that juristic principles have now emerged saying that one of the most important of the powers of ownership is the right to exclude others from possession and the property right is essentially a D guarantee of the exclusion of other persons from the use or handling of the thing. In that sense, therefore, the assessee itself became the owner of the property in question. In our view, any decision to the contrary would not be in consonance with the juristic principle either at common law or in equity. In either case, it would not be E subservient to the intent and purpose of Section 22 of the Act, with regard to which, as we have already stated, we can fairly look at the language used and the tax laws have to be interpreted reasonably and in consonance with justice. So far we have dealt with the case in this respect on juristic principles as if it were a matter of first impression. We have, therefore, now to refer to the F case-law on the subject.” (Emphasis supplied) Further, it is found that the Court also noticed the memorandum explaining provisions in Finance Bill 1987 concerning Section 27 and found that the amendment was intended to supply an obvious omission G or clear up the doubts surrounding the word owner in Section 22 of the Act. The Court answered the reference in favour of the Revenue by holding that “in the context of Section 22 of the Act having regard to the ground realities and to the object of the Act, namely, to tax the income of the “owner as a person who is entitled to receive income from the property H in his own right.” M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 575 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 55. In Mysore Minerals Ltd. M.G. Road, Bangalore v. A Commissioners of Income Tax, Karnataka, Bangalore16 the assessee company though allotted houses by delivery of possession by the Housing Board, an actual deed of conveyance had not been executed in its favour. The houses so allotted were for the use of its staff. Assessee claimed depreciation under Section 32 of the Act. Section 32 of the Act also B contemplates ownership of the asset as a condition for claiming the benefit of depreciation. The Court, inter alia, held as follows: “4.