As per Section 53(1)(b) the workmen’s dues for the period of twenty-four months preceding the liquidation commencement date shall rank equally between the workmen and the secured creditor in the event such secured creditor has relinquished security in the manner set out in C Section 52. Therefore, workmen’s dues for the period of twenty-four months preceding the liquidation commencement date shall have pari passu with the dues of secured creditor. At this stage, it is required to be noted that as per Section 36(4) of IBC, all sums due to any workman or employee from the provident fund, the pension fund and the gratuity fund shall not be included in the liquidation estate assets and shall not be D used for the recovery in the liquidation. Therefore, a conscious decision has been taken by the Parliament/Legislature in its wisdom to keep out of all sums due to any workman/employee from the provident fund, the pension fund and the gratuity fund from the liquidation estate assets [as per Section 36(4)] and that the workmen’s dues for the period of twenty- E four months preceding the liquidation commencement date shall rank equally between the workmen’s dues to the said extent and the dues to the secured creditor. Therefore, the same cannot be said to be arbitrary and violative of Article 21 of the Constitution of India as contended on behalf of the petitioner. As per the settled position of law, IBC is a complete Code and the object and purpose of IBC is altogether different than that F of the Act, 1956/2013. The IBC is a new insolvency mechanism, therefore, the provisions under the IBC cannot be compared with that of the earlier regime, namely, the Companies Act, 1956/2013. 6.3 At this stage, it is required to be noted that the issue with respect to the workman and the secured creditor being kept at equal G footing under Section 53 of the IBC is only in a case wherein the secured creditor has relinquished its security and the same is the part of the stage of the liquidation pool. H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 113 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] 7. Section 2711 of the Companies Act 2013, as originally enacted, A had as many as seven grounds on which a company could be wound up. Ground (a) on which the company could be wound up was when the company is unable to pay its debts. The other grounds were, when the company, by special resolution, has decided to be wound up; when the company has acted against the interests of sovereignty and integrity of B India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign State, public , decency or morality; if the Tribunal has ed winding up of the company under Chapter XIX of the Companies Act, 2013, a chapter relating to revival and rehabilitation of sick companies; if on an application made by the Registrar or any other person authorised by the Central Government by notification, the Tribunal is of the opinion that the affairs C of the company have been conducted in a fraudulent manner or the company has been formed for fraudulent and unlawful purpose, or persons concerned in formation or management of its affairs have been guilty of fraud, misfeasance, misconduct in connection therewith, which makes it proper that the company be wound up; or if the company has made D default in filing its financial statements or annual returns with the Registrar for immediately preceding five consecutive financial years; lastly, if the Tribunal is of the opinion that it is just and equitable to wind up the company.