From a resume of the above decisions the following salient principles would emerge: (1) The adjudication of the rights of the parties is the essential judicial function. Legislature has to lay down the norms of conduct or rules which will govern the parties and the transaction and require the court to give eff ect to them; (2) The Constitution has delineated delicate balance in the exercise of the sovereign power by the Legislature, Executive and Judiciary; (3) In a democracy governed by rule of law, the Legislature exercises the power under Articles 245 and 246 and other companion Articles read with the entries in the respective Lists in the Seventh Schedule to make the law which includes power to amend the law. (4) The Court, therefore, need to carefully scan the law to fi nd out: (a) whether the vice pointed out by the Court and invalidity suff ered by previous law is cured complying with the legal and constitutional 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. requirements; (b) whether the Legislature has competence to validate the law; (c) whether such validation is consistent with the rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution. (5) The Court does not have the power to validate an invalid law or to legalise impost of tax illegally made and collected or to remove the norm of invalidation or provide a remedy. These are not judicial functions but the exclusive province of the Legislature. Therefore, they are not the encroachment on judicial power. (6) In exercising legislative power, the Legislature by mere declaration, without anything more, cannot directly overrule, revise or override a judicial decision. It can render judicial decision ineff ective by enacting valid law on the topic within its legislative fi eld fundamentally altering or changing its character retrospectively. The changed or altered conditions are such that the previous decision would not have been rendered by the Court, if those conditions had existed at the time of declaring the law as invalid. It is also empowered to give eff ect to retrospective legislation with a deeming date or with eff ect from a particular date. (7) The consistent thread that runs through all the decisions of this Court is that the legislature cannot directly overrule the decision or make a direction as not binding on it but has power to make the decision ineff ective by removing the base on which the decision was rendered, consistent with the law of the Constitution and the Legislature must have competence to do the same.” In the aforesaid case, the issue that arose for consideration was as to the vires of Section 11 of the Kerala Electricity Surcharge (Levy and Collection) Act, 1989. It was observed that the said provision was valid and not an incursion on judicial power, notwithstanding the fact that the eff ect of Section 11 was to validate collection of tax made under an invalid law. iv. A Constitution Bench of this Court in State of Tamil Nadu vs. Arooran Sugars Ltd., (1997) 1 SCC 326, summarised the law on the legislative device of abrogation, to remove the basis of a judicial pronouncement in the following words: NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 37 SECRETARY & ORS.[B.