877/2014. It is submitted that in that view of the matter also, the s passed in the respective civil appeals dismissing/disposing off the same relying upon the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) are also required to be reviewed/recalled. G 4.4 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective applicants have also relied upon some of the subsequent s passed by this Court recalling similar s dismissing/disposing off the civil appeals in which the decision in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) was relied upon and the respective proceedings are ed to be restored to their original file in which the effect of the H 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A subsequent rendered by the Constitution Bench in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra) Pune Municipal Corporation (supra) is under consideration. Reliance is placed on the passed by this Court dated 15.02.2022 in Miscellaneous Application Diary No. 21678/2020. B 4.5 Shri Sanjay Poddar, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the applicants has relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Mathura Prasad Bajoo Jaiswal & Others v. Dossibai N.B. Jeejeebhoy, (1970) 1 SCC 613 in support of his submissions that as held by this Court that the decision on question of law where the law is altered since the earlier decision, the earlier decision will not operate as C res judicata. 4.6 Relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Assistant Commissioner, Income Tax, Rajkot v. Saurashtra Kutch Stock Exchange Limited, (2008) 14 SCC 171, it is submitted that as observed and held by this Court a judicial decision acts retrospectively. It is D submitted that it is further observed that if a subsequent decision alters the earlier one, the later decision does not make new law. It only discovers the correct principle of law which has to be applied retrospectively. It is submitted that it is further observed that to put it differently, even where an earlier decision of the court operated for quite some time, the decision E rendered later on would have retrospective effect clarifying the legal position which was earlier not correctly understood. 4.7 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing for the respective applicants that in the present case, in many cases, the possession of the lands in question has been handed over to the DDA/ applicants which are to be used for the public purpose. It is contended F that because of the wrong interpretation of law in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra), the acquisitions have been held to be lapsed. It is submitted that therefore in view of the subsequent decision of the Constitution Bench in the case of Indore Development Authority (supra) clarifying the law and specifically overruling the decision of this G Court rendered in the case of Pune Municipal Corporation (supra), there shall not be any lapse of acquisition under the provisions of the 2013 Act. It is submitted that if the impugned s passed in the respective Civil Appeals are not reviewed/recalled, in that case, the applicants/public authorities have to suffer and they will have to handover the possession of the lands in question back to the original landowners H GOVT.