The option of reserving a Bill for the consideration of the President is turned into a mandate where the Governor has no option but to reserve it for the consideration of the President. The second proviso is, therefore, in the nature of an exception to the option which is granted to the Governor by the substantive part of Article 200 to reserve any Bill for the consideration of the President. 22. A proviso, as is well settled, may fulfi l the purpose of being an exception. Sometimes, however, a proviso may be in the form of an explanation or in addition to the substantive provision of a statute. The fi rst proviso allows the Governor, where the Bill is not a Money Bill to send it back to the legislature together with a message. In terms of the message, the legislature may be requested by the Governor to reconsider the entirety of the Bill. This may happen for instance where the Governor believes that the entirety of the Bill suff ers from an infi rmity. Alternatively, the Governor may request the legislature to reconsider any specifi c provision of the Bill. While returning the Bill, the Governor may express the desirability of introducing an amendment in the Bill. The desirability of an amendment may arise with a view to cure an infi rmity or defi ciency in the Bill. The concluding part of the fi rst proviso however stipulates that if the Bill is passed again by the legislature either with or without amendments, the Governor shall not withhold assent therefrom upon presentation. The concluding phrase “shall not withhold assent therefrom” is a clear indicator that the exercise of the power under the fi rst proviso is relatable to the withholding of the assent by the Governor to the Bill in the fi rst instance. That is why in the concluding part, the fi rst proviso indicates that upon the passing of the Bill by the legislature either with or without amendments, the Governor shall not withhold assent. The role which is ascribed by the fi rst proviso to the Governor is recommendatory in nature and it does not bind the state legislature. 23. This is compatible with the fundamental tenet of a Parliamentary form of government where the power to enact legislation is entrusted to the elected representatives of the people. The Governor, as a guiding statesman, 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. may recommend reconsideration of the entirety of the Bill or any part thereof and even indicate the desirability of introducing amendments. However, the ultimate decision on whether or not to accept the advice of the Governor as contained in the message belongs to the legislature alone. That the message of the Governor does not bind the legislature is evident from the use of the expression “if the Bill is passed again …with or without amendments”. 24. The substantive part of Article 200 empowers the Governor to withhold assent to the Bill. In such an event, the Governor must mandatorily follow the course of action which is indicated in the fi rst proviso of communicating to the State Legislature “as soon as possible” a message warranting the reconsideration of the Bill.