14. Addressing the three reports relied on by the State – counsel appearing for the appellant pointed out that none of these three reports, recommended a ban on reinforced paper cups. In fact the IIT Report recommended the use of paper cups as an alternative to plastic cups; the Expert Committee Report specifi cally noted that the LDPE coating on the paper cups can be separated in the pulping and screening process in paper mills, which it was urged is a common practice leading to both resultant paper and LDPE that is recyclable and reusable for diff erent purposes; and that while the CIPET report elaborates on the physical characteristics of paper cups, there is no fi nding that it ‘poses a threat to the environment’ as concluded by the High Court erroneously. 15. Counsel laboured on the failure of conducting prior consultation before issuing delegated legislation. Emphasis was placed on Rule 4 of the Environment Protection Rules, 1986, as being a mandatory requirement, rather than directory in nature. Therefore, the state had to have issued a draft or proposed notifi cation, with a period of at least 15 days to make a reply to the same, followed by the issuance of a written dealing with the objections raised. Reliance was placed on this Court’s in Cellular Operators Association of India & Ors., v. TRAI12. 16. Counsel submitted that the High Court had proceeded on a misconceived notion on the ‘degradability’ of the cups. The question, however, is of ‘recyclability’ instead. That paper and LDPE coating can be separated in paper mills, is not in contention; the absence of a collection mechanism was the problem for which a total ban was a disproportionate solution. Citing Rule 6 of the Plastic Waste (Management & Handling) Rules 2016, the responsibility of creating and putting in place a collection mechanism was placed on the municipal corporations. The failure to do so, cannot impede the appellants’ right to carry out its business. Without 12 (2016) 7 SCC 703 [para 74]. TAMIL NADU AND PUDUCHERRY PAPER CUP MANUFACTURES 1141 ASSOCIATION v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] conceding their case, counsel expressed the appellants’ willingness to cooperate with the authorities to improve the collection mechanism including through a buyback scheme of used cups. 17. Lastly, counsel submitted that there is a large-scale reliance on and usage of disposable cups by the State of Tamil Nadu and its residents, and due to the ban on local production, they are being brought in from manufacturers in other states in which there is no ban of this kind. This large-scale usage was exponentially magnifi ed during and after the COVID-19 pandemic. Counsel reiterated that reinforced cups, are the only eco-friendly alternative to plastic cups, and banning manufacture of them adversely aff ects only small shopkeepers, and the MSME enterprises that are especially promoted and supported by the government through loans and other schemes. In light of these facts, it was urged that the test of the reasonable person should be applied to balance development and environment and allow manufacture, albeit with stringent safeguards.