It was in the nature of a sequitur and, thus, we do not find any reason to interfere with the same. G 25. We, however, now turn to whether the whole amount is to be refunded. The alternative argument of the learned Solicitor General was that the period of limitation, in any case, could not have been expanded in granting the refund. No doubt the issue of loss of transportation charges was flagged by IPCL in various communications exchanged inter se the H 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A parties subsequent to the signing of the contract. That, however, cannot grant a license to IPCL to approach the court as and when it considers proper. Thus, while upholding the quashing of the clauses, we are of the view that the refund should be restricted to a period of three years prior to the date of the filing of the writ petition on account of IPCL’s delay in approaching the court. Here we draw strength from judgement in Lipton B India Limited & Ors.11 case referred to aforesaid, which observed that the writ petition was entertained because of the plea of discrimination but then the relief was restricted to what would have been claimed in the suit. Conclusion: C 26. We thus dismiss the appeal(s) qua the aspect of maintainability of the writ petition and the quashing of the clauses dealing with loss of transportation charges in the case of IPCL. However, we deem it fit to restrict the relief to period of three years insofar as refund is concerned from the date of filing of the writ petition, i.e., 09.03.2006. D 27. We are also of the view that this refund should be made within a period of two months from today, failing which it will carry interest at 8 per cent per annum from the date it became due. If the refund is made within the stipulated time, we are not inclined to levy interest on the E amount due. 28. The appeals are allowed in the aforesaid terms leaving the parties to bear their own costs. F Divya Pandey Appeals partly allowed. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) G H 11(supra).