A has not yet committed the off ence. A fi res the gun at Z. He has committed the off ence defi ned in this section, and, if by such fi ring he wounds Z, he is liable to the punishment provided by the latter part of the fi rst paragraph of this section. (d) A, intending to murder Z, by poison, purchases poison and mixes the same with food which remains in A’s keeping; A has not yet committed the off ence in this section. A places the food on Z’s table or delivers it to Z’s servants to place it on Z’s table. A has committed the off ence defi ned in this section.’ 9. In State of Madhya Pradesh v Saleem, (2005) 5 SCC 554, the Court held that to sustain a conviction under Section 307, IPC, it was not necessary that a bodily injury capable of resulting in death should have been infl icted. As such, non-conviction under Section 307, IPC on the premise only that simple injury was infl icted does not follow as a matter of course. In the same , it was pointed out that ‘…The court has to see whether the 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. act, irrespective of its result, was done with the intention or knowledge and under circumstances mentioned in the section.’ The position that because a fatal injury was not sustained alone does not dislodge Section 307, IPC conviction has been reiterated in Jage Ram v State of Haryana, (2015) 11 SCC 366 and State of Madhya Pradesh v Kanha, (2019) 3 SCC 605. Yet, in Jage Ram (supra) and Kanha (supra), it was observed that while grievous or life-threatening injury was not necessary to maintain a conviction under Section 307, IPC, ‘The intention of the accused can be ascertained from the actual injury, if any, as well as from surrounding circumstances. Among other things, the nature of the weapon used and the severity of the blows infl icted can be considered to infer intent.’1 10. Having considered the facts and circumstances of the case and submissions of learned counsel for the parties, this Court is convinced that the Impugned of the High Court requires to be interfered with. Admittedly, there is no allegation of repeated or severe blows having been infl icted. Even the injuries on PW1 and PW2 have been found to be simple in nature, which is an additional point in the appellants’ favour. 11. We are further inclined to accept the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellants that from the materials on record, only off ences under Sections 3232 and 3243 of the IPC can be made out. As such, the conviction under Section 307, IPC is unsustainable. 12. In the background of the discussions made hereinabove and on taking an overall view, the Impugned is varied only to the extent 1 Para 13 of Kanha (supra). 2 323. Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt.—Whoever, except in the case provided for by Section 334, voluntarily causes hurt, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fi ne which may extend to one thousand rupees, or with both.’ 3 ‘324.