Such bifurcation is contrary to the terms of the licensing agreement(s) and the Policy of 1999. vi. Further, it is to be noticed that even under the 1994 Policy regime the payment of licence fee consisted of two parts: a) A fi xed payment in the fi rst three years of the licence regime; b) A variable payment from the fourth year of the licence regime onwards, based on the number of subscribers. Having accepted that both components, fi xed and variable, of the licence fee under the 1994 Policy regime must be duly amortised, there was no basis to reclassify the same under the Policy of 1999 regime as revenue expenditure insofar as variable licence fee is concerned. 26. As per the Policy of 1999, there was to be a multi-licence regime inasmuch as any number of licences could be issued in a given service area. Further, the licence was for a period of twenty years instead of ten years as per the earlier regime. The migration to the Policy of 1999 was on the condition that the entire policy must be accepted as a package and consequently, all legal proceedings and disputes relating to the period upto 31 July, 1999 were to be closed. If the migration to the Policy of 1999 C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 471 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] was accepted by the assessees herein or the other service providers, then all licence fee paid upto 31 July, 1999 was declared as a one time licence fee as stated in the communication dated 22 July, 1999 which was treated to be a capital expenditure. The licence granted under the Policy of 1999 was non-transferable and non-assignable. More importantly, if there was a default in the payment of the licence fee, the entire licence could be revoked after sixty days notice. The provisions of the Telegraph Act particularly Section 8 thereof are also to the same eff ect. Having regard to the aforesaid facts and in light of the aforesaid conclusions, we hold that the payment of entry fee as well as the variable annual licence fee paid by the respondents- assessees to the DoT under the Policy of 1999 are capital in nature and may be amortised in accordance with Section 35ABB of the Act. In our view, the High Court of Delhi was not right in apportioning the expenditure incurred towards establishing, operating and maintaining telecom services, as partly revenue and partly capital by dividing the licence fee into two periods, that is, before and after 31 July, 1999 and accordingly holding that the licence fee paid or payable for the period upto 31 July, 1999 i.e. the date set out in the Policy of 1999 should be treated as capital and the balance amount payable on or after the said date should be treated as revenue. The nature of payment being for the same purpose cannot have a diff erent characterisation merely because of the change in the manner or measure of payment or for that matter the payment being made on annual basis.