If the is passed on the same day, it will have to be examined on the facts and circumstances of each case and if such summoning is passed either after the of acquittal G or imposing sentence in the case of conviction, the same will not be sustainable.” (10) He also presses for our consideration the aspect that the appellant is a highly decorated officer with an impeccable track record. H 678 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (11) Shri K. M. Nataraj, learned Additional Solicitor General, who appears for the additional respondent-Delhi Police would submit that the Delhi Police is the authority which sanctions prosecution under Section 197 of the Cr.P.C. (12) Shri K. M. Nataraj, would submit that it is indispensable for B taking cognizance against a public servant within the meaning of Section 197 of the Cr.P.C., that the sanctioning authority grants sanction. He would in this regard appear to us to support the contention taken by the appellant. He also seeks fortification from the following case law: (13) He drew our attention to Abdul Wahab Ansari v. State of C Bihar, (2000) 8 SCC 500 wherein this Court held: 7. Previous sanction of the competent authority being a precondition for the court in taking cognizance of the offence if the offence alleged to have been committed by the accused can be said to be an act in discharge of his official duty, the question touches the jurisdiction of the Magistrate in the matter of taking D cognizance and, therefore, there is no requirement that an accused should wait for taking such plea till the charges are framed. In Suresh Kumar Bhikamchand Jain v. Pandey Ajay Bhushan [(1998) 1 SCC 205 : 1998 SCC (Cri) 1] a similar contention had been advanced by Mr Sibal, the learned Senior E Counsel appearing for the appellants in that case. In that case, the High Court had held on the application of the accused that the provisions of Section 197 get attracted. Rejecting the contention, this Court had observed: (SCC pp. 217-18, para 23) “The legislative mandate engrafted in sub-section (1) of Section F 197 debarring a court from taking cognizance of an offence except with a previous sanction of the Government concerned in a case where the acts complained of are alleged to have been committed by a public servant in discharge of his official duty or purporting to be in the discharge of his official duty and such public servant is not removable from his office save by or G with the sanction of the Government touches the jurisdiction of the court itself. It is a prohibition imposed by the statute from taking cognizance, the accused after appearing before the court on process being issued, by an application indicating that Section 197(1) is attracted merely assists the court to H AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 679 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. rectify its error where jurisdiction has been exercised which it A does not possess.