Additionally, it also requires such captive users to consume electricity generated by the CGP, which shall not be less than 51%, in proportion to their individual shares in the ownership of the CGP, which shall not be less than 26%. Thus, under the Rules, all group captive users which are not registered cooperative societies are required to comply with the test of proportionality specifi ed in the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a). 62. This Court in S. Sundaram Pillai and Others v. V.R. Pattabiraman and Others55 has held that a proviso serves four diff erent purposes, as stated below: “43. We need not multiply authorities after authorities on this point because the legal position seems to be clearly and manifestly well established. To sum up, a proviso may serve four diff erent purposes: 55 (1985) 1 SCC 591. 390 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (1) qualifying or excepting certain provisions from the main enactment: (2) it may entirely change the very concept of the intendment of the enactment by insisting on certain mandatory conditions to be fulfi lled in to make the enactment workable: (3) it may be so embedded in the Act itself as to become an integral part of the enactment and thus acquire the tenor and colour of the substantive enactment itself; and (4) it may be used merely to act as an optional addenda to the enactment with the sole object of explaining the real intendment of the statutory provision.” Accordingly, the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules is not case specifi c. It is to be treated as corollary to the interpretation embedded under Section 2(8) of the Act, that is, “primarily for its own use”. In make the enactment under Section 2(8) of the Act workable in any instance where group captive users are not registered cooperative societies, the rule of proportionality under the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules should be read as a mandatory condition. 63. This Court in Monnet Ispat& Energy Ltd. And Othersv. Union of India and Others56 held that the minimum electricity consumption requirement under paragraph (ii) to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules conforms with the requirement under Section 2(8) of the Act, that electricity generated by the CGP should be “primarily for its own use”. Thus itheld that Rule 3(1) (a) of the Rules cannot be said to be against the purposes of the Act. This Court in Monnet Ispat57observes: “14. In the light of what has been discussed by this Court in Global Energy Ltd. (supra) when we examine defi nition of Generating Plant in section 2(8) of the Act it emphasizes setting up primarily for his own use or in case of cooperative society for use by its members. 56 C.A. No. 18506-18507 of 2017; for short, “Monnet Ispat”. 57 Supra note 56. M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 391 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] When we consider Rule 3(1)(a)(ii) of the Rules of 2005, it is clear that it provides not less than 51% of aggregate electricity generated in such plant determined on annual basis is consumed for captive use.