B Rule 89. User Development Fee —The licensee may, - (i) levy and collect at a major airport the User Development Fee at such rate as may be determined under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 13 of the Airports Economic Regulatory Authority of India Act, 2008; C (ii) levy and collect at any other airport the User Development Fees at such rate as the Central Government may specify.” The relevant provisions of the AAI Act are extracted below: “Section 22. The Authority may,- D (i) With the previous approval of the Central Government, charge fees, or rent- (a) for the landing, housing or parking of aircraft or for any other service or facility offered in connection with E aircraft operations at any airport, heliport or airstrip Explanation. - In this sub-clause “aircraft” does not include an aircraft belonging to any armed force of the Union and “aircraft operations” does not include operations of any aircraft F belonging to the said force; (b) for providing air traffic services, ground safety services, aeronautical communications and navigational aids and meteorological services at any airports and at any aeronautical communication station; G (c) for the amenities given to the passengers and visitors at any airport, civil enclave, heliport or airstrip; (d) for the use and employment by persons of facilities and other services provided by the authority at any airport, civil enclave heliport or airstrip; H CENTRAL GST DELHI - III v. DELHI INTERNATIONAL 329 AIRPORT LTD [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (ii) with due regard to the instructions that the Central A Government may give to the authority, from time to time, charge fees or rent from persons who are given by the authority any facility for carrying on any trade or business at any airport, heliport or airstrip. Section 22A. The Authority may, after the previous B approval of the Central Government in this behalf, levy on, and collect from, the embarking passengers at an airport, the development fees at the rate as may be prescribed and such fees shall be credited to the Authority and shall be regulated and utilized in the prescribed C manner, for the purposes of- (a) funding or financing the costs of upgradation, expansion or development of the airport at which the fee is collected; or (b) establishment or development of a new airport in lieu D of the airport referred to in clause (a); or (c) investment in the equity in respect of shares to be subscribed by the Authority in companies engaged in establishing, owning, developing, operating or maintaining a private airport in lieu of the airport referred to in clause E (a) or advancement of loans to such companies or other persons engaged in such activities.” III Contentions of the parties F 7. Ms. Nisha Bagchi, learned counsel for the revenue, submits that assessees function as licensees of Airports. The airports are capable of being licensed by the AAI to operate as aerodromes. It was submitted that grant of licenses is subject to express conditions.