The appellant auction purchaser paid the sums due. Before the sale was completed by registration etc. the mortgagor sought to exercise his right of redemption by tendering the amount due. The appellant had based his case on the plea that in such a situation the mortgagee acts as agent of the mortgagor and hence binds him. 55. Rejecting the appeal, this Court has held that the right of redemption which is embodied in Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act is available to the mortgagor unless it has been extinguished by the act of parties or by decree of a court. What is held by this Court is that, in India it is only on execution of the conveyance and registration of transfer of the mortgagor’s interest by registered instrument that the 100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. mortgagor’s right of redemption will be extinguished but the conferment of power to sell the mortgaged property without intervention of the Court, in a mortgage deed, in itself, will not deprive the mortgagor of his right of redemption. This Court in the said case further explained that the extinction of the right of redemption has to be subsequent to the deed conferring such power and the right to redemption is not extinguished at the expiry of the period. This Court emphasized in the said decision that the equity of redemption is not extinguished by mere contract for sale.” (Emphasis supplied) REDEMPTION OF MORTGAGE UNDER THE SARFAESI ACT 45. Sub-section (8) of Section 13 of the SARFAESI Act, as originally enacted, stated as under: - “13. Enforcement of security interest.– (8) If the dues of the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him are tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the date fi xed for sale or transfer, the secured asset shall not be sold or transferred by the secured creditor, and no further step shall be taken by him for transfer or sale of that secured asset.” 46. In Mathew Varghese (supra), this Court had the occasion to consider the right of redemption of mortgage under the SARFAESI Act vis-à-vis the Act 1882, wherein, this Court made the following relevant observations, being reproduced below: - “38. … a mere conferment of power to sell without intervention of the court in the mortgage deed by itself will not deprive the mortgagor of his right to redemption, that the extinction of the right of redemption has to be subsequent to the deed conferring such power, that the right of redemption is not extinguished at the expiry of the period, that the equity of redemption is not extinguished by mere contract for sale and that the mortgagor’s right to redeem will survive until there has been completion of sale by the mortgagee by a registered deed. The ratio is also to the eff ect that the power to sell should not be exercised CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 101 LTD. & ORS. [J.