18 Total Environment Building Systems Pvt. Ltd. v. Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Taxes and Others, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 953; Union of Indiaand Another v. Raghubir Singh (Dਅਁ਄) by LRs. etc., (1989) 2 SCC 754. 19 2. Defi nitions.—In this Act, unless there is something repugnant in subject or context,— (12) Executed and execution.—“Executed” and “execution”, used with reference IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1205 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [ SANJIV KHANNA, J.] of Section 11 of the Information Technology Act, 200020. I shall now analyse the relevance of execution or ‘signature’, with reference to an arbitration agreement as defi ned in Section 7 of the Arbitration Act. 26. Section 7of the Arbitration Act reads: “7. Arbitration agreement.—(1) In this Part, “arbitration agreement” means an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not. (2) An arbitration agreement may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement. (3) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing. (4) An arbitration agreement is in writing if it is contained in— (a) a document signed by the parties; (b) an exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication including communication through electronic means which provide a record of the agreement; or (c) an exchange of statements of claim and defence in which the existence of the agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by the other. (5) The reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the contract.” to instruments, mean “signed” and “signature”and includes attribution of electronic record within the meaning of Section 11 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000). 20 11. Attribution of electronic records.—An electronic record shall be attributed to the originator— (a) if it was sent by the originator himself; (b) by a person who had the authority to act on behalf of the originator in respect of that electronic record; or (c) by an information system programmed by or on behalf of the originator to operate automatically. 120 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. An ‘arbitration agreement’ is an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or may arise between them. The disputes may be in respect of a defi ned legal relationship, whether contractual or not. An arbitration agreement has to be in writing. 27. Sub-section (4) to Section 7 specifi es when an arbitration agreement can be said to be in writing. Clause (a) to sub-section (4) states that an arbitration agreement can be a document signed by the parties. According to clause (b) to sub-section (4) to Section 7, an arbitration agreement can be established or inferred from exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other forms of communication, including communication through electronic means.