There was, therefore, no jurisdiction in the learned trial Judge to allow an amendment E of the pleadings which was outside the scope of the remand .” 23. In the totality of the circumstances, especially taking into account the relevant reasons assigned by the High Court for disallowing the prayer for amendment of the written statement and taking note of F the delay and the failure to offer any reason therefor and the reasons mentioned hereinbefore we see no reason at all to hold any perversity or illegality with the rejection of the prayer for amendment of the written statement. 24.We have noted the points of agreement in the s of G the courts below. On the questions as to maintainability of the suit, whether the suit is bad for non- joinder of necessary parties as also whether the suit ought to have been held as abated against all the defendants for non- substitution of all the legal heirs on the death of the original third 5 1971 JLJ SN 159 H 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A defendant, the courts below returned concurrent findings against the appellants. 25.We are at a loss to understand as to how the plea regarding the maintainability of the suit arise for consideration. The contention of the appellants is that it was filed under section 6 of the Specific Relief B Act and while disposing of C.A. No. 5201 of 2009 this court held against the respondent herein/ the plaintiff that the suit is not one under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act. Ergo, according to the appellants, the relief claimed for possession by the plaintiff/the respondent herein was not entertainable as he being a person claiming only possessory title and the original defendant No. 2/ the deceased appellant No. 2 being the lawful C owner of the suit schedule property. Though the contentions appear to be attractive and acceptable at the first blush the fact is that they are absolutely untenable and rightly held against them, in view of the materials on record. 26.It is true that the respondent herein/ the plaintiff had a case D that O.S. No. 6456 of 1993 filed under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act and even after, the in C.A. No. 5201 of 2009 he seems to have attempted to resurrect the said question. But we are entirely in agreement with the High Court that the question whether the suit is one under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act is not now available for E consideration as it was held otherwise by this court in the in C.A. No. 5201 of 2009 and as such it had attained finality. On the face of in C.A. No. 5201 of 2009 the conclusion that O.S. No. 6456 of 1993 is not one under Section 6 of the Specific Relief Act is not revisitable. Evidently, even-after holding thus and upon modifying the of the High Court dated 29.10.2007 this Court directed only F for fresh disposal of RFA No.