The learned ASG has supported his submissions with reference to the decision in Collector of Central Excise, Guntur v. Andhra Sugar Ltd. Venkataraypuram: 1989 Supp (1) SCC 144 that the change in entries from 2012 of the Act of 1985 showed the legislative intent to bring the product within taxation bracket as “Hair oil”, which was added under Chapter 33 as a distinct category. F 8.2. Learned ASG has strenuously argued that the product in question does not meet the criteria laid down under Chapter 30. It has been submitted that on a reading of the relevant Notes, even if the product is stated to possess certain curative or prophylactic value, it would still be cosmetic, as it excludes those with subsidiary curative and prophylactic G value. The learned ASG would submit that the respondent has classified the product under Tariff Item 3003 90 14 but, the said entry provides for medicaments not put in measured doses or packaging whereas, AHAHO is admittedly sold in packaging of 50ml, 100ml, 200ml and 400ml bottles. According to learned ASG, Tariff Item 3305 90 19, specifically meant for “Hair oils”, directly covers the product in question, AHAHO. H 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 8.3. Learned ASG has also argued that a specific entry would take precedence over a general entry, as held by this Court in Commissioner of Central Excise, Nagpur v. Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd.: (2009) 12 SCC 419; and when “Hair oil” is specifically mentioned in Chapter 33 and when AHAHO’s common parlance is that of a general cosmetic requisite, classifying it as a B ‘medicament’ is a far-fetched proposition. 8.4. In the other limb of submissions, learned ASG has contended that the common parlance test of the product is not in favour of the respondent, as the product is not prescribed by any medical practitioner, is available freely without any prescription in Medical and General Stores, C and could be purchased across the counter, as admitted by the respondent. Additionally, the label does not indicate the condition of sale by authorised medical distributor or retailer under prescription as mandated under the Act of 1940; it does not cure any particular disease; and the claims on the label are for marketing purposes only. Learned ASG has relied upon D the decision in Alpine Industries v. Collector of Central Excise, New Delhi: (2003) 3 SCC 111 to submit that any subsidiary therapeutic or prophylactic use of the product would not change its nature as “Hair oil”, if in the common parlance, it is treated as a cosmetic. Another decision of this Court in Sunny Industries (P) Ltd. v. Collector of Central Excise, Calcutta: (2003) 4 SCC 280 has also been relied upon. E 8.4.1.Learned ASG has again referred to common parlance test to submit that the product is advertised as hair oil and not a medicament; and is perceived by the public who purchase and sell the product as a hair oil (cosmetic) and not as medicament. For the purpose of construing the words in a statute, the learned ASG has referred to the decision in F Commissioner of Customs, Calcutta v. G.C.