22.2. The issues (second category) which the Chief Justice/his designate may choose to decide (or leave them to the decision of the Arbitral Tribunal) are: F (a) Whether the claim is a dead (long-barred) claim or a live claim. (b) Whether the parties have concluded the contract/transaction by recording satisfaction of their mutual rights and obligation or by receiving the final payment without objection. G 22.3. The issues (third category) which the Chief Justice/his designate should leave exclusively to the Arbitral Tribunal are: (i) Whether a claim made falls within the arbitration clause (as for example, a matter which is reserved for final decision of a departmental authority and excepted or excluded from arbitration). H UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. BHARAT ENTERPRISE 817 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (ii) Merits or any claim involved in the arbitration.” A 14. We may notice that this is a which was rendered in the regime which was put in place by the larger Bench decision of this Court reported in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engineering Ltd. and Another (2005) 8 SCC 618. In fact, it is also a case arising under Section 11 of the Act. The Court went on to deal with the question of non-arbitrability B of disputes. It categorises the cases broadly into three categories, as can be seen from paragraphs 22.1 to 22.3. We must notice that following the insertion of Section 11(6A) by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2016, with effect from 2015, there has been a change in law but we need not be detained by the said aspect as that may not be C fully apposite for the purposes of the case. We may notice the following statements as well in National Insurance (supra): 49. Obtaining of undated receipts-in-advance in regard to regular/ routine payments by government departments and corporate sector is an accepted practice which has come to stay due to administrative D exigencies and accounting necessities. The reason for insisting upon undated voucher/receipt is that as on the date of execution of such voucher/receipt, payment is not made. The payment is made only on a future date long after obtaining the receipt. If the date of execution of the receipt is mentioned in the receipt and the payment is released long thereafter, the receipt acknowledging E the amount as having been received on a much earlier date will be absurd and meaningless. Therefore, undated receipts are taken so that it can be used in respect of subsequent payments by incorporating the appropriate date. But many a time, matters are dealt with so casually that the date is not filled even when payment F is made. Be that as it may. But what is of some concern is the routine insistence by some government departments, statutory corporations and government companies for issue of undated “no- dues certificates” or “full and final settlements vouchers” acknowledging receipt of a sum which is smaller than the claim in full and final settlement of all claims, as a condition precedent for G releasing even the admitted dues.