This is because the primary objective being revenue generation, could still be achieved even if the collection of stamp duty is deferred to the arbitrator and not at the stage of a judge referring the matter for arbitration. Additionally, if such a contention is raised before the referring judge, she/he can also caution the arbitrator on the aspect of no/deficient stamp duty on the H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 475 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] concerned instrument. Such a course will also protect the interest of the A revenue and the substantive law. K. Implication of changing nature of transaction and the advent of the technology 80. As we are proceeding on the basis that an arbitration B agreement is liable to stamp duty, this Court cannot also be oblivious of the technological advancements as commercial transactions are going beyond pen and paper agreements. The 2015 amendment to Section 7 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which defines arbitration agreement recognizes electronic communication, bringing the process in conformity with Article 7 of the UNCITRAL Model law which was amended in C 2006. It modernized and broadened the form of arbitration agreement to conform with international contract practices. The exchange of letters, telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication including communication through electronic means which provide a record of the agreement are now recognized as valid arbitration agreement. D 80.1. Dr. Peter Binder in International Commercial Arbitration and Mediation in UNCITRAL Model Law Jurisdictions64 notes: “The wording in “exchange of letters,telex, telegrams or other means of telecommunication” indicates Model law’s flexibility towards future means of communication by being geared solely E at the “record of the agreement” rather than the strict direct signature of the agreement. Incidentally, Article 5(Section III) of the Montreal Protocol No. 4 to the Warsaw Convention which concerns the formal requirements of an air waybill, provided the impetus for the wording “Any other means which would preserve a record of the carriage to be performed may, with the consent of F the consigner, be substituted for the delivery of an air waybill.” The Protocol specifically had electronic means of communication in mind, as the aviation industry was among the first to use this technology in business.” [emphasis supplied] G 80.2. What logically follows from the above is that the traditional laws must not render these new forms of agreements unenforceable on insufficient stamping. Recently, the Stockholding Corporation of India 64 Supra at note 40; P. 67-68 H 476 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Ltd. has been authorised to provide e-stamp services, which allows for the payment of stamp duties for some Indian States. The Indian Stamp Act (Collection of Stamp-Duty Through Stock Exchanges, Clearing Corporations and Depositories) Rules 2019 as amended through the Finance Act, 2021 has been brought about to build a pan-India securities market and to enhance revenue. It amended the definition of “execution” B to include signature even in electronic form. 80.3. However, the definition of “duly stamped” in Section 2(11) of the Stamp Act, 1899 remains unchanged: “‘Duly Stamped’ as applied to an instrument means that the C instrument bears an adhesive or impressed stamp of not less than the proper amount and that such stamp has been affixed or used in accordance with the law for time being in force.” [emphasis supplied] 80.4.