D After examining the evidence on record, the Trial Court rejected the case of the plaintiff-respondent No. 1 with the findings, inter alia, that the circumstances placed on record did not probabilise the case that by defrauding her, the husbands of her sisters got executed the sale document (Ex. A-1) while making her believe that it were a security document for E getting new films. The Trial Court also found that no steps were taken by the plaintiff-respondent No. 1 to examine the Sub Registrar who had registered the sale deed whereupon she had put her signatures on being allegedly made to believe it to be a security document; and she failed to discharge the burden of proof in terms of Section 103 of the Indian Evidence Act, 18721. Without much elaboration, we may take note of F the relevant findings of the Trial Court as under: - “22…..So the aforesaid circumstance never probabalise the case advanced on part of plaintiff that by defrauding her the husbands of D3 and D5 succeeded to execute Ext.A1 by making her believe that it was a security document for getting new films from a G distributor as claimed…. *** *** *** H 1 Hereinafter referred to as ‘the Evidence Act’. SIRAJUDHEEN v. ZEENATH & ORS. 7 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 24. Though plaintiff is having the case that Ext.A1 is the result of A fraud, undue influence and coercion etc exerted upon her by the persons whom she was having confidence, no steps has been taken on the part of the plaintiff to examine the registrar who registered Ext.A1 sale deed wherein plaintiff has put her signature being it as a security document for getting new films as made B believe on the par to D3 and D5, though burden of proof is upon her as per Section 103 of Indian Evidence Act. So from the available evidence in my opinion the Ext. A1 sale deed cannot be set aside since it was voluntarily executed by the plaintiff in favour of D1. Hence I find these issues against the plaintiff.” C 3.6. In view of the above, the Trial Court proceeded to dismiss both the civil suits, being OS No. 293 of 2012 and OS No. 238 of 2012, while leaving the parties to bear their own costs. 3.7. There had been two other civil suits, being OS No. 181 of 2007 and OS No.497 of 2006, which were filed by the respondent Nos. D 2 to 5 of the present appeal (sisters of the respondent No. 1), seeking partition respectively of theatre and land on one hand and shopping complex on the other. These civil suits for partition, as filed by the four sisters of respondent No. 1, were decreed by the Trial Court. 3.8. For what has been noticed hereinabove, the net result had E been that while the two civil suits filed by the plaintiff-respondent No. 1 for cancellation of sale deed and for prohibitory injunction were dismissed, theother two civil suits filed by her sisters seeking partition of respective properties were decreed.These four decisions were challenged by the respondent No.