4. The case of prosecution in nutshell was that the appellant accused Sri Sarangapani while discharging his duty as the Sub Registrar, Cooperative Societies had demanded and accepted a sum of Rs.1500/- as gratifi cation other then legal remuneration from the defacto-complainant Sri Immadi Laxmaiah on 27.03.1993, for himself and for the accused no.2 P.Vasudev, the Deputy Registrar Cooperative Societies in the offi ce of Divisional Cooperative Khammam, as a motive or reward for showing an offi cial favour, in allowing the complainant to continue as the President of the Society, and thereby both the accused had committed the off ence under Section 7 and Section 13(1)(d)r/w 13(2) of the PC Act. 5. To prove the charges levelled against the appellant-accused, the prosecution had examined PW-1 Shri Dana Pullaiah to prove the contents of the RC No.1496/92-C. The PW-2 Sri M. Laxmi Narsu, one of the mediators (panch witness) working as Agricultural Offi cer, in the offi ce of Joint Director Agriculture Khammam was examined to prove the pre-trap and post-trap proceedings. The PW-3 Sri K.L.N. Krishna Kumar was examined to prove the Sanction s relating to the accused, accorded by the then Secretary of Agriculture Cooperative – II Department. The PW-4 was Sri B. Pulla Reddy, working as the President of Lachannagudem Village, who succeeded the Vice President of the society, on the previous Vice President B. Pulla Reddy having been suspended. The PW-5 was Sri V. Vengalaiah, Inspector of Police ACB, a member of raiding party; and lastly PW-6 Sri P.L. Raju, the then DSP Warangal Range, was examined as he was the trap laying offi cer cum investigating offi cer. The prosecution had also adduced documentary evidence in support of its case. 6. On the closure of prosecution evidence, the appellant-accused P.Sarangapani was examined under Section 313 of Cr.P.C, wherein he had denied the allegations levelled against him and had stated that he was falsely implicated. He also had fi led a written statement contending inter alia that he never demanded and accepted any illegal gratifi cation from the P. SARANGAPANI (DEAD) THR. LR PAKA SAROJA v. 437 STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] complainant as alleged. The appellant accused had also examined DW-1 Sri K. Venkateshwarlu, resident of Chintakani Mandal of Khammam District, to substantiate his defence. 7. The Trial Court after appreciating the oral as well as the documentary evidence adduced by the prosecution, held that the prosecution had proved the charges levelled against the appellant/ accused beyond reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the appellant was convicted and sentenced as stated hereinabove. In the Appeal preferred by the appellant before the High Court, against the said of conviction and sentence, the High Court reappreciated the evidence on record and confi rmed the conviction and sentence recorded by the Trial Court. 8. The learned counsel for the appellant vehemently submitted that both the courts had committed gross error of law in misappreciating evidence on record and in holding the appellant guilty of the alleged charges, though the prosecution had miserably failed to prove the demand of illegal gratifi cation allegedly made by the appellant.