No. 201 of 1985. The salient findings of the Trial Court are as under: (i) That the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 did not contain B an endorsement by the Sub-Registrar to the effect that the sale deed was executed by plaintiff no. 2 in his capacity as the attorney of Braja Mohan Dey. The endorsement made by the Sub-Registrar on the sale deed dated 03rd September was a simple endorsement merely stating that the sale deed C had been executed by plaintiff no. 2. (ii) That it was not stated in the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 itself that plaintiff no. 2 was making the sale on the strength of the power of attorney executed in his favour by Braja Mohan Dey. D (iii) That the plaintiffs did not produce before the Trial Court, the power of attorney which formed the basis for the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968. That although in another suit, being T.S. 79/1973, plaintiff no. 2 had deposed that the document conferring power of attorney on plaintiff no. 1, was handed over by him to defendant no. 1, no such E submission was made in the present case. (iv) That the sale deed dated 03rd, September, 1968 could not be held to be properly executed for want of power of attorney authorising such execution. Therefore, plaintiff no. 2 could not be said to have any right, title or interest over F the suit property. Consequently, it could not be held that the transfer made by plaintiff no. 2 in favour of plaintiff no. 1 was valid. (v) That no evidence was led by the defendants to establish their title over the suit property by adverse possession which G is a significant finding. 6. Being aggrieved, the plaintiffs preferred T.A. No. No. 02 of 1996 before the first appellate court. By dated 26th August, 1995, the first appeal was dismissed and the of the Trial Court was confirmed. H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 167 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] The relevant findings of the first appellate court are encapsulated A as under: (i) That the plaintiffs failed to prove that the power of attorney was handed over to defendant no. 1. That since the power of attorney stated to be executed by Braja Mohan Dey in favour of plaintiff no. 2 was neither produced before the B court, nor was it proved that the same was handed over to defendant no. 1, a question had arisen as to existence and genuinity of the power of attorney. (ii) That since the said power of attorney formed the basis for the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968, the sale deed C could not be considered to be legally executed. 7. Being aggrieved, the plaintiffs preferred regular second appeal No. 01 of 2005 before the High Court of Tripura at Agartala. By the impugned dated 05th April, 2018, the second appeal was allowed and the s of the Trial Court and first appellate court were set D aside.