12. The High Court passed an , dated 13.03.2013, holding that the earlier decision will have to be construed as a decision in rem but subject to the rider that all the pending applications ought to be considered in accordance with the amendment made vide Notifi cation dated 28.01.2011 to Rule 4 and 7, “(i) That the respondent State shall undertake the exercise of delineating, demarcating and specifying all the mining areas available for the Sandstone and Masonry Stone within a period of six months as undertaken by the learned Addl. Advocate Generals, on behalf of the State. (ii) Thereafter, the State Government will re-notify such delineated areas for grant of mining leases for sandstone and masonry stone, as the case may be, with the stipulation & condition that payment of Royalty and dead rent applicable for the sandstone in case sandstone is also found available in the mining lease granted for masonry stone. (iii) That all the applications hitherto fi led for such mining leases shall be treated as revived and with further applications, which may now be fi led upon such re-notifi cation of delineated areas available for grant of mining leases for sandstone and masonry stone. The earlier applicants will be at liberty to withdraw their earlier applications & fi le fresh applications also in pursuance of such renotifi cation. 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (iv) That as per the submission of State Government vide para 10 (viii) above that State has not taken any action in pursuance of the impugned s so far, it is directed that no mining leases for sandstone & masonry stone will be granted in pursuance of the impugned s Annex.11 dated 16/11/2011 and Annex.13 dated 28/11/2011 till all such applications are decided as per the directions given in this . (v) That all the applications will be decided within one year from today in accordance with the amended Rule 7(3) of the MMCR, 1986 on the basis of lottery or by way of auction, as may be considered appropriate by the State Government but not on the basis of ‘fi rst come fi rst served’ principle.” 13. As in the case of the fi rst round of litigation, in the second round also the s passed were not put into challenge and therefore both became fi nal. Suffi ce it is to note that the High Court did not grant the relief to the petitioners by directing the Appellants to adopt fi rst-come fi rst-serve basis for the grant of a mining lease, but only as per the amended rule. 14. Taking a cue from the s passed, a further Notifi cation was issued on 03.04.2013 introducing the impugned amendments. As stated, all the applications were declared as rejected while facilitating grant of 50% of the leases through auction except for categories mentioned thereunder as entitled for preference. By the impugned s, the Division Bench of the High Court declared the amendments as illegal on three primary grounds, namely; the applicants have not been heard, and their applications ought to be revived in view of the earlier s passed by the Court on the principle of legitimate expectation and rights having vested in them.