DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 423 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 60. Where the appointment is to be made for the fi rst time or where the same person is being appointed as a Vice-Chancellor for the second time, but not in continuation of the fi rst term, the procedure provided under Section 10 of the Act 1996 must be gone through. However, in the case of reappointment immediately upon the tenure of the fi rst term coming to an end, there is no requirement to initiate the entire process of appointment as provided under Section 10 of the Act 1996. 61. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to a decision of this Court in the case of Anindya Sunder Das (supra), authored by one of us Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI. In the said case, the High Court at Calcutta had allowed a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution seeking a writ of quo warranto against the Vice-Chancellor of Calcutta University. The High Court held that the State Government had no authority to appoint or reappoint the Vice-Chancellor under Section 8 of the Calcutta University Act, 1979 (for short, “the Act 1979”) or by taking recourse to the residuary provisions of Section 60 of the Act 1979. As a consequence, the issued by the Special Secretary to the Government of West Bengal reappointing the incumbent Vice-Chancellor of Calcutta University was set aside. The High Court held that the Vice-Chancellor had no authority to hold that offi ce on the basis of the of appointment. The of the Calcutta High Court was challenged before this Court in Civil Appeal No. 6706 of 2022. One of the issues that fell for consideration of this Court in the said case was, whether the same procedure which was provided for appointment of a Vice-Chancellor under Section 8(1) was required to be followed at the time of reappointment. 62. It was argued that there is a distinction in law between appointment and reappointment because in the case of the latter the zone of consideration is restructured to persons already holding posts and in such case the suitability of the incumbent which was assessed at the time of initial appointment need not be reassessed. 63. This Court in the aforesaid case took the view that reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor need not follow the same process as a fresh appointment by setting up a selection committee. We may reproduce the relevant observations made by this Court. 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “45. It would be appropriate to also analyze whether the re- appointment of the VC has to follow the same process as a fresh appointment, by setting up a selection committee under Section 8(1) of the Act, as indicated by the Chancellor. 46. Section 8(6) stipulates the manner in which a vacancy in the offi ce of the VC which occurs by reason of death, resignation, expiration of the term of offi ce, removal or otherwise shall be fi lled up.