h) Zahira Sheikh’s judgement is not applicable as it relates to mayhem on account of communal hatred and disharmony, resulting in some mass massacres. The present case may have some political tinge, but that could not be of the same or deeper hue as was in Zahira’s case. 55. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and also perused the original record. HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 437 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 56. The arguments advanced on behalf of the appellant are briefl y summarized as follows: a) None of the issues fl agged in the report dated 04.05.2009 of the Inspecting Judge regarding the manner and illegality of trial of the case were considered much less in accordance with law. b) Trial of the case was not conducted as per directions vide dated 13.07.2007 in Cr.WJC No. 717/2006 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court in the Habeas Corpus Petition. c) A case is made out for de-novo trial to cure the travesty of justice committed in a case wherein in a broad day light, two persons were done to death, apart from causing injury to another. d) Witnesses were not allowed to be properly examined and the trial of the case was not conducted by the Special Public Prosecutor as per directions of the High Court. e) The Special Public Prosecutor of the case was not competent person since he was not having practice as an advocate for ten years in terms of Section 24(8), CrPC. f) The fi ndings in the impugned are perverse and erroneous and the evidences, available on record are not appreciated properly. g) The evidence of CW-1 has not been appreciated in accordance with law either by the Trial Court or the High Court. On the sole evidence of CW-1 the conviction of accused deserves to be recorded. h) Not a single Police Offi cer, including the Investigating Offi cer, was examined in the case showing clear malice. 57. On the other hand, learned senior counsel appearing for the Respondent Nos. 2 to 8 submitted as follows: a) That the of the High Court and the Trial Court are just, valid and proper, based upon the evidence adduced during trial. b) It was a case of no evidence as all the witnesses turned hostile. 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. c) Lalmuni Devi’s (CW-1) evidence was tutored and could not be relied upon. d) The FIR itself was not proved. e) The Doctor, who had examined the injured, had stated that they were in an unconscious state and as such also Rajendra Rai could not have been in a condition of narrating the incident. f) Neither the Investigating Offi cer nor any of the police offi cials, though may be formal in nature were produced. g) Scope of revision before the High Court was limited and so would be the status before this Court. h) No perversity or material irregularity have been found or argued by the learned counsel for the appellants.