Looking at the factors holistically, it could be inferred that the non-signatories, by virtue of their relationship with the signatory parties and active involvement in the performance of commercial obligations which are intricately linked to the subject matter, are not actually strangers to the dispute between the signatory parties. 128. We hold that all the cumulative factors laid down in Discovery Enterprises (supra) must be considered while determining the applicability of the group of companies doctrine. However, the application of the above factors has to be fact-specifi c, and this Court cannot tie the hands of the courts or tribunals by laying down how much weightage they ought to give to the above factors. This approach ensures that a dogmatic emphasis on express consent is eschewed in favour of a modern approach to consent which focuses on the factual analysis, complexity of commercial projects, and thereby increases the relevance of arbitration in multi-party disputes. Moreover, it is also keeping in line with the objectives of the Arbitration Act which aims to make the Indian arbitration law more responsive to the contemporary requirements. F. The group of companies doctrine has independent existence 129. In Cox and Kings (supra), Chief Justice Ramana observed that Chloro Controls (supra), and the series of subsequent decisions, have not appropriately dealt with the scope and ambit of the phrase “claiming through or under” as appearing under Sections 8 and 45 of the Arbitration Act. Connectedly, one of the issues that arises for the consideration of this Court is whether the phrase “claiming through or under” could be interpreted to include the group of companies doctrine. 130. The Arbitration Act does not defi ne the phrase “person claiming through or under” a party. A person “claiming through or under” a party is not a signatory to the contract or agreement, but can assert a right through or under the signatory party. Russel on Arbitration states that an assignee can 700 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. invoke the arbitration agreement as a person “claiming through or under” a party to the arbitration agreement.107 An assignee takes the assigned right under a contract with both the benefi t and burden of the arbitration clause.108 Similarly, the English courts have held that a transferee or subrogate can claim through or under a party to the arbitration agreement.109 Under the English law, the typical scenarios where a person or entity can claim through or under a party are assignment, subrogation, and novation. In these situations, the assignees or representatives become successors to the signatory party’s interests under the arbitration agreement. They step into the shoes of the signatory party, from whom they derive the right to arbitrate, rather than claiming an independent right under the arbitration agreement. 131. The scope of an arbitration agreement under the English law is limited to the parties who entered into it and those claiming through or under them.110 In Roussel-Uclaf (supra), it was held that a subsidiary company can invoke the arbitration agreement on the basis that it is “claiming through or under” the parent company because of the close relationship between the two companies.