By the amendment application the plaintiff-respondents claim deletion of Section 83 of the suit and also set up the claim of C possession with the defendant-petitioner. The amendment application was rejected by the trial court on 20.5.2013 on the ground that it changes the nature of the suit. Aggrieved with the aforesaid , the plaintiffs-respondents filed the civil revision and the same has been allowed on 22.2.2015. He further makes submission that the entire nature of the suit D has been changed by the amendment application and as such, this Court should come for rescue and reprieve the petitioner. On the other hand, Sri Rajesh Kumar, learned counsel for the plaintiff- respondents states that the present writ petition was filed in the year 2015 in which an interim was E passed on 10.4.2015 staying the operation of the revisional dated 25.2.2015. The matter is pending since the year 2015 and the suit itself is also pending since the year 2009. On account of the aforesaid interim , the matter is pending consideration before the trial court. There was no infirmity or illegality in the revisional and the writ F petition is liable to be dismissed. The Court has proceeded to examine the record in question and also perused the revisional and finds that after considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case, the revisional court was of the view that the amendment does G not change the nature of the suit and no injustice should be done on the fault of the advocate. Finally, he has allowed the civil revision in question and set aside the of the trial court dated 20.5.2013. He has also allowed the amendment application 35- Ka with cost of Rs. 3000/-. H GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 911 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] The Court does not find any infirmity or illegality in the A of the revisional court and the same is approved. However, for substantial justice, the amendment application ought to have been allowed with cost of Rs. 5000/- and the same is accepted by the parties. In case, the plaintiff-respondents deposit Rs. 5000/- within three weeks from today, the trial B court will proceed in the matter and finalise the proceeding in accordance with law without affording any unnecessary adjournment to the parties.” 21. In view of the aforesaid, the Defendant is here before this Court with the present appeal. C SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT- DEFENDANT 22. Mr. Rajeev M. Roy, the learned counsel appearing for the Appellant Defendant, vehemently, submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in passing the impugned . The principal D argument of the learned counsel is that the impugned of the High Court is a non-speaking . No reasons have been assigned in the impugned . 23. The learned counsel further submitted that the High Court failed to appreciate an important question of law that the amendment E has changed the entire nature of the suit. He would submit that when the first suit was filed in the Small Causes Court, the Defendant was shown to be a tenant in arrears of rent and it was further alleged that the Defendant had inducted sub-tenants in the suit property.