59. The learned A.G. submits that the alternative submission that if the word “any” is not given any restricted meaning then sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act will have to be held to be invalid on the D ground of vesting of excessive delegation, is also without substance. The learned A.G. submits that the RBI is not just like any other statutory body created by an Act of legislature. It is submitted that it is a creature created with a mandate to get liberated even from its creator. It is submitted that the guiding factors for exercise of power under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act have to be found from Section 3 of the E RBI Act as well as from its preamble. It is submitted that the RBI Act was enacted for the purposes of taking over the management and regulation of the currency from the Central Government as per Section 3 of the RBI Act. The preamble of the RBI Act also states that the RBI has been constituted to “regulate the issue of bank notes”. It is submitted F that the words “taking over the management of the currency” in Section 3 of the RBI Act and “regulate” in the Preamble have to be given the widest possible import. It is submitted that a narrower construction would defeat the very purpose of the RBI Act. It is submitted that the word “regulate” would also include “prohibit”. 60. The learned A.G., relying on the of this Court in the G case of Municipal Corporation of Delhi v. Birla Cotton, Spinning and Weaving Mills, Delhi and another22 submits that, in to find out as to whether the legislature has given guidance for exercise of 21 (1977) 1 SCC 155 22 AIR 1968 SC 1232 : (1968) 3 SCR 251 H 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A delegated powers, the Court will have to consider the provisions of the particular Act with which the Court has to deal with, including its preamble. It is submitted that the preamble of the RBI Act read with Section 3 thereof provides sufficient guidance to the delegatee Central Government for exercising its powers. It is further submitted that, while considering the question as to whether the delegation is excessive or B not, the nature of the body to which delegation is made is also a factor to be taken into consideration. It is submitted that in the present case, the delegation is to the Central Government and not to any subordinate office or department. 61. The learned A.G. submitted that the of this Court in C the case of Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia and others (supra) would not be applicable to the facts of the present case inasmuch as in the said case, the delegation was to an Administrator and this Court found that the delegation to the Administrator was too wide and, thus, suffered from the vice of excessive delegation. It is submitted that, D similarly, the of this Court in the case of Hamdard Dawakhana (Wakf) Lal Kuan, Delhi and another (supra) also would not be applicable to the facts of the present case.