[SURYA KANT, J.] “Thus, the ground of ill health pleaded by the Learned Advocate A for the applicant would hold no ground as this Court is of a candid opinion that the applicant instead of cooperating with the Investigating Agency had absconded and had got himself admitted in hospital at his native in Rajasthan with a view to evade the process of law. B … … … In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, this Court is of a candid opinion that custodial interrogation of the present applicant is a must to reach to unearth the larger conspiracy. It is necessary to unveil the modus operandi adopted by the applicant in C committing the larger conspiracy and without interrogation, it would be impossible to collect the relevant evidence resulting into incomplete investigation. It is also crystal clear that the applicant with a view to avoid arrest has filed the present application and therefore, instead of cooperating in the investigation have tried to thwart the ·same and thus, it can be said that the applicant is not D cooperating in the investigation. … … … This Court also cannot lose sight of the fact that investigation in the matter is still under progress and releasing the applicant at this E premature stage would pave way for the applicant to influence the investigation, hamper the witnesses and tamper the evidence.” 13. The Court eventually held that custodial interrogation of Respondent No. 1 was necessary to reach the root of the matter. 14. Aggrieved by the of the Special Judge, CBI Court, F Respondent No. 1 applied for anticipatory bail before the High Court of Gujarat. Meanwhile, on 22nd November, 2022, the Court of Special CBI Judge issued a non-bailable warrant against Respondent No. 1. 15. The High Court, vide impugned dated 19th December, 2022, granted anticipatory bail to Respondent No. 1. The High Court G observed that there is a doubt regarding the acceptance of illegal gratification, as it was deposited in the account of Vardhman in Dhara Angadia firm and there is no evidence with respect to acceptance of the amount by Respondent No. 1. The reasons on the basis of which the High Court proceeded to grant anticipatory bail are recorded in paragraph 12 of its , which states as follows: H 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A “12. This Court has considered following aspects; (i) The FIR is registered on 12.10.2022 for the offence which is alleged to have taken place on 04.10.2022. (ii) Learned APP under instructions of IO is unable to bring on record any special circumstances against the applicant. B (iii) The role attributed to the applicant- accused; (iv) That the applicant is a Additional Income Tax Commissioner and no any other criminal antecedents against him; (v) There is creating serious doubt about demand and C acceptance of the amount; (vi) There is no discovery or recovery from the applicant;” 16. The High Court further directed that despite grant of anticipatory bail, CBI could apply for police remand of Respondent No.