As such, the finding in that regard warrants no interference. 148. Insofar as Busy Season Surcharge and Development Surcharge are concerned, we have already discussed hereinabove as to C how it would amount to ‘Change in Law’. 149. Insofar as ‘Add on premium price’ is concerned, undisputedly, ‘add on premium’ was required to be paid on account of cancellation of captive coal blocks and inordinate delay on account of Go-No-Go policy. As such, it cannot be said that the reasoning adopted by the learned APTEL is perverse and arbitrary. D 150. Insofar as the issue with regard to ‘carrying cost’ is concerned, we have already discussed the issue at length in the foregoing paragraphs. As such, no interference is warranted on that finding also. 151. Insofar as other claims which were concurrently allowed E and disallowed by the CERC and the learned APTEL are concerned, in view of the concurrent findings, we are not inclined to interfere with the same. 152. The appeals of both DISCOMS as well as Generating Companies are, therefore, liable to be dismissed. F Civil Appeal No. 6641 of 2019 153. This appeal is filed by GKEL, being aggrieved by the concurrent denial of benefits on certain components. 154. As already discussed herein above by us, in view of the concurrent findings recorded by the CERC as well as the learned APTEL G for disallowing the claims, we are not inclined to interfere with the same. The appeal is, accordingly, liable to be dismissed. Civil Appeal Nos. 5583-5584 of 2021 155. In the present case, the benefit is granted on following grounds: H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 235 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (i) Shortfall in domestic coal on account of Change in NCDP; A (ii) Add on premium on account of existing tapering linkage by three years; (iii) Busy Season Surcharge 156. The first issue sands covered by the s of this Court B in the cases of Energy Watchdog (supra), Adani Rajasthan case (supra) and MSEDCL v. APML & Ors. (supra) and as such, no interference is warranted. 157. Insofar as Busy Season Surcharge is concerned, apart from there being concurrent findings of facts, we have already given reasons C herein above as to how the same would amount to ‘Change in Law’. 158. We do not find any merit in the appeals. The same are, accordingly, liable to be dismissed. Civil Appeal No. 39 of 2021 D 159. The CERC has granted benefit on the following grounds. i. Shortfall in linkage coal on account of NCDP 2013 and SHAKTI Policy; ii. Change in coal quality pursuant to amendment of the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986; E iii. Increase in Busy Season Surcharge and Development Surcharge on transportation of coal by Indian Railways; and iv. Carrying cost on allowed ‘Change in Law’ claims. F 160. The view taken by the CERC has been affirmed by the learned APTEL. As such, the appeal arises out of the concurrent findings of fact.