The evident constitutional propriety disappears, however, if the condition substituted for the prohibition utterly fails G to further the end advanced as the justification for the prohibition.” 125. In Florance Dolan v. City of Tigard61, again the scope of the Fifth Amendment or rather the Takings Clause thereunder, fell for consideration. The owner of a city plot applied for a building permit for a bigger store than she had with certain other facilities, including parking H 61 512 US 374 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1133 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] area. The permission though granted came with two conditions. The A owner was to dedicate to the city, as a greenway, a portion of her lot within the 100-year floodplain of a creek, which flowed through one corner and along one boundary of the lot. The owner had also to dedicate to the city as a pedestrian/bicycle pathway, an additional 15-foot strip of land adjacent to the floodplain. Her request for variance of the conditions B was rejected. This stand was approved by the Authorities as also the Court of Appeals with four learned Judges dissenting with the Majority, remitted the matter back. Distinguishing the decision in Village of Euclid v. Ambler Reality Company62 and Agins (supra), the Court held, inter alia, as follows: C “9. The sort of land use regulations discussed in the cases just cited, however, differ in two relevant particulars from the present case. First, they involved essentially legislative determinations classifying entire areas of the city, whereas here the city made an adjudicative decision to condition petitioner’s application for a building permit on an individual parcel. Second, the conditions D imposed were not simply a limitation on the use petitioner might make of her own parcel, but a requirement that she deed portions of the property to the city. In Nollan, supra, we held that governmental authority to exact such a condition was circumscribed by the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. Under E the well-settled doctrine of “unconstitutional conditions,” the government may not require a person to give up a constitutional right—here the right to receive just compensation when property is taken for a public use—in exchange for a discretionary benefit conferred by the government where the benefit sought has little or no relationship to the property. See Perry v. Sindermann, 408 F U.S. 593, 92 S.Ct. 2694, 33 L.Ed.2d 570 (1972); Pickering v. Board of Ed. of Township High School Dist. 205, Will Cty., 391 U.S. 563, 568, 88 S.Ct. 1731, 1734, 20 L.Ed.2d 811 (1968). Petitioner contends that the city has forced her to choose between the building permit and her right under the Fifth Amendment to G just compensation for the public easements. Petitioner does not quarrel with the city’s authority to exact some forms of dedication as a condition for the grant of a building permit, but challenges the showing made by the city to justify these exactions. She argues 62 272 US 365 H 1134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.