[2023] 2 S.C.R. 951 951 VISHAL TIWARI A v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. (Writ Petition (C) No. 162 of 2023) MARCH 02, 2023 B [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules, 1957 – r. 19A – Loss C of the investor wealth in securities market – The Hidenburg Report – Investigation – The batch of petition in the instant case are regarding the loss of investor wealth in the securities market because of the steep decline in the share of the Adani Group of Companies because of the report published by one Hidenburg Reasearch in which it was alleged that the Adani Group of Companies has D manipulated its share prices and also has failed to disclose the transaction with related parties in contravention of the regulations framed by SEBI – The report alleges that company has violated other provision of securities laws – Hindenburg Research has taken a short position in the Adani Group companies through US traded E bonds and non-Indian traded derivative instruments – SEBI had started the investigation, the Court directed it to extend the scope of its investigation which should include investigation as to any violation of r. 19A, and also that whether there has been any failure to disclose transaction with related parties along with other relevant information and also that whether there was any manipulation of F stock prices in contravention of existing laws – Further, the Court ed the appointment of an Expert Committee for the assessment of the extant of regulatory framework and for the recommendation to strengthen and also to suggest the measures to strengthen investor awareness – Also, for effective working of Expert Committee, the G Court directed SEBI to provide requisite information relevant for the purpose and also directed other agencies of the Union Government to cooperate with the committee. ORIGINAL CIVIL/CRIMINAL JURISDICTION: Writ Petition (C) No. 162 of 2023. H 951 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Under Article 32 of The Constitution of India. With Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 39 of 2023, Writ Petition (C) No. 201 of 2023 and Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 57 of 2023. B Prashant Bhushan, Ms. Neha Rathi, Ramesh Kumar Mishra, Kamal Kishore, V.V. Gotam, Varun Thakur, Varinder Kumar Sharma, Advs. for the Petitioner. Tushar Mehta, SG, Jaideep Gupta, Sr. Adv., Akhil Abraham Roy, Ms. Surekha Raman, Abhishek Anand, M/s KJ John & Co., Kanu Agarwal, Rajat Nair, Arvind Kumar Sharma, Ramesh Babu MR, Ms. C Manisha Singh, Ms. Nisha Sharma, Ms. Jagriti Bharti, Ms. Tanya Chowdhary, Rohan Srivastava, Advs. for the Respondents. Vishal Tiwari, Manohar Lal Sharma, Petitioner-in-Person. The following of the Court was passed: D O R D E R 1. Notice. 2. The present batch of petitions concerns the loss of investor wealth in the securities market over the last few weeks because of a E steep decline in the share price of the Adani Group of companies. The decline in the share price was precipitated by a report published by Hindenburg Research on 24 January 2023.