15. The National Informatics Centre7, which has put into place the e-filing facilities for the DRTs/DRATs, has also been facilitating the same exercise in the judicial system. NIC is equipped with a robust team of officials. The Director General of NIC shall constitute a team to G monitor the progress of e-filing in the DRTs/DRATs so that any difficulties which are encountered can be suitably addressed on a real time basis. The e-filing module must be upgraded with periodical developments. 7 “NIC” H 354 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 16. The second aspect which needs to be borne in mind relates to the help desks which have been set up at the DRTs/DRATs. 17. Mr Shyam Gopal has adverted to a notice dated 22 February 2023 issued by the DRTs for Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Ernakulam and by the DRAT at Delhi indicating the arrangements which B have been made for setting up help desks or, as the case may be, providing technical assistance. 18. In this regard, we would recommend to the Union Government that in addition to setting up held desks, it would be appropriate if e-sewa kendras are set up at all the centres of the DRTs or, as the case may be, C DRATs to facilitate e-filing of cases and provide a one-step solution which encompasses all the e-services at the DRTs/DRATs. The e-sewa kendras should have adequate equipment in the form of computers and scanners, together with robust internet connectivity so as to facilitate the process of e-filing. In this context, a Standard Operating Procedure8 D must be prepared by the Department of Financial Services in consultation with NIC, setting out the facilities at every e-sewa kendras. This would be in line with the mission of the e-Committee of the Supreme Court of India for providing e-sewa kendras at court establishments across the country. The setting up of e-sewa kendras would provide access to justice to lawyers and litigants. The Department of Financial Services would be E at liberty to review the set up periodically and to take appropriate decisions in that regard. 19. Most of the specific grievances which have been urged by Mr Siddharth R Gupta stand assuaged in terms of the above directions. F 20. The digital divide between men and women in India is a stark reality: i. The National Sample Survey Office carried out a Multiple Indicator Survey covering the entire country in its 78th round. The report,9 inter alia, looked at the performance G of persons between 15-29 years in performing 9 different ICT skills. It concludes that the percentage of men who 8 “SOP” 9 Multiple Indicator Survey in India: NSS 78th Round (2020-2021), The National Sample Survey Office, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation, Government of H India (March 2023) M P HIGH COURT BAR ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA & 355 ORS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] could successfully perform different ICT tasks is more than A the percentage of women. For example, while 19.4% of men of age 15 years and above could send emails with attached files, only 11.5% of women of age 15 years and above could perform the same task.