On the record G we see no trace of any protest against, or disagreement with, this conduct of Andiappa Pillai. Besides, it was never suggested dur- ing the course of the enquiry before the Income Tax Officers that the directions given by Andiappa Pillai were not valid or effective and had not been agreed upon by the remaining partners. That is H why we think this technical point raised by Mr Kolah must fail.” MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 487 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] iii) That thereafter the Bombay High Court in the case of Narottam A and Pareira Ltd. (supra) through Justice M.C. Chagla, as His Lordship then was, observed and held in paragraphs 3 and 4 as under: “3. It is also necessary that the control and management of the affairs of the company should be situated wholly in the taxable B territories. Therefore, if any part of the control and management is outside the taxable territories then the company would not be resident. In this connection it is perhaps necessary to look at the converse definition for a Hindu undivided family, firm or other association of persons. In their case they are resident unless the C control and management of its affairs is situated wholly without the taxable territories. Therefore; whereas in the case of a Hindu undivided family or firm or association of persons any measure of control and management within the taxable territories would make them resident, in the case of a company any measure of control and management of its affairs outside the taxable territories would D make it non-resident. In construing the expression “control and management” it is necessary to bear in mind the distinction between doing of business and the control and management of business. Business and the whole of it may be done outside India and yet the control and management of that business may be wholly within E India. In this particular case considerable emphasis is placed upon the fact that the whole of the business of the company is done in Ceylon and the whole of the income which is liable to tax has been earned in Ceylon. But that is not a factor which the Legislature has emphasised, It is entirely irrelevant where the business is done and where the income has been earned. What is relevant and F material is from which place has that business been controlled and managed. “Control and management” referred to in Section 4A(c) is, as we shall presently point out on the authorities, central control and management. The control and management contemplated by this sub-section is not the carrying on of day to day business by G servants, employees or agents. The real test to be applied is, where is the controlling and directing power, or rather, where does the controlling and directing power function or to put it in a different language there is always a seat of power or the head and brain, and what has got to be ascertained is, where is this seat of power, or the head and brain.