1218 SUPR[2E0M23E] 9C OSU.CR.RT . R1E2P1O8 R: T2S023 INSC 64[21023] 9 S.C.R. A BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN RAO AND ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 4632 of 2023) B JULY 24, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Or. VII, r.11, Or. XII, r.6 – Representation of People Act, 1951 – ss. 8, 33A, 33B, 81, 84, 100 – Appellant was a successful candidate in the election – The respondent C preferred an election petition against appellant u/ss. 81 & 84 r/w ss. 100(1)(d)(i)(ii)(iii) & (iv) of 1951 Act alleging, inter-alia, furnishing of false information, non-disclosure of cases pending and those in which appellant was convicted – Appellant filed application u/Or. VII, r.11 of CPC for its rejection – It was contended D that mandatory requirements u/ss. 81 and 81(3) were not followed and criminal cases did not fall within ss. 8 & 33A of the Act – High Court was of the opinion that taking in the overall conspectus of facts available on record did not lead to a compelling reason for rejecting petition – Accordingly, application was dismissed – On E appeal, held: The alleged non-compliance with statutory and Election Commission mandated regulations, and their legal effect, cannot be examined in what are essentially summary proceedings u/Or. VII, r.11 of CPC, or even Or. XII, r.6 of CPC – Even if the allegations regarding non-disclosure of cases where the appellant F has been arrayed as an accused, are ultimately true, the effect of such allegations has to be considered after a full trial – The admission of certain facts by the election petitioner cannot be sufficient for the court to reject the petition, wholly – of High Court cannot be faulted. G Constitution of India – Right to vote – The right to vote, based on an informed choice, is a crucial component of the essence of democracy – The citizen has an inalienable right to exercise her or his right to franchise – This finds articulation in Art. 326 of the Constitution. H 1218 BHIM RAO BASWANTH RAO PATIL v. K. MADAN MOHAN 1219 RAO AND ORS. Dismissing the appeal, the Court A HELD:1. A plain look at the election petition reveals that apart from allegations pertaining to non-disclosure of criminal cases pending against the appellant, or cases where he was convicted, other averments and allegations have been made regarding non-compliance with stipulations regarding information B dissemination and the manner of dissemination through publication in newspapers, the font size, the concerned newspapers’ reach amongst the populace, etc. The alleged non- compliance with statutory and Election Commission mandated regulations, and their legal effect, cannot be examined in what C are essentially summary proceedings under VII Rule 11, CPC, or even under XII Rule 6, CPC. Even if the allegations regarding non-disclosure of cases where the appellant has been arrayed as an accused, are ultimately true, the effect of such allegations (in the context of provisions of law and the non- disclosure of all other particulars mandated by the Election D Symbols s) has to be considered after a full trial.