A High Court Judge has immense experience. In any exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226, the High Courts are quite conscious of the scope and nature of jurisdiction, which in turn would depend on the nature of the matter. G 29. We believe that there is no necessity to carve out certain cases from the scope of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution, as was suggested by the learned Additional Solicitor General. It was enunciated in the Constitution Bench in S.N. 21 (supra) H 614 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Mukherjee22 case that even in respect of courts-martial, the High Court could grant appropriate relief in a certain scenario as envisaged therein, i.e., “if the said proceedings have resulted in denial of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution or if the said proceedings suffer from a jurisdictional error or any error of law apparent on the face of the record.” B 30. How can courts countenance a scenario where even in the aforesaid position, a party is left remediless? It would neither be legal nor appropriate for this Court to say something to the contrary or restrict the aforesaid observation enunciated in the Constitution Bench in S.N. Mukherjee23 case. We would loath to carve out any exceptions, C including the ones enumerated by the learned Additional Solicitor General extracted aforesaid as irrespective of the nature of the matter, if there is a denial of a fundamental right under Part III of the Constitution or there is a jurisdictional error or error apparent on the face of the record, the High Court can exercise its jurisdiction. There appears to be a D misconception that the High Court would re-appreciate the evidence, thereby making it into a second appeal, etc. We believe that the High Courts are quite conscious of the parameters within which the jurisdiction is to be exercised, and those principles, in turn, are also already enunciated by this Court. E 31. We also fail to appreciate as to why there should be any apprehension of diluting the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court as envisaged under the Act or the constitutional scheme, based on observations made by us in the present . Conclusion: F 32. We have, thus, no hesitation in concluding that the in Major General Shri Kant Sharma & Anr.24 case does not lay down the correct law and is in conflict with s of the Constitution Benches rendered prior and later to it, including in L. Chandra Kumar25 case, S.N. Mukherjee26 case, and Rojer Mathew27 case making it abundantly clear that there is no per se restriction on the exercise of G 22 (supra) 23 (supra) 24 (supra) 25 (supra) 26 (supra) H 27 (supra) UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. PARASHOTAM DASS 615 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] power under Article 226 of the Constitution by the High Court. However, A in respect of matters of self-discipline, the principles already stand enunciated. 33. We having now dealt with the general propositions, turn to the individual cases as they may require different nature of s. In fact, a list of the matters and the nature of s solicited have also been set B out by Mr. K. Parameshwar, learned counsel, and are being dealt with as follows: I.