The person is whose favour the security interest is created need not be the creditor who avails the credit facility, and can be a third F person. Security interest can be created for credit facilities/loan advanced to another person. It is accepted and admitted that the Appellant No. 1 – Vistra has security interest in the pledged shares. In to examine the nature of the said interest, we must first understand what constitutes ‘pledge’ in law. G 7.1 The concept of ‘pledge’ has been elucidated by this Bench in PTC India Financial Services Limited v. Venkateswarlu Kari and Another,6 with reference to the provisions of contract of bailment and specific provisions concerning the pledge, a subset of bailments, in the following manner: H 6 (2022) 9 SCC 704. M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD v. MR. DINKAR 823 VENKATASUBRAMANIAN [M. R. SHAH, J.] “18. As per Section 151, a bailee is bound to take as much care A of the goods bailed to him as a man of ordinary prudence would, under similar circumstances, take of his goods of the same bulk, quality and value as the goods bailed. Section 152 states that a bailee, in the absence of a special contract, will not be liable for any loss, destruction, or deterioration of the bailed goods if he acts B in conformity with Section 151. As per Section 153, a contract for bailment is voidable at the option of the bailor if the bailee does any act with regard to the goods bailed, inconsistent with the conditions of the bailment. Section 154 lays down that the bailee shall be liable for damage arising from unauthorised use of the bailed goods. The bailee, with the consent of the bailor, can mix C the goods bailed with his own goods, in which event, the bailor and the bailee will have interest in proportion to their respective shares in the mixture. [ Section 155, Contract Act.] However, if the bailee, without the bailor’s consent, mixes the bailed goods with his own, and the goods can be separated or divided, the property in the D goods remain with the parties respectively. [ Section 156, Contract Act.] Further, the bailee is bound to bear the expense of separation or division of the goods, as well as any damage arising from the mixture. Section 157 provides that when the goods are so mixed without the bailor’s consent and cannot be separated, the bailor is liable to be compensated, and the bailee is liable for the loss. E 19. Under Section 160, the bailee has to return or deliver, as per the bailor’s directions, the goods, without demand, as soon as the time for which they were bailed has expired or the purpose for which they were bailed has been accomplished. Section 161 states that if there is a default by the bailee and the goods are not returned, F delivered, or tendered at the proper time, the bailee is responsible to the bailor for any loss, destruction, or deterioration of the goods from that time.