There were no allegations of coercion or economic duress compelling F SPML to withdraw any pending claims under the subject contract as a condition for the return of the Bank Guarantees. On the contrary, the only allegation by SPML was with respect to NTPC’s “illegal” action of interlinking the release of the Bank Guarantees with some other contracts. This was precisely the argument before G the High Court, and, in fact, this submission is recorded by the High Court while issuing notice and injuncting NTPC. This fact clearly indicates that the plea of coercion and economic duress leading to the Settlement Agreement is an afterthought. [Para 45][867-E-G] H NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. 849 2.3. It was during the subsistence of the Writ Petition and A the High Court’s interim , when SPML had complete protection of the Court, that the parties entered into the Settlement Agreement. This agreement was comprehensive. It inter alia provided for the release of Bank Guarantees by NTPC, the withdrawal of SPML’s Writ Petition, restraining NTPC from B filing contempt proceedings against SPML for letting the Bank Guarantees expire, and finally, restraining SPML from initiating any proceedings under the subject contract, including arbitration. The Settlement Agreement also recorded that there were no subsisting issues pending between the parties. [Para 46][868-A- C] C 2.4. After reaping the benefits of the Settlement Agreement, the Writ Petition was withdrawn on 21.09.2020. It is thereafter that the present application under Section 11(6) of the Act was filed. The sequence of events leads to conclude that the letter of repudiation was issued only to wriggle out of the terms of the D Settlement Agreement. Thus, it is clarified that the claims sought to be submitted to arbitration were raised as an afterthought. Further, SPML’s allegations of coercion and economic duress in the execution of the Settlement Agreement lack bona fide. They are liable to be knocked down as ex facie frivolous and untenable. E [Paras 47 and 48][868-E-G] 2.5. This is a case where the High Court should have exercised the prima facie test to screen and strike down the ex- facie meritless and dishonest litigation. These are the kinds of cases where the High Court should exercise the restricted and limited review to check and protect parties from being forced to F arbitrate. Thus, the High Court erred in allowing the application under Section 11(6) of the Act. The High Court ought to have examined the issue of the final settlement of disputes in the context of the principles laid down in Vidya Drolia’s case. Thus, the decision of the High Court is set aside. [Paras 49-51][868-G- G H; 869-A-B] Vidya Drolia and Ors. v. Durga Trading Corporation (2021) 2 SCC 1 – relied on. Mayavati Trading (P) Ltd. v. Pradyuat Deb Burman (2019) 8 SCC 714 : [2019] 12 SCR 123; Duro H 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd. (2017) 9 SCC 729 : [2017] 10 SCR 285; Sanjiv Prakash v. Seema Kukreja and Ors.