In the said case, the builder/developer had stated that it would not handover the possession and execute the conveyance deed without acceptance of the off er of possession terms. Any request to take over possession and execute the documents under protest was untenable. The consumers were, in fact, asked to fi le an unconditional affi davit/undertaking to that eff ect, as execution of documents under protest or claim of coercion was not to be entertained. In this background, this Court in Arifur Rahman Khan (supra) held that the fl at buyers/consumers were essentially presented with an unfair choice of either retaining their right to pursue their claims, in which event they would not get possession or title in the meantime, or to forsake the claims in to perfect their title to the fl ats for which they had paid valuable consideration. Accordingly, the question needed to be addressed was whether a fl at buyer who seeks to espouse a claim against the developer for delayed possession can, as a consequence of doing so, be compelled to defer the right to obtain a conveyance to perfect their title. This Court held that it would be manifestly unreasonable to expect that in to pursue a claim for compensation for delayed handing over of possession, the purchaser must indefi nitely defer obtaining a conveyance of the premises purchased or, if they seek to obtain a deed of conveyance to forsake the right to claim compensation. The contrary position which the National Commission had espoused, this Court was of the view cannot 9 (2020) 16 SCC 512. 1130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. be countenanced and accepted. This Court thus rejected the argument that on the execution of the conveyance deed, the transaction ceases to be a transaction in the nature of “supply of services” covered under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and becomes a mere sale of immovable property and, therefore, it is not amenable to the jurisdiction of the consumer fora. At the same time, this Court had refused to interfere and grant relief in cases of purchasers who had entered into specifi c settlement deeds with the developers observing that it would only be appropriate and proper if the parties were held down by the terms of the bargain. The contention that the settlement deeds were executed under coercion or under undue infl uence was also not accepted since no specifi c material had been produced on record to demonstrate the same. This Court also held that subsequent purchasers cannot benefi t from the of this Court therein. However, this view in re. the subsequent purchasers stands overruled by a bench of three judges’ in Laureate Buildwell Private Limited v. Charanjeet Singh10. In Laureate Buildwell Private Limited (supra) the larger bench over-ruled the ratio laid down in Arifur Rahman Khan (supra) to the extent that a subsequent purchaser would not be entitled to the benefi t of the passed in case of the original allottee. On the other hand, it has been held that the nature and extent of relief, to which the subsequent purchaser can be entitled, is fact and situation dependent.