The Indian Constitution envisages a B Parliamentary and responsible form of Government at the Centre and in the States and not a Presidential form of Government. The powers of the Governor as the constitutional head are not different. 142. The extraordinary powers of legislation by ordinances, C dispensing with enquiries against public servants before dismissal, declaration of emergency and imposition of President’s rule by proclamation upon States, are vast powers of profound significance. Indeed, even the power of summoning and proroguing and dissolving the House of the People and returning Bills passed D by the Parliament belongs to him. If only we expand the ratio of Sardari Lal and Jayantilal to every function which the various articles of the Constitution confer on the President or the Governor, Parliamentary democracy will become a dope and national elections a numerical exercise in expensive futility. We will be compelled to hold that there are E two parallel authorities exercising powers of governance of the country, as in the dyarchy days, except that Whitehall is substituted by Rashtrapati Bhavan and Raj Bhavan. The Cabinet will shrink at Union and State levels in political and administrative authority and, having solemn regard to the gamut of his powers and F responsibilities, the Head of State will be reincarnation of Her Majesty’s Secretary of State for India, untroubled by even the British Parliament — a little taller in power than the American President. Such a distortion, by interpretation, it appears to us, would virtually amount to a subversion of the structure, substance and vitality of our Republic, particularly when we remember that G Governors are but appointed functionaries and the President himself is elected on a limited indirect basis. As we have already indicated, the overwhelming catena of authorities of this Court have established over the decades that the cabinet form of Government and the Parliamentary system have been adopted in India and the H STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 543 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] contrary concept must be rejected as incredibly allergic to our A political genius, constitutional creed and culture.” (emphasis supplied) 22. This position was reiterated by a Constitution Bench in Nabam Rebia v. Dy. Speaker, Arunachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly3. B In view of the constitutional provision and the s of this Court, there can be no manner of doubt that the authority which is entrusted to the Governor to summon the House or each House of the Legislature of the State is to be exercised on the aid and advice of the Council of Minsters. This is not a constitutional arena in which the Governor is entitled to C exercise his own discretion. In the present case, the Governor was not summoning the House for the first time following a general election, but was advised by the Council of Ministers to convene the Budget Session, at the behest of a government which has been duly elected in the general election. Plainly, the Governor was duty bound to do so.