F He further submitted that a perusal of the report of the said Board itself would reveal that, though the Draft CMP-2031 provided for the re-introduction of the apartments, the said Board had recommended against it, and the said recommendation was accepted. 22. Shri Patwalia submitted that, though the 2001 Rules permitted G apartmentalization, on account of hue and cry of public at large, the same were repealed in the year 2007. He further submitted that the 1960 Rules as well as the 2007 Rules specifically prohibited fragmentation or amalgamation of any site or building. However, through a certain modus operandi, the builders/developers were constructing three H 616 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A apartments on three floors, thereafter selling the said apartments to three persons, who would enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU). Under the MoU, the person occupying the ground floor and basement would get 50% share in the plot, the person occupying the first floor would get 30%, and the person occupying the second or third floor would get 20%. He submitted that therefore, what is directly prohibited by law, B is being indirectly done by the builders/developers. He submitted that, though a specific undertaking is given not to convert the site/building into apartments, the builders/developers were violating the said undertaking openly. He further submitted that though the Chandigarh Administration has clearly admitted that it was not permitting the construction of such C apartments, and that under the law, such apartments were prohibited, it was sanctioning the building plans which ex-facie showed that they were for the construction of three apartments. He submitted that the High Court itself has observed that the Chandigarh Administration has not been alive to such illegalities being committed by the unscrupulous builders/developers. D 23. Shri Patwalia submitted that through such modus operandi of the developers/builders, and inaction on the part of Chandigarh Administration, what is prohibited in law, is being permitted indirectly. 24. Shri Patwalia further submitted that the CMP-2031 prohibits E construction of apartments. He submits that though CMP-2031 is binding on the respondents under which apartmentalization is not permissible, the apartments are being indirectly permitted to be constructed and sold, giving rise to illegal transactions. It is submitted that on one hand, the Chandigarh Administration in its affidavit states that it does not permit construction of apartments, on the other hand, it is permitting the same F indirectly. 25. Shri Patwalia submitted that when Chandigarh was conceptualized, it was decided that Phase-I will have bungalows in the residential areas having a green area in the frontyard and backyard of the houses. However, on account of apartmentalisation, the green areas G now have been converted into concrete areas, and the very concept of having a green city is being defeated. 26. Shri Ranjit Kumar also submitted that the learned Judges of the Division Bench of the High Court have erred in holding that mere construction of three floors on a private plot and utilization of the same H as independent units would not amount to fragmentation.