The legislative debates during the introduction of the SMA indicate that Parliament made a conscious decision to exclude non-heterosexual unions from the ambit of the SMA; ii. The object of the SMA is to grant (and regulate) legal recognition to inter-faith and inter-caste unions of heterosexual couples. The provisions of the SMA have a reasonable nexus to this object; iii. There is an intelligible diff erentia in classifying unions into heterosexual and non-heterosexual partnerships because heterosexual couples sustain a society through precreation. In fact, the Transgender Persons Act also classifi es persons into homosexuals and heterosexuals and grants substantive rights to the members of the LGBTQIA+ community in furtherance of the mandate of substantive equality. The Transgender Persons Act recognizes the autonomy of the members of the LGBTQI+ community to choose a partner of their choice; iv. The constitutionality of a statute cannot be challenged on the ground of under-inclusion; v. An emerging body of evidence indicates that homosexuality may be an acquired characteristic and not an innate characteristic. Children who have been exposed to homosexual experiences are more likely to identify as a homosexual on attaining adulthood. Thus, this Court must not approach this issue from a “linear reductionist perspective.” Further, the argument of the petitioners that 127 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the SMA is unconstitutional because it is excludes a class based on innate characteristics is erroneous; vi. The SMA would become unworkable if it is read in a gender-neutral manner. It would also amount to this Court re-drafting a large number of provisions: A. Section 2(b) read with the First Schedule prescribes distinctive degrees of prohibited relationships for the bride and the groom; B. According to Section 4(c), the male must have completed twenty-one years of age and the female must have completed eighteen years of age at the time of marriage. Reading the phrase ‘spouse’ in place of ‘male’ and ‘female’ would render the distinctive minimum age requirement for marriage based on gender otiose; C. The form of the statutory oath which the parties are required to take for the solemnization of their marriage expressly uses the phrases ‘wife’ and ‘husband’; D. According to Section 21, the rules of succession provided in the Indian Succession Act 192552 govern the succession of property of any person who is married under the SMA. The ISA prescribes diff erent rules and procedures for succession based on gender. Reading the provisions of the SMA in a gender- neutral manner would impact the interpretation of the provisions of the ISA as well; E. By virtue of Section 21A, the rules of succession under the HMA shall apply for marriages solemnized between a male and female professing the Hindu, Buddist, Sikh or Jain religion. The HSA prescribes different rules for succession based on gender. 52 “ISA” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1273 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Reading the provisions of the SMA in a gender-neutral manner would render the HSA unworkable; and F. Other provisions of the SMA such as Sections 27, 31, 36, and 37 cater to the needs and requirements of a woman in a heterosexual marriage.