However, as it could not be conducted immediately, an ‘NI’ procedure was suggested as an alternative involving ‘NT’ as a temporary stent. The ‘NT’ stent was expected to serve the purpose of holding the anterior fl ap and supporting the weakened anterior tracheal wall, preventing a collapse in the lumen, which was causing a problem in decannulation of the ‘TT’. Upon the fl ap and tracheal wall healing completely, the ‘NT’ would have been removed restoring normal airway. Therefore, Dr. Rajesh Swarnakar conducted the requisite ‘NI’ procedure. M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 123 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] NCDRC 17. In relation to the main allegation in the complaint regarding the ‘TT’ unnecessarily being replaced by ‘NI’, even though the 1st Bronchoscopy conducted on 13.05.2004, revealed normalcy in Mrs. Sunita’s airways, the NCDRC held that negligence was proved. It was found that given the patient was breathing normally through the ‘TT’, there was no basis to consider replacing it with ‘NI’. It was observed that the ‘TT’ is resorted to when there is a need to provide longer respiration assistance as opposed to ‘NI’, which is more of a temporary measure. Mrs. Sunita was already receiving breathing assistance through the ‘TT’ having already been performed at Gondia hospital on 05.05.2004. After which, she was shifted to Suretech Hospital in a semi-comatose state at around 12:30 AM on 06.05.2004. She was put on a ventilator as an urgent measure, which was weaned off on 08.05.2004. Even the Bronchoscopy conducted on 13.05.2004 indicated a normal larynx and trachea. Thus, it is established that Mrs. Sunita was recovering well, breathing through the ‘TT’ without any issue. Thus, ‘NI’ was performed without any basis or justifi cation, especially as a short-term measure, even though the patient was responding well to her existing treatment. It was further reasoned that even though there is a need to take necessary long-term steps to ensure the patient’s respiration is restored to its earlier normal levels, but the same cannot be done unreasonably, in a tearing hurry, especially without any impending need. Thereby, the NCDRC concluded that the negligence charge regarding the unjustifi able ‘NI’ procedure was proved. The act of replacing the existing ‘TT’, with ‘NI’ was held to have been an avoidable course of action that was other than what should have ordinarily been done in that situation. 18. The NCDRC further observed that the expert medical committee report formulated by RML Hospital was silent about the baseless and forced ‘NI’ procedure that was carried out, even though the Bronchoscopy report indicated that the patient had a normal airway. The expert committee report mentioned that the ‘TT’ was only removed on 13.05.2004, after the said Bronchoscopy report. Thereafter, Mrs. Sunita was able to breath, but a minimal stridor was observed. 19. The NCDRC held that the submissions made by Dr. Madhusudan Shendre are inconsistent in relation to removal of the ‘TT’, and covering the 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. stoma wound, and observing normalcy in the morning, whereas he averred observing the patient having breathing diffi culty at night.