Legal tender character of notes - (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), every Bank note shall E be legal tender at any place in [India] in payment or on account for the amount expressed therein, and shall be guaranteed by the [Central Government]. (2) On recommendation of the Central Board the [Central Government] may, by notification in the Gazette of India, declare that, with effect from such date as may be F specified in the notification, any series of Bank notes of any denomination shall cease to be legal tender [save at such office or agency ofthe Bank and to such extent as may be specified in the notification].” “[26A. Certain Bank notes to cease to be legal G tender- Notwithstanding anything contained in section 26, no Bank note of the denominational value of five hundred rupees, one thousand rupees or ten thousand rupees issued before the 13th day of January, 1946, shall be legal tender in payment or on account for the amount H expressed therein. ]” VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 157 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] “27. Re-issue of notes- The Bank shall not re-issue A Bank notes which are torn, defaced or excessively spoiled.” xxx “34. Liabilities of the Issue Department- (1) The B liabilities of the Issue Department shall be an amount equal to the total of the amount of the currency notes of the Government of India and Bank notes for the time being in circulation.” 7.6 Section 22 states that the Bank has the sole right to issue C bank notes in India, and may, for a period which shall be fixed by the Central Government on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, issue currency notes of the Government of India supplied to it by the Central Government. On and from the date on which Chapter III comes into force, the Central Government shall not issue D any currency notes except the denomination of Rupee One. 7.7 The issue of bank notes shall be by the Issue Department of the Bank which shall be separated and kept wholly distinct from the Banking Department, and the assets of the Issue Department shall not be subject to any liability E other than the liability of the Issue Department as defined under Section 34 of the Act, vide Section 23 of the Act. The liabilities of the Issue Department under Section 34 of the Act shall be an amount equal to the total of the amount of the currency notes of the Government of India and bank notes for the time being in circulation. F 7.8 Sub-section (1) of Section 24 states that, subject to the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 24, the bank notes shall be of the denominational values of two rupees, five rupees, ten rupees, twenty rupees, fifty rupees, one hundred rupees, five hundred rupees, one thousand rupees, five G thousand rupees and ten thousand rupees or of such other denominational values, not exceeding ten thousand rupees, as the Central Government may, on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, specify in this behalf.