But, at the same time, in to avail the benefit of reservation or weightage, necessary certificates have to be produced but they D are in the nature of proof for the purpose of seeking entitlement to claim the benefit of reservation, but it has no nexus with the last date of the application and, it may not be proper to apply any rigid principle in the absence of any rule to the contrary. As a matter of caution, every infraction of the rule relating to submission E of proof in availing the benefit of reservation may not necessarily result in rejection of the candidature. [Para 32][606-F-H; 607-A] 2. The reservation of vacancies of various categories as referred to in Rule 10 is not a condition of eligibility for the candidate to participate in the selection process as the certificate F of category for the purpose of claiming reservation will arise not at the stage when the application form is filled making self- declaration by the individual candidate to participate in the selection process but at the stage when the select list is to be prepared of the candidates who have participated in the selection process since the final select list has to be published category- G wise by giving the benefit of reservation to the candidates who have participated in the process of selection and for no other purpose and when the respondent has demanded from the applicant to furnish their respective certificate of the category to which one had participated in the selection process under its notice H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 585 OTHERS dated 04th August, 2022, indisputedly each of the applicant had A furnished the certificate of their category to which one belong at the time of advertisement when demanded by the recruiting authority in terms of Clause 6(i) & (iii) read with Clause 22(3) of the advertisement dated 22nd July, 2021. [Para 34][607-E-H] 3. That apart, taking into consideration the Scheme of Rules, B 2010, which is indisputedly, silent on the subject issue and the advertisement dated 22nd July, 2021 nowhere indicates that the caste certificate/certificate of category has to be produced of the period prior to the last date of the application (31st August, 2021) in the instant case. To the contrary, Clause 6(i) & (iii) read with C Clause 22(3) of the advertisement, such certificate of category which one claimed for seeking the benefit of reservation, has to be produced on demand by the recruiting authority. [Para 38][610- B-C] 4. In the given facts and circumstances, when the rules are D silent and there is no such instruction that the certificate of the category has to be produced of the period on or before the last date of the application under the advertisement and each of the applicants has produced the certificate relating to category on being demanded by the recruiting authority when the list came to be published of the candidates who were provisionally called E for interview on 04th August, 2022, each of the applicants indisputedly has furnished their certificate of the category to which they belong at the time of advertisement and had participated in the process of selection.