The Committee also took note of the criminal gangs who carried out their activities G under the aegis of various political parties and government functionaries. The Committee further expressed great concern regarding the fact that over the past few years, several criminals had been elected to local bodies, State Assemblies and Parliament. The Report observed: H 148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “3.2. … In the bigger cities, the main source of income relates to real estate — forcibly occupying lands/buildings, procuring such properties at cheap rates by forcing out the existing occupants/ tenants etc. Over time, the money power thus acquired is used for building up contacts with bureaucrats and politicians and expansion of activities with impunity. The money power is used to B develop a network of muscle-power which is also used by the politicians during elections.” And again: “3.3. … The nexus between the criminal gangs, police, C bureaucracy and politicians has come out clearly in various parts of the country. The existing criminal justice system, which was essentially designed to deal with the individual offences/crimes, is unable to deal with the activities of the mafia; the provisions of law in regard economic offences are weak…” 183. We are tempted to quote the following observations by Shri D C. Rajagopalachari, made way back in 1922, which has been referred to by the Constitution Bench in Public Interest Foundation (supra): “40. … “… ‘Elections and their corruption, injustice and tyranny of wealth, E and inefficiency of administration, will make a hell of life as soon as freedom is given to us….’”” 184. The Court, in Public Interest Foundation (supra), elaborately quoted from the Two Hundred and Forty-Fourth Report of the Law Commission of India on Electoral Disqualifications. This Court also F reiterated the role and, thereafter, the powers of the Election Commission. The Court went on to observe that: “115. …The best available people, as is expected by the democratic system, should not have criminal antecedents and the voters have a right to know about their antecedents, assets and other aspects. G We are inclined to say so, for in a constitutional democracy, criminalisation of politics is an extremely disastrous and lamentable situation. The citizens in a democracy cannot be compelled to stand as silent, deaf and mute spectators to corruption by projecting themselves as helpless. The voters cannot be allowed to resign to their fate. The information given by a candidate must express H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 149 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] everything that is warranted by the Election Commission as per A law. Disclosure of antecedents makes the election a fair one and the exercise of the right of voting by the electorate also gets sanctified. …” 185. Thereafter, the Constitution Bench went on to hold as follows: B “116. Keeping the aforesaid in view, we think it appropriate to issue the following directions which are in accord with the decisions of this Court: 116.1. Each contesting candidate shall fill up the form as provided by the Election Commission and the form must contain all the C particulars as required therein.