The State’s regulation of marriage recognised that even though a married couple is a ‘unit’ for the purposes of laws, they still retain their individual identity and are entitled to constitutional guarantees. For example, one of the parties need not necessarily be at fault for the couple to secure divorce. Our laws recognise divorce by mutual consent. They recognise that the parties to a marriage are in the best position to decide if they should continue with the marital relationship. Divorce by mutual consent is grounded on the principle of autonomy. The involvement of the State in the regulation of marriage opened up the space for inter-caste marriages and inter-faith marriages, and secured prominent constitutional rights. 140. The regulation by the State and its attempts to create a more equal personal sphere also contribute towards factual equality where women are empowered to defy patriarchal notions of gender roles in daily life. The SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1321 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] impact of the State’s involvement in creating a more just personal space by reforming the institution of marriage on the basis of constitutional ideals can be seen when a wife chooses to retain her surname after her marriage or where the partners equally contribute towards raising their child. 141. The State recognised that a Constitution which upholds the values of freedom, liberty, and equality cannot permit the sustenance of a feudal institution undermining the rights of marginalised communities. Thus, it is important to view the involvement of the State in regulating the institution of marriage in terms of its transformative potential in ensuring equality in the personal sphere and in family life. 142. Having discussed why and how the State regulates the institution of marriage, it is important that this Court recognise the eff ect of such regulation. Apart from the benefi ts of the State’s involvement which are recognised above (that is, in creating a social in consonance with the principles laid down in the Constitution), there are other benefi ts. These benefi ts can be segregated into tangible and intangible benefi ts. 143. The intangible benefi ts of marriage are guided by hidden law. Hidden law comprises of norms and conventions which organize social expectations and regulate everyday behaviour.125 The benefi ts which are conferred by a legal institution must not be measured solely in terms of the benefi ts which are conferred by the law. It must also include the benefi ts which are conferred by hidden law. These are benefi ts which are not traceable to law but which are created by norms. One such benefi t of marriage which is traceable to hidden law is the social validity and recognition which marriage as an institution confers upon relationships. 144. It is pertinent to note that the State only regulates heterosexual marriages. The law confers numerous rights and benefi ts which fl ow from a marriage but ignores the existence of any other form of relationship. The invisibilization of relationships which are not in the form of marriage on the one hand bestows sanctity and commitment to marriages and on the other hand strengthens the perception that any other form of relationship is fl eeting and non-committal.