A company, which availed of the loan. The loan agreement was also signed by him on behalf of the company. What the Appellant seeks is escape out of criminal liability having defaulted in payment of the amount at a very early stage of the loan. In fact, the loan account itself was closed. So much for the bona fides of the Appellant. B 18. We are unable to accept the plea that if proceedings against the company come to an end then the Appellant as the Managing Director cannot be proceeded against. We are unable to accept the plea that Section 138 of the N.I. Act proceedings are primarily compensatory in nature and that the punitive element is incorporated only at enforcing the compensatory proceedings. The criminal liability and the fines are built C on the principle of not honouring a negotiable instrument, which affects trade. This is apart from the principle of financial liability per se. To say that under a scheme which may be approved, a part amount will be recovered or if there is no scheme a person may stand in a queue to recover debt would absolve the consequences under Section 138 of the D N.I. Act, is unacceptable. 19. We are, thus, conclusively of the view that the impugned takes the correct view in law and cannot be assailed before us. Conclusion: 20. The appeals are accordingly dismissed but without costs before E us on account of what we have recorded in para 14. J. B. PARDIWALA, J. 1. I have carefully, gone through the perspicuous opinion of my F esteemed brother Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J. I am entirely in agreement with the discussion contained in the said on all the cardinal issues that have arisen for consideration in these proceedings. At the same time, having regard to the fact that the issues involved are of seminal importance, I am also inclined to pen down my thoughts. G 2. For the sake of convenience, the Criminal Appeal No. 170 of 2023 (@ SLP (Crl) No. 417 of 2020) is treated as the lead matter. 3. This appeal by special leave is at the instance of the original accused No. 2 in a complaint lodged by the respondent herein (original complainant) for the offence punishable under Section 138 of the H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 999 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881 (for short, ‘the NI Act’) and is directed A against the passed by the Additional Sessions Judge-02 South East District, Saket Court, New Delhi dated 23.11.2019 in the Criminal Revision Application No. 593 of 2019 by which the Additional Sessions Judge affirmed the passed by the Metropolitan Magistrate – 09, SED dated 01.11.2019 rejecting the application filed by the appellant B herein seeking discharge from the criminal proceedings i.e. Complaint Case No. 632984 of 2016 instituted by the respondent-complainant under Section 138 of the NI Act. 4. It is necessary to clarify why the appellant challenged the impugned passed by the Additional Sessions Judge directly before C this Court invoking Article 136 of the Constitution of India.