Men born to freedom are naturally alert to repel invasion of their liberty by evil-minded rulers. The greatest D dangers to liberty lurk in insidious encroachment by men of zeal, well-meaning but without understanding.” 45. The above passage was approvingly quoted by Justice HR Khanna in his dissenting opinion in ADM Jabalpur.37It hardly needs to be emphasized that the question of default Bail is inextricably linked to E personal liberty and Article 21. Justice Khanna’s minority view in ADM Jabalpur found approval in Justice DY Chandrachud’s lead opinion in the privacy judgement in KS Puttaswamy,38wherein the learned Judge opined that even in absence of Article 21 of the Constitution, the State has no power to deprive a person of his life or personal liberty without the authority of the law; that being the essential postulate and basic F assumption.39It logically follows therefrom that life and personal liberty are inalienable and are rights that are inseparable from a dignified human existence. 35 Kesavananda Bharti vs. State of Kerala (1973) 4 SCC 225. (Per CJ Sikri) G 36 Olmstead vs. US, 277 US 438 (1928), dissenting 37 ADM Jabalpur vs. Shivkant Shukla (1976) 2 SCC 521, (para 529) per HR Khanna J. dissenting 38 K.S. Puttaswamy Vs. Union of India (2017) 10 SCC 1. 39 Justice DY Chandrachud, in his majority opinion in KS Puttaswamy vs. Union of India (2017) 10 SCC 1, cites John Locke’s Second Treatise (1690), stating that liberties are a matter of fundamental natural law. H 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 46. Writing on ‘natural liberty’, William Blackstone in his commentaries on Laws of England, in 1965 described those as absolute rights which were vested in the individual by the immutable laws of nature. In other words, the right to personal liberty came to be recognized as an unalienable and immutable right. B 47. The right to personal liberty is directly related to the inalienable right towards human dignity and personhood. The concept of dignity is central to our Constitutional law discourse. In fact, the Preamble itself, provides the guarantee of upholding ‘the dignity of the individual’. The Constitution scheme provides that all human rights, including the right to personal liberty, are specifications of one special fundamental C right- that is the right to have one’s personal dignity respected. The same proposition is also supported by the scholar Hannah Arendt. According to Arendt, dignity consists of the ‘right to have rights’ and the ‘right to equal political membership of some kind of organized community’.40Furthermore, constitutional courts around the world have D endorsed that the question of human dignity and equality form the base of personal liberty.41 The US Supreme Court in Munn Vs. Illinois42, explained the term liberty in context of the 14thAmendment to the US Constitution, and stated that, “by the term ‘liberty’, as used in the provision, something more is meant than mere freedom from physical restraint or the bounds of a prison. It means freedom to go where E one may choose, and to act in such manner, not inconsistent with the equal rights of others, ….. that is, to pursue such callings and avocations as may be most suitable to develop (individual) capacities and give to them their highest enjoyment.”43 These words were later adopted by this Court, in the context of Article 21 to suggest that life F under Article 21 does not mean, mere animal existence, but rather, a dignified existence.44 48.