If a husband D and wife were living together during the time of conception but the DNA test reveals that the child was not born to the husband, the conclusiveness in law would remain irrebuttable. What would be proved, is adultery on the part of the wife, however, the legitimacy of the child would still be conclusive in law. In other words, the conclusive presumption of paternity E of a child born during the subsistence of a valid marriage is that the child is that of the husband and it cannot be rebutted by a mere DNA test report. What is necessary to rebut is the proof of non-access at the time when the child could have been begotten, that is, at the time of its conception vide Kamti Devi vs. Poshi Ram, (2001) 5 SCC 311. 9. The next aspect of the matter that requires to be considered is F whether an adverse presumption can be drawn in the nature of Illustration (h) to Section 114, as to the wife’s adulterous conduct when she refuses to comply with a direction for the child to undergo a DNA test. 9.1. Section 114 states that the Court may presume the existence of any fact that it thinks likely to have happened, having regard to the G common course of natural events, human conduct and public and private business, in relation to the facts of a particular case. Broadly speaking, there are two classes of presumptions, viz presumption of fact and presumption of law. The latter is again categorised as “rebuttable presumptions of law” and “irrebuttable or conclusive presumptions of H law”. APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 707 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] The Court may presume that if a man refuses to answer a question A which he is not compelled to answer by law, the answer if given would be unfavourable to him. The questions that one is not compelled to answer by law, are dealt with in Sections 121-129. Refusal to answer a question is generally a legitimate ground for unfavourable inference against the person who may not answer the question. If a witness refuses to answer B the question, the Court has the power to draw an inference from such refusal vide Section 148(4) of the Evidence Act. Section 148(4) reads as under:- “148.Court to decide when question shall be asked and when witness compelled to answer.— C If any such question relates to a matter not relevant to the suit or proceeding, except in so far as it affects the credit of the witness by injuring his character, the Court shall decide whether or not the witness shall be compelled to answer it, and may, if it thinks fit, warn the witness that he is not obliged to answer it. In exercising D its discretion, the Court shall have regard to the following considerations:— xxx (4) The Court may, if it sees fit, draw, from the witness’s refusal to answer, the inference that the answer if given would be E unfavourable.” The use of the word expression “may” would imply that the Court has the discretion to draw such an inference and it not bound to do so.