In such circumstances, the complainant is expected to allege that the persons named in the complaint are in charge of the aff airs of the company/fi rm.” 10. We are of the considered view that the respondent has misread the said decision. Under the sub-caption ‘Specifi c Averments in the complaint’, SIBY THOMAS v. M/S. SOMANY CERAMICS LTD. 827 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] in paragraph 41 and sub-paragraphs (a) and (d) as also in paragraph 42 thereof, it was held in the decision in S.P. Mani’s case (supra) thus:- “41. In Gunmala Sales Private Limited (supra), this Court after an exhaustive review of its earlier decisions on Section 141 of the NI Act, summarized its conclusion as under:- “(a) Once in a complaint fi led under Section 138 read with Section 141 of the NI Act the basic averment is made that the Director was in charge of and responsible for the conduct of the business of the company at the relevant time when the off ence was committed, the Magistrate can issue process against such Director; (b) …… (c) …… (d) No restriction can be placed on the High Court’s powers under Section 482 of the Code. The High Court always uses and must use this power sparingly and with great circumspection to prevent inter alia the abuse of the process of the Court. There are no fi xed formulae to be followed by the High Court in this regard and the exercise of this power depends upon the facts and circumstances of each case. The High Court at that stage does not conduct a mini trial or roving inquiry, but nothing prevents it from taking unimpeachable evidence or totally acceptable circumstances into account which may lead it to conclude that no trial is necessary qua a particular Director.” 42. The principles of law and the dictum as laid in Gunmala Sales Private Limited (supra), in our opinion, still holds the fi eld and refl ects the correct position of law.” 11. In the light of the afore-extracted recitals from the decision in Gunmala Sales Private Limited v. Anu Mehta4, quoted with agreement in S.P. Mani’s case (supra) and in view of sub-section (1) of Section 141 of the N.I. Act it cannot be said that in a complaint fi led under Section 138 4 (2015) 1 SCC 103, 828 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. read with Section 141 of the N.I. Act to constitute basic averment it is not required to aver that the accused concerned is a person who was in charge of and responsible for the conduct of the business of the company at the relevant time when the off ence was committed. In paragraph 43 of S.P. Mani’s case (supra) it was held thus: “43. In the case on hand, we fi nd clear and specifi c averments not in the complaint but also in the statutory notice issued to the respondent.” It is thereafter that in the decision in S.P. Mani’s case (supra) in paragraph 47 (a) it was held that the primary responsibility of the complainant is to make specifi c averments in the complaint so as to make the accused vicariously liable.