(m) any person who is associated with the corporate debtor on account of— (i) participation in policy-making processes of the corporate debtor; or (ii) having more than two directors in common between the corporate debtor and such person; or (iii) interchange of managerial personnel between the corporate debtor and such person; or (iv) provision of essential technical information to, or from, the corporate debtor; 44.1 Clause (a) of Section 5(24) says that a director or partner of the corporate debtor or a relative of a director or partner of the corporate debtor would be a related party. Likewise, as per Clause (e) of Section 5(24), ‘related party’ in relation to a corporate debtor would mean a private or public company in which a director, partner or manager of the corporate debtor is a director and holds along with relatives more than two percent of its share capital or paid-up share capital, as the case may be. 45. Similarly, Section 5(24A) defi nes ‘related party’ in relation to an individual which is as follows: - 5. Defi nitions – In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires,- (24A) “related party”, in relation to an individual, means— (a) a person who is a relative of the individual or a relative of the spouse of the individual; (b) a partner of a limited liability partnership, or a limited liability partnership or a partnership fi rm, in which the individual is a partner; (c) a person who is a trustee of a trust in which the benefi ciary of the trust includes the individual, or the terms of the trust confers a power on the trustee which may be exercised for the benefi t of the individual; (d) a private company in which the individual is a director and holds along with his relatives, more than two per cent. of its share capital; EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 897 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] (e) a public company in which the individual is a director and holds along with relatives, more than two per cent. of its paid-up share capital; (f) a body corporate whose board of directors, managing director or manager, in the ordinary course of business, acts on the advice, directions or instructions of the individual; (g) a limited liability partnership or a partnership fi rm whose partners or employees in the ordinary course of business, act on the advice, directions or instructions of the individual; (h) a person on whose advice, directions or instructions, the individual is accustomed to act; (i) a company, where the individual or the individual along with its related party, own more than fi fty per cent. of the share capital of the company or controls the appointment of the board of directors of the company. Explanation.—For the purposes of this clause,— (a) “relative”, with reference to any person, means anyone who is related to another, in the following manner, namely— (i) members of a Hindu Undivided Family, (ii) husband, (iii) wife, (iv) father, (v) mother, (vi) son, (vii) daughter, (viii) son’s daughter and son, (ix) daughter’s daughter and son, (x) grandson’s daughter and son, (xi) granddaughter’s daughter and son, (xii) brother, 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.