in any event have resulted in the same decision.25 A closer look at Rule 4(5) of the 1986 Rules reveals that it also contains within it, an exemption for furnishing prior notice in the interest of expediency. 40. In the present case, there is no doubt that a pre-decisional hearing was not granted. Yet, the court cannot be oblivious of the fact that the state notifi ed the rules, on 25.06.2018 and did not bring it into force immediately. The ban was made eff ective, only from 01.01.2019. The petitioners and other parties were aff orded the opportunity to represent and make their views known, which they did. Undoubtedly, the state did not accept those views. The question then, is whether this court should insist that the failure to grant opportunity prior to the government , should result in invalidation of the ban itself. If one keeps in mind the larger public interest sought to be subserved by the impugned government , and also importantly the circumstance, that the Central Government notifi cation dated 01.07.2022 has resulted in a complete ban on single use cups among other use and throw plastic products, the public interest cannot be ignored. 41. Therefore, this court holds that though the mandate of the rule calls for pre-decisional hearing, in the peculiar facts of this case, given the effl ux of time, the resultant likely injury to the public in the event the notifi cation is interfered with, interests of justice require that such infraction should not result in the invalidation of the notifi cation. B. Considering the ban, on merits 42. Both counsel appearing for the appellants argued at length on the merits of the ban and whether the State Government had taken an appropriate decision to ban their respective products. (i) Paper cups 43. The main argument of the petitioners is that the use of plastic in paper cups is minimal [the ratio being 6% plastic and 94% paper] and that the blanket ban, of their products, is unreasonable, arbitrary, and disproportionate. The report of the expert body, Central Institute of Plastic Engineering and Technology, led to the re-examination of the issue, i.e., the 25 See also, Karnataka SRTC v. S.G. Kotturappa., (2005) 3 SCC 409, P.P. Agrawal v. State Bank of India, (2006) 8 SCC 776 115 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. ban on use of the petitioners’ paper cups reinforced with plastic coating, and the TNPCB’s subsequent , dated 8.12.2018, which pertinently, reads as follows: “Based on the representation, an Expert Committee was constituted as per the instructions during the Steering Committee meeting. The Committee has reported that poly-coated paper cup contains 94% paper (cellulose) & 6% LDPE. Further TNPCB tested the LDPE coated disposable paper cup samples in CIPET. Chennai for material identifi cation test analysis. As per CIPET results, paper cups are paper substrate coated with ethylene/ polyvinyl/ acetate which is a synthetic polymer. The polymeric nature is not easily degradable under natural environmental conditions. Accordingly, the LDPE coated disposable paper cups are banned and hence the representation cannot be considered” 44.