Interpretation of Statutes – Principle of Ejusdem Generis – Rule of Construction – Applicability of – Ingredients – Discussed. Disposing of the appeals, the Court G HELD:1. Under Section 43 of the Electricity Act, 2003, the distribution licensee is obligated to supply electricity to the premises of an owner or occupier, provided that the owner or occupier pays all charges and complies with all conditions stipulated by the distribution licensee. Section 43 begins with H 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the words “Save as otherwise provided in this Act”. Hence, the operation of Section 43 will also be subject to compliance with the other provisions of the 2003 Act. The proviso to Section 43(2) further refers to the “price” payable by an applicant to demand or to continue to receive the supply of electricity from a distribution licensee. The “price” is to be determined by the B appropriate commission. This “price” is the consideration, as determined by the State Commission, that an applicant pays for receiving a supply of electricity. The term “price” has to be given a broad meaning to include all the ‘tariffs’ and ‘charges’ that may be determined by the appropriate commission. This includes the C ‘charges’ fixed under Section 45 by the appropriate commission from time to time and the ‘charges’ that a distribution licensee may impose under Section 46 to recover any reasonable expenditure. The ambit of the term ‘price’ is wide enough to also include the statutory dues that the State Commission decides to enact by way of regulations under Section 50. Thus, the duty to D supply electricity under Section 43 is not absolute, and is subject to such charges and compliances stipulated by the distribution licensees as part of the application. [Paras 32, 40, 41-43][670-B- C; 672-F-G; 673-A-B] E 2. The definition of ‘supply’ specifically states that supply means the sale of electricity to a consumer. The said definition does not indicate that supply of electricity is vis-a-vis the premises of the consumer. Considering the overall scheme of the 2003 Act, the supply of electricity is to the consumer and not the premises. It is always the consumer who is supplied electricity F and is held liable for defaulting on payment of dues or charges for supply of electricity. Perforce, the premises cannot be held to be a defaulter and no dues can be attached to the premises of the consumer. [Paras 50 and 56][676-D] 3. Under Section 43 of the 2003 Act, the owner or occupier G of premises can seek a supply of electricity for particular premises. Perforce, when electricity is supplied, the owner or occupier becomes a consumer only with respect to those particular premises for which electricity is sought and provided. For example, when a person owning an apartment in a residential H complex applies for supply of electricity to such an apartment, K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 641 ORS. they become a consumer only with respect to the apartment for A which the application is made and to which electricity is supplied.