The High Court, in our view erred in holding that it is only from the C date when a sale certificate is issued, that the limitation starts running. Such view of the High Court would not only cause violence to the clear provisions of Article 134 of the Limitation Act but have the effect of unsettling the law already settled.” D (emphasis added) 10.Paragraph 11 takes the view that there is nothing in Rule 95 of XXI which makes it incumbent for the purchaser to file a sale certificate along with the application. However, on a plain reading of Rule 95 of XXI, unless a certificate of sale is granted under Rule E 94 of XXI, the auction-purchaser does not get a right to apply for delivery of possession by invoking Rule 95 of XXI. Therefore, the view expressed in paragraph 11, prima facie, may not be correct. The said view is not supported by the plain language of Rule 95 of XXI of CPC. 11.At this stage, we may note here the decision of this Court in F the case of United Finance Corporation1. In paragraph 11, the Bench expressed doubt about the correctness of what is held in paragraph 11 of Pattam Khader Khan’s case2. Paragraph 11 of the decision in the case of United Finance Corporation1 reads thus: “11. By careful reading of 21 Rule 95 CPC, the language G of the provision is indicative that application for delivery of possession of property purchased in the court auction can be filed where “a certificate in respect thereof has been granted under Rule 94 of 21”. Having regard to the language of 21 Rule 95 CPC “a certificate in respect thereof has been granted in H 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Rule 94, the court shall, on the application of the purchaser, delivery to be made…” we have our own doubts regarding the view taken by this Court in Pattam Khader Khan case [Pattam Khader Khan v. Pattam Sardar Khan, (1996) 5 SCC 48] that “…there is nothing in Rule 95 to make it incumbent for the purchaser to file the certificate along with B the application” and “… that the issuance of sale certificate is not a sine qua non of the application …”. However, in the facts and circumstances of the present case, we are not inclined to refer the question to a larger Bench — whether issuance of sale certificate is a sine qua non or not for filing C the application under 21 Rule 95CPC and the question is left open.” (emphasis added) However, considering the facts of the case before it, this Court observed that it was not inclined to refer the question to a larger Bench. D Therefore, a Co-ordinate Bench has already expressed a prima facie view that what is held in paragraph 11 of Pattam Khader Khan’s case2, may require reconsideration by a larger Bench. 12.We have already noted the twin conditions which should be fulfilled as a condition precedent for enabling the Executing Court to E pass an of delivery of possession in favour of the auction-purchaser.