It is submitted that therefore it is seen that in case of a terrorist organization F mere membership is not sufficient but there has to be an act with intention to further the activities of the terrorist organization which is not the case under Section 10 with an unlawful association. 6.3 It is submitted that there is a clear distinction between the provisions under Section 10 which punish mere membership of an unlawful G association and Section 38 which do not punish passive membership with terrorist organization. It is submitted that the reason is that Section 10 has already undergone the rigours of Section 3 but Section 38 has not undergone the rigours of Section 3 and it is a delegated legislation involving inclusion of a name of an organisation in the schedule. It is submitted that even if you are a member, it gives an opportunity in Section 38 that the H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 525 [M. R. SHAH, J.] terrorist organization was not a terrorist organization at the time when A you became a member and he is not taking part. 6.4 It is submitted that the United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA) has been declared to be an unlawful association from time to time. B Making above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General and Shri Vinay Navare, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Assam have prayed to hold that the observations/decisions of this Court in the cases of Raneef (supra), Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Indra Das (supra) taking the view that mere membership of a banned organization will not C incriminate a person unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence or does an act intending to create dis or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence is not a good law, in view of the specific provision under Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act, 1967, the constitutionality of which is not under challenge and even otherwise on D merits also looking to the object and purpose of enacting the UAPA Act, 1967. 7. Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the applicant – People’s Union for Democratic Rights has heavily relied upon the subsequent decision of this Court in the case of Indra Das (supra). E It is submitted that in the said decision, after following the decisions of this Court in the cases of Raneef (supra) and Arup Bhuyan (supra), this Court has rightly interpreted Section 3(5) of TADA Act, 1987 and Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act, 1967 which is in consonance with Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution. It is submitted that in the case of Indra Das (supra), this Court has observed and held as under: F “a. statutory provisions cannot be read in isolation, but have to be read in consonance with the fundamental rights guaranteed by our Constitution. b. The Constitution is the highest law of the land and no statute can violate it.