The third condition was that Sheikh Abdulla should be taken in the administration and made responsible for it along with the Prime Minister.” 241. Mahajan eventually states that : “…The Indian forces suffered heavily in the first attack but after reinforcements arrived they drove out the raiders from the neighbourhood of Srinagar where they had infi ltrated after looting and destroying the town of Baramula.” 242. V P Menon provides a detailed account of the events preceding the accession of Jammu and Kashmir to the Union of India in his book titled, IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 149 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “The Story of the Integration of the Indian States”206. Menon’s account is illuminating on the events which took place from 22 October 1947 and needs to be extracted in the entirety: “The all-out invasion of Kashmir started on 22 October 1947. The main raiders’ column, which had approximately two hundred to three hundred lorries, and which consisted of frontier tribesmen estimated at fi ve thousand — Afridis, Wazirs, Mahsuds, Swathis, and soldiers of the Pakistan Army ‘on leave’—led by some regular offi cers who knew Kashmir well advanced from Abbottabad in the N.W.F.P. along the Jhelum Valley Road. They captured Garhi and Domel arrived at the gates of Muzaff arabad. The State battalion, consisting of Muslims and Dogras stationed at Muzaff arabad, was commanded by Lt.-Colonel Narain Singh. All the Muslims in the battalion deserted; shot the Commanding Offi cer and his adjutant; joined the raiders, and acted as advance-guard to the raiders’ column. It may be mentioned that only a few days before Lt.- Colonel Narain Singh had been asked by the Maharajah whether he could rely on the loyalty of the Muslim half of his battalion. He unhesitatingly answered, ‘More than on the Dogras’. He had been in command of this battalion for some years. The raiders then marched towards Baramula along the road leading to Srinagar, their next destination being Uri. All the Muslims in the State Forces had deserted and many had joined the raiders. When Brigadier Rajinder Singh, the Chief of Staff of the State Forces, heard of the desertion of the Muslim personnel and the advance of the raiders, he gathered together approximately 150 men and moved towards Uri. There he engaged the raiders for two days and in the rearguard action destroyed the Uri bridge. The Brigadier himself and all his men were cut to pieces in this action. But he and his colleagues will live in history like the gallant Leonidas and his 300 men who held the Persian invaders at Thermopylae. It was but appropriate that when the Maha Vir Chakra decoration was instituted, the fi rst award should have been given (posthumously) to this heroic soldier. 206 Orient Longmans (1961) 150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. The raiders continued to advance and on 24 October they captured the Mahura Power House, which supplied electricity to Srinagar. Srinagar was plunged in darkness. The raiders had announced that they would reach Srinagar on 26 October in time for the Id celebrations at the Srinagar mosque.