At this stage, we must hold that admissibility and credibility are two distinct aspects and the latter is really a matter of evaluation of other available evidence. The statements of police witnesses would have been acceptable, had they supported the prosecution case, and if any other credible evidence were brought on record. While the recoveries made by the I.O. under Section 27, Evidence Act upon the disclosure statements by Manoj, Kallu and the other co-accused could be held to have led to discovery of facts and may be admissible, the same cannot be held to be credible in view of the other evidence available on record. 26. While property seizure memos could have been a reliable piece of evidence in support of Manoj’s conviction, what has transpired is that the seizure witnesses turned hostile right from the word ‘go’. The common version of all the seizure witnesses, i.e., PWs 5, 6, 11 and 16, was that they were made to sign the seizure memos on the insistence of the ‘daroga’ and that too, two of them had signed at the police station. There is, thus, no scope to rely on a part of the depositions of the said PWs 5, 6, 11 and 16. Viewed thus, the seizure loses credibility. 27. This Court in Sanjeet Kumar Singh vs. State of Chhattisgarh8 held: 18. But if the Court has — (i) to completely disregard the lack of corroboration of the testimony of police witnesses by independent witnesses; and (ii) to turn a Nelson’s eye to the independent witnesses turning hostile, then the story of the prosecution should be very convincing and the testimony of the official witnesses notably trustworthy. If independent witnesses come up with a story which creates a gaping hole in the prosecution theory, about the very search and seizure, then the case of the prosecution should collapse like a pack of cards. It is no doubt true that corroboration by independent witnesses is not always necessary. But once the prosecution comes up with a story that the search and seizure was conducted in the presence of independent witnesses and they also choose to examine them before Court, then the Court has to see whether the version of the independent witnesses who turned hostile is unbelievable and whether there is a possibility that they have become turncoats. 8 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1117 MANOJ KUMAR SONI v. 259 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 28. The testimony of the seizure witnesses, we are inclined to the view, is the only thread in the present case that could tie together the loose garland, and without it, the very seizure of stolen property stands falsifi ed. We cannot overlook the signifi cance of the circumstance that all four independent seizure witnesses (PWs 5, 6, 11, and 16), who were allegedly present during the seizure/recovery of the stolen articles from Manoj’s house, having turned hostile and not support the prosecution case, the standalone evidence of the I.O. on seizure cannot be deemed either conclusive or convincing; the recoveries made by him under Section 27, Evidence Act must, therefore, be rejected.