Perhaps an untrue witness who is well tutored can successfully make his testimony totally non-discrepant. But courts should bear in mind that it is only when discrepancies in the evidence of a witness are so incompatible with the credibility of his version that the court is justifi ed in jettisoning his evidence. But too serious a view to be adopted on mere variations falling in the narration of an incident (either as between the evidence of two witnesses or as between two statements of the same witness) is an unrealistic approach for judicial scrutiny.” In the same case, how far a contradiction in the two statements can be used to discredit a witness has also been discussed. “25. It is a common practice in trial courts to make out contradictions from the previous statement of a witness for confronting him during cross-examination. Merely because there is inconsistency in evidence it is not suffi cient to impair the credit of the witness. No doubt Section 155 of the Evidence Act provides scope for impeaching the credit of a witness by proof of an inconsistent former statement. But a reading of the section would indicate that all inconsistent statements are not suffi cient to impeach the credit of the witness. The material portion of the section is extracted below: “155. Impeaching credit of witness.—The credit of a witness may be impeached in the following ways by the adverse party, or, with the consent of the court, by the party who calls him— (1)-(2)*** (3) by proof of former statements inconsistent with any part of his evidence which is liable to be contradicted;” 26. A former statement though seemingly inconsistent with the evidence need not necessarily be suffi cient to amount to contradiction. Only such of the inconsistent statement which is liable to be “contradicted” would aff ect the credit of the witness. Section 145 of the Evidence Act also enables the cross-examiner to use any former statement of the witness, but it cautions that if it is intended to “contradict” the witness 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the cross-examiner is enjoined to comply with the formality prescribed therein. Section 162 of the Code also permits the cross-examiner to use the previous statement of the witness (recorded under Section 161 of the Code) for the only limited purpose i.e. to “contradict” the witness.” 21. In Tahsildar Singh v. State of U.P., AIR 1959 SC 1012, it was held that to contradict a witness would mean to “discredit” a witness. Therefore, unless and until the former statement of this witness is capable of “discrediting” a witness, it would have little relevance. A mere variation in the two statements would not be enough to discredit a witness. This has been followed consistently by this Court in its later , including Rammi (supra). Moreover, in this case the High Court lost sight of other more relevant factors such as the witness being an injured eye witness. 22. The purpose of the cross examination of a witness in terms of Section 145 and 155 of the Evidence Act is to bring contradictions in the two statements of the witness, in the case at hand, one given to police under Section 161 Cr.PC., and the other given before the court.