… Since the enhancement of the age of superannuation is a ‘public function’ channelised by the provisions of the statute and the service 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. regulations, the doctrine of promissory estoppel cannot be used to challenge the action of NOIDA.” (Emphasis supplied) 45. We shall now look into the decision of this Court in Dr. Ram Naresh Sharma (supra). This decision of this Court has been relied upon by Mr. R. Bala, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent No. 1. He has relied upon paras 23 and 24 respectively which read thus: “23. The common contention of the appellants before us is that classifi cation of AYUSH doctors and doctors under CHS in diff erent categories is reasonable and permissible in law. This however does not appeal to us and we are inclined to agree with the fi ndings of the Tribunal and the Delhi High Court that the classifi cation is discriminatory and unreasonable since doctors under both segments are performing the same function of treating and healing their patients. The only diff erence is that AYUSH doctors are using indigenous systems of medicine like Ayurveda, Unani, etc. and CHS doctors are using Allopathy for tending to their patients. In our understanding, the mode of treatment by itself under the prevalent scheme of things, does not qualify as an intelligible diff erentia. Therefore, such unreasonable classifi cation and discrimination based on it would surely be inconsistent with Article 14 of the Constitution. The of AYUSH Ministry dated 24.11.2017 extending the age of superannuation to 65 Years also endorses such a view. This extension is in tune with the notifi cation of Ministry of Health and Family Welfare dated 31.05.2016. 24. The doctors, both under AYUSH and CHS, render service to patients and on this core aspect, there is nothing to distinguish them. Therefore, no rational justifi cation is seen for having diff erent dates for bestowing the benefi t of extended age of superannuation to these two categories of doctors. Hence, the of AYUSH Ministry (F. No. D. 14019/4/2016EI (AYUSH)) dated 24.11.2017 must be retrospectively applied from 31.05.2016 to all concerned respondent doctors, in the present appeals. All consequences must follow from this conclusion.” 46. The aforesaid decision of this Court in the case of Dr. Ram Naresh Sharma (supra) upon which strong reliance has been placed on behalf of the CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 773 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] respondent No. 1 is of no avail for the simple reason that in the said case, the only question that arose was whether the benefi t of enhancement of age of retirement from 60 years to 65 years granted in favour of allopathy doctors was available even for ayurveda doctors or not? The said decision was based upon an of the Ministry of AYUSH dated 24.11.2017. 47. As seen from paragraph 23 of the said decision referred to above, the age of retirement of allopathy doctors was enhanced by an dated 31.05.2016 issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.