The statement containing the said reports was placed before the Tribunal. It has, thus, been submitted that it was incorrect for the Tribunal to render a finding that the valuation of non-core assets had not been done in the present case. C 30.2. As regards non-publication of Form-G on the website, it has been argued that the same was published in all leading newspapers on 09.08.2020 and the then IRP had emailed IBBI to intimate them that there was some technical issue in uploading the said form on the website, with a request to upload the same. Thus, all the requisite steps having D been reasonably taken, the process that had reached an advanced stage could not have been annulled on such a technicality. 30.3. Further, while dealing with the issue of not placing the revised resolution plan before the CoC, reliance has been placed on the ninth CoC meeting dated 22.01.2021 with the submissions that the resolution E plan was approved with 87.39% of the total voting share and the resolution applicant was only required to provide for redistribution to ensure that the dissenting financial creditors were given their share in terms of Section 30(2)(b) of the Code. Pursuant to this, the resolution applicant submitted the modified resolution plan in which the allocation for the unsecured dissenting financial creditors was revised from 29 crore to 49.13 crore. F The revised plan was then placed before the Coc in the tenth CoC meeting and no objections were raised at that time. 30.4. It has also been submitted that the settlement proposal put forth by the corporate debtor was not in consonance with the mandate specified under Regulation 30-A of the CIRP regulations read with Section G 12-A of IBC. 30.5. On the issue of increase in the fee of RP which was not raised before the NCLT and was only raised before the NCLAT, it has been submitted that the request for revision of fee had indeed been H 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A made with reasons for said revision, much prior to the date on which the resolution plan was approved by the CoC. 30.6. It has also been submitted that the issue of ineligibility of the resolution applicant was not raised before NCLT but, NCLAT in its impugned , has held him ineligible. In this regard, the RP could have B only carried out public domain search and take into account the affidavit of compliance submitted by resolution applicant in view of Regulation 39 of the CIRP Regulations. 30.7. Coming to the allegation by Dharani Finance regarding discriminatory treatment for being a related party creditor, it has been C submitted that there is a need only to ensure that the plan provides for payment to financial creditors (including dissenting financial creditors) entitled to vote. Placing reliance on Section 30(2)(b)(ii), Section 21 and Regulation 38(1), it has been argued that the approved plan is in accordance with the Code and the Regulations. 30.8. In closing, it has been argued by the learned senior counsel D for the resolution professional that he has preferred applications against the promoter-director of the corporate debtor under Section 43 of the Code seeking avoidance of certain transactions which are preferential in nature.