It was emphasized that civil cases should be treated as lapsed if the matter was not disposed of within one year from the date of registration, whereas a criminal matter should be disposed within six months and in case of sessions trial it should not go beyond one year. It was also suggested to timely fi ll up the vacancies, appoint additional and ad-hoc judges and increase overall judicial strength. Some of the key recommendations of the Committee were: 1 Civil Justice Committee, 1924 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. “(i) Improvement of judicial system to meet modern requirement of society. (ii) Time for scrutiny of the cases should not take more than one week. (iii) Summons and notices should be attached with the plaint at the stage of fi ling, without stating the fi ling date. (iv) Procedural reforms in civil and criminal case proceedings.” 22. The 79th reports of the Law Commission of India pertains to “Delay and Arrears in High Courts and Appellate Court” which when read along with the 77th report as aforementioned, has provided a step- by-step manual for managerial judging, prescribing upper time limits for trial procedure to ensure speedy disposal of cases to be followed by Trial Courts, High Courts, and other appellate courts. Its recommendations range from ways in which judges should expedite the service of summons to the drafting of the decree and includes the suggestions that they should become more active in conciliation eff orts. Other notable recommendations include: “(i) Appointment of administrative justices who supervise the work of process servers; (ii) Fixing of dates should be done by presiding offi cer and not readers, cases should deliberately not be fi xed when the prospects of them being taken up for low and a standard of number of cases pending before courts should be decided and whenever there are indications that the number of cases will go beyond the standard, additional courts should be set up.” 23. The 120th Law Commission Report on ‘Manpower planning in judiciary: a blueprint’ recommended that the most eff ective way to overcome the heavy pendency of cases clogging on the judicial system is by reducing judicial delay. It further states that the judiciary is overburdened by large number of cases fi led each year, which clog an already stressed system. The report states that in 2002, when the ratio of the judges to population was 13 judges to 10,00,000 people, the Supreme Court recommended, in All India Judges Association vs. Union of India (2002) 4 SCC 247, to increase the ratio to at least 50 judges per 10,00,000 people. YASHPAL JAIN v. SUSHILA DEVI & OTHERS 963 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 24. The Malimath Committee, constituted on Reforms of Criminal Justice System, suggested multiple recommendations in its report, for Criminal Justice System, however some of them can be applied even in the civil litigation: 1. Time limit for fi ling written statements, amendments of pleadings, service of summons etc., must be prescribed. 2. So far as possible, parties must endeavor to decide or to settle the cases outside the court and to carry out the same objective, Section 89 in CPC, was introduced.