The aforesaid view is absolutely erroneous. As observed and held by this Court in the case of BSNL (supra), there can be two different taxes/levies under D different heads by applying the aspect theory. As per the settled position of law now, the same activity can be taxed as ‘goods’ and ‘services’ provided the contract is indivisible and on the aspect of services there may be levy of service tax. The aforesaid aspect has not at all been considered by the CESTAT while passing the impugned and . As observed hereinabove, the definition of “design services” is E very clear and it is wide enough to cover all “design services.” Merely because “Engineering Design & Drawings” prepared and supplied by sister company were shown as ‘goods’ under the Customs Act and in the bill of entry, by that itself cannot be a ground to take such services out of the definition of “design services” under the Finance Act, 1994. F 9. Even otherwise, as observed by this Court in the case of BSNL (supra), there is a distinction between the sale of goods and a contract of service. What is relevant is the intention of the contracting parties and whether the contracting parties intend transfer of both goods and services, either separately or in an indivisible manner or in a composite G manner. The issue is squarely covered by the decision of this Court in the case of BSNL(supra) against the assessee and in favour of the revenue. Therefore, the view taken by the CESTAT that the same activity cannot be taxed as goods and services is absolutely erroneous. Nothing further has been discussed by the CESTAT, more particularly on the findings recorded by the Commissioner recorded from para 20 onwards. H COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE & SERVICE 337 TAX v. M/S SUZLON ENERGY LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Under the circumstances, the impugned and passed by A the CESTAT setting aside the levy of service tax is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set aside. However, at the same time, as other grounds raised before the CESTAT, namely, “whether the services (if any) rendered by a foreign entity will or will not fall within the purview of “design services” and B invocation of extended period of limitation have not been considered by the CESTAT and therefore learned counsel for the respondent is justified in praying to remand the matter to CESTAT to decide the aforesaid two grounds. 10. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the C impugned and passed by the CESTAT holding that the respondent is not liable to pay service tax as “design services” on importing various models of “Engineering Design & Drawings” for the purpose of manufacturing of Wind Turbine Generator (WTG), as defined under Section 65(35b) r/w section 65(105)(zzzzd) of the Finance Act, D 1994 is hereby quashed and set aside. However, the matter is remitted back to the CESTAT to consider the grounds raised on behalf of the respondent, namely, whether the services (if any) rendered by a foreign entity will not fall within the purview of “design services” and that the department was not justified in invoking the extended period of limitation.