G (50) It is clause (iii) which is referred to and relied upon by Mr. Sajjan Povayya. It reads as follows: “(iii) change in any consents, approvals or licenses available or obtained for the Project, otherwise than for default of the Seller, which results in any change in any cost of or revenue from the H 44 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A business of selling electricity by the Seller to the Procurersunder theterms of this Agreement.” (51) It is the case of the first respondent that since in the schedule the initial consent which was, in fact, a deemed initial consent consisting of performing of the task of making available land for the power plant B and for the pipeline and there is a change in the same in view of what transpired pursuant to the second report of the WAPCOS, the first respondent was entitled to relief. In regard to the said argument, we must notice the following obstacles which are indisputable. We notice that the pleadings which we have set out, position before the Commission and what is more, even before the Tribunal, do not reveal that the first C respondent has taken such a stand. No express reference is found to Schedule 2 containing the alleged deemed initial consent being overridden by the subsequent consent as a foundation for the claim based on change in law. (52) The second obstacle which we must notice is that we are D dealing with an appeal under Section 125 which is based on the existence of a substantial question of law. In this regard, indisputably both the Commission and the Tribunal have rendered the concurrent finding that the first respondent has failed to establish any change in law. Thus, the first respondent is up against concurrent findings which we cannot lightly E disregard. (53) Thirdly, we may notice that the first respondent has not independently challenged the finding rendered by the Tribunal holding that there is no change in law. We have noticed that the Tribunal has proceeded to premise the grant of relief to the first respondent and remanding the matter on a totally different basis. Here, we may notice F no doubt that treating it as a part of the power of appellate Court to correct errors in the findings in the impugned passed may extend in appropriate cases by the principle of XLI Rule 22. However, objection is seen raised by the Appellants to permitting of the principle in XLI Rule 22 CPC to govern in the situation such as in an appeal G under Section 125 of the Act. We proceed on the basis that there is power to permit the respondent to impugn a finding given by the Tribunal against the respondent even without filing any appeal or cross petition. (54) Examining the claim on merits, we find that the first respondent would fail. It is categorically stated in para 68 of the petition that the H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 45 LTD. & ORS.