55. Now let us notice the language used in Sections 8,11 and 45 of the Arbitration Act, 1996, all of which deal with the power of Courts at the pre-arbitral stage. D 55.1. Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 titled “Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement” has been amended in 2015 with the following language: “unless it finds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists”. 55.2. Section 45 in Part II titled “Power of judicial authority to E refer parties to arbitration” has also been amended and notified in 2019. The amendment in Section 45 was made after the of three judges in Shin Etsu(supra) where in a case of international arbitration, the question before this Court was when an application under Section 45 is moved, is the Court required to pass a prima facie finding or a final-finding based on the merits of the case, which would result in F a full-fledged trial? In the majority opinion, it was held as under: “105. …the object of the Act would be defeated if proceedings remain pending in the court even after commencing of the arbitration. It is precisely for this reason that I am inclined to the view that at the pre-reference stage contemplated by Section 45, G the court is required to take only a prima facie view for making the reference, leaving the parties to a full trial either before the Arbitral Tribunal or before the court at the post-award stage” 55.3. Pursuant to Shin Etsu(Supra), the 2019 Amendment to Section 45 states: “…unless it prima facie finds that the said H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 455 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being A performed”. Thus, from the above discussion it is clear that Section 8 uses the word “validity” and Section 45 uses the phrase “null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed”. In that sense, Section 11(6A) is a unique provision which is confined to the “existence” of the arbitration agreement and not its “validity”. The amended provision also B does not find place in the UNCITRAL Model Law. Learned Amicus Curiae pointed to the definition of confine in P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Advanced Law Lexicons47 which states: “imprison; hold in custody. To keep within circumscribing limits”. 56. On reading the language in Section 11(6A) with Section 5 of C the Arbitration Act 1996, and an interpretation based on legislative intent, it is apparent that the scope under Section 11(6A) is very narrow. iii) Post- 2019 Amendment and the Report of the High-Level Committee to Review the Institutionalisation of Arbitration Mechanism in India. D 57. The Committee led by Justice Srikrishna48 had recommended further changes to the Arbitration Act, 1996. It had recommended for the deletion of Section 11(6A) with the power of appointment of arbitrators being left entirely to the arbitral institutions. Drawing inspiration from Singapore, Hong Kong, United Kingdom etc., the Committee E recommended that this would prevent further delays and set the momentum for institutional arbitration in India.