Accordingly, he highlighted the following questions of law for determination by the larger Bench: a. Whether the Group of Companies Doctrine should be read into Section 8 of the Act or whether it can exist in Indian jurisprudence independent of any statutory provision; b. Whether the Group of Companies Doctrine should continue to be invoked on the basis of the principle of ‘single economic reality’; c. Whether the Group of Companies Doctrine should be construed as a means of interpreting implied consent or intent to arbitrate between the parties; and 6 The reference to Section 11 seems inadvertent as the phrase “claiming through or under” is not found in the said provision. Rather, Section 11 ought to be read as Section 45 where the phrase “claiming through or under” appears. 7 (2003) 5 SCC 531 8 (2010) 5 SCC 306 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 641 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] d. Whether the principles of alter ego and/or piercing the corporate veil can alone justify pressing the Group of Companies Doctrine into operation even in the absence of implied consent. 6. We are not reproducing the factual matrix of the case, as we have been called upon to settle the broader legal issues raised in the reference. In the process, we will answer the above legal issues, as well as other ancillary issues that have been raised before us by counsel. B. Submissions 7. Mr Hiroo Advani, learned counsel appearing for the petitioner in Arbitration Petition No. 38 of 2020, made the following submissions: a. The basis for the application of the group of companies doctrine is the tacit or implied consent by the non-signatory to be bound by the arbitration agreement; b. The defi nition of “party” under Section 2(1)(h) of the Arbitration Act cannot be restricted to the signatories to an arbitration agreement. The defi nition should be read expansively to also include non- signatories depending upon the facts and circumstances; c. Section 7 of the Arbitration Act provides that the defi ned legal relationship between the parties may be non-contractual as well. Moreover, Section 7(4)(b) indicates that a non-signatory could be bound by an arbitration agreement if in the course of a written communication, it has demonstrated an intention to be bound by the agreement; and d. The group of companies doctrine should ideally be applied by the arbitral tribunal. At the stage of referral, the court should merely take a prima facie view and leave it for the arbitral tribunal to determine the necessity of joining the non-signatories to the arbitration agreement. 8. Mr Darius J Khambata, learned senior counsel appearing for the respondents in SLP (C) No. 8607 of 2022, made the following submissions: a. The applicability of the group of companies doctrine must be examined from the touchstone of whether a non-signatory could be 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. made a party to the arbitration agreement. The expression “claiming through or under” a party cannot be the basis to apply the doctrine; b.