A Provided that where an appellant satisfies the Tribunal that he intends to prefer an appeal, the Tribunal may also exercise any of the powers conferred under clause (a) or clause (b), as the case may be. ..... ..... ..... B 31. Leave to appeal. - (1) An appeal to the Supreme Court shall lie with the leave of the Tribunal; and such leave shall not be granted unless it is certified by the Tribunal that a point of law of general public importance is involved in the decision, or it appears to the Supreme Court that the point is one which ought to be C considered by that Court. (2) An application to the Tribunal for leave to appeal to the Supreme Court shall be made within a period of thirty days beginning with the date of the decision of the Tribunal and an application to the Supreme Court for leave shall be made within a period of thirty days beginning with the date on which the application for leave is D refused by the Tribunal. (3) An appeal shall be treated as pending until any application for leave to appeal is disposed of and if leave to appeal is granted, until the appeal is disposed of; and an application for leave to appeal shall be treated as disposed of at the expiration of the time E within which it might have been made, but it is not made within that time.” 18. We must point out here that a reading of Section 30 would show that the appeal provision to the Supreme Court is subject to the provisions of Section 31. Such an appeal under Section 31 would lie with F the leave of the Armed Forces Tribunal. The Armed Forces Tribunal shall not grant such leave unless it certifies that a point of law of general public importance is involved in the decision, or it appears to the Supreme Court that the point is one which is to be considered by the Court. 19. There is, thus, no doubt that the appeal mechanism is restrictive G in character, something which the Government counsels could not get away from. In the alternative, they urged that if this Court were to come to the conclusion that the High Court would have jurisdiction under Article 226 emanating out of the s passed by the Armed Forces Tribunal, then that exercise should be restrictive in character. Sections 30 and 31 H UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. PARASHOTAM DASS 611 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] of the said Act, and Article 136(2) of the Constitution, while dealing with A leave to appeal, also put such a restriction. 20. Learned counsel sought embargo from the High Court exercising jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution in the following cases: B i) All cases related to Courts of Inquiry, Court(s) Martial, and Discipline; ii) All cases related to pension and other retirement benefits, tenure, promotion, retirement, administrative termination of service, such as in cases involving moral turpitude, and leave; C iii) Matters pertaining to the Official Secrets Act; and iv) Cases relating to espionage/sabotage.