With the aforesaid directions, the writ petition is disposed E of. All interim s stand vacated. There shall be no as to costs...” 3.6. Aggrieved by the of the learned Single Judge the appellant preferred an appeal before the Division Bench which came to be dismissed vide impugned dated 19.11.2019. F 4. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and also perused the material on record including the counter affidavit filed by KMC. 5. Before proceeding further, it would be appropriate to refer to the relevant statutory provisions from the Act. The following definitions from Section 2 of the Act which are relevant for this case are reproduced G hereunder: (21) “Corporation” means the 2[Kolkata] Municipal Corporation established under this Act; H 832 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (29) “domestic purposes”, in relation to the supply of water means the purposes other than those referred to in sub-Section (2) of Section 238; (38) “filtered water” means waler intended for domestic use and tested for its potability and purity and found fit for such B use; (60) “occupier” includes any person for the time being paying or liable to pay to the owner the rent or any portion of the rent of the land or building in respect of which the word is used or for damages on account of the occupation of such C land or building, and also a rent-free tenant: Provided that an owner living in or otherwise using his own land or building shall be deemed to be the occupier thereof, (62) “owner” includes the person for the time being receiving the rent of any land or building or any part of any land or D building, whether on his own account or as agent or trustee for any person or society or for any religious or charitable purpose or as a receiver who would receive such rent if the land or building or of any part of the land or building were let to a tenant; E 6. Part-V of the Act deals with Civic Services and Chapter XVII thereof deals with water supply. Section 234 mandates that it shall be the duty of the KMC to take steps for supply of wholesome water in the entire Kolkata and also to ensure that it is available in sufficient quantity. Section 234(1), which is relevant for our purpose is reproduced hereunder: F “234. Corporation’s duty to supply water:- (1) It shall be the duty of the Corporation to take steps from time to time— (a) for ascertaining the sufficiency and wholesomeness of water supplied within 1[Kolkata]; G (b) for providing a supply of wholesome water in pipes to every part of 1[Kolkata]in which there are houses, for domestic purposes of the occupants thereof, and for taking the pipes affording that supply to such point or points as will enable the houses to be connected thereto at a reasonable cost, so, H TRUST ESTATE KHIMJI KESHAWJI & ANR. v. THE KOLKATA 833 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION & ORS.