and D (iv) What is the scope of the enquiry under XXI, Rules 97-101, CPC ? 101. As rightly contended by Shri Gopal Sankarnarayanan, learned senior counsel for the assignees of decrees, no one pleaded that the E preliminary decree was vitiated by fraud. Allegations of fraud, as rightly contended, require special pleadings in terms of VI, Rule 4 CPC. 102. In fact, the impugned of the Division Bench arose out of a challenge to the of the learned Single Judge dated 26.10.2004. In paragraph 19 of his , the learned Single Judge F framed certain issues as arising for consideration. Paragraph 19 of the of the learned Single Judge reads as follows: “19. On the basis of the pleadings of the parties, the following issues and additional issues have been framed in all the applications: G 1) Whether the land covered by S.No.172 of Hydernagar village is the matruka property of late Nawab Kursheed Jha Paigah? 2) Whether the Nizam administration has been prohibited by means of Farman by the Nizam prior to the abolition H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 337 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] of inams from transferring the land in favour of any A persons? 3) Whether the lands in question are inam (Jagir) lands and stand vested in the Government after the abolition of inams (jagirs)? B 4) Whether the patta was granted in favour of Boddu Veera Swamy and others in 1947? 5) Whether the alleged pattas said to have been executed in favour of Boddu Veeraswamy and others are genuine documents or not? C 6) Whether the claimants have been in possession and enjoyment of the property since the time of Boddu Veeraswami (grant of pattas)? 7) Whether the claim is barred by limitation? 8) Whether the and decree in C.S. No.14 of 1958 D is binding on the petitioners/claimants? 9) Whether the claimants have any right, title and interest over the property in question? 10) Whether the claim petition is barred by limitation in view E of the remand of the Supreme Court? 11) to what relief? Additional Issues: 1) Whether the alleged delivery of possession on 17.4.1996 is not valid illegal and has no legal effect, since, final F decree has not been engrossed on proper stamp paper and property has not been divided by metes and bounds? 2) Whether the claimants have otherwise protected their title by adverse possession? G No issues were framed in Appln. No.994 of 1995. However, issues referred to above will cover the controversy in that application also.” 103. As may be seen from the above issues, fraud was not one of the issues framed nor was there any finding recorded by the learned H 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Single Judge about fraud. But the Division Bench read such a finding into the of the learned Single Judge. 104. In addition, the Division Bench, while dealing with the scope of the enquiry under XXI Rules 97 to 101 CPC, went into the question (from paragraph 149 onwards) as to whether the issue of fraud, B if raised in a claim petition, can be gone into by the Executing Court.