D (c) In the absence of the appointment of competent candidates, the object of the Consumer Protection Act is likely to be frustrated. (d) The president and members of the State and District Commission are empowered with the powers of the Court. E In the appointment of Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC), the candidates are tested by written examination and viva voce. (e) The Draft model rules approved by this Hon’ble Court and accepted by all the parties are not adhered with. Hence, F contrary to the directions of this Hon’ble Court. (f) The transparency and selection criteria are absent in the said rules. (g) In absence of transparency in the matter of appointments G of Chairman and Members, there is strong apprehension of political and executive interference. 2.6 It was also the case on behalf of the original writ petitioners before the High Court that this Court in the case of State of Uttar Pradesh and Others Vs. All Uttar Pradesh Consumer Protection H 300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Bar Association; (2017) 1 SCC 444 (hereinafter referred to as the UPCPBA), directed to frame model rules under the Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Accordingly, model rules were framed by this Court and accepted by all the parties. It was also the case on behalf of the original writ petitioners that by adopting the model rules, many states notified the Consumer Protection (Appointment, Salary, Allowance and B Conditions of Service of President and Members of State Commission and District Forum) Rules, 2017 (hereinafter referred to as the Rules, 2017) on 18.05.2018. It was submitted that model rules 2012 were already in existence in the State of Maharashtra made on 03.01.2012 under Section 30 of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 and the said Rules C already had the provision of written examination of 100 marks for aspiring candidates/applicants for the post of President and Members of District Consumer Forum under Rule 10. It was submitted that the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (hereinafter referred to as the Act, 2019) came into force with effect from 20.07.2020 by repealing the erstwhile statute Consumer Protection Act, 1986. It was also argued on behalf of the D original writ petitioners that under the Rules 2020, the power conferred upon the Selection Committee to determine its own procedure for selection of President and Members of the District and the State Commission constituted under the Act, 2019 is in contravention of the decision of this Court in the case of UPCPBA (supra). It was also argued on behalf of E the original writ petitioners that looking at the judicial functions to be performed by President and Members of the District and State Commissions constituted under the Act, 2019, the selection without holding written examination, but, only on the basis of viva voce, would result into selection of unsuitable candidates which will further result in denial of justice. It was also argued on behalf of the original writ petitioners that F prescribing minimum experience of 20 years and 15 years for President and Members of State and District Commission respectively, is contrary to the directions issued by this Court in the case of Madras Bar Association Vs. Union of India and Another; (2021) 7 SCC 369.