7. Having regard to the submissions made by the learned counsel E for the parties and to the documents on record, the question that falls for consideration before this Court would be, whether the Commission/Forum under the Act could have entertained the complaint involving highly disputed questions of facts or involving allegations of tortious acts, the proceedings before the Commission/Forum being summary in nature? F 8. In the instant case, it is not disputed that three drafts were issued by an NRI from Malaysia for the purchase of three flats. Out of three, one draft was for the sum of Rs. 5 lakhs dated 28.06.1996 and two drafts were for Rs. 3 lakhs & Rs. 6 lakhs dated 18.11.1996. It is also not disputed that the two drafts in question were issued in the name G of “D-Cube Construction” and not in the name of “D-Cube Constructions (P) Ltd.” The Current Account No. 3600 was in the name of “D-Cube Constructions (P) Ltd.”, whereas the Current Account No. 4160 was opened on 15.02.1997 in the name of “D-Cube Construction” by Shri R. 3 (2004) 2 SCC 425 4 (1990) 1 SCC 484 H 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Thulasiram, as the proprietor of his proprietary concern, when he was one of the Directors of “D-Cube Constructions (P) Ltd.” It is also not disputed that appellant no. 2 - bank had received a letter dated 15.02.1997 from the “D-Cube Constructions (P) Ltd.” giving “no objection” for opening the current account in the name of “D-Cube Construction”. It is also not disputed that there were certain disputes going on between the B Directors of the said company - “D-Cube Constructions (P) Ltd.”. 9. Under the circumstances, when the Current Account No. 4160 was opened by R. Thulasiram as the proprietor of “D-Cube Construction”, relying upon the letter dated 15.02.1997 written on behalf of the “D- Cube Constructions (P) Ltd.”, and when the disputed two drafts in C question which were in the name of “D-Cube Construction”, were credited in the account of “D-Cube Construction”, it could not be said that there was any willful default or imperfection or short coming so as to term it as the deficiency in service on the part of the appellant-bank within the meaning of Section 2(g) of the said Act. The counsel for the D appellants has rightly relied upon the decision of this Court in case of Ravneet Singh Bagga (supra) as under: “5. Section 2(i)(o) defines “service” to mean service of any description which is made available to potential users and includes the provision of facilities in connection with banking, financing, E insurance, transport, processing, supply of electrical or other energy, board or lodging or both, entertainment, amusement or the purveying of news or other information, but does not include the rendering of any service free of charge or under a contract of personal service. Section 2(i)(g) defines “deficiency” to mean any fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the quality, F nature and manner of performance which is required to be maintained by or under any law for the time being in force or has been undertaken to be performed by a person in pursuance of a contract or otherwise in relation to any service”.