4. The Tribunal vide dated 23.11.2010, disposed-off the Original Application and was of the opinion that it is not a case of suppression of information by the respondent. It was said that, without his acquittal in the pending criminal case, direction to issue the letter of appointment cannot be recommended and observed that, in case the respondent is acquitted, his case may be considered by the appellant as per rules. 5. Being aggrieved, the respondent preferred Writ Petition before the High Court at Calcutta and prayed for appropriate directions. The Court in the impugned judgement referred to column no. 12 of the verifi cation roll and opined that the information sought in the said column was of arrest, detention and conviction. As per details asked in the said column, information regarding pending criminal case was not required to be furnished. Therefore, the High Court concurred with the fi nding of the Tribunal on the issue of suppression of material information and was of the opinion that because the respondent has not yet been held guilty in the criminal case by the competent Court, therefore, presumption of innocence in his favour still remains. Hence, the appellant was directed to issue the letter of appointment subject to fi nal outcome of the pending criminal case. Being aggrieved by the said , this appeal has been fi led by the State of West Bengal. 6. Learned counsel for the appellants submits that High Court committed an error in directing appointment of the respondent particularly during the pendency of a criminal case against him. The said direction would aff ect the morale of the police force and undermine the public faith in it. Emphasizing the object of furnishing the information in the verifi cation roll, it was urged that the character of a person to judge his suitability to the post in public employment is a necessary concomitant to avoid defacing of the Police Department. In support of the said contention, reliance is placed STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. MITUL KUMAR JANA 617 [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] on a judgement in the case of “R. Radhakrishnan Vs. Director General of Police & Others, 2008 (1) SCC 660” to urge that even on acquittal of a candidate, he can still be denied appointment on account of suppression of material information regarding pendency of a criminal case. 7. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondent referring to the details of column 12 of the verifi cation roll, submits that the information sought was vague and considering the nature of the information asked, the respondent was not required to furnish the details of the pending criminal case. The Tribunal and the High Court have appreciated the said issue and rightly recorded the fi nding that it is not a case of suppression of material information, and the High Court was right in directing the appellant to issue the letter of appointment subject to the decision in the pending criminal case. He further contended that, in the said criminal case, respondent has been honourably acquitted.