The accused cannot admit the contents of the post mortem report thereby absolving the prosecution from its duty to prove the contents of the same in accordance with law by examining the doctor. This is so because B if the evidence per se is inadmissible in law then a defence counsel has no authority to make it admissible with his consent. Therefore, the suggestions made to the witness by the defence counsel and the reply to such suggestions would definitely form part of the evidence and can be relied upon by the Court along with other evidence on record to determine the guilt of the accused. [Para C 41, 42][874-B-D] 1.8 The main object of cross-examination is to find out the truth on record and to help the Court in knowing the truth of the case. It is a matter of common experience that many a times the defence lawyers themselves get the discrepancies clarified arising D during the cross-examination in one paragraph and getting themselves contradicted in the other paragraph. The line of cross- examination is always on the basis of the defence which the counsel would keep in mind to defend the accused. [Para 43][874- E] E 1.9 During the course of cross-examination with a view to discredit the witness or to establish the defence on preponderance of probabilities suggestions are hurled on the witness but if such suggestions, the answer to those incriminate the accused in any manner then the same would definitely be F binding and could be taken into consideration along with other evidence on record in support of the same. However, it would all depend upon the nature of the suggestions and with what idea in mind such suggestions are made to the witness. [Para 44, 45][875- F-G] G 1.10 In the cross-examination of the PW-3 a suggestion was put to him that he had inquired with PW-1 as to what had happened and PW-1 in turn narrated the incident to PW-3. This suggestion put by the defence counsel to the PW-3 was answered in the affirmative. This part of the evidence of the PW-3 is corroborated by the evidence of the PW-1. The reason for H 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A referring to the said a piece of evidence is that the PW 3 could be termed as a res gestae witness. This principle of res gestae is embodied in Section 6 of the Act 1872. What it means is that a fact which, though not in issue, is so connected with the fact in issue “as to form part of the same transaction” becomes relevant by itself. To form particular statement as part of the same B transaction utterances must be simultaneous with the incident or substantial contemporaneous that is made either during or immediately before or after its occurrence. Sections 6 and 7 of the Act 1872 in the facts and circumstances of the case, in so far as, the admissibility of a statement of the PW-3 coming to know C about incident, immediately from the PW-1 that AB had been seriously assaulted and that PW-1 had also suffered injuries and admitted by the PW-1 in his evidence would be attracted with all its rigour.