According to him, the circulars issued by the RBI restricted promotion of physically handicapped persons only to Group ‘C’ posts and within Group ‘D’ posts, and did not permit reservation in promotion in Group ‘A’ posts. That apart, OM dated 29th H 794 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A December, 2005 relied on by Mr. Nair did not extend any benefit of the nature claimed by Mr. Nair despite its modification by OM dated 3rd December, 2013. Thus, from whichever angle one looks at the circulars, resolving Mr. Nair’s grievance by considering him fit for promotion from the date of issuance of OM dated 29th December, 2005, as directed by the High Court, was not called for. He also contended that after the GoI B issued OM dated 17th May, 2022, the RBI has also issued the circular dated 8th December, 2022, whereby requisite vacancies in Group ‘A’ posts have also been reserved for promotion of persons with disabilities. This circular dated 8th December, 2022 contemplates promotion of persons with disabilities upon qualifying in a departmental examination. C 21.Though Mr. Gupta did not dispute thatbenefit of condonation of shortfall in marks was available for SC/ST candidates, he submitted that the concession could not have been extended to persons with disabilitieslike Mr. Nair in the absence of any policy decision for reserving vacancies in Group – ‘A’ posts for persons like him; hence, Mr. Nair D could not have claimed any benefit flowing therefrom. 22.Referring to an “Additional Affidavit” dated 19th January, 2023 filed on behalf of the RBI, Mr. Gupta contended that vide circular dated 21st September, 2022, a departmental examination for promotion of Class III employees to the post of Assistant Manager Grade ‘A’ was scheduled E on 10th December, 2022 and willingness therefor was invited by 30th September, 2022; however, Mr. Nair chose not to participate in such examination. Mr. Nair, it was contended, having not offered his candidature, the RBI was disabled to assess his performance for promotion. Mr. Gupta, thus, urged that Mr. Nair having let go the opportunity, cannot be heard to complain; however, if Mr. Nair wishes to F participate in the promotional exercise, when conducted next, the RBI shall consider his candidature in terms of the extant provisions. 23.Mr. Gupta, thus, prayed that the appeal of the RBI could be disposed of recording his aforesaid statement. ARGUMENTS ON BEHALF OF THE GoI: G 24. Ms. Madhavi Divan, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the GoI, placed OM dated 17th May, 2022 and contended that pursuant to s of this Court made from time to time and in particular after the dated 28th September, 2021 (supra), instructions have been issued to make available reservation in promotion for persons H RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 795 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] with disabilities from posts in Group ‘B’ to the lowest rung in Group ‘A’, A however, with the rider that reservation in promotion shall be applicable in the cadres in which the element of direct recruitment, if any, does not exceed 75%.