This in short is the case of the prosecution. 3. After investigation, charge sheet was fi led on 02.11.2000 and the matter was committed to sessions where charges were framed against the appellant/accused under Sections 376 and 506 IPC. The prosecution examined 7 witnesses, including PW-5, who was the prosecutrix. The prosecution’s case is that the prosecutrix was a minor on the date of the incident. In to prove this the prosecution relied upon the date of birth of the prosecutrix recorded as 04.04.1987 in the school register. PW-5 i.e., the prosecutrix in her examination-in-chief before the Trial Court on 17.04.2001 states that she had gone to live with her sister, when a request was made by her “Jija” (Brother-in-law) to send her to their house for help. On 12.09.2000, when her sister was away from the house and the prosecutrix was alone, the appellant came to her room and closed the door from inside, showed a knife to her and threatened to kill her if she did not succumb to his carnal desires; and then raped her. She further states that after that incident, the appellant committed the same act on the prosecutrix on two or three diff erent occasions. She then returns to her maternal house and tells her mother Sita Devi/Sito Bai about the incident, which is admittedly after more than a month from the incident of rape. Her father Gian Chand (PW-6), also supported her version. He states that on receiving this information he visited the house of his son-in-law Pappu and narrated the entire incident to him, as narrated to him by his daughter. He then gave a proposal before the parents of the appellant for marriage of the prosecutrix with the appellant Manak Chand @ Mani, but as no positive reply was given to him, he lodged the FIR on 23.10.2000. The prosecutrix was medically examined by PW-1 Dr. Kulwinder Kaur on 28.10.2000 at 11.30 AM. PW-1 states that the age of the prosecutrix, as told to her by the mother of the prosecutrix, was 16 years and the details of the medical examination of the prosecutrix were as follows: 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. “GENERAL EXAMINATION: Well-built adult female, fully conscious, moderately nourished. There was no external mark of injury over breast, neck, face, abdomen & thigh. LOCAL EXAMINATION: She had well-developed public hairs; external genitalia were fully developed & normal. There was no external mark of injury. PER VAGINAL EXAMINATION: Labia minora was hypertrophied, hymen was ruptured admitted 2 fi ngers. There was no sign of acute infl ammation in & around vulva. There was discharge. Uterus non gravid, fi rm and mobile and fornix fox free. Her Vaginal swab not taken because pt had menstruated 5 days back & the history of assault is 1 ½ two months before. Ex.PB in the true copy of the MLR. Firstly, the age of the prosecutrix was recorded as 15 on the information of her mother which was later on corrected to 16 years.