At the stage when the trial court is informed that the prosecution intends to press for imposition of capital sentence, the evaluation should be insisted upon; the state is under a duty to present all objective materials, as mentioned in Manoj’s case, having regard to the decision in Bachan Singh’s case and importantly, the fact that it is in a position G to actually gather the materials. Its task is to present the facts- relating to the accused, which are favourable and unfavourable, for the court to impose a just sentence. [Para 20][767-G-H; 768- A-B] 1.4. Since the in Sriharan’s case reserves the H power to impose special or fixed term sentences (which may be VIKAS CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF DELHI 751 longer than the minimum specified in Section 433A CrPC-i.e., A may extend to considerably long periods, such as 30 years), with only the high courts and this court, it is imperative that this exercise is carried out even in cases where the accused might eventually not be imposed the death sentence. To put it simply - although the trial courts are not empowered to impose such special B sentences, yet at the stage when they arrive at findings of guilt in the case of a heinous offence, what would be the nature of the sentence imposed eventually, is unknown; therefore, the prosecution would have to inform the court, and present relevant materials, in case the death sentence is proposed. In that event, if ultimately death sentence is not imposed, it is open to the state C (or the aggrieved party, under Section 372 CrPC) to appeal against the trial court on the point of sentence; at that stage the evaluation before the High Court would be nuanced, and informed with full materials, about the convict, which otherwise it would not have the benefit of. Further, if considerable time has D elapsed since the trial stage at which this exercise was undertaken, the appellate court should direct that a fresh attempt be made, to take into account the contemporaneous progress, if any, made by the convict. Wherever the prosecution is of the opinion that the crime an accused is convicted for, is so grave that death sentence is warranted, it should carry out the exercise E of placing the materials, in terms of Manoj’s case. In case this results in imposition of death sentence, at the stage of confirmation, the High Court would have the benefit of independent evaluation of these materials. On the other hand, if death sentence is not imposed, then, the High Court may still be F in a position to evaluate, if the sentence is adequate, and wherever appropriate and just, impose a special or fixed term sentence, in the course of an appeal by the State or by the complainant/ informant. Given the imperative need for such material to form a part of the court’s consideration, it has to be emphasized that in case the trial court has failed to carry out such exercise (for G whatever reason), the High Court has to call for such material while considering an appeal filed by the State or complainant for enhancement of sentence (whether resulting in imposition of capital punishment, or a term sentence).