Those who are around us. Whom I know very well, one of whom is Suleman Kabaddi, son of Furkan, resident of village Mirzapur Paul, police station Mirzapur Paul, district Saharanpur, town Mirzapur and the other person, Rashid’s son Mohd. Resident Shahpur Gada police station Mirzapur district Saharanpur and name of the fourth person Atif son of Hameed resident Raipur police station Mirzapur district Saharanpur and the name of the fi fth person is Salib alias Salu s/o Dilshad resident Kunja Grant Vikas Nagar Dehradun who is a relative of Haji Iqbal alias Bala, everyone is a respectable person, everyone keeps coming and going in our village Mirzapur. These people were abusing and threatening Husna wife Irfan resident of village Mirzapur Paul police station Mirzapur district Saharanpur to take a decision in the case written against Haji Iqbal alias Bala and his family members. And were demanding money for the expenses to be incurred in the written case. When I reached here, all these people sat in their Bolero car and went towards Shahpur Gada. Where Mrs. Husna was sitting there in a bod mood. When I asked her about what happened, Husna Devi told me all these things on the spot. Sir, it is true that when I reached there with a motorcycle, these people surrounded Husna and were standing on the road in front of the petrol pump and were threatening her. Of these Aslam also had a pistol in his hand. I am giving this statement without any pressure. I have told you what I have seen. I have nothing to do with anyone. This is my statement.” 14. It appears from the aforesaid that the fi rst informant in her further statement made out altogether a diff erent story than what she narrated in the FIR. We would not go to the extent of saying that since the name of the appellant herein does not fi gure in the FIR and it came to be disclosed only for the fi rst time in the further statement of the victim that itself can be a ground to quash the FIR. However, there are SALIB @ SHALU @ SALIM v. STATE OF U.P. AND ORS. 69 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J. ] many other attending circumstances emerging from the record of the case which indicates that the case on hand is one of false implication. Just because the appellant herein happens to be the son-in-law of a very hardened criminal as alleged by name Iqbal @ Bala, he has also been roped in by way of further statement. It is pertinent to note that the victim in her FIR has not even remotely referred to the presence of Salman s/o Latife at village Mirzapur Paul. We are highlighting all this only to demonstrate, how the entire case was fabricated step by step. 15. There is a diff erent angle to this matter. It appears that the investigating agency has invoked Section 195A of the IPC. Section 195A of the IPC reads thus:- “Section 195A.