Application for review of . — C (1) Any person considering himself aggrieved — (a) by a decree or from which an appeal is allowed, but from which no appeal has been preferred, (b) by a decree or from which no appeal is allowed, or D (c) by a decision on a reference from a Court of Small Causes, and who, from the discovery of new and important matter or evidence which, after the exercise of due diligence was not within his knowledge or could not be produced by him at the time when the decree was passed or made, or on account of some E mistake or error apparent on the face of the record, or for any other sufficient reason, desires to obtain a review of the decree passed or made against him, may apply for a review of to the Court which passed the decree or made the . 2) A party who is not appealing from a decree or may apply for a review of notwithstanding the pendency of an appeal F by some other party except where the ground of such appeal is common to the applicant and the appellant, or when, being respondent, he can present to the Appellate Court the case on which he applies for the review. Explanation – The fact that the decision on a question of G law on which the of the Court is based has been reversed or modified by the subsequent decision of a superior Court in any other case, shall not be a ground for the review of such .” (Emphasis by me) H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 227 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 3. Before applying the said provisions to these review petitions, it A is necessary to give a brief factual background to these cases. 4. Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (for short, “L.A. Act, 1894”) was a pre-Independence legislation applicable to acquisition of land on the principle of eminent domain. The same was repealed and substituted by the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, B Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 (‘L.A. Act, 2013’ for the sake of convenience). L.A. Act, 2013 came into effect from 01.01.2014. Section 24 with particular reference to Section 24 (2) of L.A. Act, 2013, is relevant for the purpose of these review petitions. The said provision reads as under: C “24. Land acquisition process under Act No. 1 of 1894 shall be deemed to have lapsed in certain cases.–(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, in any case of land acquisition proceedings initiated under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894,— D (a) where no award under section 11 of the said Land Acquisition Act has been made, then, all provisions of this Act relating to the determination of compensation shall apply; or (b) where an award under said section 11 has been made, then such proceedings shall continue under the provisions of the E said Land Acquisition Act, as if the said Act has not been repealed.