2.3 A year and a half prior to the occurrence of the incident, Tapinder Singh had returned to the village. It is alleged by him that two C days prior to the date of the incident, i.e. on 1st September 1998, a dispute arose between Ravinder Singh and Manjit Kaur, on account of her allegedly deficient moral character. Ravinder Singh had beaten Manjit Kaur during this incident, whereafter Manjit Kaur had allegedly threatened Ravinder Singh that he would not survive. D 2.4 Two days later, i.e. on 3rd September 1998, accused Manjit Kaur along with one Pritinder Singh, alias Lovely, accused - appellant herein, came in a car bearing Registration No. HR 21 7778 and took Ravinder Singh in the said car on the pretext of purchasing shoes. Pertinently, Tapinder Singh was also present in the house at this time E and allegedly noticed that accused Manjit Kaur was carrying her 12 bore double barrel licensed gun in the car. 2.5 When the deceased Ravinder Singh did not return that evening, suspicion arose in the mind of Tapinder Singh and on the very next day, he along with one Gurdeep Singh, son of Gurmit Singh, went to Naga Mahantanwala Dera in search of the deceased. The Mahant of the F Dera told them that the three individuals, i.e. two accused and the deceased, had come in a car the previous night at around 9:30 PM. While both the appellants had their meals, Ravinder did not. The Mahant also informed Tapinder Singh that Ravinder Singh and Manjit Kaur were arguing with each other and, while leaving, had mentioned that they G were going to the house of one Surjit Singh, resident of village Kotha Guru, in their car. 2.6 Thereafter, Tapinder Singh set out for Surjit Singh’s house and reached the bridge of the minor canal on the way to Kotha Guru at about 8:30 AM, where they found the dead body of the deceased Ravinder H 1038 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Singh, lying on the pavement of the canal. The body bore two gunshot wounds. The car in which the appellants and the deceased were travelling was also standing there, with the aforementioned gun kept inside, along with the cartridges. On the same day at around 10:15 AM, a complaint was filed on the basis of which an FIR was registered at 11:00 AM and an inquest report was prepared. A special report was subsequently B received by the Magistrate on the same day at 2:15 PM. On the very same day, both the accused-appellants herein were apprehended and arrested and subjected to medical examination by the Medical Officer of Primary Health Center Bhagta Bhai Ke at 8:45 PM. 2.7 The postmortem report stated the cause of death to be shock, C haemorrhage and injury to vital organs, with the two wounds confirmed to be caused by a fire arm. The report of the Forensic Science Laboratory further stated that, of the two cartridges found in the car, one had been shot from the right barrel of the 12 bore double barrel licenced gun, while the other had been shot from the left barrel of the same weapon.