It is submitted that this is clear from the plain language of the provision itself. C xi) It is next submitted that under the first proviso to Section 140(5), when an application under Section 140(5) is filed by the Central Government and if NCLT is satisfied that a change in auditor is required, then within 15 days from the date of filing the said application, NCLT can pass an urgent that the auditor will D not “function” as an auditor and that the Central Government may appoint a new auditor to replace the current auditor. It is submitted that this is in the nature of a pro tem pending final by NCLT under the operative part of Section 140(5) and to facilitate the Central Government in appointing an auditor whilst E the existing auditor functioning is restrained. xii) It is next submitted that the second proviso to sub-section 5 of Section 140 contemplates that if a final is passed against the auditor, then the auditor will not be eligible to be appointed as an auditor of any company for a period of five years from the date of passing of the . Additionally, the auditor shall also be F liable for action under Section 447 of the Companies Act. It is submitted that the second proviso does not contemplate any separate by NCLT. Instead, it only provides for an automatic consequence, i.e., five years ineligibility qua an auditor whether individual or firm against whom a final has been passed by G the NCLT. It is submitted that moreover, the entire firm gets automatically disqualified for the actions of even one of its partners. There is no discretion provided to NCLT to alter the period of ineligibility. It is submitted that the debarment prescribed under the second proviso is an in terrorem provision imposed by operation of law, in the event an auditor chooses not to resign and forces H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 993 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] upon himself a final under the provision. It is submitted that A the plain language of second proviso is anchored squarely on a final being passed under the operative part of Section 140(5). xiii) It is submitted that it is settled law that proceedings which may result in disqualification would be of a quasi-criminal nature and have to be strictly construed. Since Section 140(5) results in B a disqualification of an auditor, proceedings thereunder would be quasi-criminal in nature. Disqualification of a professional is akin to a death penalty. The standard of proof is therefore satisfaction beyond reasonable doubt. Reliance is placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of An Advocate v. Bar Council of India C (1989) Supp 2 SCC 25 (Para 4(1) & (11) and ICAI v. LK Ratna & Ors. (1986) 4 SCC 537 (para 18). xiv) It is submitted that the Act needs to be read and interpreted in a holistic manner. Under the scheme of the Act, it is Section 447 which specifically provides for punishment for fraud.