The learned counsel appearing for the appellants placed strong reliance on the decision of this Court in Bikramjit Singh (supra) wherein this Court held that all offences under the UAPA whether investigated by the NIA or by the investigating agency of the State Government are H 50 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A to be tried exclusively by the Special Court set up under that Act and in the absence of any Special Court, set up by notifications issued either by the Central Government or the State Government, then the Court of Sessions alone. This Court held as under: “26. Before the NIA Act was enacted, offences under the UAPA B were of two kinds — those with a maximum imprisonment of over 7 years, and those with a maximum imprisonment of 7 years and under. Under the Code as applicable to offences against other laws, offences having a maximum sentence of 7 years and under are triable by the Magistrate’s courts, whereas offences having a maximum sentence of above 7 years C are triable by Courts of Session. This scheme has been completely done away with by the NIA Act, 2008 as all Scheduled Offences i.e. all offences under the UAPA, whether investigated by the National Investigation Agency or by the investigating agencies of the State Government, are D to be tried exclusively by Special Courts set up under that Act. In the absence of any designated court by notification issued by either the Central Government or the State Government, the fallback is upon the Court of Session alone. Thus, under the aforesaid scheme what becomes clear is that so far as all offences under the UAPA are concerned, the E Magistrate’s jurisdiction to extend time under the first proviso in Section 43-D(2)(b) is non-existent, “the Court” being either a Sessions Court, in the absence of a notification specifying a Special Court, or the Special Court itself. The impugned in arriving at the contrary conclusion is incorrect F as it has missed Section 22(2) read with Section 13 of the NIA Act. Also, the impugned has missed Section 16(1) of the NIA Act which states that a Special Court may take cognizance of any offence without the accused being committed to it for trial, inter alia, upon a police report of such facts. G 27. xxx xxx xxx “…The right to bail under Section 167(2) proviso (a) thereto is absolute. It is a legislative command and not court’s discretion. If the investigating agency fails to file charge-sheet before the expiry of 90/60 days, as the case may be, the H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 51 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] accused in custody should be released on bail. But at that A stage, merits of the case are not to be examined. Not at all. In fact, the Magistrate has no power to remand a person beyond the stipulated period of 90/60 days. He must pass an of bail and communicate the same to the accused to furnish the requisite bail bonds.”” B 71.