560 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 2P OS.RCT.RS. 560 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A OFFICE OF THE ODISHA LOKAYUKTA v. DR. PRADEEP KUMAR PANIGRAHI AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No(s).1384-85 of 2023) B FEBRUARY 23, 2023 [AJAY RASTOGI AND BELA M. TRIVEDI, JJ.] Odisha Lokayukta Act, 2014 – s.20(1), 25, 28 – passed by the appellant, in exercise of power conferred u/s.20(1), directing to conduct preliminary inquiry against respondent no.1 – Set aside C by High Court –Held: High Court passed the impugned setting aside the of the appellantwithout affording it an opportunity of hearing and thus, is in violation of the principles of natural justice – Even on merits, High Court completely overlooked s.20(1) that empowers the Lokayukta, on receipt of a complaint, in its discretion D if intended to proceed and to hold any inquiry, can conduct preliminary inquiry against a public servant by its wing or any other agency – So far as the term ‘any agency’ is concerned, it clearly manifests from s.25 which entrusts the power of superintendence to the Lokayukta to exercise in such a manner so as to require any agency, including the State Vigilance and Crime Branch – Also, u/ E s.28 for the purpose of conducting any preliminary inquiry or investigation, it is open for the Lokayukta to utilize the services of any officer or organization or investigation agency of the Government – Thus, in the present case, if the appellant conducted a preliminary inquiry through an agency of the Government of which F reference has been made u/s.28 through the Directorate of Vigilance, Cuttack, there is no legal infirmity committed by the appellant – Decision-making process in conducting the preliminary inquiry was within the scope and ambit of s.20(1)– of High Court and the review are set aside. G Administrative Law– Rule against Bias – Held: Rule against bias ensures a fair procedure by excluding decision makers who are tainted by bias – Under the rule, actual bias is disqualifying even though it is prohibitively difficult to establish – Justice must not only be done but must also appear to be done – In the present case, the Officer who submitted the complaint was simply an H 560 OFFICE OF THE ODISHA LOKAYUKTA v. DR. PRADEEP 561 KUMAR PANIGRAHI informant and not the person interested, at the same time, preliminary A enquiry was conducted by a different officer not connected with author of the complaint – Thus, the plea of bias is ill-founded – Odisha Lokayukta Act, 2014. Allowing the appeals, the Court B HELD: 1.1 The aim to the rule of natural justice is to secure justice or to put it negatively, these rules can operate only in areas not covered by any law validly made. Before any action could have been taken by the Directorate of Vigilance in conducting a preliminary enquiry, a writ petition was filed by respondent no.1 before the High Court and on the first motion C stage, the High Court, without affording an opportunity of hearing to the appellant, set aside the dated 11th December, 2020 passed by the appellant for conducting a preliminary inquiry.