The of the Supreme Court in CANARA BANK v. M. AMARENDER REDDY, which was rendered in the context of the unamended provisions, would therefore have no application to the post-amendment scenario in the light of the change brought about in Section 13(8). To sum up, the post-amendment scenario inevitably requires a clear thirty day notice period being maintained between issuance of the sale notice under Rule 8(6) of the Rules of 2002 and the publication of the sale notice under Rule 9(1) thereof, as the right of redemption available to the borrower in terms of Rule 8(6) of the Rules of 2002, as pointed out in MATHEW VARGHESE, stands extinguished upon publication of the sale notice under Rule 9(1).” (Emphasis supplied) 52. The amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act was also looked into by the High Court of Telangana in the case of K.V.V. Prasad Rao Gupta v. State Bank of India reported in 2021 SCC OnLine TS 328 and relying on the decision of the Andhra Pradesh High Court in the case of Sri. Sai Annadhatha Polymers (supra), the court observed in para 21 as under: “21. Thus from the above s it is clear that under Rule 8(6) of the Rules of 2002, the petitioners are entitled for a thirty day notice period enabling them to clear the loan and to redeem the property as envisaged under Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, and that if they fail to repay the amount within the stipulated period, after expiry of said period of 30 days, the secured creditor is entitled to issue publication of sale notice under Rule 9(1), and that on publication of such notice, the right of the borrower to redeem the property stands extinguished.” (Emphasis supplied) 53. The Telangana High Court in Concern Readymix (supra), examined the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, & held that the same only restricts the right of the secured creditor and not the borrowers CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 107 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] right of redemption, which will continue to exist until the execution of the conveyance. The following relevant observations are reproduced below: - “10. The fi rst distinction between the unamended and amended sub-section (8) of Section 13 is that before amendment, the facility of repayment of the entire dues along with the costs, charges and expenses, was available to the debtor at any time before the date fi xed for the sale or transfer. But after the amendment, the facility is available upto the time before the date of publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or private treaty. The second distinction is that the unamended sub-section (8) did not provide for the contingency when the dues are tendered by the borrower before the date of completion of the sale or lease but after the issue of notice. But the amended sub-section (8) takes care of the contingency where steps have already been taken by the secured creditor for the transfer of the secured asset, before the payment was made.