It cannot be disputed that the auditor plays a very important role so far as the affairs of any company are concerned and therefore he should be independent and above board. Companies Act, 2013 is the result of the culmination of detailed study after taking into consideration the B Parliamentary Standing Committee on Finance Report as well as the recommendations of the Standing Committee by introducing Companies Bill, 2009 and Companies Bill, 2011. When the earlier Companies Bill, 2009 was introduced, it was a culmination of the growing corporate economy and past experiences of corporate fiascos too and one of the C suggestions were to provide for stricter accountability for auditors. There was a long discussion on the role, responsibility, duties and regulation of auditors and the regulatory and enforcement provisions. Various suggestions were received to make the provisions pertaining to Audit and Auditors more stringent. It was suggested on Clause 123(10) of the 2009 Bill which provides for removal of an auditor by the NCLT on D finding that there is a fraud and corresponds to Section 140(5) of the Act should be made more stringent and should contemplate that an auditor removed by the Tribunal should not be eligible to be appointed as an auditor of any company for a period of five years. 5.1 At this stage, it is required to be noted that Section 143 of the E Act deals with the powers and duties of the auditors. Sub-section (12) of Section 143 specifically provides that in the event that the auditor has reason to believe that an offence of fraud is being or has been committed in the company, the auditor shall report the matter to the Central Government. The detailed procedure is provided under the Rules issued F in this regard. Therefore, a statutory duty is cast upon the auditor to report the matter to the Central Government about the offence of fraud being committed in a company. To see that the auditor is not holding any post in the company and he acts independently, Section 144 of the Act provides that the auditor cannot provide certain services including the management services. The objective seems to be that the auditor should G function as an independent person uninfluenced by any of its activities outside the scope of audit services. The auditor is prohibited from providing any management service to the company. Thus, the prohibition and restriction created under Section 144 of the Act is primarily to protect the interest of the company in question and other stakeholders such as H lenders and investors and the public at large. Keeping in mind the UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 1005 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] aforesaid provisions and the underlying public policy in the backdrop, A Section 140(5) of the Act, 2013 is required to be interpreted and/or considered. 5.2 Section 140(1) of the Act provides for the procedure to remove an auditor by the company before the expiry of his term; section 140(2) and (3) of the Act deal with resignation of auditors and Section 140(4) of B the Act deals with giving of special notice at an AGM for appointment of an auditor other than the retiring auditor and the process in that regard.