Rather, the President on application of mind must decide the scope of exercise of powers. II. Interpretation of Article 356 202. Article 356 stipulates that when the President is satisfi ed that a situation has arisen in which the government of the State cannot be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the President may by Proclamation: 195 Article 353 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 125 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] a. Assume to himself “all or any” of the functions of the Government of the State, and “all or any” of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor or any authority in the State other than the Legislature of the State; b. Declare that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament; and c. Make such incidental or consequential provisions as appear to the President to be necessary or desirable for giving eff ect to the objects of the Proclamation. This includes the power to suspend in whole or in part any of the provisions of this Constitution relating to any body or authority in the State. 203. Article 356, indicates that: a. The powers stipulated in clauses (a), (b), and (c) of Article 356(1) are not automatically invoked when a Proclamation is issued under Article 356. The Proclamation by the President must stipulate the scope of the powers which will be exercised by the Union. This is evident from Article 356(1) which states that the President may by a Proclamation assume or declare the powers stipulated in clauses (a), (b), and (c) of Article 356(1); b. The suspension of the State Government is a necessary consequence of issuing a Proclamation under Article 356. The President while issuing a Proclamation under Article 356 may exercise all or any of the functions of the State Government and the powers of the Governor. The President exercises the powers of the Governor which he holds as a constitutional head and the functions of the State Government as a political executive which he will exercise on the aid and advice of the Union Council of Ministers. However, Article 356(1)(a) does not opt for an all or none formula. The phrase “all or any” does not indicate that the Union Government can exercise a part of the functions of the State Government and the State Government can exercise the remaining because the suspension of the State Government is an automatic consequence of the Proclamation under Article 356. It rather indicates that the scope of power exercised by the Union 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Government must depend on the circumstances for issuing the Proclamation; c. The President in exercise of the powers of the Governor may either dissolve the Legislative Assembly of the State or direct that the Assembly shall be in suspended animation. The President may exercise the power under Article 356(1)(b) to confer the State’s legislative powers on Parliament. The power under Article 356(1) (b) is independent of the power under Article 356(1)(a); d. By virtue of Article 356(1)(c), the President has the power to make such incidental and consequential provisions as are necessary or desirable to give eff ect to the objects of the Proclamation which also includes the power to suspend provisions of Constitution relating to any body or authority in the State.