Once the arbitral tribunal makes an arbitral award, Section 16(6) allows the aggrieved party to make an application for setting aside the award under Section 34. Sections 16(5) and 16(6) further show that Parliament has completely ousted the jurisdiction of courts to interfere during the arbitral proceedings - courts can intervene only after the tribunal has made an award. Thus, Section 16 is intended to give full eff ect to the procedural and substantive aspects of the doctrine of competence-competence. 121. Section 34 of the Arbitration Act deals with applications for setting aside arbitral awards. Section 34(2) provides that an arbitral award may be set aside by the Court only if the party making the application establishes, on the basis of the record of the arbitral tribunal, any of the following fi ve grounds: (i) a party was under some incapacity; or (ii) the arbitration agreement is not valid under the law to which the parties have subjected it or, failing any indication thereon, under the law for the time being in force; or (iii) the party making an application was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or was otherwise unable to present his case; or (iv) the arbitral award deals with a dispute not contemplated by or not failing within the terms of the submission to arbitration, or it contains decisions on matters beyond the scope of the submission 115 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. to arbitration, provided that if the decisions on matters submitted to arbitration can be separated from those not so submitted, only that part of the arbitral award which contains decisions on matters not submitted to arbitration may be set aside; or (v) the composition of the arbitral tribunal or the arbitral procedure was not in accordance with the agreement of the parties, unless such agreement was in confl ict with a provision of Part I from which the parties cannot derogate, or, failing such agreement, was not in accordance with Part I. Moreover, the court can set aside an arbitral award if it fi nds that: (i) the subject-matter of the dispute is not capable of settlement by arbitration under the law for the time being in force; or (ii) the arbitral award is in confl ict with the public policy of India. 122. Under Section 34, the grounds for setting aside an arbitral award are specifi c. The provision requires a party challenging an award to plead and prove the existence of one or more such grounds.123 The scheme of the Arbitration Act shows that although an arbitral tribunal is given priority to determine all issues pertaining to its jurisdiction based on the principle of competence-competence, the tribunal’s decision is subject to judicial review at the stage when an award is challenged. Moreover, one of the grounds on which an arbitral award can be set aside is that the arbitration agreement is not valid under law. This indicates that the Arbitration Act does not contemplate the court determining the validity of an arbitration agreement at a pre-arbitral stage.