The basic principle of federalism is that the legislative and executive authority is partitioned between the Centre and the States not by any law to be made by the Centre but by the Constitution itself. This is what Constitution does. The States under our Constitution are in no way dependent upon the Centre for their legislative or executive authority. The Centre and the States are coequal in this matter. It is diffi cult to see how such a Constitution can be called centralism.” (emphasis supplied) 483. The division of legislative and executive competence between the Union and the federating States and the independence conferred on the federating States in their own sphere furthers representative democracy. The electorate elects their representatives to the State Legislature. The State Government (through the Council of Ministers) is accountable to the Legislative Assembly, which in turn is accountable to the citizenry. In this manner, the existence of the States breathes life into democracy by empowering citizens to participate in governance. This conception of democracy is fortifi ed by Article 1(1), which states: 321 Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 7, 4 November 1948 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “1. Name and territory of the Union. – (1) India, that is Bharat, shall be a Union of States. …”322 Article 1(1) indicates that the States are essential and indispensable to the constitutional structure of the country. The Union cannot exist without the existence of the States. 484. In State (NCT of Delhi) v. Union of India,323 a Constitution Bench of this Court described the importance of States in the federal structure in the following terms: “131. The interest of the States inherent in a federal form of Government gains more importance in a democratic form of Government as it is absolutely necessary in a democracy that the will of the people is given eff ect to. To subject the people of a particular State/region to the governance of the Union, that too, with respect to matters which can be best legislated at the State level goes against the very basic tenet of a democracy.” The existence of States is therefore essential to the constitutional project of democracy and federalism. Why, then, does the Constitution envisage Union territories? What purpose do they serve? The following segment considers these questions. II. The reason for the creation of Union territories 485. Despite the centrality of the States to the Constitution and the structure of governance that it envisages, Union Territories (which are administered by the Union Government) exist within the constitutional scheme. Every State has a Legislative Assembly324 (and some have Legislative Councils325 in addition) with a Governor who acts on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers.326 In contrast, only some Union territories 322 Article 1(1), Constitution of India 323 (2018) 8 SCC 501 324 Article 168 325 Ibid 326 Articles 153 and 163, IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 277 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] have a Legislative Assembly.327 The Union territories are administered by the President acting, to such extent as he thinks fi t, through an Administrator.328 The President also has the power to make regulations for certain Union territories.329 There are many other diff erences between these constituent units.