Two were having pistols in their hand which could be seen in the light of the bulb. He then goes on to say that while Ramesh F Gandhi was having a gun, Kalu Jakhar and Pawan were armed with pistols and remaining were having lathis and dandas. They first exhorted and then started beating all of them and threatened that today they will teach them a lesson, for selling liquor. When they were inflicting blows on the three of them his father Hanuman came to their rescue, to whom G Subhash gave a blow from his lathi. He then states that all the accused were inflicting injuries on his father, and when they finally left the house, they left after firing from their weapons. These are the essential details of his slightly longer narration. Section 319 of Cr.PC reads as under: H SANDEEP KUMAR v. THE STATE OF HARYANA & ANR. 1213 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] “319. Power to proceed against other persons appearing A to be guilty of offence.— (1) Where, in the course of any inquiry into, or trial of, an offence, it appears from the evidence that any person not being the accused has committed any offence for which such person could be tried together with the accused, the B Court may proceed against such person for the offence which he appears to have committed. (2) Where such person is not attending the Court, he may be arrested or summoned, as the circumstances of the case may require, for the purpose aforesaid. C (3) Any person attending the Court, although not under arrest or upon a summons, may be detained by such Court for the purpose of the inquiry into, or trial of, the offence which he appears to have committed. (4) Where the Court proceeds against any person under D sub-section (1) then— (a) the proceedings in respect of such person shall be commenced afresh, and the witnesses re-heard; (b) subject to the provisions of clause (a), the case may E proceed as if such person had been an accused person when the Court took cognizance of the offence upon which the inquiry or trial was commenced.” Sub-section (1) of Section 319 leaves it to the judicial discretion of the Court, where the trial is proceeding to summon a person as an F accused (who is so far not an accused in trial), if evidence has appeared before the Court that such a person has committed an offence for which he should be tried together with the other accused. This judicial discretion is extremely limited by the circumstances which have been stated in sub-section (1) of Section 319. We have already referred to the statement given by PW-9, (an eye-witness) in his examination-in-chief. To our G mind the Court had no alternative here but to summon the accused persons, considering that now it had an evidence before it in the form of the statement of PW-9. Pursuant to the summoning out of the three accused who have been summoned only one of them, i.e., Ramesh Gandhi who is H 1214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.