The factum of sale of MO43 and MO 44 has also been D proved through PW-5. It would be apt and appropriate to extract the deposition of PW-5 which is to the following effect: PW-5: “On 08.12.2011 in the evening Babu called me over phone and told me that rubber roller machine is for sale in Lingadahalli and he is thinking of purchasing it. He asked my suggestion because E the cost of that machine was Rs. 30,000/-. I told him not to buy immediately but to buy the next day after preparing an agreement with the advocate. Later all three of us namely I, Babu and the accused Binu went to Lingadahalli. There we went to the house of Uday Kumar, who F was an advocate. My brother-in-law knew him and he was requested to prepare an agreement regarding the purchase of roller machine. He took us to the garden land of Jose Kafan and had shown the rubber roller machine. At that time, it was dark. Later we went to G the hose of Babu in the same auto. We took machine in the auto and kept in Babu’s house. I enquired about Jose Kafan with the accused. He told that he is unwell and hence he is in the hospital in Kerala and he cannot move his hands and legs and can only move his head and hence he is in Ernakulam Hospital.” H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 425 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] PW-7: “I asked whether the owner is doing fine and the accused A told that he is doing fine and had gone to Kerala. He informed about rubber machine and asked me only to purchase it. I told that I do not want it and would inform him about people who wants to purchase it. I told I need the owner for that dealing. At that time the accused told that the owner is not keeping well. He B told that money is required for his treatment only for which he is selling it. Therefore, the next day I and Sunil Kumar went to the Garden land of Jose Kafan. We saw the rubber roller machine. The accused told that the cost of it is Rs. 50,000/- We asked for Rs. 30,000/-. We did not buy it but came back.” C 20.2 In fact the land belonging to the deceased was attempted to be sold by the accused to PW-5 and the uncontroverted evidence that is available on record is to be following effect below: PW-5:‘‘He told that they will not do any agricultural activities and want to sell property and asked me to inform whether anybody D wants to buy it. I agreed for that and told that I would inform if any party is ready to buy it. He told that Binu does not know Kannada and did not have the acquaintance of anyone. Therefore, he asked me to keep and preserve the records. PW-8: “He has identified the person wearing purple colour shirt E as Jose Kafan.