26. Kunhayammed (supra) refers to several other decisions of this Court and has crystallised the legal position as under: “44. To sum up, our conclusions are: (i) Where an appeal or revision is provided against an passed by a court, tribunal or any other authority before superior forum and such superior forum modifi es, reverses or affi rms the decision put in issue before it, the decision by the subordinate forum merges in the decision by the superior forum and it is the latter which subsists, remains operative and is capable of enforcement in the eye of law. 11 (2000) 6 SCC 359. 12 (2019) 4 SCC 376. EXPERION DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. HIMANSHU 1135 DEWAN AND SONALI DEWAN [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] (ii) The jurisdiction conferred by Article 136 of the Constitution is divisible into two stages. The fi rst stage is upto the disposal of prayer for special leave to fi le an appeal. The second stage commences if and when the leave to appeal is granted and the special leave petition is converted into an appeal. (iii) The doctrine of merger is not a doctrine of universal or unlimited application. It will depend on the nature of jurisdiction exercised by the superior forum and the content or subject-matter of challenge laid or capable of being laid shall be determinative of the applicability of merger. The superior jurisdiction should be capable of reversing, modifying or affi rming the put in issue before it. Under Article 136 of the Constitution the Supreme Court may reverse, modify or affi rm the -decree or appealed against while exercising its appellate jurisdiction and not while exercising the discretionary jurisdiction disposing of petition for special leave to appeal. The doctrine of merger can therefore be applied to the former and not to the latter. (iv) An refusing special leave to appeal may be a non-speaking or a speaking one. In either case it does not attract the doctrine of merger. An refusing special leave to appeal does not stand substituted in place of the under challenge. All that it means is that the Court was not inclined to exercise its discretion so as to allow the appeal being fi led. (v) If the refusing leave to appeal is a speaking , i.e., gives reasons for refusing the grant of leave, then the has two implications. Firstly, the statement of law contained in the is a declaration of law by the Supreme Court within the meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution. Secondly, other than the declaration of law, whatever is stated in the are the fi ndings recorded by the Supreme Court which would bind the parties thereto and also the court, tribunal or authority in any proceedings subsequent thereto by way of judicial discipline, the Supreme Court being the Apex Court of the country. But, this does not amount to saying that the of the court, tribunal or authority below has stood merged in the of the Supreme Court rejecting the special leave petition or that the 1136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.