v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 363 constrained the parties to agitate their rights as if in a de novo A trial. The aspects is referred solely to drive home the point that since the subject suit is based only on possessory title viz., on the basis of prior possession the finding and consequential rejection of the prayer for amendment of written statement to bring in the plea of purchase of the property pending the suit by B the deceased second appellant cannot be said to be ground resulting in grave injustice. [Para 16][380-B-D] 1.5. There was considerable delay in seeking amendment of the written statement or filing additional written statement and no sustainable reason was assigned as to why such prayers were C not sought in the trial court while the original proceedings were pending before it. It is also relevant to note that such prayers were also not made before the High Court when the High Court initially disposed of RFA and also before this Court in the Civil Appeal against the said . The impact and effect of the of remand passed by this Court assumes great relevance. D If the of the High Court was not modified by this Court as per in the Civil Appeal, it would have had the effect of reviving the suit in full and in such eventuality, the suit should have been deemed to be pending. [Para 20, 21][382-A-D] 1.6. In view of the subsequent of this Court in E the said Civil Appeal directed against the of remand in RFA, the of the High Court got merged in it. As per the same, the scope of proceedings before the trial court was confined only to record the additional evidence of defendants and to transmit the same to the High Court so as to enable the High F Court to dispose of the RFA afresh. The trial court could not have expanded the scope of the proceedings before it contrary to the of remand and hence, the trial court was perfectly correct in rejecting the application for amending the written statement [Para 22][383-A-C] 1.7. In the totality of the circumstances, taking into account G the relevant reasons assigned by the High Court for disallowing the prayer for amendment of the written statement and taking note of the delay and the failure to offer any reason therefor and H 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the reasons mentioned there is no perversity or illegality with the rejection of the prayer for amendment of the written statement. On the questions as to maintainability of the suit, whether the suit is bad for non-joinder of necessary parties as also whether the suit ought to have been held as abated against all the defendants for non-substitution of all the legal heirs on the death B of the original third defendant, the courts below returned concurrent findings against the appellants. [Para 23, 24][383-F- H; 384-A] 1.8 It cannot be understood as to how the plea regarding the maintainability of the suit arise for consideration.