35. The other regulations at play are the 2016 Rules which defi ne ‘plastic’ and ‘compostable plastics’: “’plastics’meanmaterial which contains as an essential ingredient, ahigh polymer such as polyethylene terephthalate, high density polyethylene, Vinyl, low density polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene resins, multi-materials like acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, polyphenylene oxide, polycarbonate, Polybutylene terephthalate. ‘compostable plastics’ mean plastic that undergoes degradation by biological processes during composting to yield CO2, water, inorganic compounds and biomass at a rate consistent with other known compostable materials, excluding conventional petro-based plastics, and does not leave visible, distinguishable or toxic residue;” 36. At the outset, it is pertinent also to point out that the NGT dismissing the matter as not maintainable, struck this court, as rather strange. A quick glance at Section 16 of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 reveals that s issued under Section 5 of the EPA fall squarely within the NGT’s remit: 115 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. “16. Any person aggrieved by, – […] “(g) any direction issued, on or after the commencement of the National Green Tribunal Act, 2010, under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986;” 37. The High Court, while deciding the question of natural justice, in light of Section 5 of the Act, read with Rule 4 of the Rules, held that since the ban only came into force on 01.01.2019 (i.e., 6 months after the date of the ), the petitioners were well aware of the ban and had even made representations that were heard and disposed, prior to the ban taking eff ect. Observing that individual notices cannot be expected to all concerned, it was held that when a policy decision of this nature is taken in larger public interest, there was no violation of principles of natural justice. 38. In the present case, the paper cup association sent in their representation, received an opportunity for a personal hearing, and a committee of experts was constituted to consider their representation. It was only after this, on 08.12.2018, that their representation was disposed of, with reasons. 39. A reference to Rule 4, indicates that it is mandatory. This court has dealt, in several cases with the question of post-facto decisional hearing. There is no gainsaying that principles of natural justice have to be complied with wherever the law requires that course. It is also an accepted principle that the silence of a statute or rule about natural justice, nevertheless, calls for a minimum hearing. At the same time, there have been cases, where the court has permitted post decisional hearing: notably in Liberty Oil Mills23. There the court recognized that there can be emergencies or urgent situations calling for immediate or expedient action, which cannot be delayed. In such eventualities, this court held that the rule of prior hearing can be dispensed with. In Dharampal Satyapal Ltd. v. CCE24 held that the principles of natural justice cannot be placed in a straitjacket, especially if a fair hearing would 23 Liberty Oil Mills v. Union of India, (1984) 3 SCC 465 24 (2015) 8 SCC 519 TAMIL NADU AND PUDUCHERRY PAPER CUP MANUFACTURES 1151 ASSOCIATION v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.]