54. Thus, while interpreting Sections 14, 31 & 32A resply of the IBC vis-a-vis Sections 138 and 141 resply of the NI Act, the principle of harmonious construction should be applied and followed. By permitting to proceed against the signatories/directors even after the D approval of the plan, what is achieved is uniformity in the functioning of the law by removing the anomalous and absurd situations, thereby, making it compliant with Article 14 of the Constitution. The said interpretation shields the relevant provisions from attack of being manifestly arbitrary. E 55.The distinction between a strict construction and a more free one has disappeared in the modern times and now mostly the question is, “what is the true construction of the statute?” A passage in Craies on Statue Law 7th Edn. reads to the following effect:- “The distinction between a strict and a liberal construction F has almost disappeared with regard to all classes of statutes, so that all statutes, whether penal or not, are now construed by substantially the same rules. ‘All modern Acts are framed with regard to equitable as well as legal principles.’ “A hundred years ago”, said the court in Lyons’ case, “statutes G were required to be perfectly precise and resort was not had to a reasonable construction of the Act, and thereby criminals were often allowed to escape. This is not the present mode of construing Acts of Parliament. They are construed now with reference to the true meaning and real intention of the legislature.” H 1034 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 56. At page-532 of the same book, observations of Sedgwick are quoted as under: “The more correct version of the doctrine appears to be that statutes of this class are to be fairly construed and faithfully applied according to the intent of the legislature without B unwarrantable severity on the one hand or unjustifiable lenity on the other, in cases of doubt the courts inclining to mercy.” ARGUMENT THAT AS THE DEBT STOOD EXTINGUISHED BY VIRTUE OF SECTION 31 OF THE CODE, THE CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS U/S. 138 OF THE NI ACT C CANNOT CONTINUE AS REGARDS THE DIRECTOR/ SIGNATORY. 57. The argument that as the debt stood extinguished by virtue of Section 31 of the IBC, the proceedings under Section 138 of the NI Act cannot continue as regards the director/signatory, would run contrary to the line of reasoning assigned by this Court that the “Involuntary Act” of D the principal debtor would not absolve the guarantors. 58. This Court in Lalit Kumar Jain v. Union of Indiaand Others reported in (2021) 9 SCC 321 has held that the approval of the resolution plan per se does not operate as a discharge of guarantors’ liability. That is because: E a. an involuntary act of the principal debtor leading to loss of security, would not absolve a guarantor of its liability. b. a discharge which the principal debtor may secure by operation of law in bankruptcy (or in liquidation F proceedings in the case of a company) does not absolve the surety of his liability.