We are not suggesting D that this defection from one point of view to the other is covered by Schedule X. We are just recording this fact to show that most of the arguments were actually arguments of convenience. 60. Keeping in mind what the accused argued before the High Court, let us now see what the High Court did. In paragraph 13 of the E impugned , the High Court took note of Vijay Madanlal Choudhary with particular reference to paragraph 187(v)(d). In paragraph 14, the High Court took note of the quashing of the complaint for the predicate offence in one case and the stay of further proceedings in the other two cases relating to predicate offences. In paragraph 15, the High Court addressed the question as to what is the effect of a stay . The High F Court concluded that if proceedings under the PMLA are permitted to go on during the operation of the stay in respect of predicate offences, it will cause damage to the reputation and goodwill of the parties and that therefore investigation by the ED cannot proceed. In paragraph 16 of the impugned , the High Court recorded that other G than the three FIRs, the ED was not in possession of anything else to proceed under the PMLA. In paragraph 17, the High Court recorded the contention relating to the non-existence of jurisdictional facts and referred to the decision in Arun Kumar vs. Union of India13 in paragraph 13 (2007) 1 SCC 732 H 1070 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 19. Thereafter, the High Court came to the conclusion in paragraph 20 that the quashing of the complaint in one criminal case and the stay of proceedings in other two Calendar Cases, showed that there was no jurisdictional fact or cause of action for the ED to initiate proceedings. 61. Since lot of arguments were advanced before us as though B the ED proceeded without the existenceof jurisdictional facts, it is necessary to extract paragraph 20 of the impugned to show what the High Court thought to be a jurisdictional fact. Hence, paragraph 20 of the impugned is extracted as follows: “20. A mere perusal of the above clearly shows that the C existence of jurisdictional fact is a condition precedent for the exercise of power by a Court of limited jurisdiction. Therefore, in the cases on hand, when there is no cause of action, since the proceeding in one of the calendar cases was quashed by the dated 30.07.2021 in Criminal Original Petition No.13374 of 2021 and the proceedings in two other calendar cases have been stayed D by this Court, there is no jurisdictional fact or cause of action for the respondent/department to initiate any proceedings during the period of of stay operating against the two FIRs. Viz. C.C.No.l9/2020 and C.C.No.24 of 2021.” 62. Again, in paragraph 22, the High Court recorded an opinion E that the grant of stay would amount to eclipsing the proceedings.