Point D2 – Increase of fees of resolution professional F 51. Though we have approved the findings of the Appellate Tribunal that the resolution plan in question, which was placed before Adjudicating Authority for approval without having been put to vote before CoC was void and non-est but, an ancillary observation of the Appellate Tribunal in correlating this material irregularity with increase of fees of resolution G professional is difficult to be accepted. 51.1. The CoC had precisely deliberated over the question of increase of fees of resolution professional and its decision in that regard could not have been correlated with any shortcoming in the process undertaken, which might have occurred for want of an erroneous H 908 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A assumption on the part of the resolution professional in view of the contents of minutes of ninth CoC meeting dated 22.01.2021. Though as aforesaid, when the resolution plan was to be revised so as to make provision for dissenting financial creditors, the financial outlay was going to be altered and it ought to have been placed before CoC again but, it is too far-stretched to connect this irregularity with the increase of fees of B the resolution professional. The findings and observations of the Appellate Tribunal against resolution professional in this regard deserve to be set aside. Point E – The matter concerning related party C 52. Another factor taken into consideration by the Appellate Tribunal has been in relation to the so-called discrimination in the resolution plan in relation to a related party of the corporate debtor. 53. Learned counsel for the appellant in Civil Appeal No.1827 of 2022 has referred to several decided cases to submit that therein, even when certain dues of related parties were admitted, the resolution plans D not providing for any payment to such related parties were upheld by this Court; and that the principles of non-discrimination would not be applicable to the decision of CoC. It has been argued on behalf of the resolution professional that none of the statutory requirements are of any mandate that a provision has to be made in the resolution plan for E payment to the related parties. According to the learned counsel, the need is, essentially, to ensure that the plan provides for payment to financial creditors (including dissenting financial creditors) entitled to vote. Thus, the plan in question cannot be said to be standing in contravention of any mandatory requirements. Per contra, the learned counsel appearing for the related party would submit that even when related party is to be F treated as a separate class in terms of the principles laid down by this Court in Phoenix ARC (supra), so as to be excluded from CoC, there is no reason that they be treated as separate class when it comes to payment of dues under the resolution plan. It is submitted that failure to provide for discharge of debt of the related party is in violation of Section 30(2)(b), G (e) and (f) of the Code.