The clause was adopted, which later became Article 326 of D the Constitution. 46. By virtue of Article 326, the right to vote became a constitutional right granted to citizens. The said right was given effect by Section 62 of Representation of the People (ROP) Act, 1951. Section 62(1) of ROP Act provides: “No person who is not, and except as expressly provided E by this Act, every person who is, for the time being entered in the electoral roll of any constituency shall be entitled to vote in that constituency.” The legal position is that the relevant provision of the ROP Act is derived from the text of the Constitution, which in this case, is Article 326. 47. However, the s of this Court adopted a restricted F view of the right to vote for a number of decades. In N.P. Ponnuswami v. Returning Officer, Namakkal Constituency and Others32 (hereinafter “N.P. Ponnuswami”), a bench of six judges of this Court was dealing with the question whether the High Court under Article 226 can have jurisdiction to interfere with the of the Returning Officer by reason of the provisions of Article 329(b) of the Constitution. While G the Court was examining the contours of Article 329(b), it also made the 31 CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY OF INDIA DEBATES (PROCEEDINGS)- VOLUME VIII Thursday, the 16th June 1949, Available at: http://164.100.47.194/loksabha/writereaddata/cadebatefiles/C16061949.html 32 1952 SCR 218 H 198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A following observation: “The right to vote or stand as a candidate for election is not a civil right but is a creature of statute or special law and must be subject to the limitations imposed by it.” 48. A different view was adopted by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Mohindhr Singh Gill and Another v. Chief B Election Commissioner, New Delhi and Others.33 (hereinafter “Mohindhr Singh Gill”). The Bench was called on to interpret Articles 324 and 329(b) of the Constitution. It noted: “The most valuable right in a democratic polity is the ‘little man’s’ little pencil-marking, accenting and dissenting, called his vote.... C Likewise, the little man’s right, in a representative system of Government to rise to Prime Ministership or Presidentship by use of the right to be candidate cannot be wished away by calling it of no civil moment. If civics mean anything to self-governing citizenry, if participatory democracy is not to be scuttled by law.... The straightaway conclusion is that every Indian has a right to elect D and be elected and this is constitutional as distinguished from a common law right and is entitled to cognizance by Courts, subject to statutory Regulations.” 49. However, a subsequent decision of a two-judge bench in Jyoti Basu and Others v. Debi Ghosal and Others34 (hereinafter “Jyoti E Basu”) relied upon the position taken by N.P. Ponnuswami (Supra). The two-judge bench was dealing with the specific question who may be joined as a party to an election petition, but went to observe: “A right to elect, fundamental though it is to democracy, is, anomalously enough, neither a fundamental right nor a Common F Law Right.