But the said request was not C acceded to. He relied upon a decision of this Court in the case of Vidarbha Industries Power Limited v. Axis Bank Limited1. He submitted that even assuming that the existence of financial debt and default on the part of the Corporate Debtor was established, the NCLT was not under an obligation to admit the application under Section 7. For good reasons, D NCLT could have refused to admit the application under Section 7 of the IB Code. He also fairly pointed out the dated 22nd September 2022 passed by this Court in a Review Petition seeking a review of the decision in the case of Vidarbha Industries1. 6. He invited our attention to the correspondence between the E Government of Telangana and the Syndicate Bank. There were contracts granted by the Telangana Government to the Corporate Debtor. He invited our attention to a letter dated 5th November 2018 addressed by the Executive Engineer on behalf of the Government of Telangana requesting the Bank to extend the Bank Guarantees furnished by the said Bank on the request of the Corporate Debtor. Similarly, by a letter F dated 7th August 2019, the Government of Telangana requested the Syndicate Bank to extend 29 Bank Guarantees mentioned in the said letter. He pointed out that the Corporate Debtor addressed a letter to the Bank on 9th January 2020 by which a request was made to extend the Bank Guarantees. He also invited the attention of the Court to a letter G dated 8th January 2020 addressed by the Government of Telangana to the Bank requesting the Bank to extend the seven Bank Guarantees mentioned therein. He submitted that notwithstanding the requests made by the State Government, Syndicate Bank did not extend the Bank 1 2022 (8) SCC 352 H 392 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Guarantees. Thus, in a sense, the failure of the Bank to extend the Bank Guarantees forced the Corporate Debtor to commit default. He submitted that the Bank is responsible for triggering the default. The learned counsel invited our attention to the interim dated 24th April 2020 passed by the learned Single Judge of the Telangana High Court by which the first respondent-Bank was restrained from taking coercive steps pursuant to B letters of invocation of Bank Guarantees including handing over of Demand Drafts to the State Government. He urged that in the teeth of this , NCLT ought not to have admitted the application under Section 7. 7. Learned counsel appearing for the first respondent-Bank firstly C pointed out that the decision in the case of Vidarbha Industries1 is in peculiar facts of that case, as is explained by the same Bench while disposing of the Review Petition. He submitted that the decision of this Court in the case of E.S. Krishnamurthy and others v. Bharath Hi- Tecch Builders Private Limited2 still holds the field. He, therefore, D submitted that once NCLT is satisfied that there is a financial debt and a default has occurred, it is bound to admit an application under Section 7.