In the given set of facts, according to the learned counsel, the appellant’s case does not fall under any of the exceptions contained in Section 300 IPC and hence, the concurrent findings against him call for no interference. F The scope and width of this appeal 12. As noticed, the Trial Court and the High Court have concurrently recorded the findings in this case that the prosecution has been able to establish the chain of circumstances leading to the only conclusion that the appellant is guilty of the offences of murder of his sons and causing disappearance of evidence. Though the parameters of G examining the matters in an appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution of India have been laid down repeatedly by this Court in several of the decisions but, having regard to the submissions made in this case, we may usefully reiterate the observations in the case of Pappu v. The State of Uttar Pradesh: 2022 SCC OnLine SC 176 wherein, H 842 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A after referring to Articles 134 and 136 of the Constitution of India and Section 2 of the Supreme Court (Enlargement of Criminal Appellate Jurisdiction) Act, 1970 as also with a detailed reference to the relevant decisions, this Court has summed up the subtle distinction in the scope of a regular appeal and an appeal by specialleave in the following words: - B “20.…. In such an appeal by special leave, where the Trial Court and the High Court have concurrently returned the findings of fact after appreciation of evidence, each and every finding of fact cannot be contested nor such an appeal could be dealt with as if another forum for reappreciation of evidence. Of course, if the assessment by the Trial Court and the High Court could be C said to be vitiated by any error of law or procedure or misreading of evidence or in disregard to the norms of judicial process leading to serious prejudice or injustice, this Court may, and in appropriate cases would, interfere in to prevent grave or serious miscarriage of justice but, such a course is adopted only in rare D and exceptional cases of manifest illegality. Tersely put, it is not a matter of regular appeal. This Court would not interfere with the concurrent findings of fact based on pure appreciation of evidence nor it is the scope of these appeals that this Court would enter into reappreciation of evidence so as to take a view different than that taken by the Trial Court and approved by the High Court.” E 12.1. Keeping the principles aforesaid in view, we may examine if the concurrent findings call for any interference in this case while reiterating that wholesome reappreciation of evidence is not within the scope of this appeal, even though we have scanned through the entire evidence in to appropriately deal with the contentions urged before F us. The principles relating to circumstantial evidence; burden of explanation; hostile witness; and motive 13.