[2023] 11 S.C.R. 1064 : 2023 INSC 805 CASE DETAILS BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 4955 of 2022) SEPTEMBER 06, 2023 [J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration: Whether the wilful breach of an assurance in the form of an undertaking given by a counsel/ advocate on behalf of his client to the court would amount to “civil contempt” as defi ned u/s. 2(b) of the Contempt of Court Act, 1971; whether the said undertaking could be said to have been given to the court; whether the contempt court has the power to declare any contemptuous transaction non est or void; whether the benefi ciaries of a contemptuous transaction have a right to be heard in the contempt proceedings on the ground that they are necessary or proper parties as they are bona fi de purchasers of the suit property for value without notice; and whether the apology tendered by the contemnors deserves to be accepted. Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 – s. 19 – Statutory appeals under – Statement made by the counsel appearing for the contemnors before the High Court in the form of an undertaking upon instructions of the clients that the property would not be sold till the disposal of the main petition – However, despite the undertaking, the appellants proceeded to execute sale deeds in favour of diff erent parties and thereby, wilfully disobeyed the passed by the High Court – Contemnors held guilty of contempt by the High Court and the sale transactions held to be void – Correctness: Held: High Court did not commit any error in passing the impugned and – Undertaking was given to the High Court and the breach or disobedience would attract the provisions of the 1971 Act. [Paras 116 and 117] 1064 BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1065 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. Contempt of Court Act, 1971 – s. 2(b) – Expression ‘wilful disobedience’ – Meaning of – Wilful breach of an assurance in the form of an undertaking given by a counsel/advocate on behalf of his client to the court, if would amount to ‘civil contempt’ as defi ned u/s. 2(b): Held: Expression “wilful” means act or omission which is done voluntarily or intentionally and with the specifi c intent to do something which the law forbids or with the specifi c intent to fail to do something the law requires to be done, with bad purpose either to disobey or to disregard the law – It signifi es a deliberate action done with evil intent or with a bad motive or purpose – Assurance in the form of an undertaking given by a counsel/advocate on behalf of his client to the court, the wilful breach or disobedience of the same would amount to ‘civil contempt’ as defi ned u/s. 2(b) of the 1971 Act . [Paras 56 and 116(i)] Contempt of Court Act, 1971 – s. 2(b) – Term Undertaking – Meaning of – Undertaking by the counsel, if undertaking given to the court: Held: Every undertaking given by a party to a litigation may not be an undertaking to the court – There exists a distinction between an undertaking given to a party to the lis and the undertaking given to a court – Undertaking given to a court attracts the provisions of the 1971 Act whereas an undertaking given to a party to the lis by way of an agreement of settlement or otherwise would not attract the provisions of the 1971 Act – Breach of an undertaking given to the other party may not constitute the contempt of court – However, whether a particular undertaking is an undertaking to the court or to the opposite party depends upon the facts and circumstances of each case and the language used – On facts, the undertaking could be said to have been given to the court – Wilful breach of an assurance in the form of an undertaking given by a counsel/advocate on behalf of his client to the court would amount to “civil contempt” as defi ned u/s.