In this behalf reference may be made to the decision of the Apex Court in State of Himachal Pradesh Versus Pawan Kumar Latest HLJ 2004 [SC] 1247.” ORAL EVIDENCE ON RECORD:- 21. We shall now look into the deposition of PW 12 Mohan Lal. Head Constable No. 175, Kullu Police Station. PW 12 in his examination in chief has deposed as under:- “Stated that I am posted in P.S. Kullu since 1997. On 23.8.1998 I with ASI Lal Singh, Constable Sant Ram and Baldev Dass proceeded from P.S. Kullu at 5.30 p.m. for patrolling. At about 6.30 p.m. ASI received secret information at Dhalpur. Whereupon ASI Lal Singh prepared Information Report and sent to S.P. through Const. Baldev Dass and I and ASI Lal Singh and Const. Sant Ram went to Bus Stand. Kullu (Sarbari). We reached Sarbari Bus Stand at 6.45 p.m. Surender, Bus Stand lncharge and Karam Singh were made to join the investigation. Accused Ranjan Chadha present in the court was standing in the verandah of Bus Stand and he had a black blue colour bag on his shoulder. Before witnesses Surender and Karam Singh, notice was issued by ASI Lal Singh to the accused to the eff ect that ASI has apprehension that you may be having charas in your possession and whether he wants to give his search to ASI or before G.O. or Magistrate. Accused gave in writing that he wants his search to be conducted by the police. Memo of this was also prepared. Accused told his name as Ranjan Kumar Chadha. After that accused along with witnesses was taken to a room which is adjacent to the room of Incharge of Bus Stand. ASI searched the bag and besides personal luggage of Ranjan Chadha, Charas in three polythene packets were RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 303 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] recovered from the bag and it was weighed and the charas was found to be 1 kg. 250 gms. Out of which two samples of 25 gm. each were taken and sample and recovered charas were separately sealed in two packets with seal H. After affi xing seal on samples, the seal was handed over to Surender Kumar witness. After that ASI prepared Rukka and gave it to constable who took the Rukka to police station. Accused was arrested and accused was told of the ground of arrest and sentence. Accused and witnesses Surender Singh, Karam Singh and I affi xed our respective signature on the Consent Memo Exh.PJ, Recovery Memo Exh.PK, Grounds of Arrest Exh.PN. Exh.P.1 packet and Exh.P.2 sample are same. Personal search of accused was conducted. Exh.PE the memo of personal search bears my signature as witness.” 22. We also looked into the cross examination of the PW 12 by the defence counsel. We take notice of the fact that nothing substantial could be elicited from the PW 12 in his cross examination. We also take notice of the fact that except suggestions put to the witness, there is no other form of cross examination.