As observed hereinabove, any interpretation, which may frustrate the very object and purpose of the Act / Statute shall be avoided by the Court. If the interpretation as canvassed on behalf of the respective respondents is accepted, in that case, even the object and purpose of Section 153C E namely, for assessment of income of any other person (other than the searched person) shall be frustrated. 11. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the impugned common and passed by the High Court is held to be unsustainable and the question, i.e., “Whether the amendment F brought to Section 153C of the Income Tax Act, 1961 vide Finance Act, 2015 would be applicable to searches conducted under Section 132 of the Act, 1961 before 01.06.2015, i.e., the date of amendment?”, is answered in favour of the Revenue and against the assessees and is answered accordingly. Therefore, it is observed and held that the amendment brought to Section 153C of the Act, 1961 vide Finance Act, G 2015 shall be applicable to searches conducted under Section 132 of the Act, 1961 before 01.06.2015, i.e., the date of the amendment. The impugned common and passed by the High Court, therefore, deserves to be quashed and set aside and is accordingly quashed and set aside. However, as before the High Court respective H assessment s were challenged mainly on the aforesaid issue, which INCOME TAX OFFICER v. VIKRAM SUJITKUMAR BHATIA 787 [M. R. SHAH, J.] is now answered in favour of the Revenue as above, we reserve the A liberty in favour of the respective assessees to challenge the assessment s before CIT (A) on any other grounds which may be available and it is observed that if said appeals are preferred within four weeks from today, the same be considered in accordance with law and on their own merits, on any other grounds. B Present appeals are accordingly allowed in terms of the above. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. Nidhi Jain Appeals allowed. C (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh and Tamana, LCRAs) D E F G H