But pre-arrangement there must be and premeditated concert. It is not enough, as in the latter Privy Council case, to have 19 AIR 1955 SC 216 402 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the same intention independently of each other, e.g., the intention to rescue another and, if necessary, to kill those who oppose.” (Emphasis supplied) 28. In Balu alias Bala Subramaniam1, this Court held: “11. To invoke Section 34 IPC, it must be established that the criminal act was done by more than one person in furtherance of common intention of all. It must, therefore, be proved that: (i) there was common intention on the part of several persons to commit a particular crime, and (ii) the crime was actually committed by them in furtherance of that common intention. The essence of liability under Section 34 IPC is simultaneous conscious mind of persons participating in the criminal action to bring about a particular result. Minds regarding the sharing of common intention gets satisfi ed when an overt act is established qua each of the accused. Common intention implies pre-arranged plan and acting in concert pursuant to the pre-arranged plan. Common intention is an intention to commit the crime actually committed and each accused person can be convicted of that crime, only if he has participated in that common intention.” (Emphasis supplied) After observing as above, in paragraph 15, it was observed: “15. Under Section 34 IPC, a pre-concert in the sense of a distinct previous plan is not necessary to be proved. The common intention to bring about a particular result may well develop on the spot as between a number of persons, with reference to the facts of the case and circumstances of the situation. The question whether there was any common intention or not depends upon the inference to be drawn from the proven facts and circumstances of each case. The totality of the circumstances must be taken into consideration in arriving at the conclusion whether the accused had a common intention to commit an off ence with which they could be convicted.” (Emphasis Supplied) 29. What is clear from the decisions noticed above is, that to fasten liability with the aid of Section 34 of the I.P.C. what must necessarily be SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 403 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] proved is a common intention to commit the crime actually committed and each accused person can be convicted of that crime, only if it is in furtherance of common intention of all. Common intention pre-supposes a prior concert, though pre-concert in the sense of a distinct previous plan is not necessary as common intention to bring about a particular result may develop on the spot. The question whether there was any common intention or not depends upon the inference to be drawn from the proven facts and circumstances of each case. The totality of the circumstances must be taken into consideration in arriving at the conclusion whether the accused had a common intention to commit an off ence with which they could be convicted.