It is further submitted that since the occurrence has taken place on the main street, many independent witnesses must have witnessed the incident. They have also not been examined. Even Rashid, in front of whose house, one of the shootings occurred, was not produced as a witness. It is further submitted that Amanullah, in whose house Harpal Singh (PW-10) allegedly hid during the shooting, was not examined as a witness. 17. Shri Grover therefore submitted that the prosecution has failed to prove the case beyond reasonable doubt and as such, the and of conviction as recorded by the trial court and confi rmed by the High Court is liable to be set aside. 784 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 18. Shri Grover, in the alternative, submitted that even if this Court does not interfere with the conviction, the capital punishment awarded to appellant Madan is not sustainable. He submitted that the trial court and the High Court have failed to draw a balance-sheet of mitigating and aggravating circumstances. It is submitted that the prosecution has to discharge the burden to place the material on record to establish that there is no possibility of reforming a convict before capital sentence could be awarded. Shri Grover submitted that in the present case, the State was directed to produce three Reports i.e. Probation Offi cers Report, Prison Conduct Report and Psychological Assessment Report. He submitted that, from the conduct of appellant Madan in jail, it is evident that appellant Madan has shown positive signs of reformation and poses no continuing threat to society. Appellant Madan is currently 64 years old and he has been in prison for 18 years and 3 months. It is submitted that during the entire duration, he has had no history of any kind of off ence in prison. 19. Shri Grover submitted that even from the Psychological Evaluation Report conducted by Institute of Human Behaviour & Allied Sciences (IHBAS), Dilshad Garden, Delhi, it could be seen that the said Report shows that the socio-occupational functioning is unaff ected. It further shows that appellant Madan has voluntarily taken up tasks in prison to keep himself occupied and also taken up responsibilities to help younger prisoners to lead a better life in prison. It is submitted that, taking into consideration all these factors, the capital punishment needs to be commuted to life imprisonment. 20. Shri Grover submitted that even the alleged motive is far-fetched. He submitted that the political rivalry which is attributed as motive is remote inasmuch as the elections were held for the period prior to more than two and half years of the incident. The learned Senior Counsel therefore requested for allowing the appeals. 21. Shri Grover further submitted that the present case does not fall in the category of rarest of rare cases to warrant capital punishment. He submitted that the fi nding recorded by the trial court and the High Court with regard to the present case being rarest of rare cases is without basis and as such, even if the conviction is confi rmed, capital punishment would not be sustainable.