[2023] 15 S.C.R. 97 : 2023 INSC 921 CASE DETAILS MRS. KALYANI RAJAN v. INDRAPRASTHA APOLLO HOSPITAL & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 10347 of 2010) OCTOBER 17, 2023 [A. S. BOPANNA AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the respondents have committed negligence in not providing proper post-operative medical care to the patient and, accordingly, whether the NCDRC has committed any illegality while dismissing the complaint fi led by the appellant herein. Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – Complainant-appellant, husband (patient) was suff ering from Chiari Malformations (Type II) with Hydrocephalous – Patient underwent neurosurgery after which he was shifted to a private room – However, same day around 11:00 p.m., patient suff ered a heart attack and consequent to which he died after few days – Complainant alleged apropos lack of medical care from the time he was shifted to the private room – The NCDRC rejected the complaint of the complainant – Propriety: Held: It is not the case of the complainant that respondent no.2-doctor was negligent in performing the Neurosurgery – Thus, the entire case of the complainant was about lack of proper post-operative medical care – On this score, the allegation is that the patient should have been shifted to ICU instead of shifting him to a private room – The material available on the record demonstrates that as per the standard practice, all patients who show no signs of complications in the recovery room and have no post or pre-operative complications are sent to their rooms – The symptoms, which emerged after the deceased was discharged from the Operation Theatre, were not the symptoms, which typically precede a cardiac arrest – Since, the deceased did not have any known or identifi able heart ailments, it was impossible for the respondents to have prior knowledge that the patient 97 98 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. may develop cardiac problem after few hours of the successful surgery – Also, materials placed before the Court show that patient was examined by doctors after his surgery and all required steps were taken – There is no evidence put forth by the complainant to establish that heart attack suff ered by the patient had any connection with the operation in question or that it was on account of negligent post-operative care – Furthermore, affi davit of professor of neurosurgery in AIIMS and Senior Consultant in Neurology at respondent no.1-Hospital opined that the record did not show any abnormality at the operated site and the complications suff ered by the patient were totally unrelated to the surgery conducted by respondent no. 2 – Therefore, the appellant has failed to establish negligence on the part of Respondents in taking post-operative care and the fi ndings in this regard recorded by the Commission does not suff er from any illegality or perversity. [Paras 23,25,32] Principle/Doctrine – Res Ipsa Loquitur – Applicability of: Held: In so far as the applicability of principles of Res Ipsa Loquitur, in the fact and circumstances of the case, it is to bear in mind that the principles get attracted where circumstances strongly suggest partaking in negligent behaviour by the person against whom an accusation of negligence is made – For applying the principles of Res Ipsa Loquitur, it is necessary that a ‘Res’ is present to establish the allegation of negligence – Strong incriminating circumstantial or documentary evidence is required for application of the doctrine – In the instant case, there was no mistake in diagnosis or a negligent diagnosis by respondent no.