Additional Superintendent of Police Vigilance, Mr. P.K. Naik, who submitted a report to the appellant on 28th May, 2021 is concerned, we are not persuaded with the submission of H OFFICE OF THE ODISHA LOKAYUKTA v. DR. PRADEEP 575 KUMAR PANIGRAHI [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] there being any bias on the part of the Directorate of Vigilance cell in A conducting preliminary inquiry for the reason that the Officer who submitted a complaint was simply an informant and not the person interested, at the same time, preliminary inquiry was conducted by a different Officer not connected with author of the complaint, thus the plea of bias was ill-founded. In our view, the principles of bias, even B remotely are not attracted in the facts and circumstances of the present case. 35. The rule against bias is an essential component of modern administrative law. The rule against bias ensures a fair procedure by excluding decision-makers who are tainted by bias. Under the rule, actual C bias is disqualifying even though it is prohibitively difficult to establish. The basic principle underlying the time-tested rule is that justice must not only be done but must also appears to be done and this rule has received wide recognition in several decisions of this Court and for our consideration we take note of the of this Court in A.K. Kraipak and others vs. Union of India and others1, wherein in para 15 this D Court held as under: “15. It is unfortunate that Naqishbund was appointed as one of the members of the selection board. It is true that ordinarily the Chief Conservator of Forests in a State should be considered as the most appropriate person to be in the selection board. He must E be expected to know his officers thoroughly, their weaknesses as well as their strength. His opinion as regards their suitability for selection to the All-India Service is entitled to great weight. But then under the circumstances it was improper to have included Naqishbund as a member of the selection board. He was one of F the persons to be considered for selection. It is against all canons of justice to make a man judge in his own cause. It is true that he did not participate in the deliberations of the committee when his name was considered. But then the very fact that he was a member of the selection board must have had its own impact on the decision of the selection board. Further admittedly he participated in the G deliberations of the selection board when the claims of his rivals particularly that of Basu was considered. He was also party to the preparation of the list of selected candidates in of preference. At every stage of his participation in the deliberations 11969 (2) SCC 262 H 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A of the selection board there was a conflict between his interest and duty. Under those circumstances it is difficult to believe that he could have been impartial.