While reiterating the request for such documents, the noticees submitted what they called an interim reply. 5.1. It was mentioned that Mr. Yashpal Sharma was the proprietor of the noticee fi rm which was engaged in the business of import of tuners etc. during the years 1997-98 and 1998-99. The imports were made from M/s. Arise Enterprises, Hong Kong. At the time of clearance, the bills of entry were fi led through the Customs House Agent and the imported goods were cleared after proper assessment by the customs authority on payment of due customs duty. Those goods were subsequently sold in the local market. In all, twenty consignments were imported. The noticees thereafter described and furnished the details of two types of tuners which were imported over a period of about nine months consisting of twenty consignments. 5.2. The noticees adverted to the allegations made in the show cause notice that the price declared by the noticees was not correct and was on the lower side, as proved by the statements of Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma and Mr. Yashpal Sharma recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act as well as by the export declarations fi led by M/s Arise Enterprises before the Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department. It was pointed out that the two statements of Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma and Mr. Yashpal Sharma could not be termed as voluntary under any circumstances. Those inculpatory statements were obtained through coercion and under duress. It was pointed out that the statement of Mr. Yashpal Sharma was structured in such a manner as to tally entirely with the statement of Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma. That apart, statement of Mr. Yashpal Sharma was contradictory to his own statement made before the Additional Sessions Judge where he had stated that there was no under valuation or under invoicing of the goods imported. Therefore, it was contended that both the statements were not at 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. all reliable. Further, Mr. Yashpal Sharma vide letter dated 25.08.1999 had retracted the statement made by him under Section 108 of the Customs Act. 5.3. Regarding the export declarations fi led by M/s Arise Enterprises before the Hong Kong customs authority, it was submitted that it was not known as to when these declarations were forwarded by the Consulate General of India, Hong Kong to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, New Delhi. The copies relied upon by the department were unattested and photocopies, thus unreliable. That apart, when the noticees contacted M/s Arise Enterprises, Hong Kong, it was acknowledged that due to error on the part of the staff , value of the goods was incorrectly shown in the export declarations. The mistake was subsequently rectifi ed whereafter M/s Arise Enterprises lodged a second set of declarations before the Hong Kong customs authority and paid the penalty which was levied. 5.4. It was stated that the noticees were informed by the Hong Kong supplier that the tuners, saw fi lters etc. were being off ered to them on stock clearance basis at lower prices.