In a somewhat special sense, a promise given in the course of legal proceedings by a party or his counsel, generally as a condition to obtaining some concession from the court or the opposite party. A promise or security in any form.” 58.. In M. v. Home Offi ce and Another reported in (1992) Q.B. 270 : (1992) 2 WLR 73 : (1992) 4 All ER 97, the expression “undertaking” has been dealt with in the following manner: “If a party, or solicitors or counsel on his behalf, so act as to convey to the court the fi rm conviction that an undertaking is being given, that party will be bound and it will be no answer that he did not think that he was giving it or that he was misunderstood.” (Emphasis supplied) 59. As the entire controversy revolves around the question whether the statement made by the learned counsel before the High Court was an undertaking on behalf of his clients and if yes then whether such undertaking could be said to have been given to the court, we must look into two decisions on this point; one rendered by the Bombay High Court and another by the Calcutta High Court. The Bombay High Court in Bajranglal Gangadhar Khemka and another v. Kapurchand Ltd. reported in AIR 1950 Bom 336, took notice of a practice wherein the undertaking would not expressly mention that it was given to the court but the High Court took cognizance of the fact that the expression “undertake” had come to acquire through long practice, a technical 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. meaning. The High Court speaking through M.C. Chagla, C.J., made the following observations: “…. The clause does not state to whom the undertaking is given, and it may be that it would be possible to hold that, as the parties were settling the dispute between themselves, the undertaking was given by one party to the other; or, at the highest, the only thing that could be urged would be that the expression is ambiguous, and in a contempt matter, unless the Court is clearly satisfi ed that the undertaking was given to the Court, the Court would not proceed to commit the person in default to jail. But, in our opinion, the expression “undertake” has come to acquire, through long practice, a technical meaning. In all s and decrees of the Court, whenever the expression “a party undertakes” has been used, it has always borne the meaning that the undertaking has been to the Court. The Advocate General has also referred us to the forms and s that appear in “Seton on Decrees and s”, and in those forms the expression used has always been “a party undertake” and never “a party undertakes to the Court.” Therefore, in English Courts as well, the expression “a party undertakes” when used in decrees or s has come to acquire the same technical meaning. What is more, it has been held by Bhagwati J.