[2023] 3 S.C.R. 207 207 SUSHIL PANDEY & ANR A v. STATE OF U.P.THR. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (HOME) & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 1838 of 2018) JANUARY 16, 2023 B [AJAY RASTOGI AND ANIRUDDHA BOSE, JJ.] Uttar Pradesh Police Radio Service Rules, 1979 – rr. 17, 22 – 50% vacancies for the post of Assistant Radio Officers to be filled through direct recruitment and 50% by promotion from the feeder C cadre (Radio Inspectors)– Appointments from both the streams were made on different dates– Combined selection list, quashed by High Court for being in violation of r.17 and r.22 – Fresh selection list was prepared, challenged by appellants-candidates from the feeder cadre – List sustained by High Court – Held: Manner in which appointment s were issued was found to be in breach of the D provisions of r.17 in the first –However, neither the first nor the impugned stipulated in what manner the dates of birth into the cadre for individual candidates from the two streams were be determined – Since main reasoning of the High Court for deciding the matter was that selection from both streams E was made from a common recruitment process,the dates of appointment s of both the streamsought to be treated from a particular date and 30th January 1996 being the date on which the appointment letters of the promotee candidates were issued, would be such date – Thus, the seniority of the candidates including the appellants be determined treating the entry into the cadre of both F sets of candidates (promotees and direct recruits) on 30th January 1996 and the seniority position be recast on that basis – On the question of intra-stream seniority, r.22 shall be followed – Impugned modified – U.P Government Servant Seniority Rules, 1991– Constitution of India – Art. 142– Service Law. G Disposing of the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The argument of the appellant that birth in the cadre first would automatically accord the seniority over and above those who are appointed at a later date is agreed with. This principle, however, is to apply in absence of any contrary H 207 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A provision in the applicable service rule. In the present case this aspect has been addressed by the Division Bench in the delivered on 12th September 2012. The opinion of the High Court in this was that since there was a common requisition, the appointments should have been made only after preparing the combined select list and seniority ought to have been B determined in accordance with Rule 22. This part of the has remained unaltered. Admitted position is that a review petition in relation to this was filed but the review did not upset this finding of the Division Bench. In the decision under appeal, the Division Bench has relied on these two paragraphs of C the earlier and come to its finding. Thus, so far as the appellants and other parties to this appeal are concerned, the said finding has attained finality and this question cannot be reopened in an appeal arising out of a subsequent proceeding on near identical factual background.