HEMAVATHI AND ORS. v. V. HOMBEGOWDA 483 [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] However, the CPC gives power to the High Court to frame additional substantial questions of law or to mould the substantial questions of law already framed on hearing the parties at the time of fi nal hearing of a Second Appeal. In the event the respondents before the High Court are on record even at the stage of admission of a Regular Second Appeal and the same is to be disposed of fi nally even at this stage substantial questions of law must be framed and answered before the Regular Second Appeal is admitted and disposed. On a perusal of the impugned , we fi nd that the same has not been framed. The said error is compounded by the learned Judge stating in the passed in the review petition that no such substantial question of law arose in the appeal(s). In fact, it is necessary to highlight this aspect by quoting the learned judge by what he has stated in paragraph ‘3’ of the passed in the review petition as under: “3. A perusal of the dated 13.04.2022 in RSA No.291/2022 shows that the respondent No.2 had entered Caveat. When the appeal was listed for admission, this Court held that the explanation off ered by the appellant in not fi ling the written statement was not completely acceptable but was probable. This Court also found that the appeal fi led by the appellant before the First Appellate Court was dismissed as barred by time. Hence this Court felt that the appellant was deprived of an opportunity to defend the action brought by the respondents therein. Hence cost of Rs.50,000/- was imposed and the case was remitted for disposal within six months. This Court did not express any opinion on the merits of the case. This Court was aware of the requirement to frame the substantial question of law before disposing a second appeal, as declared by the Hon’ble Apex Court in the decisions cited by the learned counsel. However, this was not a case where any substantial question was involved, as the Trial Court did not adjudicate question was involved, as the Trial Court did not adjudicate the dispute on merits.” The aforesaid paragraph would speak for itself vis-a-vis the infi rmities in the impugned and of the High Court. If no substantial question of law arose in the case then the appeal could not have been entertained and ought to have been dismissed at the stage of admission. 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. But on the other hand, in the absence of framing any substantial question of law the appeal has been allowed, that too, at the stage of admission, without issuance of notice to the other respondents Nos.1, 3 and 4 and by hearing only learned counsel for the respondent No.2 before the High Court who was on caveat. The aforesaid errors are compounded by the fact that a sum of Rs.50,000/-(Rupees fi fty thousand only) cost was awarded to the successful plaintiff s who were respondents before the High Court in lieu of any notice being issued to them!