The authorities considered by the Court in H.Anraj do not support the sub division of the chance to win into a further distinct right to participate. The Court sought to draw the distinction between the chance to win and the right to participate by describing the former as a right ‘in futuro’ and the latter as “in praesenti”. Both the rights are in fact ‘in futuro’. In any event the distinction is immaterial to the question as to whether the subject matter of the transfer is an actionable claim, since an actionable claim may be existent, accruing, conditional or contingent.” 37. In another decision, Noor & Ors. v G.S. Ibrahim (Dead) by LRs15it was held that: “If right to recover the arrears is assigned, then the transferee/landlord can recover those arrears as rent and if not paid maintain a petition for eviction under the rent laws for those arrears as well.” 15 2003 Supp (2) SCR 204 105 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 38. In another decision, ICICI Bank v Offi cial Liquidator of APS Star Industries Ltd16this court held that: “rights under a contract are always assignable unless the contract is personal in its nature or unless the rights are incapable of assignment, either under the law or under an agreement between the parties. A benefi t under the contract can always be assigned. That, there is, in law, a clear distinction between assignment of rights under a contract by a party who has performed his obligation thereunder and an assignment of a claim for compensation which one party has against the other for breach of contract. 19. In the case of Camdex International Bank Ltd v Bank of Zambia reported in (1998) Q.B. 22 (CA) the following observation which is relevant to the present case needs to be quoted: “The assignment of a debt will not be contrary to public policy solely on the grounds that the assignee has purchased the debt for a considerably discounted price or because that price is only payable after a period of credit. Nor will the assignment be contrary to public policy simply because the assignee may make a profi t on the transaction at the end of the day. If there was no prospect of a profi t, Hobhouse LJ observed, commercial entities would never purchase debts.” 20. Similarly, the following proposition in Chitty on Contracts, 27th edn. (1994) at para 19.027 is relevant to be noted. “It is also well established that a claim to a simple debt is assignable even if the debtor has refused to pay. The practice of assigning or `selling’ debts to debt collecting agencies and credit factors could hardly be carried on if the law were otherwise. “ 21. In view of the above exposition of law, we fi nd that under the impugned Deed of Assignment only the Account Receivables in the books of ICICI Bank Ltd. has been transferred to Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. The obligations of ICICI Bank Ltd. towards its borrower(s) (customer) under the loan agreement secured by deed of hypothecation/ 16 2010 (12) SCR 644 INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1057 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR.