In that regard, all that has been adverted to by the High Court is as to whether the employees who are the members of the respondent and are employed in the headquarters are similarly placed as that of the employees of CSS/CSSS and in that regard has considered the matter further to ensure that the members of the respondent are not discriminated upon. 11. In that view of the matter what is to be taken into consideration is as to whether in the facts and circumstances of the present case the High Court was justifi ed in arriving at the conclusion that the provision contained in para 3.1.9 of the Sixth CPC would apply to the fact situation and in that regard whether it had rightly rejected the contention of the appellant herein that it ought to have been guided by para 3.1.14 of the recommendations. The contention as noted by the High Court is what was urged before us. In that regard, at the outset it is necessary to clarify that the conclusion as reached with regard to the parity in pay scale in the case of the employees who are members of the fi rst respondent is basically due to the fact that they are employees in the headquarters of the Ordnance Factory and therefore UNION OF INDIA & ORS V. D.G.O.F. EMPLOYEES 869 ASSOCIATION AND ANR. [A.S. BOPANNA, J.] they are similarly placed as that of the Assistants in CSS/CSSS Army Headquarters as well as such other similarly placed organisations referred to in the recommendations. If that be the position, the conclusion as reached by the High Court is unexceptionable. 12. However, the learned senior counsel for the appellant in to buttress his contention that para 3.1.14 of the recommendations would apply has sought to rely on the decision of this Court in Union of India and Others vs. Manoj Kumar and Others Civil Appeal Nos.913-914 of 2021 disposed of on 31.08.2021 wherein this court while examining the very same provision as contained in paras 3.1.9 and 3.1.14 had arrived at the conclusion that the benefi t of equal pay in the said case cannot be extended and had held that the Pay Commission, which is a specialised body set up with the objective of resolving anomalies had made its recommendation, which would not call for interference. The decision would indicate that this Court though had referred to the very paragraph as contained in the Sixth CPC recommendations, what had however arisen for consideration therein was with regard to disparity between Secretariat and Field Offi cers. What was noted in that case was the claim made by Private Secretaries Grade II employed in Eastern Central Railways (Field Offi ce/Zonal Railways) for parity in pay with their counterparts working in the Central Secretariat Stenographers Service/Railway Boards Secretariat Stenographers Service/Central Administrative Tribunal. In that view, this Court was of the view that though there is an observation that the recommendations shall apply mutatis mutandis to Private Secretaries and posts equivalent thereto in the service under para 3.1.9; the subsequent para 3.1.14 has specifi cally dealt with the aspect of parity between the Field and Secretariat Offi ces which was really the subject matter of the claim therein.