business in these connected, incidental or ancillary activities is established by the revenue, vide State of Tamil Nadu vs. Board of Trustees of the Port of Madras, (1999) 4 SCC 630; Commissioner of Sales Tax vs. Sai Publication Fund, (2002) 4 SCC 57. That in the present case, there is no material to establish that the ancillary activity of providing transport facilities to their employees and their children is conducted with an independent intention to conduct business through such activity. Therefore, in the present case, neither the main activity of the appellants, nor the ancillary activity of providing transport facilities to their employees and their children, would amount to ‘business’ as defi ned under the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997. ii. Referring to the various amendments brought about by the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 and contrasting them with the unamended provisions, it was contended that the said Act has not removed the basis of the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 27 March, 1997, nor has it cured the defects in the Act of 1955. That such an enactment is simply contradictory to the decision of the High Court, without addressing the underlying reasoning of the Court. iii. That the retrospective eff ect of forty-two years, given to the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 is totally unreasonable and arbitrary. That particularly in relation to taxation statutes, retrospectivity cannot be excessive or harsh, vide National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd. vs. Union of India, (2003) 5 SCC 23. That on this ground alone, the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 may be struck down as being unconstitutional. With the aforesaid submissions, learned Senior Counsel and learned counsel for the appellants prayed that the impugned s be set aside and the Act of 1955, as amended by the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, be struck down as being arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional. 5. Per contra, Sri Anup Kumar Rattan, learned Advocate General for the State of Himachal Pradesh supported the impugned and submitted that the High Court had proceeded to pass the impugned s NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 19 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] on a sound appreciation of the facts of the matter and the applicable law and the same would not call for any interference by this Court. It was further contended as under: i. That the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 has validly addressed the defi ciencies in various provisions of the Act of 1955 and has therefore removed the basis of the of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 27 March, 1997 in accordance with law. That it is trite that if a law passed by a Legislature is struck down or rendered inoperative by a Court, the competent Legislature can correct the infi rmities which formed the basis of the Court’s decision to strike down the law and make such amended law eff ective retrospectively, vide M/s West Ramnad Electric Distribution Co. vs. State of Madras, A.I.R.