In this regard, we may notice the following clause in the PPA: C “5.2 The Site The Seller acknowledges that, before entering into this Agreement, it has had sufficient opportunity to investigate the Site and accepts full responsibility for its condition (including but not limited to its geological condition, on the Site, the adequacy of the road and rail D links to the Site and the availability of adequate supplies of water) and agrees that it shall not be relieved from any of its obligations under this Agreement or be entitled to any extension of time or financial compensation by reason of the unsuitability of the Site for whatever reason. E The State Government authorities would be implementing the resettlement and rehabilitation package (“R&R”) in respect of the Site for the Project, for which the costs is to be borne by the Seller. The Procurers shall endeavour to ensure that the State Government implements such R&R ensuring that land for different F construction activities becomes available in time so as to ensure that the Power Station and each Unit is commissioned in a timely manner. Assistance of the Seller may be sought, which he will provide on best endeavour basis, in execution of those activities of the R&R package and as per estimated costs, if execution of such activities is in the interest of expeditious implementation of G the package and is beneficial to the Project affected persons.” (75) Moving on to the findings actually which have been rendered by the Tribunal, the Tribunal has, in the impugned , found that the first report of the WAPCOS is grossly erroneous. We are at a loss to understand as to what was the basis for rendering such a finding. Without H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 53 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] any material, it is a little inexplicable as to how the Tribunal could have A rendered such a finding which has serious consequences as we have noticed. This is after finding undoubtedly that there is no change in law. Virtually, the Tribunal has brushed aside the disclaimer clauses. Before we go to the disclaimer clauses, we may also indicate that a perusal of the first WAPCOS report indicates that it is a fairly elaborate report. B The second WAPCOS report apart from it being prepared without reference to the procurers as we have noticed does not appear to say anything which is critical of the first WAPCOS report. At least, there is, in fact, no express whisper about the first report. All that the second WAPCOS report seems to indicate is upon being awarded the work, WAPCOS has gone about preparing another report. At least we are C unable to find as to how the Tribunal could on the basis of the second report find that the first WAPCOS report was grossly erroneous. The Tribunal has not undertaken a comparative study of the two reports. There is no discussion whatsoever of the two reports. Nor is there any other material provided to render such a finding.