(v) Further, with reference to Netaji Cricket Club(supra), on which reliance has been placed by the review petitioners, it H 254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A was observed that the consideration of the exercise of review jurisdiction in that case, based on a subsequent event was confined to purely the facts of the said case involving a controversy between rival Cricket Associations. Hence, it was opined that the decision in Netaji Cricket Clubcould not be applied as a general ratio. B While delineating the principles from the aforesaid s, inter alia, the following principles relevant to the instant cases are reiterated: i) the expression “any other sufficient reason” appearing C in XLVII Rule 1 CPC has to be interpreted in light of other grounds specified in the said provision. ii) an erroneous /decision cannot be corrected in the guise of exercise of power of review. (h) In a recent judgement dated 18.08.2022 in Civil Appeals D Nos. 5503-5504 of 2022 arising out of SLP (C) Nos. 9602- 9603 of 2022 along with Civil Appeal No. 5505 of 2022 arising out of SLP (C) No. 11290 of 2022, a Three-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of S. Madhusudhan Reddy vs. V. Narayana Reddy (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1034 had made specific reference to the aforementioned cases E of Chajju Ram vs. Neki AIR 1922 P.C 112 and Moran Mar Basselios Catholics vs. Most Rev. Mar Paulose Athanasius (supra) wherein the words “any other sufficient reason appearing in XLVII Rule 1 CPC” was defined to mean “a reason sufficient on grounds at F least analogous to those specified in the Rule.” In making reference to these cases, the Three-Judge Bench reiterated that an essential principle for exercising review jurisdiction under XLVII Rule 1 CPC is that the review will be maintainable for “any other sufficient reason”, and has narrowed the scope of this ground to mean a reason G sufficient on grounds at least analogous to those specified in the rule. (i) In the aforesaid case Union of India vs. Sandur Manganese & Iron Ores Ltd. & Ors. (2013) 8 SCC 337 has also been adverted to wherein this Court delineated on H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 255 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] some of the grounds as to when the review will not be A maintainable as under: - “(i) A repetition of old and overruled argument is not enough to reopen concluded adjudications, (ii) Minor mistakes of inconsequential import, B (iii) Review proceedings cannot be equated with the original hearing of the case, (iv) Review is not maintainable unless the material error, manifest on the face of the , undermines its soundness or results in miscarriage of justice, C (v) A review is by no means an appeal in disguise whereby an erroneous decision is re-heard and corrected but lies only for patent error, (vi) The mere possibility of two views on the subject cannot be a ground for review, D (vii) The error apparent on the face of the record should not be an error which has to be fished out and searched, (viii) The appreciation of evidence on record is fully within E the domain of the appellate court, it cannot be permitted to be advanced in the review petition, and (ix) Review is not maintainable when the same relief sought at the time of arguing the main matter had been negatived.” F 47.