Therefore, if a dealer ceased to be the manufacturer, he shall not be entitled to the benefit of exemption under Section 39. The relevant portion of Section 39 reads as under:- E “39. Tax holiday for new small-scale industrial units- (1) Subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed, no tax shall be payable by a dealer for such period as may be prescribed in respect of his sales of goods manufactured by him in his newly set up small-scale industrial unit situated in the prescribed area, and in calculating his taxable turnover of sales F under sub-section (3) of section 17, that part of his gross turnover of sales which represents the turnover of sales of such goods shall be deducted from his gross turnover of sales under sub- clause (viii) of clause (a) of sub-section (3) of that section. XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX” G 8.5 Under the circumstances, the decisions relied on behalf of the appellants referred to hereinabove, shall not be applicable to the facts of the case on hand. 9. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, I am in complete agreement with the view taken by the learned Tribunal as well H M/S. K.B. TEA PRODUCT PVT. LTD. v. COMMERCIAL TAX 839 OFFICER, SILIGURI as the High Court that on and after 01.08.2001 and in view of the A amendment to Section 2(17) of the Act, 1994, by which the definition of “manufacture” is amended and “tea blending” is excluded from the definition of “manufacture”, the appellants shall not be entitled to the exemption from payment of sales tax. Under the circumstances, all these appeals fail and the same B deserve to be dismissed and are accordingly dismissed. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. KRISHNA MURARI, J. C 1. I have had the advantage of reading the proposed by my esteemed brother, Hon’ble Mr. Justice M.R. Shah. However, I am unable to agree with the reasoning as well as the result arrived at by my esteemed brother, and thus separately pen down my conclusion. 2. In brief, Section 2(dd) of the erstwhile Bengal Finance (Sales D Tax) Act, 1941 defined the term “manufacture”, under the definition of which, “blending of any goods” was also included. The said act was then replaced by the West Bengal Sales Tax Act, 1994, under which, the definition of “manufacture” was changed, and the term “blending of any goods” was omitted, however, “blending of tea” was still included under the definition of “manufacture”. Further, by virtue of the said amendment, E a tax holiday was granted to new small scale industrial units for a specified period. 3. Subsequent to the amendments, the State scheme of Incentives for Cottage and Small-Scale Industries, 1993 was amended, for the purpose of providing incentives and promotion of large, medium and F small scale industrial units. 4. Subsequent to this tax holiday being granted, and on the basis of such tax holiday, the Appellants herein set up small-scale industrial units for the purpose of carrying on the business of manufacturing blended tea.