The Land acquisition laws in India have their origins in British colonial law. Compulsory acquisition of land is based on the principle of eminent domain which can be understood as the State’s power to acquire private property without the owner’s consent for a ‘public purpose’7. Thus, when the State acquires property while exercising its eminent domain powers, the economic loss suff ered by the owner is followed by a corresponding economic gain to the State. The State deals with the property as if it is the owner of the property8. Scholarly writings on the principle of eminent domain have shed light on this subject9. In an article titled, “History of Eminent Domain in Colonial Thought and Legal Practice” published in the Economic and Political Weekly10, the author, while critiquing the principle of eminent domain refl ects on the need to rethink compulsory acquisition from the lens of ethics and justice. Referring to the opening paragraph in the Tenth Report of the Law Commission of India: 7 Julius L. Sackman, Russell D Van Brunt, ‘Nichols on Eminent Domain’ vol 1 (3rd edn, Mathew Bender & co, 1959). § 1.11 8 Namita Wahi, ‘Property’ in Sujit Choudhry, Madhav Khosla, Pratap Bhanu Mehta (eds), The Oxford Handbook of the Indian Constitution (Oxford University Press 2016) 9 Tom Allen, The Right to Property in Commonwealth Constitutions (Cambridge University Press 2000) 172; Preeti Sampat, ‘Limits to Absolute Power: Eminent Domain and Right to Land in India’ (2013) 48 Economic and Political Weekly 40; Usha Ramanathan, ‘A Word of Eminent Domain’ in Lyla Mehta(ed), Displaced by Development: Confronting Marginalisation and Gender Injustice. (SAGE 2009) 10 Debjani Bhattacharyya, ‘History of Eminent Domain in Colonial Thought and Legal Practice’ (2015) 50 Economic and Political Weekly 45. 532 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Law of Acquisition and Requisitioning of Land (1958)11 dealing with land acquisition as per which “critical examination of the various stages of evolution of this(compulsory land acquisition) power and its ethical basis will serve no useful purpose as the power has been established in all civilised countries”, the author questions the precedence given to customary practices over ethics. There ought to be substantive limits on the power of eminent domain in to avoid arbitrary action. Strict adherence to procedure is an essential safeguard towards achieving fairness and transparency in the land acquisition process. Such procedures provide land owners and interested persons a fair opportunity to say why their land should not be acquired and also whether the compensation assessed for their lands is adequate. To deny procedural safeguards to the land loser would mean that the doors of justice are shut for him. Such an interpretation, in my view, should be avoided. ii) International Legal Framework on Compulsory Land Acquisition 14. Before proceeding to deal with the issue of the legitimacy of the land acquisition proceeding, it would be appropriate to set out the international legal framework on compulsory land acquisition. The right to self-determination is enshrined within the Charter of the United Nations, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), amongst other instruments which is defi ned as the right of all people to freely dispose of their natural wealth and resources, and that no person may be deprived of its own means of subsistence.