The Union has sought to rely on an Office Memorandum14 which virtually reiterates the stand taken in its counter affidavit before the High Court; it also states that the Central Government had received representations from the Indian Printing and Packaging and Allied Machinery Manufacturer’s Association (IPPAMMA) for reconsidering C the exemption under the first notification since the domestic industry had the capacity to produce machines and heat set machines, with capacity up to 60,000 copies per hour. The representation also requested that in view of such indigenous capacity, concessional duty should not be given to single width two plate wide machines, and should be restricted D to four plate wide double width high speed offset printing machines. 18. The assessee had during the hearing opposed the reliance on the additional affidavit and, in particular, the office memorandum, contending that these contained reasons given after the decision, and could not be the basis of justifying the Amended Notification. E 19. The reasons given by the Union, in its affidavit were considered in the impugned , which rejects the rationale for the amended notification: “As said above it is the element of public interest that governs the field. The ground of withdrawal of concession, namely F several representations from domestic manufacturers of the printing machines prompted recalling the concession does not appear to be tenable because the Indian products have the capacity nor more than 60,000 copies per hour and did not have comparable label of automation of the printing quality as that of the foreign machine imported. It cannot be said G that withdrawal of the concession was to facilitate the indigenous manufacturers. Indigenous angle therefore was not germane to withdrawal of exemption and this being the 14 Dated 30th September, 2010 issued by the Tax Research Unit of the Department of Revenue, Govt of India H 1124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A position element of public interest which must govern in the case of grant or withdrawal of the grant is lost. There could hardly remain any distinction between the two types of machines as both were having the same technology. No reasonable differentiation could be made between the two types of machines as both the machines have the same capacity B of production and both were to be imported and were not manufactured in the country. Therefore, to our mind the Hon’ble Trial Judge did not commit any illegality in holding that element of public interest could not be perceived in withdrawal of exemption.” C 20. The assessee is, in the opinion of this court, correct in asserting that every action of the executive government, including exercise of its power to grant or withdraw tax exemption, should be suffused with public interest. In Indian Express Newspapers (Supra), this court, speaking in the context of a customs withdrawal notification [challenged on the ground of violation of the right to freedom of speech under Article 19 (1) D (a)] stated that: “18. In cases where the power vested in the Government is a power which has got to be exercised in the public interest, as it happens to be here, the Court may require the Government to exercise that power in a reasonable way in accordance E with the spirit of the Constitution.