H 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A goes on to require the Minster in charge of a particular department to be primarily responsible of carrying out business under that department. Under Schedule I of the Rules of Business, the Minister for Industries is to take decisions in matters connected to RIICO and industrial matters such as the cancellation of the supplementary lease B deeds and/or revocation of permissions. The final decision of 03.08.2019 which directed the cancellation in question did not include participation by the Minister for Industries. Further, the decision needed to be placed before the Chief Minister for authentication before it was finally issued. This C Court, in MRF v. Manohar Parrikar & Ors.9 has cemented the mandatory nature of the Rules of Business; xii) Article 138 of the AoA of RIICO could not have been resorted to for directing cancellation of the supplementary lease deed and permission for using the land for commercial D purposes. Such clauses in the Articles are for generally setting out the policy of the Company and not to make decisions that affect the rights of third parties. The cases relied upon by the Appellants to uphold the ability to issue s to RIICO under Article 138 of its AoA, are unhelpful as the facts in those instances dealt with indoor E management of the corporations in question. The action(s) taken in the present case do not concern an internal matter of RIICO, but rather the abrogation of validly procured permissions and vested rights that had accrued to Respondent No. 1. An elaborate procedure for cancellation F is already provided under the 1979 Rules, which needed to be followed if such drastic measures were to be taken. Unbridled and unfettered powers cannot be granted to the State Government to issue instructions to RIICO in this manner as it may be used brazenly and without paying heed to any procedure under law. The State Government has G abused this alleged power which it claims to have been always vested in it; xiii) This Court has already held in B. Rajagopala Naidu v. State Transport Appellate Tribunal, Madras & Ors.10 9 (2010) 11 SCC 374. H 10 (1964) 7 SCR 1. BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 275 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] that powers such as those provided under Article 138 of A RIICO’s AoA cannot be used as appellate powers to take vengeance against specific entities. Such provisions do not accord a carte blanche authority to quash earlier decisions taken by RIICO, for oblique and unspecified reasons. Moreover, such an action is clear evidence of malice in B law, as it is blatantly arbitrary and discriminatory, as described by this Court in Kalabharati Advertising v. Hemant Vimalnath Narichania & Ors.11; xiv) The of 18.09.1979 had stated, in unequivocal language, that all industrial areas would be transferred to C RIICO and this included the LIA, Kota. This decision was given effect to by the Joint Director on 28.09.1979 and the area over which Respondent No.