It only transpired only that at the time of the hearing of the appeal. 40. As to how a litigant who conceals material facts from the Court has to be dealt with, has been gone into by this Court, time and again in plethora of cases and the consistent opinion is that, he is not D entitled even to be heard on merits. 41. In Abhyudya Sanstha Vs. Union of India and others, (2011) 6 SCC 145, this Court, while declining relief to the petitioners therein, who did not approach the court with clean hands, opined as under: E “18. … In our view, the appellants deserve to be non suited because they have not approached the Court with clean hands. The plea of inadvertent mistake put forward by the learned senior counsel for the appellants and their submission that the Court may take lenient view and regularisation of the admissions already made sounds attractive but does not merit acceptance. Each of F the appellants consciously made a statement that it had been granted recognition by the NCTE, which necessarily implies that recognition was granted in terms of Section 14 of the Act read with Regulations 7 and 8 of the 2007 Regulations. Those managing the affairs of the appellants do not belong to the category of G innocent, illiterate/uneducated persons, who are not conversant with the relevant statutory provisions and the court process. The very fact that each of the appellants had submitted LPASW No. 82/2019 Page 7 application in terms of Regulation 7 and made itself available for inspection by the team constituted by WRC, Bhopal shows that they were fully aware of the fact that they can H STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1073 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] get recognition only after fulfilling the conditions specified in the A Act and the Regulations and that WRC, Bhopal had not granted recognition to them. Notwithstanding this, they made bold statement that they had been granted recognition by the competent authority and thereby succeeded in persuading this Court to entertain the special leave petitions and pass interim s. The B minimum, which can be said about the appellants is that they have not approached the Court with clean hands and succeeded in polluting the stream of justice by making patently false statement. Therefore, they are not entitled to relief under Article 136 of the Constitution. This view finds support from plethora of precedents. C 42. In Hari Narain v. Badri Das AIR 1963 SC 1558, G. Narayanaswamy Reddy (Dead) by Lrs. and another v. Govt. of Karnataka and another (1991) 3 SCC 261 and plethora of other cases, this Court denied relief to the petitioner/appellant on the ground that he had not approached the Court with clean hands. In Hari Narain v. Badri Das (supra), the Court revoked the leave granted to the D appellant and observed: “It is of utmost importance that in making material statements and setting forth grounds in applications for special leave made under Article 136 of the Constitution, care must be taken not to make any statements which are inaccurate, untrue or misleading.