v. 323 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] subjects and persons of Indian origin and other settlers in Sikkim, A all of them being treated as citizens of India. However, those whose names did not figure in the Sikkim Subjects Register were left out of consideration. (b) In view of the fact that a large number of eligible persons had been left out of the Sikkim Subjects Register and were B consequently denied Indian citizenship, on 25th September, 1976 the Government of Sikkim issued a Memorandum that for the purposes of seeking employment, those claiming to be locals should be able to show whether their parents’ names were maintained on or before 15th May, 1975 in the relevant C Government Register. (c) Further, under Article 371-F, an Adaptation of Sikkim Laws was promulgated wherein, the 1961 Regulation, was repealed w.e.f. 26th April, 1975 by the issued on 13th September, 1975. D (d) On 9th April, 1981, the Government of Sikkim issued a Memorandum to the effect that: “ ... the Governor has been pleased to authorize District Collectors within respective district to issue Certificate to person identifying them in the following groups to enable them to apply for E employment in the State- 1. A person whose name is found in the Old Sikkim Subject Register prior to 1975. 2. A person whose name is not found registered in the Old Sikkim Subject Register but he/she has established beyond doubt F that the name of his/her father/husband/paternal grandfather / brother from the same father has been recorded in the Old Sikkim Subject Register, or 3, A person who has or had agricultural land in rural areas and has been ordinarily residing in the State of Sikkim or G 4. A person whose father/husband has/had been in Sikkim Government service on or before 31.12.1969.” (e) In the year 1988, a petition was moved in the Lok Sabha by a few Members of Legislative Assembly of Sikkim stating that H 324 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A at the time of merger of Sikkim with India, only those people whose names were registered in the Sikkim Subjects Register were made Indian Citizens in terms of Sikkim (Citizenship) 1975, but there were many other persons who were present in Sikkim between the period 1946 and 1975 who were otherwise by reason of their residence, domiciled in Sikkim B and by allegiance “Sikkimese” and they should also be made Indian citizens. The Government of India conceded to this demand and an exercise was carried out to grant Indian Citizenship to the so-called ‘stateless’ people whose names were deemed to have been genuinely omitted. For this purpose, C the Sikkim Citizenship (Amendment) , 1989, was notified on 3rd April, 1989, wherein a proviso was inserted to deem such cases of genuine omission as citizens of India. The relevant clause in the amendment reads as follows: “Provided that any person whose name was eligible to be entered D in the register maintained under the said regulation but was not entered because of any genuine omission shall also be deemed to have become a citizen of India on that day if so determined by the Central Government.” (f) On the same date i.e., 3rd April, 1989, the Ministry of Home E Affairs, Government of India, constituted a committee comprising of officials of the Government of India and Government of Sikkim, to look into cases of genuine omission in terms of the Sikkim Citizenship (Amendment) , 1989.