If the object of this House is that all matters relating to Elections should be outside the control of the Executive Government of the day, it is absolutely necessary that the new machinery which we are setting up, namely, the Election Commission should be irremovable by the executive by a mere C fiat. We have therefore given the Chief Election Commissioner the same status so far as removability is concerned as we have given to the Judges of the Supreme Court. We, of course, do not propose to give the same status to the other members of the Commission. We have left the matter to the President as to the circumstances under which he would deem fit to remove any D other member of the Election Commission; subject to one condition that-the Chief Election Commissioner must recommend that the removal is just and proper.” 95. However, Shibban Lal Saxena pointed out that the draft provision may favour the Executive in the appointment of the Chief E Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners, and therefore appealed for a change in the provision. He argued: “If the President is to appoint this Commission, naturally it means that the Prime Minister appoints this Commission. He will appoint the other Election Commissioners on his recommendations. Now, F this does not ensure their independence. Of course once he is appointed, he shall not be removable except by 2/3rd majority of both Houses. That is certainly something which can instill independence in him, but it is quite possible that some party in power who wants to win the next election may appoint a staunch party-man as the Chief Election Commissioner. He is removable G only by 2/3rd majority of both Houses on grave charges, which means he is almost irremovable. So what I want is this that even the person who is appointed originally should be such that he should be enjoying the confidence of all parties his appointment should be confirmed not only by majority but by two-thirds majority of H 214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A both the Houses…Of course, there is a danger when one party is in huge majority. Still, if he does appoint a party-man, and the appointment comes up for confirmation in a joint session, even a small opposition or even a few independent members can down the Prime Minister before the bar of public opinion in the world.” 96. On 16 June 1949, Hirday Nath Kunzru echoed a similar B sentiment, and also highlighted the issues regarding the removal of the Election Commissioners. He said: “Here two things are noticeable: the first is that it is only the Chief Election Commissioner that can feel that he can discharge his duties without the slightest fear of incurring the displeasure of the C executive, and the second is that the removal of the other Election Commissioners will depend on the recommendations of one man only, namely the Chief Election Commissioner. However responsible he may be it seems to me very undesirable that the removal of his colleagues who will occupy positions as.responsible D as those of judges of the Supreme Court should depend on the opinion of one man.