It was held: “284.15. A conjoint reading of clauses (3)(a) and (4) of Article 239-AA divulges that the executive power of the B Government of NCTD is coextensive with the legislative power of the Delhi Legislative Assembly and, accordingly, the executive power of the Council of Ministers of Delhi spans over all subjects in the Concurrent List and all, but three excluded subjects, in the State List. However, if Parliament C makes law in respect of certain subjects falling in the State List or the Concurrent List, the executive action of the State must conform to the law made by Parliament. (sic)” (emphasis supplied) 21. The above view was also taken by Justice Chandrachud in his D concurring opinion: “316.... the provisions of Clause 2 and Clause 3 of Article 239AA indicate that while conferring a constitutional status upon the legislative assembly of NCT, the Constitution has circumscribed the ambit of its legislative Powers firstly, by carving out certain E subjects from its competence (vesting them in Parliament) and secondly, by enabling Parliament to enact law on matters falling both in the State and Concurrent lists. Moreover, in the subjects which have been assigned to it, the legislative authority of the Assembly is not exclusive and is subject to laws which are enacted by Parliament.” F 22. The 2018 Constitution Bench authoritatively held that the legislative and executive power of NCTD extends to all subjects in Lists II and III, except those explicitly excluded. However, in view of Article 239AA(3)(b), Parliament has the power to make laws with respect to all subjects in List II and III for NCTD. G (c) “Insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories” 23. It has been argued by the Union of India that the phrase ‘in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories’ in Article 239AA has not been construed by the Constitution Bench, and that the phrase limits the legislative power of NCTD. H 520 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 24. However, reference has to be made to the concurring opinion of Justice Chandrachud in the 2018 Constitution Bench , which dealt with the above phrase. It was held: “Insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories 460. In the State List and the Concurrent List of the Seventh B Schedule, there are numerous entries which use the expression “State”. These entries are illustratively catalogued below: […] 461. Article 239-AA(3)(a) permits the Legislative Assembly of the NCT to legislate on matters in the State List, except C for Entries 1, 2 and 18 (and Entries 64, 65 and 66 insofar as they relate to the earlier entries) and on the Concurrent List, “insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories”. In forming an understanding of these words of Article 239-AA(3)(a), it has to be noticed that since the D decision in Kanniyan right through to the nine-Judge Bench decision in NDMC, it has been held that the expression “State” in Article 246 does not include a Union Territory.