Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1073 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 72. The contentions of Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel A are: (i) that to constitute the offence of money-laundering, one must have involved in any process or activity connected to the proceeds of crime; B (ii) that none of the three FIRs which formed the basis for the registration of an Information Report contained any allegation of generation of proceeds of crime or the offence of money-laundering; (iii) that the ED was never in possession of any material to suspect that the accused did any activity connected with the proceeds of crime; C (iv) that this is why the ED filed applications before the Special Court seeking copies of documents to find out if something could be found; (v) that under Section 66(2) of PMLA, the flow of information can be only from the ED to the other authorities about the contravention D of the provisions of any other law and not the other way about; (vi) that there are lot of inherent contradictions in the way the provisions of the PMLA were interpreted in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary; (vii) that though Section 50(2) of PMLA empowers the Director E and his subordinates to summon any person whether to give evidence or to produce any record during the course of investigation, this Court held in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary that it is not investigation in the real sense; (viii) that the power under Section 50(2) of PMLA is akin to the F power of the Police Officer under Section 160 of the Code; (ix) that with the amendment of PMLA by Finance (No.2) Act, 2019 w.e.f. 01.08.2019, the requirement of mens rea was done away with and the Explanation inserted by the amendment made all processes or activities such as concealment, possession, acquisition, use, projecting G as untainted property and claiming as untainted property, available in the alternative. In other words, while the main part of Section 3 uses the conjunction “and”, the Explanation under Section uses the expression disjunction “or”; H 1074 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A (x) that the amendment of Section 3 goes completely contrary to the law laid down in Bihta Co-operative Development and Cane Marketing Union Ltd.vs.Bank of Bihar14, to the effect that an Explanation cannot widen the scope of the main Section; (xi) that it is only where proceeds of crime are laundered that the B PMLA comes into play, though the existence of proceeds of crime is a sine qua non for the commission of an offence under PMLA; (xii) that if the ED were to have jurisdiction to investigate solely on the basis of information that a predicate offence has been committed, involving the proceeds of crime, it would amount to empowering the ED C to enter the domain of the State Police, thereby causing fissures in the federal structure; (xiii) that the mere existence of proceeds of crime without the quantum of proceeds being specified/identified and without the proceeds of crime being laundered, an offence of money-laundering cannot be made out; D (xiv) that it was wrongly decided in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary that it was not a penal statute, though the object of the Act is to prosecute and punish a person for the offence of money-laundering; (xv) that the procedural safeguards available under the Code are E also not available and hence Vijay Madanlal Choudhary has not been correctly decided.