ii. Various Presidential s passed under Article 370(1), especially C.O.10 (which applied a large part of the Constitution of India to Jammu & Kashmir), show that Article 370(1) was a 98 (1964) 1 SCR 371 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 339 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] mechanism to gradually bring the State on par with other States by applying various provisions of the Constitution of India in a step-by-step fashion and that exercise was completed by the impugned Executive action. iii. If Article 370 of the Constitution were to be presumed to have permanence, it would lead to an incongruous situation where the President, in applying the Constitution of India to Jammu & Kashmir under Article 370(1) would have near limitless power to create exceptions and modifi cations (with the concurrence of the State Government). In a historical perspective, this practice had led to the application of the provisions of the Constitution of India in the State in a patchwork fashion. The illustration of this practice was enunciated when it was seen that CO48 removed references to the Scheduled Tribes from Article 15(4). Article 19 was also applied with modifi cations such that the Legislative Assembly had the power to defi ne what constituted ‘reasonable restrictions’ to the freedoms under the said provision. Article 35A can be considered as a new provision altogether, applied only to the State of Jammu & Kashmir. iv. The State Constituent Assembly did not give a recommendation either way and that had left it to the discretion of the supreme Executive authority, i.e. the President to abrogate Article 370. v. Article 370 prevented residents of Jammu & Kashmir from being treated on par with other citizens of India. Ultimately equality was the necessity. Thus, it could never have been intended to be a permanent arrangement. C. Article 370(3) – How it works out? The proviso to Article 370(3) became otiose once the State Constituent Assembly dissolved itself. i. It was urged that Article 370 has always been interpreted in a functional manner with due consideration of diff erent historical contingencies. Illustratively, in C.O. 39, we have applied Articles 54 and 55 with modifi cations to Jammu & Kashmir, recognized the Constituent Assembly of the State as the Legislative Assembly since there was no Legislative Assembly in the State at that time. 340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. ii. Constitutional practice suggests that whenever a term in Article 370 becomes otiose, it is replaced by the next functional equivalent or its successor. Illustratively: a) C.O. 39 discussed above; b) C.O. 44, which altered the defi nition of Sadar-i-Riyasat in the Explanation to Article 370(1); and c) C.O. 48, which added Article 367(4), whereby references to Legislative Assembly would be construed as references to the Constituent Assembly for purposes of voting in the Presidential election. It was, thus, a working arrangement, which applied from time to time in its perspective. iii. Article 370(3) was in nature, a ‘safety valve’ entrusted with the President, to be invoked when the political compromise anticipated in Article 370(1) fails to achieve its purpose, as urged by Mr. Harish Salve.