2 – Prabha Ranjan Debbarma till M/s. Indian Airlines Corporation Limited had vacated the property on 30.06.1986. The plaintiff’s claim that thereupon she had E taken possession of Schedule ‘A’ property through her workmen and agents and started a guest house in the name and style of ‘M/s. Star Guest House’ is unsubstantiated, or rather implausible. Not only there is no document or evidence to support the assertion, the possession would normally be given to the landlord to whom rent is being paid. Findings recorded supra support the case of the defendants. Further, it is clear F that defendant no. 8 vide the registered sale deed (Exhibit-E) dated 17.07.1985, had come in actual physical possession of a portion of the Schedule ‘A’ property. The sale deed was executed on behalf of M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited. Similarly, defendant nos. 9 to 11 have stated that they have purchased portions of the Schedule ‘A’ land on the basis G of purchase/sale deeds executed in their favour by M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited. In this factual background, we would accept the claim of the defendants that on the date of filing of the suit the plaintiff was not in constructive or actual physical possession of the Schedule ‘A’ property. 30. In the above factual background, for the plaintiff to succeed, H she has to establish that she has a legal title to the Schedule ‘A’ property, SMRITI DEBBARMA (DEAD) THROUGH LEGAL REPRESENTATIVE 373 v. PRABHA RANJAN DEBBARMA [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] and consequently, is entitled to a decree of possession. The defendants A cannot be dispossessed unless the plaintiff has established a better title and rights over the Schedule ‘A’ property. A person in possession of land in the assumed character as the owner, and exercising peaceably the ordinary rights of ownership, has a legal right against the entire world except the rightful owner.9 A decree of possession cannot be passed in B favour of the plaintiff on the ground that defendant nos. 1 to 12 have not been able to fully establish their right, title and interest in the Schedule ‘A’ property. The defendants, being in possession, would be entitled to protect and save their possession, unless the person who seeks to dispossess them has a better legal right in the form of ownership or entitlement to possession. C 31. The burden of proof10 to establish a title in the present case lies upon the plaintiff as this burden lies on the party who asserts the existence of a particular state of things on the basis of which she claims relief11. This is mandated in terms of Section 10112 of the Evidence Act, which states that burden on proving the fact rests with party who D substantially asserts in the affirmative and not on the party which is denying it. This rule may not be universal and has exceptions13, but in the factual background of the present case, the general principle is applicable. In terms of Section 10214 of the Evidence Act, if both parties fail to adduce evidence, the suit must fail.15 Onus of proof, no doubt E shifts and the shifting is a continuous process in the evaluation of evidence, 9 See Poona Ram v. Moti Ram (Dead) through Legal Representatives and Others (2019) 11 SCC 309 and Nair Service Society Limited v. Rev.