The relevant observations of the Commission are extracted below : “5.51 At this second stage, the court determines whether to the use of a closed procedure for part of the substantive hearing. The court should only that part of the substantive hearing E be closed where it is satisfied that the national security information is sufficiently relevant to the proceedings that it is in the interests of justice to use a closed procedure rather than to exclude the information and have the case proceed without it. Although a closed procedure would be available in cases where the national security F information was beneficial to the Crown’s case, the interests of justice test will be much harder for the Crown to satisfy because it is seeking to withhold information from the other party but also use it against them. In some cases where the Crown is defending an action, the courts may consider that this is appropriate, but we would anticipate this would be quite rare. It is more likely that a G closed procedure would be in the interests of justice where it would prejudice the non-Crown party if the court excluded the national security information.” 149. The Supreme Court of the United Kingdom dealt with the effect of exclusion of relevant material on a successful claim of public H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 701 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] interest immunity in Al Rawi (supra). In that case, it was argued by the A State that the Court must exercise its inherent power to a closed material procedure in certain classes of cases, such as where the defendant cannot deploy its defence fully (or sometimes not at all) if an open procedure is followed. It was argued that exclusion of relevant material from the proceedings after the public interest immunity exercise B reduces the chances of the court reaching a correct outcome. In other words, the case of the State was that the court has the power to substitute a closed material procedure for public interest immunity exercise in exceptional circumstances. While the Court unanimously agreed that the courts cannot substitute a public interest immunity procedure with the closed material procedure, the judges disagreed on whether a closed C material procedure can be used in addition, and not in alternative, to the public interest immunity procedure. 150. Lord Dyson in his opinion held that the court does not have the power to direct closed material procedure in addition to public interest immunity claim because: (i) closed material procedure is the antithesis D of public interest immunity procedure. There is no equality of arms in closed material procedure; (ii) the party in possession of the document possesses sole knowledge of whether the document would be beneficial in their case. The claimant, who does not have access to the material would not be aware if the material would affect their case. It would thus E put them in a disadvantageous position making the procedure inherently unfair to the one of the parties; and (iii) the courts should not be called to perform the exercise of deciding the relevance of a document to the case of claimant and the defendant.