The learned counsel for the appellant also contended that some properties were self-acquired properties of Defendant No. 1 himself. A perusal of the written statement indicates that no such specific case had been made out in the written statement, nor any such material is available on record. In H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 35 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] absence of any evidence worth the name, it is difficult to accept A such a contention raised by the appellant. 7. The learned counsel appearing for the appellant then contended that during pendency of the appeal, a compromise has been effected between the present appellant and Respondent No. 2, wherein Respondent No.2 has given up B her share in favour of Defendant No. 1. Since such compromise is otherwise lawful and it does not prejudicially affect the right of the plaintiff, it can be given effect to and the decree of the trial court is to be modified accordingly.” 8. Thus, though all other contentions of the appellant are not C acceptable, in view of the compromise the decree of the trial court is modified to the extent that Defendant No. 1 shall also be entitled to the share of Respondent No. 2. In other words, he would be entitled to 5/6th share in the ancestral property and 2/3rd share in the separate properties as determined by D the trial court. The decree of the trial court is modified to the above extent. 9. It appears that during the pendency of the appeal, receivers had been appointed at different times and presently Defendant No. 1-appellant is continuing as the receiver. It further appears E that certain amounts have been deposited in this Court which have been kept in fixed deposit. The fixed deposit in this court shall be renewed from time to time for appropriate period to fetch maximum interest. The amount which is not yet kept in fixed deposit shall also be kept in fixed deposit in similar manner so that the amount can be disbursed in accordance F with the direction to be made in the final decree after the final decree proceedings are over. If the parties do not come to any amicable arrangement, the plaintiff or Defendant No. 1 may initiate the final decree proceeding. The trial court after making necessary adjustment towards any justified expenditure, et cetera, shall pass a direction regarding G disbursement of the amount in accordance with the shares now indicated in this . The receiver shall henceforth act under the direction of the trial court and all necessary obligation relating to accounting and maintenance of the properties etc. shall be determined by the trial court and if H 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A any deposit is required to be made by the receiver, the same shall be made in the trial court which shall make similar arrangements regarding fixed deposits. Applications for removal of the receiver or for imposing any fresh conditions can be made before the trial court which is free to deal with all such applications.” (Emphasis supplied) B 14.