(iii) Chief Engineer, Deputy Chief Engineer and Assistant A Engineer; (iv) Chief Chemist, Laboratory incharge; (v) Personnel Manager, Personnel Officer; (vi) Labour Officer, Assistant Labour Officer; B (vii) Welfare Officer, Additional Welfare Officer or Assistant Welfare Officer; (viii) Safety Officer; (ix) Security Officer; C (x) Foreman, Chargeman, Overseer and Supervisor; (xi) Jobber in Textile Factories; (xii) Head Store Keeper and Assistant Store Keeper; (xiii) Boiler Sarang or such Boiler Attendants who are in-charge of a battery of boilers and are only required to do supervisory D work; (xiv) Any other person who in the opinion of the Chief Inspector, holds a position of supervision or Management and is so declared in writing by him.” 29. Apparently, the post of Supervisor is included in Rule 100, as E a post exempted from the application of the provisions of Chapter VI. 30. But the claim of the respondents is that the proviso embedded in Rule 100(1) makes the exemption inapplicable to those who are required to perform manual labour or clerical work as a regular part of their duties. F 31. On a question of fact as to whether the respondents are required to perform manual labour or clerical work as a regular part of their duties, the Tribunal has reached diametrically opposite conclusions, one in the case of A.K. Biswas and others and the other in the case of remaining set of employees. G 32. The chart of duties indicated in the ACRs does not show that the respondents are required to perform manual labour or clerical work as a regular part of their duties. 33. The High Court fell into an error in holding that the performance of certain functions, such as setting right malfunctioning of feeder, side- H 262 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A lay, double-sheet detector, photocell, etc., to ensure uninterrupted running of the machinery, are manual functions. But we do not think so. 34. In any case, the respondents, who are holders of civil posts or in the civil services of the State till the year 2006, could not have claimed the benefits of the provisions of Chapter VI of the 1948 Act, dehors the B service rules. 35. Though the decision in Burmah Shell Oil Storage and Distribution Company of India Ltd. is heavily relied upon by Shri Dhruv Mehta, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants, we do not think that the same has any application to the case on hand. This is for the reason that the definition of “workman” in Section 2(s) of the 1947 C Act specifically excludes persons employed in a supervisory capacity. But such an exclusion is not there in the definition of the very same word “worker” in Section 2(l) of the 1948 Act. 36. The distinction can be well understood if these definitions are presented in a tabular form side by side:- D E F G H SECURITY PRINTING AND MINTING CORPORATION OF 263 INDIA LTD. v. VIJAY D. KASBE [V. RAMSUBRAMANIAN, J.] A B 37.