At this stage, it is required to be D noted Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act which is inserted in 2016 is also having a non-obstante clause. As per the settle position of law, if the legislature confers the later enactment with a non-obstante clause, it means the legislature wanted the subsequent / later enactment to prevail. Thus, a ‘priority’ conferred / provided under Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act E would prevail over the recovery mechanism of the MSMED Act. Sections 15 to 23 of the MSMED Act are providing a special mechanism for adjudication of the disputes and to adjudicate and resolve the disputes between the supplier and buyer – micro or small enterprise. At the cost of repetition, it is observed that F MSMED Act does not provide any priority over the debt dues of the secured creditor akin to Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act. [Para 7][883-B-G] 2. SARFAESI Act has been enacted providing specific mechanism / provision for the financial assets and security G interest. It is a special legislation for enforcement of security interest which is created in favour of the secured creditor – financial institution. Therefore, in absence of any specific provision for priority of the dues under MSMED Act, if the submission on behalf of respondent No.1 for the dues under H KOTAK MAHINDRA BANK LTD. v. GIRNAR CORRUGATORS 875 PVT. LTD. & ORS. MSMED Act would prevail over the SARFAESI Act, then in that A case, not only the object and purpose of special enactment / SARFAESI Act would be frustrated, even the later enactment by way of insertion of Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act would be frustrated. If the submission on behalf of respondent No.1 is accepted, then in that case, Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act B would become nugatory and would become otiose and/or redundant. Any other contrary view would be defeating the provision of Section 26E of the SARFAESI Act and also the object and purpose of the SARFAESI Act. [Para 9][884-D-G] 3. While exercising power under Section 14 of the C SARFAESI Act, even the District Magistrate has no jurisdiction and/or District Magistrate and/or even the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate has no jurisdiction to adjudicate the dispute between secured creditor and debtor. Under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act, the District Magistrate or the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate D as the case may be is required to assist the secured creditor in getting the possession of the secured assets. Under Section 14 of the SARFAESI Act, neither District Magistrate nor Metropolitan Magistrate would have any jurisdiction to adjudicate and/or decide the dispute even between the secured creditor E and the debtor. If any person is aggrieved by the steps under Section 13(4) / passed under Section 14, then the aggrieved person has to approach the Debts Recovery Tribunal by way of appeal / application under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. It is observed and held that so far as recoveries under the SARFAESI Act with respect to the secured assets would prevail over the F recoveries under the MSMED Act to recover the amount under the award / decree passed by the Facilitation Council.