affi rming such view of the learned Single Judge. The Commission, in our view, adequately applied its mind to the circumstances of the case, as well as to the relevant law and accordingly exercised its discretion to proceed with the application for settlement and grant immunity to the assessee from penalty and prosecution. The of the Commission dated 04.03.2008 did not suff er from such infi rmity as would warrant interference by the High Court, by passing an of remand. 8. It may be apposite at this juncture, to refer to the decision of this Court in Ashirvad Enterprises vs. State of Bihar, (2004) 3 SCC 624 wherein it was stated that whether immunity from prosecution and penalty should be granted in a given case, has to be decided by the Commission by exercising its discretion, in the light of the facts and circumstances of each case. There is no straight jacket formula that would universally apply in every case. Where the Commission is satisfi ed that the applicant (a) has made full and true disclosure of his income and the manner in which such income was derived, and (b) has co-operated with the Commission in the proceedings before it, immunity under Section 245H may be granted. 9. In the present case, as noted above, we fi nd that the appellant placed material and particulars before the Commission as to the manner in which income pertaining to certain activities was derived and has sought to off er such additional income to tax. Based on such disclosures and on noting that the appellant co-operated with the Commission in the process of settlement, the Commission proceeded to grant immunity from prosecution and penalty as contemplated under Section 245H of the Act. The High Court ought not to have sat in appeal as to the suffi ciency of the material and particulars placed before the Commission, based on which the Commission proceeded to grant immunity from prosecution and penalty as contemplated under Section 245H of the Act. 10. We are fortifi ed in our view by the of this Court in Jyotendrasinhji vs. S.I. Tripathi, 1993 Supp (3) SCC 389, wherein it was observed that a Court, while exercising powers under Articles 32, 226 or 136 of the Constitution of India, as the case may be, may not interfere with an of the Commission, passed in exercise of its discretionary powers, except on the ground that the contravenes provisions of the Act or has caused prejudice to the opposite party. Interference may also be open on 26 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the grounds of fraud, bias or malice. Therefore, this Court has carved out a very narrow scope for judicial review of the Commission’s s, passed in the exercise of its discretionary powers. Hence, we hold that suffi ciency of the material and particulars placed before the Commission, based on which the Commission proceeded to grant immunity from prosecution and penalty as contemplated under Section 245H of the Act, are beyond the scope of judicial review, except under the circumstances set out in Jyotendrasinhji vs. S.I.