In the process, this Court analysed the scope of the powers and authority of the referral court under Section 11(6). Moreover, this Court noted that Sections 8 and 11 are complementary in nature. Consequently, if the judicial authority acting under Section 8 has to mandatorily decide the issue of jurisdiction before referring the parties to arbitration, the same standard of scrutiny was also held to be applicable to the reference under Section 11. In conclusion, it was held that the Chief Justice or their designate at the referral stage under Section 11(6) had the right to determine all preliminary issues: “47 (iv) The Chief Justice or the designated Judge will have the right to decide the preliminary aspects as indicated in the earlier part of this . These will be his own jurisdiction to entertain the request, the existence of a valid arbitration agreement, the existence or otherwise of a live claim, the existence of the condition for the exercise of his power and on the qualifi cations of the arbitrator or arbitrators. The Chief Justice or the designated Judge would be entitled to seek the opinion of an institution in the matter of nominating an arbitrator qualifi ed in terms of Section 11(8) of the Act if the need arises but the appointing the arbitrator could only be that of the Chief Justice or the designated Judge.” 141 (2005) 8 SCC 618 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1161 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 141. The extent of judicial interference at the referral stage was scrutinised by a Bench of two Judges of this Court in National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Boghara Polyfab Pvt. Ltd.142 This Court held that when the intervention of the court is sought under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act, the following categories of issues will arise before the referral court: (i) The issues which the Chief Justice or his designate is bound to decide. These issues were: fi rst, whether the party making the application has approached the appropriate High Court; and second, whether there is a valid arbitration agreement and whether the party who has applied under Section 11 of the Act, is a party to such an agreement; (ii) The issues which the Chief Justice or his designate may choose to decide or leave them to the decision of the arbitral tribunal. These issues were: fi rst, whether the claim is a dead (long-barred) claim or a live claim; and second, whether the parties have concluded the contract/ transaction by recording the satisfaction of their mutual rights and obligations or by receiving the fi nal payment without objection; and (iii) The issues which the Chief Justice or their designate should leave exclusively to the arbitral tribunal. These issues were: fi rst, whether a claim made falls within the arbitration clause (as for example, a matter which is reserved for fi nal decision of a departmental authority and excepted or excluded from arbitration); and second, merits or any claim involved in the arbitration.