Article 164(1B) bars an MLA or a Member of the Legislative Council of a State (where one exists) from being appointed as a Minister if they have been disqualified under Paragraph 2 of the Tenth Schedule. The bar begins to operate only upon the member of the legislature incurring disqualification. Article 164(1B) does not interdict the E appointment of a member to the post of a Minister if a petition for their disqualification under Paragraph 2 of the Tenth Schedule is pending adjudication before the Speaker. This is evident from the language of Article 164(1B), which states that a member who is disqualified under Paragraph 2 of the Tenth Schedule shall also be disqualified to be appointed F as a Minister. 199. In other words, the mere institution of a disqualification petition does not trigger some or all of the consequences which flow from the disqualification itself. To hold otherwise would be to blur or efface the distinction between the institution of a disqualification petition against a G member of the House and the disqualification of that member. A claim that something is true does not mean that it is actually true. A claim must be established according to the procedure established by law before it can be considered to be a fact. When a petition for disqualification under the Tenth Schedule is filed before the Speaker, the party who filed the petition asserts that the respondent in the petition has contravened the H 964 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A provisions of the Tenth Schedule. This averment must be tested on the anvil of evidence before the Speaker, who acts as a Tribunal under the Tenth Schedule. Article 164(1B) is therefore triggered only when the Speaker returns a verdict finding that the member of the House in question has breached Paragraph 2 of the Tenth Schedule. If the Speaker finds that Mr. Shinde is disqualified, he will no longer be eligible to hold B the post of Chief Minister for the duration specified in Article 164(1B). 200. The petitioners have relied on the decision in Rajendra Singh Rana (supra) in support of their contention. As discussed in the previous segment of this , the disqualification of a member of the House relates back to the date on which the proscribed act was performed for C the purpose of determining whether a defence to disqualification is made out. 201. The petitioners have also relied on the decision in Shrimanth Balasaheb Patil(supra) to urge that the appointment of Mr. Shinde is barred by Article 164(1B). In this case, the State Government of D Karnataka was formed by a coalition consisting of MLAs of the INC and the Janata Dal (Secular) in 2018. In early 2019, a series of disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule were filed against MLAs of various parties which formed the government. Some of them submitted their resignations to the Speaker either immediately before or E shortly after the disqualification petitions were filed against them. The case had a chequered history.