It further observed that the Model Standing is not a statutory provision but, at best, a statutorily imposed condition of service that a settlement or award can alter. B 14. On all counts, we respectfully disagree with the findings of the Tribunal and the High Court. 15. Thus, it becomes pertinent to reproduce and analyse relevant Clauses of the Bombay Model Standing , which reads as follows: C “Clause 4C- A badly or temporary workman who has put in 190 days’ uninterrupted service in the aggregate in any establishment of seasonal nature or 240 days ‘uninterrupted service’ in the aggregate in any other establishment during a period of preceding twelve calendar months, shall be made permanent in that establishment by in writing signed by the Manager, or any D person authorised in that behalf by the Manager, irrespective of whether or not his name is on the muster roll of the establishment throughout the period of the said twelve months.” “Clause 32: Nothing contained in these Standing s shall operate in derogation of any law for the time in force or to the E prejudice of any right under the contract of service, custom or usage or an agreement settlement or award applicable to the establishment.” 16. A cumulative reading of aforesaid clauses reveals that a workman who has worked for 240 days in an establishment would be F entitled to be made permanent, and no contract/settlement which abridges such a right can be agreed upon, let alone be binding. The Act being the beneficial legislation provides that any agreement/contract/settlement wherein the rights of the employees are waived off would not override the Standing s. G 17. Learned counsel for the Respondent has appraised this Court of the insolvency proceedings initiated against the Respondent Company under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. However, we refrain from commenting thereupon, for it does not bear any consequence to the present lis and neither was it a subject matter of adjudication before the courts/authorities below. H 866 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 18. Given the above discussions, we allow the appeal holding the Appellant-Union entitled to all benefits per the Bombay Model Standing . The award dated 30.03.2017 passed by CGIT in Reference No. CGIT-2/56 of 2013 and the dated 10.01.2018 passed by the High Court of Judicature at Bombay in Writ Petition No. 2657 of 2017 affirming the same are quashed and set aside. B 19. No costs. Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Aarsh Choudhary, LCRA) C D E F G H