B *************** ********* 64. Laws regulating economic activity would be viewed differently from laws which touch and concern freedom of speech and religion, voting, procreation, rights with respect to criminal procedure, etc. The prominence given to the equal C protection Clause in many modern opinions and decisions in America all show that the Court feels less constrained to give judicial deference to legislative in the field of human and civil rights than in that of economic Regulation and that it is making a vigorous use of the equal protection Clause to strike down legislative action in the area of fundamental D human rights. [See “Developments Equal Protection”, 32 Harv, Law Rev 1065, 1127] 65. The question whether, Under Article 14, a classification is reasonable or unreasonable must, in the ultimate analysis depend upon the judicial approach to the problem. The great E divide in this area lies in the difference between emphasising the actualities or the abstractions of legislation. The more complicated society becomes, the greater the diversity of its problems and the more does legislation direct itself to the diversities. F 66. That the legislation is directed to practical problems, that the economic mechanism is highly sensitive and complex, that many problems are singular and contingent that laws are not abstract propositions and do not relate to abstract units and are not to be measured by abstract symmetry, that exact wisdom and nice adaption of remedies cannot be required, that G is largely a prophecy based on meagre and uninterpreted experience, should stand as reminder that in this area the Court does not take the equal protection requirement in a pedagogic manner [See “General theory of law and state” H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 225 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] The same idea was echoed in Ajoy Kumar Banerjee & Ors. v. A Union of India & Ors34 “...Article 14 does not prevent legislature from introducing a reform i.e. by applying the legislation to some institutions or objects or areas only according to the exigency of the situation and further classification of selection can be sustained on B historical reasons or reasons of administrative exigency or piecemeal method of introducing reforms. The law need not apply to all the persons in the sense of having a universal application to all persons. A law can be sustained if it deals equally with the people of well-defined class-employees of C insurance companies as such and such a law is not open to the charge of denial of equal protection on the ground that it had no application to other persons.” Likewise, Javed v. State of Haryana35 observed that there is no constitutional compulsion that a law or policy should be implemented all D at once: “16. A uniform policy may be devised by the Centre or by a State. However, there is no constitutional requirement that any such policy must be implemented at one go. Policies are capable of being implemented in a phased manner. More so, E when the policies have far-reaching implications and are dynamic in nature, their implementation in a phased manner is welcome for it receives gradual willing acceptance and invites lesser resistance.” 67.