[Para 26][184-F-G] 2.8 A registered document carries with it, by virtue of it being registered, the presumption as to the authority of the person executing it. In the present case, the trial court and the First D Appellate Court failed to treat the endorsement made by the District Sub-Registrar on the body of the sale deed, as evidence in respect of the authority of Plaintiff No. 2 to execute the sale deed. This is to be considered in light of the fact that at no point of time did the original owner dispute the execution of power of E attorney in favour of Plaintiff No. 2. [Para 28][185-G-H] 2.9 Prima-facie, the endorsement made on the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968, could be considered as determinative evidence of the conveyance of title to the suit property by its original owner, especially where the defendants F have not set up a case to establish any independent title over the suit property. When such a presumption arises, the onus would be on a person who challenges such presumption, to successfully rebut it. As regards, the issue whether, the defendants have rebutted the presumption of validity of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968, the trial court and first appellate court have G concurrently found that the defendants do not have any title over the suit land and against such finding the defendants have not preferred an appeal. They have thus accepted this finding which has attained finality. The original owner has not initiated any H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 147 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS proceeding to dispute the execution of power of attorney in favour A of plaintiff No. 2. The of the Munsiff records that by way of a sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968, plaintiff No. 2 had purchased the suit property and was paying municipal taxes as the owner of the premises which finding is binding on the parties herein as the same has not been upset by any Court of law. Original B defendant No. 1 in the present suit, was the plaintiff therein. Notwithstanding the fact that the original defendant had become aware of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 and of the power of attorney that formed the basis of such sale deed, no steps were taken by the defendant to challenge plaintiff No. 2’s title over the suit property. It was only in the written statement C filed in the present suit that it was vaguely claimed that original defendant no.1 was the title holder of the suit property and plaintiff No. 2 was a tenant therein. This, without there being any legal basis or evidence. In light of the said facts, it can be stated that the defendant has not rebutted the presumption of validity of the D sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968. [Para 29][186-A-H; 187- A] 2.10 There is no reason to disbelieve the recitals contained in the registered sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 merely on the ground that the document conferring power of attorney in E favour of plaintiff no.