In our view, applying the aforesaid principles, Condition 1 of the standard form for commercial vehicles package policy E will have to be divided into two parts. The perusal of the first part of Condition 1 would reveal that it provides that “a notice shall be given in writing to the company immediately upon the occurrence of any accidental loss or damage”. It further provides that in the event of any claim and thereafter, the insured shall give all such information and assistance as the company F shall require. It provides that every letter, claim, writ, summons and/or process or copy thereof shall be forwarded to the insurance company immediately on receipt by the insured. It further provides that a notice shall also be given in writing to the company immediately by the insured if he shall have G knowledge of any impending prosecution inquest or fatal inquiry in respect of any occurrence, which may give rise to a claim under this policy. 13. *** H 1254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 14. We find that the second part of Condition 1 deals with the ‘theft or criminal act other than the accident’. It provides that in case of theft or criminal act which may be the subject of a claim under the policy, the insured shall give immediate notice to the police and cooperate with the company in securing the conviction of the offender. The object behind giving immediate B notice to the police appears to be that if the police is immediately informed about the theft or any criminal act, the police machinery can be set in motion and steps for recovery of the vehicle could be expedited. In a case of theft, the insurance company or a surveyor would have a limited role. It is the C police, who acting on the FIR of the insured, will be required to take immediate steps for tracing and recovering the vehicle. Per contra, the surveyor of the insurance company, at the most, could ascertain the factum regarding the theft of the vehicle. 15. It is further to be noted that, in the event, after the registration D of an FIR, the police successfully recovering the vehicle and returning the same to the insured, there would be no occasion to lodge a claim for compensation on account of the policy. It is only when the police are not in a position to trace and recover the vehicle and the final report is lodged by the police after the vehicle is not traced, the insured would be in a position to lodge E his claim for compensation. 16. *** 17. That the term “cooperate” as used under the contract needs to be assessed in the facts and circumstances. While assessing the “duty to cooperate” for the insured, inter alia, the court F should have regard to those breaches by the insured which are prejudicial to the insurance company. Usually, mere delay in informing the theft to the insurer, when the same was already informed to the law enforcement authorities, cannot amount to a breach of “duty to cooperate” of the insured.