172.08 crores. It is the case on behalf of the Unitech Limited that despite the above and the fact that Unitech Limited was entitled to the entire sale consideration of Rs. 172.08 crores, the amount received to the account of Unitech, in Supreme Court Registry, H 956 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A out of the sale transaction is only Rs. 87.35 crores and the balance amount is ed to be appropriated/paid to the respondents – Shri Naresh Kempanna (Rs. 56.11 crores) and Col. Mohinder Khaira (Rs. 41.96 crores), which, according to the Unitech, they were not entitled to. It is the case on behalf of the Unitech that true facts were not brought to the notice of Justice Dhingra committee and even before this Court B and the aforesaid amount of Rs. 56.11 crores and Rs. 41.96 crores were ed to be appropriated in favour of Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira respectively. 3.1 It is the case on behalf of Unitech Limited that as such none of the rights of the aforesaid two persons, who received any amount out C of the total sale consideration of Rs. 172.08 crores were adjudicated upon by this Court and/or even by Justice Dhingra Committee. It is submitted that the aforesaid amount has been paid to Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira, pursuant to one MOU dated 02.01.2018. Therefore, it is the case on behalf of Unitech Limited that D Unitech Limited being the absolute owner of the land in question and neither Col. Mohinder Khaira nor Shri Naresh Kempanna were having any title and/or ownership rights in the land in question. They were not entitled to any amount out of the total sale consideration/sale transaction with respect to the land in question. It is the case on behalf of the Unitech Limited that a fraud has been committed on behalf of the respective E parties namely M/s. Devas Global Services LLP; Col. Mohinder Khaira and Shri Naresh Kempanna and the erstwhile Directors/Management of the Unitech Limited. It is the case on behalf of Unitech Limited that the actual sale consideration being paid to Unitech Limited is just about 50% of the total amount of sale consideration, which is to the detriment F of the home buyers, fixed deposit holders, employees and other important stakeholders of the company. It is the case on behalf of the Unitech Limited that on what basis the amount is ed to be appropriated in favour of Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira is neither known nor there are any reasons, which could justify the divergence of funds to Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira. G 3.2 It is the case on behalf of Unitech Limited that if the true and correct facts would have been pointed out to this Hon’ble Court and/or the dispute with respect to the appropriation of the sale consideration would have been adjudicated upon by this Hon’ble Court and/or even by Justice Dhingra Committee, this Hon’ble Court might not have passed H BHUPINDER SINGH v. UNITECH LIMITED 957 [M. R. SHAH, J.]