9. Heard, the learned counsel for the respective parties at length. 10. The short question, which is posed for the consideration of E this Court is :- “Whether on approval of a scheme by the BIFR under the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, an unsecured creditor has the option not to accept the scaled down value of its dues, and to wait till the scheme for rehabilitation of the respondent F – sick company has worked itself out, with an option to recover the debt with interest post such rehabilitation?” 11. While appreciating the submissions made on behalf of the respective parties on the aforesaid issue, few decisions of this Court and the legislative scheme of the SICA, 1985 are required to be referred to: G Legislative Scheme of SICA, 1985 11.1 The framers of law felt that the existing institutional arrangements and procedure for revival and rehabilitation of potentially viable sick industrial companies are both inadequate and time consuming. Multiplicity of law and the regulatory agencies makes the adoption of a H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1053 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] coordinated approach for dealing with sick industrial companies difficult. A Thus, a need was felt to enact, in public interest, a legislation to provide for timely determination, by a body of experts, of the preventive, ameliorative, remedial and other measures that would be needed to be adopted with respect to such companies and for enforcement of the appropriate measures with utmost practicable dispatch. B 11.2. The ill effects of sickness in industrial companies, such as cessation of production, loss of employment, loss of revenue to the Central and State Governments and blocking up of investible funds of the banks and financial institutions, were of serious concern to the Government as well as the society at large. It had repercussions on the industrial growth C of the country. With the passage of time the number of sick industrial units increased rapidly. Therefore, it was imperative to salvage the productive assets and release, to the extent possible, the amounts due to the banks and financial institutions from non-viable sick industrial debtor companies by liquidation of those companies or through formulation of rehabilitation schemes. D 11.3. With these objects, the Bill was introduced with the salient features inter alia of identification of sickness in the industrial companies, on the basis of symptomatic indices of cash losses for the specified periods. Wherever the Government or Reserve Bank were satisfied that an industrial company has become sick, they were required to make E a reference to BIFR. BIFR consists of experts, in various relevant fields, with powers to inquire into and determine the incidences of sickness in the industrial companies and devise suitable measures through appropriate schemes to revive them. An appeal lies from the of BIFR to an appellate authority (Aaifr) consisting of members selected from amongst F Supreme Court or High Court Judges or Secretaries to the Government of India. 11.4 With this background, objects and reasons, this Bill was passed by the Indian Parliament and it received the assent of the President of India on 8-1-1986.