18 The transcript indicates that both Mr Krishnendu Dutta (senior counsel) and Mr Ramji Srinivasan (senior counsel) appearing on behalf of the contesting parties had apprised the Bench of the NCLAT of the of this Court. The CCTV footage makes it abundantly clear that both the counsel had a copy of the of this Court and made an eff ort to read out the . The Member (Judicial), however, stated that no copy of the “has been offi cially communicated to us”. The Member (Judicial) also observed that since the NCLAT had reserved , it was proceeding to pronounce the and the appellants (represented by their counsel Mr Krishnendu Dutta) “can go to the Supreme Court”. The Member (Judicial) stated that “if you think that we are passing in violation of the Supreme Court , you go and complain”. The parties were directed to place on affi davit anything that they wish to bring on the record. 19 From the CCTV footage as well as from the transcript, it is evident beyond a shadow of doubt that though the NCLAT was duly apprised of the fact that this Court had in the morning session on 13 October 2023 passed an to the eff ect that the shall be pronounced only after the 104 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. results by the Scrutiniser are declared, the Bench of the NCLAT declined to pay heed to the of this Court. The Member (Judicial) has referred in his affi davit to the Rules governing procedure in the NCLAT, more particularly, Rules 38, 101 and 102 which read as follows : “38. Statutes or citations for reference.- The parties or authorised representatives shall, before the commencement of the proceedings for the day, furnish to the Court Master a list of law journals, reports, statutes and other citations, which may be needed for reference or photo copy of full text thereof. ××× ××× ××× 101. Placing of Supreme Court s before Appellate Tribunal.- Whenever an interim or fi nal passed by the Supreme Court of India in an appeal or other proceeding preferred against a decision of the Appellate Tribunal is received, the same shall forthwith be placed before the Chairperson or Members for information and kept in the relevant case fi le and immediate attention of the Registrar shall be drawn to the directions requiring compliance. 102. Registrar to ensure compliance of Supreme Court s.- It shall be the duty of the Registrar to take expeditious steps to comply with the directions of the Supreme Court.” 20 The of this Court was brought to the attention of the Bench of the NCLAT. The correct course of action, if the Bench was of the view that the should be produced in accordance with Rules, was to defer the pronouncement of the so as to enable the parties to comply with the procedure. The of this Court was uploaded at 1.55 PM on 13 October 2023. The gist of the was intimated to the Court.