OM dated 29th December, 2005 having been set aside in Rajeev Kumar Gupta (supra), C the first question does not survive consideration as to whether modification of paragraph 14 of the same, brought about by OM dated 8th December, 2013, would apply retrospectively. Furthermore, Rajeev Kumar Gupta (supra) having directed the GoI to extend 3 (three) per cent reservation to the persons with disabilities in all identified posts in Group ‘A’ and Group ‘B’, irrespective of the mode of filling up of such posts (emphasis D ours), and the larger Bench in Siddaraju(supra) having given its stamp of approval to such decision, the second question also stands squarely answered against the appellants. Finally, the question as to whether the High Court was right in relying upon National Confederation of Development of Disabled(supra) is no longer res integra having regard E to the multiple decisions of this Court on the point affirming the position that reservation in employment contemplated in section 33 of the PwD Act, 1995 covers all posts identified for each of the 3 (three) kinds of disability mentioned therein and is not restricted to Group ‘C’ and Group ‘D’ posts. We share the view taken therein. 43. Having held thus and in the changed circumstances, we are F tasked to decide two other questions, viz. : (a) whether the RBI by failing to consider Mr. Nair for promotion, a right guaranteed by Article 16 of the Constitution, on application of relaxed standards committed an illegality? G and (b) provided the answer to the aforesaid question is in the affirmative, to what extent relief can legitimately be extended to Mr. Nair? H RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 801 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 44.Our answers to the aforesaid questions should be prefaced by A a brief reference to the supreme law of the land. The resolve in the Preamble to the Constitution and the provisions in Part IV thereof, are considered relevant. Our preambular promise is to secure ‘social justice’ to all. The Directive Principles of State Policy, though not enforceable, are declared in Article 37 to be “fundamental in the governance of B the country” and the State has a duty to apply these principles in making laws. The immediately next article commands the State to strive to promote the welfare of the people by securing and protecting, as effectively as it may, a social in which justice ~ social, economic and political ~ shall inform all the institutions of the national life and endeavor to eliminate inequalities in status, facilities and opportunities. C Article 41 requires the State, within the limits of its economic capacity and development, to make effective provision for securing the right to work, inter alia, in cases of disablement. In the society we live in, which is indeed class-ridden, ‘social justice’ should mean justice to the weaker and poorer section of the society, particularly when the people of the D nation have resolved in the Preamble to secure ‘equality of status and opportunity’.