It is clear that in a situation where the guidelines issued by the Central Government under Section 63 cover the situation, the Central Commission is D bound by those guidelines and must exercise its regulatory functions, albeit under Section 79(1)(b), only in accordance with those guidelines. As has been stated above, it is only in a situation where there are no guidelines framed at all or where the guidelines do not deal with a given situation that the Commission’s general E regulatory powers under Section 79(1)(b) can then be used.” (87) It is true that as far as the said case is concerned, the case arose from claims which were made under the PPA on the basis that there were changes in law apart from the argument that a case of Force Majeure was made out. It is not a case which actually on facts involved F the Court dealing with a case arising from the fixation of tariff under Section 63. In fact, it arose after a PPA was approved and the rates were fixed already under Section 63. However, if we notice the contents of para 19 and 20, the principle which the first respondent seeks to canvas before us does not appear to emerge. The argument of the first respondent is that even de hors the terms of the contract, there is general G regulatory power available under Section 79 of the Act. There is an overarching authority with the Commission exercising power under Section 79 which would enable it and which would empower it to grant compensation even de hors the terms of the contract it is contended. The argument appears to be that unlike generality of contracts, a regulated H contract which is a long term contract or an incomplete contract generates HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 61 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] space for power with the appropriate regulatory body to revisit the rates A and thereby vouchsafe a fair deal to both sides, be it a seller or the procurer. (88) What this Court has laid down in para 19 and 20 in Energy Watchdog3may be summarized as follows: B (89) In the case of fixation of tariff under Section 63 of the Act, what is contemplated is to begin with guidelines which have been issued under Section 63. When the Commission is asked to exercise power under Section 63, it is beholden to the guidelines as it cannot depart from the same. In a area where the guidelines do not occupy the field, undoubtedly, the Commission is clothed with power as a regulatory body C to act in the best interest of all sides and to fix the tariff in a manner which is fair in the sense bearing in mind the paramount interest of increased generation of power, the interest of the consumer, as also ensuring of a fair return to the seller. So far so good. When the Commission exercises the power under Section 63, this power is not abridged when D there are no guidelines holding the field.