He must become a participant in the trial by evincing intelligent active interest by putting questions to witnesses in to ascertain the truth. The learned Judge reproduced a passage from Sessions Judge, Nellore v. Intha Ramana Reddy, 1972 Cri.L.J. 1485, which reads as follows:— “Every criminal trial is a voyage of discovery in which truth is the quest. It is the duty of a presiding Judge to explore every avenue open to him in to discover the truth and to advance the cause of justice. For that purpose he is expressly invested by Section 165 of 1062 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the Evidence Act with the right to put questions to witnesses. Indeed the right given to a Judge is so wide that he may, ask any question he pleases, in any form, at any time, of any witness, or of the parties about any fact, relevant or irrelevant. Section 172(2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure enables the court to send for the police-diaries in a case and use them to aid it in the trial. The record of the proceedings of the Committing Magistrate may also be perused by the Sessions Judge to further aid him in the trial.” 73. For all the foregoing reasons, we are left with no other alternative but to set aside the impugned of the High Court and remit the matter back to the High Court for deciding the reference under Section 366 of the CrPC in the manner it ought to have been decided, more particularly keeping in mind the serious lapses on the part of the defence in not proving major contradictions in the form of material omissions surfacing from the oral evidence of the prosecution witnesses. 74. If anyone would ask us the question, “What is the ratio of this ?” The answer to the same would be very simple and plain, in the words of Clarence Darrow; “Justice has nothing to do with what goes on in the courtroom; Justice is what comes out of a courtroom.” 75. In the result, the impugned of the High Court is set aside and the matter is remitted back to the High Court for reconsideration of the Death Reference No. 4 of 2017 and Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 358 of 2017. The Death Reference No. 4 of 2017 and Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 358 of 2017 stand restored for reconsideration of the High Court in accordance with law. 76. The appellant is in jail past more than nine years. In such circumstances, the Death Reference referred to above on being restored to the fi le of the High Court shall be taken up for hearing expeditiously. The learned Chief Justice of the High Court is requested to notify the Death Reference along with the Criminal Appeal for hearing before a Bench which he may deem fi t to constitute. We also request the learned Judges who would be hearing the matter to give priority and dispose of the same at the earliest in accordance with law.