only and not 2929 sq.m. Further, if the appellants’ plea to exclude the area covered under an existing building is accepted, in that case, the area of `vacant land’ gets further reduced in view of sub-clause (ii) of Section 2(q) of the Ceiling Act. 16. Shri Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Counsel for the respondents contrarily urged that under the Building Regulations, 2/3rd area of the ‘vacant land’ can be utilized for construction and not 50% as claimed by the appellants. Secondly, the lands which are to be excluded under sub-clause (i) of Section 2(q) are such lands where no construction is permissible at all under the Building Regulations. He illustratively refers to the lands notifi ed as ‘green belt’, ‘forest land’, ‘playground’ or for such other public purposes as may have been described in the Town Planning Scheme whereunder construction of a building is prohibited in an area. Shri Dwivedi maintains that entire land measuring 3429 sq.m. has been rightly treated as ‘vacant land’, out of which the appellants are entitled to retain 500 sq.m. only. Hence, 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the Competent Authority is right in determining the surplus ‘vacant land’ in the hands of the appellants. 17. We, thus, revert back to the question formulated at the outset, namely, what should be the true interpretation of the meaning of Section 2(q)(i) and (ii) of the Ceiling Act for determination of `vacant land’? 18. State of U.P. and Others vs. L.J. Jhonson and Others1 is the fi rst holding by a two-Judge Bench of this Court to throw light on the provisions of the Ceiling Act. That was a case where the respondent (Jhonson) had a parcel of land admeasuring 2530 sq.m. in Dehradun city on which there stood a building. He wanted to sell some portion of the open land in his possession but the Competent Authority refused permission on the ground that the total area in his possession was exceeding the ceiling limit. The District Judge as well as the High Court held that Jhonson was entitled to retain 500 sq.m. as the permissible area and another 500 sq. m. for the benefi t and convenient enjoyment of the building to satisfy the requirement of town planning and environmental purposes. After excluding 1000 sq.m. area, there was no `vacant land’ left with Jhonson. The High Court, in this regard, relied upon Section 4(9) read with Section 2(q)(ii) of the Ceiling Act. On an appeal, this Court consciously resolved to construe the nature, character, spirit and entire scheme of the Act. Clauses (i) to (iii) of Section 2(q) were appropriately paraphrased [See para 14]. Though the controversy did not relate to sub- clause (i) of Section 2(q), this Court made an endeavour to opine on all the sub-clauses of that provision as may be seen from paragraphs 15 and 17 of the Report reproduced below: “15. So far as the fi rst category is concerned, no complexity is involved because any open area in excess of 2000 sq metres in Category D States will be taken over by the Government.