Then follow the following important observations: - “Where there is some evidence, which the authority entrusted with the duty to hold the enquiry has accepted and which evidence may reasonably support the conclusionthat the delinquent offi cer is guilty of the charge, it is not the function of the High Court in a petition for a writ under Article 226 to review the evidence and to arrive at an 564 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. independent fi nding on the evidence… if there be somelegal evidenceon which their fi ndings can be based, the adequacy or reliability of that evidence is not a matter which can be permitted to be canvassed before the High Court in a proceeding for a writ under Article 226 of the Constitution.” (Emphasis supplied) 88. This decision was approvingly referred to and relied upon in State of Andhra Pradesh and Others v. Chitra Venkata Rao reported in(1975) 2 SCC 557. 89. In Union of India v. H.C. Goel reported in AIR 1964 SC 364, the question as to the amplitude and width of the judicial review under Art. 226, fell for consideration in the context of the disciplinary proceedings against Government servants. It was observed that “the High Court under Art. 226 has jurisdiction to enquire whether the conclusion of the Government on which the impugned of dismissal rests is not supported by any evidence at all” and that there was little doubt that a writ of Certiorari can be claimed by a public servant if he is able to satisfy the High Court that the ultimate conclusion of the Government in the said proceeding is based on no evidence. A conclusion on a question of fact, it was held, would be assailable if it is manifest that there is no evidence to support it even assuming bona fi des of the disciplinary authority. The following observations made at page 369 are material from the point of view of the aspect under consideration: “… In exercising its jurisdiction under Art. 226 on such a plea, the High Court cannot consider the question about the suffi ciency or adequacy of evidence in support of a particular conclusion. That is a matter which is within the competence of the authority which deals with the question; but the High Court can and must enquire whether there is any evidence at all in support of the impugned conclusion. In other words, if the whole of the evidence led in the enquiry is accepted as true, does the conclusion follow that the charge in question is proved against the respondent? This approach will avoid weighing the evidence. It will take the evidence as it stands and only examine whether on that evidence illegally the impugned conclusion follows or not. …” (Emphasis supplied) 90. In R. Mahalingam v. Chairman, Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission and Another reported in (2013) 14 SCC 379, this Court laid down UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 565 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the scope of judicial review as regards the fi ndings of the disciplinary proceedings with the following relevant observations being reproduced below: - “11.