9.1 The aforesaid letter was served upon the respondent on 18.12.1982. Within ten days thereof, the respondent requested the appellant to supply the lay out plan so as to enable him to know the number and size of the plot for which the payment was to be made as there was completely a new lay out plan. He also asked for the manner in which the amount already paid by him along with interest is to be adjusted as the letter of off er did not mention anything about the same. Request was also made to inform about the amount to be paid to the State Government towards external development charges as in the letter of off er dated 13.12.1982, ₹20/- per square yard as part payment towards development charges was required to be deposited. It is not a matter of dispute that the aforesaid letter of the respondent was not replied to by the appellant. Immediately thereafter, the respondent got M/S. GREATER ASHOKA AND LAND DEV. COMPANY v. KANTI 939 PRASAD JAIN (D) THROUGH LRS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] a legal notice issued to the appellant mentioning all the details and calling upon the appellant to allot the plot measuring 233 square yards @ ₹25/- per square yard, failing which suit for specifi c performance may be fi led. The appellant did not respond even to the aforesaid legal notice. What can be inferred therefrom is that the appellant was not ready and willing to furnish the basic information sought by the respondent. The civil suit for specifi c performance was fi led on 02.01.1986 within the period of limitation. It was decreed by the Trial Court. The and decree of the Trial Court was reversed by the lower Appellate Court. However, the High Court set aside the and decree of the lower Appellate Court and restored that of the Trial Court, directing for registration of the sale deed. 10. We fi nd that allotment of plot was made way back on 19.11.1963. Six decades have passed thereafter. No doubt, there were certain developments in the meantime. With the enactment of 1963 Act and 1971 Act, certain permissions were required to be taken by the appellant for development of the land as a colony. Those were taken. Even the plot was off ered to the respondent. However, when the cost of the plot was demanded at a higher rate, even on the asking of the respondent, details were not furnished. The amount demanded was @ ₹135/- per square yard as against ₹25/- per square yard at which initially the allotment was made. The stand taken by the appellant is that at present all the plots have been sold out. We are not going into that aspect as the appellant agreed to pay damages to the respondent as, according to it, alternative relief for damages in the form of refund of earnest money along with interest has been claimed. Though the claim, as per the appellant, is for refund of the money along with interest @ 18% per annum, however, the appellant is even ready to pay interest at a higher rate.