This is because the shareholding of the three captive users who stopped sourcing captive power, cannot have a zero/nil shareholding, as they sourced captive power for the fi rst six months. While verifying the condition under Rule 3(1)(a)(i) and (ii) of the Rules, the consumption of captive power has to be done by captive users holding a minimum of 26% shareholding. Therefore, in the event shareholding of a captive user is considered as zero/nil after a few months into the fi nancial year, then such user cannot be permitted to take benefi t of availing captive power thereby seeking exemption from payment of CSS. In any event, the applicability of CSS will also depend upon the observations made by us in Appeal No. 38 of 2013 titled as ‘M/s. Steel Furnace Association of India v. PSERC & Anr.’” 39. We do not agree. The minimum threshold of ownership, which is 26%, is to be met and satisfi ed throughout the year and not at the end of the fi nancial year alone. The reasoning in Tamil Nadu Power44 ignores that there is a connect between paragraph (i) and (ii) of Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. Paragraph (ii) which refers to minimum electricity that is required to be consumed by captive users is with reference to the minimum ownership specifi ed in paragraph (i) of the said Rule. Thus, the minimum ownership requirement is required to be maintained continuously, throughout the fi nancial year, that is, from 1st April of a year to 31st March of the next year, along with the minimum electricity 44 Supra note 6. M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 373 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] consumption requirement. This is also the mandate of Explanation (2) to Rule 3(1)(b) of the Rules, which casts obligation on the captive users to ensure compliance of clauses (a) and (b) to sub-rule (1) to Rule 3 of the Rules. 40. The issue of computation of consumption of electricity and change of shareholding of captive users, when a CGP has more than one captive user and the application of the proportionality principle in terms of second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) has been dealt by us in IssueII. Issue II. Application of the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. 41. The second proviso provides an additional eligibility requirement where the captive users are “an association of persons”.At the outset, we must record that the proviso is ambiguous and confusing. It states that in case of association of persons being the captive user(s), the captive user(s) shall hold not less than 26% of the ownership of the plant in aggregate and such captive user(s) shall not consume less than 51% of the electricity generated on an annual basis. To this extent, it is an exact replica of paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Rule 3(1)(a). Thereafter, the suffi x in the last portion, states that the proportion of the shares held by the captive user(s) must be in proportion to the consumption of electricity generated within a variation not exceeding 10 percent.