27. This Court notes, with concern, that the Appellants, while sitting on the representation of R1, went ahead and notifi ed the elections on 02/05.08.2023. We are unable to appreciate such conduct. This recalcitrance to decide in time speaks volumes. Instances like these raise serious questions. UNION TERRITORY OF LADAKH v. JAMMU AND KASHMIR 93 NATIONAL CONFERENCE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 28. Having considered the matter in extenso, the Court does not fi nd any merit in the present appeal. The request for allotment of the Plough symbol by R1 was bonafi de, legitimate and just, for the plain reason that in the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir (which included the present Union Territory of Ladakh), it was a recognized State Party having been allotted the Plough symbol. Upon bifurcation of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir and the creation of two new Union Territories, namely the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir and the Union Territory of Ladakh, though the ECI had not notifi ed R1 as a State Party for the Union Territory of Ladakh, it cannot be simpliciter that R1 was not entitled for the allotment of plough symbol to it, in the factual background. What is also clear is that the Appellants are attempting to approbate and reprobate, which this Court will not countenance. 29. In the present case, there is no confl ict with any other stakeholder for the reason that the Plough symbol is neither a symbol exclusively allotted to any National or State Party nor one of the symbols shown in the list of free symbols. Thus, there was and is no impediment in such symbol being granted to R1. This is also fortifi ed in the factual setting of the Plough symbol being the reserved symbol for R1 in the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir and even for the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, as it now exists, where the same symbol stands allotted to it. 30. The contention of the learned ASG for the Appellants that the Plough symbol cannot be allotted, neither has been supported by any reason nor any legal impediment to such grant has been shown. In the absence of anything contrary in any rule framed for conduct of the elections in question, relating to allotment of symbols, the provisions of the 1968 can safely be relied upon, at the very least, as a guideline to exercise of executive power of like nature. Thus, a harmonious reading of Paragraphs 9, 10, 10(A) and 12 would clearly indicate that under the terms of the 1968 , the request of R1 is not bereft of justifi cation. At the cost of repetition, the Court would indicate that nothing substantive has been shown to this Court to indicate that allotment of the Plough symbol would in any way be an infraction or go against the public interest. 31. Another major issue canvassed by the learned ASG on behalf of the Appellants, to the eff ect that no relief be granted to R1 due to the election 94 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.