11. Secondly, it has been submitted by the DoE that AAP is a trust and is a “person” under Section 2(1)(s) of the PML Act. Being a juristic person, it acts through natural persons. The assertion made is that a portion of the proceeds of crime were used for the purpose of the artifi cial judicial person to fund the election in Goa. The DoE has stated at the Bar, and in the written submissions, that once the quantum of amount used in the election in Goa is ascertained, a decision to consider AAP as an accused under Section 3 will be taken. It is stated by the DoE that the matter in this regard is being processed. In the written submissions, the DoE states: “...some of the PoC (Proceeds of Crime) has been used for the purpose of artifi cial juridical person through its offi ce bearers in the election funding of the AAP in Goa as well for the benefi t of offi ce bearers as indicated above. Once the quantum of amount used for election in Goa is ascertained a decision to consider AAP as accused under Section 3 read with Section 70 of the PMLA (PML Act) shall be taken at that point of time.” 12. Thirdly, the assertion in the complaint fi led with the DoE that kickback of Rs.100,00,00,000 (rupees one hundred crore only) was actually paid by the liquor group is somewhat a matter of debate. However, there is an assertion, and the DoE has relied on evidence and material, that a portion thereof,that is, Rs. 45,00,00,000 (rupees forty fi ve crores only) was transferred through Hawala for the Goa election and used by MANISH SISODIA v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF 499 INVESTIGATION [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] AAP, a political party, which is a juristic person.32 AAP is not being prosecuted. The charge that the appellant – Manish Sisodia is vicariously liable in terms of Section 70 of the PML Act cannot be alleged and has not been argued.33 13. Fourthly, the contention of the DoE that generation of proceeds of crime is itself‘ possession’ or ‘use’ of the ‘proceeds of crime’, prima facie, appears to be unclear and not free from doubt in view of the ratio in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra). Further,the DoE’s contention that ‘generation’ amounts to possession and the expression ‘possession’ includes constructive possession, for which reliance is placed upon Mohan Lal v. State of Rajasthan34, is not assured. 14. On the other hand, the appellant – Manish Sisodia relies on paragraphs 251, 269 and 270 of Vijay Madanlal Choudhay (supra), to contend that money laundering is an independent off ence regarding the process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime derived as a result of criminal activity relating to or in relation to a scheduled off ence. It is submitted that Vijay Madanlal Choudhry (supra) has held that PML Act is an independent and distinct Act which deals with off ences relating to only proceeds of crime, and not with the crime itself which generates the proceeds of the crime.In particular, paragraph 406 in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) states: “406…The fact that the proceeds of crime have been generated as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence, which incidentally happens to be a non-cognisable off ence, would make no diff erence.