He has already spent more than 11 years languishing inside the four walls of the prison. We would like to bring to light the miscarriage of C justice in this case where in a 13 year old juvenile who committed an offence has become a grown up man inside the prison meant for major and hardened criminals. So we want to request you to consider this sensitive matter of a juvenile in conflict with law and ask your august office and Honourable self to cancel the punishment of death penalty D awarded to the juvenile in this case. Yours truly Adv. Asim Sarode Adv. Smita Lokhande Jagriti Sanjay Jadhav Mohat E Human Rights Activist Legal Aid Lawyer Student Intern Social Worker Enclosures: Transfer certificate of Niranaram Chetanram Chaudhari and other papers with respect to his proof of age. (All attested copies)” F (quoted verbatim from the paperbook) 6.That letter, as pleaded in this application, was forwarded to the Government of Maharashtra eliciting the State Government’s comments on such claim of juvenility. There were subsequent exchange of G communications among the officials on the question of his age determination. In a letter originating from the Superintendent, Yerawada Central Jail, Pune addressed to Additional Secretary, Home Department, Maharashtra (which is Annexure A-13 to the present application), the Jail authorities recorded that the Medical Superintendent, Sassoon hospital, Pune was intimated by the applicant that he had studied in a Government H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1071 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] School at Jalabsar and his name in the school was Niranaram. It was in A this communication dated 19th January 2007 a reference was made to his name being Niranaram. It does not appear, however, that any further age determination test was carried out. The said communication reads:- “With reference to the above subject, s were given to present a medical report regarding the current age of the B condemned prisoner C1871 Narayan Chetanram Chaudhari. Accordingly, the said prisoner was sent to the Hon Medical Superintendent, Sassoon Hospital, Pune and the he was requested through letter NV1/ AVT/ 64/ 2007 date 8/1/2000 to give a medical report about the age of the prisoner. C In his letter no SSR/ Prisoner/ 26/ 06 date 8/1/2007 about the age of the prisoner, the Hon. Medical Superintendent noted that, “after speaking to the prisoner, it appears that his actual age can be found out through his school records. His name in school was Niranaram Chetanram Chaudhari and he has D studied in the Government School in Julabsar until grade 3. The village is in Dungargadh Taluka, earlier Churu District, now Bikaner District. If you obtain a certificate from that school it could be useful.” We have attached a photocopy of the said letter. Similarly, photocopies of the prisoner’s earlier mercy petition submitted by his lawyer Mr. Aseem Sarode along E with his school certificate are also attached. Photocopy of the school certificate submitted by the prisoner is being attached. Presented for information and further action.” (quoted verbatim from paperbook) F 7.Thereafter, a writ petition was filed in this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution of India by the applicant representing himself as ‘Narayan @ Niranaram’ seeking quashing of the of punishment imposed upon him on the ground of him being a juvenile on the date of commission of offence.