A Administrative Tribunals Act prevents such a revival. Further, the absence of a provision in the Constitution which explicitly permits a revival does not act as a barrier to such a revival. For the reasons discussed above, we hold that the Union Government’s reliance on Section 21 of the General Clauses Act is in accordance with law. B v. The notification dated 2 August 2019 is not violative of Article 14 of the Constitution a. The notification dated 2 August 2019 is not based on ir- relevant or extraneous considerations 73. The appellants have urged that the notification dated 2 August C 2019 is based on an incorrect understanding of the decision in L. Chandra Kumar (supra) and is arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. 74. The principle that Article 14 strikes at arbitrariness and that arbitrary action by the state violates the fundamental guarantee of equality D has been recognized as a basic postulate since the decision in E.P. Royappa v. State of T.N.26: “85. … equality is antithetic to arbitrariness. In fact equality and arbitrariness are sworn enemies; one belongs to the rule of law in a republic while the other, to the whim and caprice of an absolute E monarch. Where an act is arbitrary, it is implicit in it that it is unequal both according to political logic and constitutional law and is therefore violative of Article 14 … Articles 14 and 16 strike at arbitrariness in State action and ensure fairness and equality of treatment. They require that State action must be based on valid relevant principles applicable alike to all F similarly situate and it must not be guided by any extraneous or irrelevant considerations because that would be denial of equality.” (emphasis supplied) G The State Government’s decision to abolish the OAT will therefore have to be scrutinized with a view to understanding whether any extraneous or irrelevant considerations intruded into the decision. 75. The phrase ‘arbitrary’ is often used synonymously with the phrase ‘unreasonable.’ The test as to whether an action is reasonable H 26 (1974) 4 SCC 3 ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 783 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] was formulated by the Court of Appeal in Associated Provincial A Picture Houses, Limited v. Wednesbury Corporation27: “It is true the discretion must be exercised reasonably. Now what does that mean? … For instance, a person entrusted with a discretion must, so to speak, direct himself properly in law. He must call his own attention to the matters which he is bound to B consider. He must exclude from his consideration matters which are irrelevant to what he has to consider. If he does not obey those rules, he may truly be said, and often is said, to be acting “unreasonably.” Similarly, there may be something so absurd that no sensible person could ever dream that it lay within the powers C of the authority.” This Court has consistently assessed the validity of executive action on the anvil of the test laid down in Wednesbury Corporation (supra), including in G.B.