Mumtaz Khan (PW-5) does not specifi cally name the appellant Madan. He submitted that even there are contradictions in the evidence of Sukhpal Singh (PW-2). It is submitted that even Jai Singh (PW-8), father of Lokendra (PW-1) has not supported the prosecution case and was declared hostile. It is therefore submitted that in the absence of the independent witnesses supporting the prosecution case, the conviction could not have been based on the basis of testimony of interested witnesses. He further submitted that the deposition of Bahadur Singh Chauhan (PW-17) would show that 2-3 unknown persons from outside the village were also involved in the crime. However, the police has failed to investigate the matter with regard to involvement of persons from other villages. It is submitted that only on account of political rivalry, appellant Madan has been implicated in the present crime. The learned Senior counsel further submitted that the recoveries of the weapons alleged to have been used in the crime are farcical and in any case not supported by the Ballistic Report. 15. Shri Grover submitted that there are serious lacunae in the investigation. It is submitted that as per the evidence of Lokendra (PW-1), Irshad Khan (PW-7) and Harpal Singh (PW-10), the police were present at the scene prior to the report being lodged at the police station i.e. before MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 783 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 07.40 P.M. However, Raghunandan Singh Bhadauria (PW-24) stated that he arrived at the location at around 08.30 P.M. i.e. after the report was lodged at 07.40 P.M. It is submitted that there is no certainty as to when the Special Report under Section 174 Cr.P.C. was sent to the Magistrate. He submitted that the timing of investigation becomes particularly important in view of the opinion of Dr. Arvind Kumar Aggarwal (PW-14) who conducted the post-mortem stating that the death of the deceased could have been between 8-9 P.M. i.e. after the investigation had started. He submitted that the lapses in the investigation are further apparent from the fact that there are inconsistencies with regard to the presence of bodies of the deceased and the place of inquest. It is submitted that from the evidence of some of the witnesses, it appears that the bodies were moved from the site of shooting prior to the starting of inquest. However, the inquest report records the presence of bodies at the site of shooting i.e., at the village main road, Masooq Ali’s house and Deputy Pradhan’s house. It is submitted that all these factors will cumulatively raise substantial doubt on the fairness of investigation and reporting. 16. Shri Grover submitted that, though independent witnesses were available, for the reasons best known to the prosecution, they have not been examined. It is submitted that uptill now, Mehmoona Begum, wife of Irshad Khan (PW-7), who was present inside the kitchen during the killing of Rizwan, Rihan and Ram Kishan, was not presented as a witness. It is submitted that if this witness could have been examined, the real genesis of the incident would come forth.