[2023] 16 S.C.R. 969 : 2023 INSC 1071 CASE DETAILS AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP (Criminal Appeal No. 3838 of 2023) DECEMBER 14, 2023 [SURYA KANT, DIPANKAR DATTA AND UJJAL BHUYAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: What are the parameters to be considered for the suspension of conviction u/s. 389(1) CrPC; whether the appellant has made out a prima facie case for the suspension of conviction u/s. 389(1) CrPC; and whether conviction of an off ence involving ‘moral turpitude’ can be a valid ground to deny suspension of conviction u/s. 389(1) CrPC. Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s. 389 (1) – Suspension of conviction –Appellant-member of Parliament, convicted u/s. 3(1) of the Gangsters Act and sentenced to four years imprisonment with a fi ne of Rupees One lakh by the trial court, and consequent thereto he was disqualifi ed from membership in the Lok Sabha – Thereagainst, the appellant fi led an appeal as also an application u/s. 389(1) for suspension of execution of the sentence awarded and his release on bail, during pendency of the appeal, stay of the eff ect and operation of the judgement passed by the trial court – High Court suspended the sentence and granted bail but rejected the stay on conviction – Correctness: Held: Per Surya Kant, J (For himself and Ujjal Bhuyan, J) High Court held that there was no cogent evidence to establish that the appellant was indulging in anti-social activities and crimes such as murder or ransom; and that the appellant’s role in the old FIR, which stood reference point in the gang chart in the new FIR, had already resulted in his acquittal – Having applied the criteria that conviction, if allowed to operate would lead to irreparable damage and where the convict cannot be compensated in any monetary terms or otherwise, if he is acquitted later on, carves Ed. Note: Hon'ble Mr. Justice Surya Kant pronounced on behalf of himself and Hon'ble Mr. Justice Ujjal Bhuyan. Hon'ble Mr. Justice Dipankar Datta pronounced a separate . 969 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. out an exceptional situation, warranting an of stay on his award of conviction, though partially – Potential ramifi cations of declining to suspend such a conviction are multifaceted – It would deprive the appellant’s constituency of its legitimate representation in the Legislature; and the appellant would be disqualifi ed from contesting elections for a period of ten years – Thus, the need to balance the interests of protecting the integrity of the electoral process on one hand, while also ensuring that constituents are not bereft of their right to be represented, merely consequent to a threshold opinion – Conviction awarded to the appellant suspended subject to the given conditions, clarifi cations and directions – Ghazipur parliamentary constituency not to be notifi ed for bye-election, till the decision of the appellant’s appeal by the High Court – Appellant not entitled to participate in the proceedings of the house, would not have the right to cast his vote in the house or to draw any perks or monetary benefi ts.