Being aggrieved by the aforesaid dated 01.09.2022, appellants approached the High Court by filing a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India, inter alia, with the submissions that the F defendant had not been served in the said civil suit, and the plaintiff- respondentobtained the decree with concealment of facts. Further, it was submitted that father of the appellants had moved the application immediately after coming to know about ex parte decree, and complied with the requirements of Section 17 of the Act of 1887. It was also G submitted that the Trial Court had failed to examine if the plaintiff- respondentat all informed the defendant about his ownership after purchasing the shop in question. 8. The High Court, however, agreed with the Trial Court about non-compliance of the requirements of Section 17 of the Act of 1887 H 880 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A and, with reference to the decision of this Court in the case of Kedarnath v. Mohan Lal Kesarwari and Ors. : 2002 ALL CJ 145 [= (2002) 2 SCC 16], proceeded to dismiss the petition essentially for want of requisite compliance by the defendant, of depositing the amount due and payable under the decree in question. The High Court, inter alia, observed and held as under: - B “Having heard learned counsel for the parties and having perused the records, what emerges is that the SCC Suit filed by the respondent had been decided ex-parte vide dated 09.03.2016 against which an application under IX Rule 13 of the CPC was filed by the petitioners. Admittedly, the petitioners did not C comply with the provisions of Section 17 of the Act, 1887, which provides that the applicant, at the time of presenting the application, shall deposit in Court the amount due from him under the decree or in pursuance of the , or give such security for the performance of the decree or compliance with the as D the Court may, on a previous application made in this behalf, had directed. Perusal of the impugned dated 01.09.2022 would indicate that the court below has considered the violation of Section 17 of the Act, 1887 by specifically recording that the petitioners have E failed to deposit the amount as was due in pursuance to the dated 09.03.2016. The Apex Court in the case of Kedar Nath(supra) has held the provisions of Section 17 of the Act, 1887 to be mandatory, as per the observations in the , which, for the sake of F convenience, are reproduced below:- “In the case at hand, the application for setting aside ex parte decree was not accompanied by deposit in the court of the amount due and payable by the applicant under the decree. The applicant also did not move any application for dispensing G with deposit and seeking leave of the court for furnishing such security for the performance of the decree as the court may have directed. The application for setting aside the decree was therefore incompetent.