Paragraph 15 of the said may be reproduced here which mentions the reasons where the gap is of several years, such standards may not be reliable rather the same maybe unsafe. “15. Normally, recourse is taken to the mode of determining the market value by providing appropriate escalation over the proved market value of nearby lands in previous years (as evidenced by sale transactions or acquisitions), where there is no evidence of any contemporaneous sale transactions or acquisitions of comparable lands in the neighbourhood. The said method is reasonably safe where the relied-on sale transactions/acquisitions precede the subject acquisition by only a few years, that is, up to four to fi ve years. Beyond that it may be unsafe, even if it relates to a neighbouring land. What may be a reliable standard if the gap is of only a few years, may become unsafe and unreliable standard where the gap is larger. For example, for determining the market value of a land acquired in 1992, adopting the annual increase method with reference to a sale or acquisition in 1970 or 1980 may have many pitfalls. This is because, over the course of years, the “rate” of annual increase may itself undergo drastic change apart from the likelihood of occurrence of varying periods of stagnation in prices or sudden spurts in prices aff ecting the very standard of increase.” 18. In the said case, after laying down the caution, this Court awarded cumulative annual increase at the rate of 7.5% for a period of fi ve years. 6 (2023) 5 SCC 435 THE CENTRAL WAREHOUSING CORP. v. THAKUR DWARA KALAN 933 UL-MARUF BARAGLAN WALA (DEAD) [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 19. In the case of Ashrafi and others (supra), this Court amongst many issues, considered the issue of applying annual increase cumulatively for determining just compensation. It also considered the law laid down in the case of Rameshbhai Jivanbhai Patel (supra) and many other s on the said point. It applied formula of 12% annual increase cumulatively for a period of fi ve years. The base rate being of the year 1987 whereas the acquisition in question being of 1993. 20. We will also refer to dated 22.08.2014 in the case of Narbadi Devi & others (supra) which relied upon the in the case of Ashrafi &others (supra) and accepted the annual increase of 12% cumulatively. The High Court in the said case had although followed the dictum in the of Ashrafi &others (supra), however, the annual increase of 12% was granted at a fl at rate by the High Court and not cumulatively. This Court accordingly had modifi ed the of the High Court to the aforesaid extent that 12% annual increase would be cumulative. 21. Recently, in the year 2022, this Court in the case of Ramrao Shankar Tapase (supra) citing the in the case of Rameshbhai Jivanbhai Patel (supra) and other similar matters, awarded annual increase cumulatively at the rate of 12% for a period of three years. The High Court in the said case had applied annual increase cumulatively at the rate of 10%.