described under Article 171(3)(c); and (iv) Members of the A Legislative Assembly of the State concerned. Interestingly, persons to be elected by the electors falling under any of the abovementioned categories need not belong to that category, in other words, need not be a voter in that category. [G. Narayanaswami v. G. Pannerselvam, (1972) 3 SCC 717, pp. 724- B 25, para 14:”14. Whatever may have been the opinions of Constitution-makers or of their advisers, whose views are cited in the under appeal, it is not possible to say, on a perusal of Article 171 of the Constitution, that the Second Chambers set up in nine States in India were meant to incorporate the principle of what is known as ‘functional’ or ‘vocational’ representation which C has been advocated by Guild-Socialist and Syndicalist Schools of Political Thought. Some of the observations quoted above, in the under appeal itself, militate with the conclusions reached there. All that we can infer from our constitutional provisions is that additional representation or weightage was given to persons D possessing special types of knowledge and experience by enabling them to elect their special representatives also for Legislative Councils. The concept of such representation does not carry with it, as a necessary consequence, the further notion that the representative must also possess the very qualifications of those he represents.”]” E 129. Thereafter the Court also held as follows: “38. We, therefore, proceed on the basis that, subject to restrictions mentioned above, every citizen has a constitutional right to elect and to be elected to either Parliament or the State Legislatures.” F 130. Still further, the Court held as follows: “The right to vote at an election to the Lok Sabha or the Legislative Assembly can only be subjected to restrictions specified in Article 326. It must be remembered that under Article 326, the authority to restrict the right to vote, can be exercised by the appropriate G Legislature.” 131. What are the incidents of a legal right? In Salmond on Jurisprudence, we find the following discussion about the characteristics of a legal right: H 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “(1) It is vested in a person who may be distinguished as the owner of the right, the subject of it, the person entitled, the person of inherence. (2) It avails against a person, upon whom lies the correlative duty. He may be distinguished as the person bound, or as the B subject of the duty, or as the person of incidence. (3) It obliges the person bound to an act or omission in favour of the person entitled. This may be termed the content of the right. (4) The act or omission relates to some thing (in the widest sense of that word), which may be termed the object or subject-matter C of the right. (5) Every legal right has a title, that is to say, certain facts or events by reason of which the right has become vested in its owner.” 132.