Explanation.—It is immaterial in such cases which party off ers the provocation or commits the fi rst assault.” 20. It is on the strength of the above exception that from the side of the appellant it has been argued that the appellant is not guilty of murder as he had no premeditated mind and that the action of the appellant arose out of a sudden fi ght. In the fi rst place, the fi ght was not sudden. The appellant and the deceased wife had a past history of quarrel and that they had been quarrelling on the fateful day also since before the actual incident. During their quarrel, a neighbour/(Sahajan) i.e. PW1 had visited their house and the deceased wife had shown some injuries received by her during the assault. However, realizing the quarrel between the two, he left saying that he would come later on. It was thereafter that the incident of pouring kerosene and 2 (2000) 10 SCC 324 ANIL KUMAR v. THE STATE OF KERALA 179 [PANKAJ MITHAL, J.] burning took place. So, there was suffi cient time in between the two acts and it cannot be said that there was a sudden quarrel and provocation leading to burning. The appellant saw the deceased wife drenched in kerosene and was conscious that if lighted, she would be burnt to death even then ignited her to fi re. This shows premeditated mind to kill her. More particularly, the appellant cannot take advantage of the 4th Exception only on the pretext that it was not on account of premeditated mind or out of a sudden fi ght or that his intentions were not bad as he tried his best to douse the fi re and to save the life of the deceased wife for the reason that the benefi t of the above exception would have been available to him, had he not taken undue advantage of the situation. 21. The exception clearly in unequivocal term states that it would be applicable where culpable homicide is committed not only without premeditated mind in a sudden fi ght or quarrel but also without the off ender taking “undue advantage” of the situation. In the instant case, the appellant upon seeing the deceased drenched in kerosene clearly took advantage of the situation and lighted a matchstick and threw it upon her so that she can be burnt. The appellant having taken “undue advantage” of the situation cannot be extended the benefi t of Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC so as to bring the case within the ambit of Part-II of 304 IPC. 22. In view of the above legal position, the ruling cited above, viz. Kalu Ram (supra) would not benefi t the appellant. 23. The First Information Report and the dying declarations on record clearly contain the statement of the deceased that when she had poured kerosene upon herself to deter the appellant from fi ghting and assaulting, he lighted a matchstick and with the intention to kill her, threw it upon her by saying “You Die”.