P.C. MODI v. THE JAWAHARLAL NEHRU VISHWA 963 VIDYALAYA AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] Explanation : Any “Teacher” subsequently appointed as an “Offi cer” as defi ned under Section 12 of the Act and Statute 3 (except the Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor) by promotion or otherwise and has been engaged in teaching for not less than twenty years and holds a lien on a post in the V.V. shall also be a teacher, under this Statute. (b) Person appointed by the Board as Honorary Teachers in any of the aforementioned categories on such terms and conditions as the Board may prescribed by Regulations. (2) A Teacher shall be eligible to impart instructions and/or conduct of guide research and/or extension programme only up to such standard for which he is recognized as such in accordance with the Regulations made by the Board in this behalf. (3) A Teacher shall perform such functions and discharge such duties as may be prescribed by Regulations by the Academic Council. (4) The word ‘Teacher/Teacher’ wherever it occurs includes person engaged in Research and Extension activities.” As can be seen from Statute 32 quoted above, teachers are described as those discharging their duties by imparting instructions and/or conducting and guiding research and/or extension programmes in diff erent capacities as Professor/Associate Professor/Assistant Professor. Statute 11(4) (b) specifi es the age of retirement of “teachers” as 62 years whereas the age of retirement of those described as non-teaching service personnel is 60 years. 3.4 Vishwa Vidyalaya Services have been classifi ed under Regulation 4 of the Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya Services (General Conditions of Service) Regulations, 19697 in the following manner: “(i) . Offi cer of the Vishwa Vidyalaya U/s 12 of the Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya Act, 1963 and Statute 3 except the Chancellor and the Vice-Chancellor. 964 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (ii) Teaching staff of the Vishwa Vidyalaya as defi ned under Statute 32 of the Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya Statutes, 1964. (iii) Non-Teaching services personnel of the JNKVV- (a) JNKVV Service CI-I (b) JNKVV Service CI-II (c) JNKVV Service CI-III (i) Ministerial (ii) Non-Ministerial (d) JNKVV Service CI-IV ” 4. It is evident on examining the relevant provisions of the Act, Statute and the Regulations that they do not specifi cally indicate the duties required to be discharged by a PTI/Sports Offi cer and therefore, one has to fall back on the defi nition of Sports Teacher as contained in Section 2(x) of the J.N.K.V.V Act read with Statute 32(1) of the Statute. To examine as to whether the appellant would come within the defi nition of a “teacher” and thereby be entitled to continue in service till completion of 60 years, it would be necessary to see the nature of job performed by a PTI/Sports Offi cer. 5. In the writ petition fi led by the appellant, he has made a specifi c averment in para 6(4) that “a Sports Offi cer/PTI in a college is very much a “Teacher” because he imparts instructions to the students of the college in Physical Education”.