and Section 45 of PML Act. In this regard, Mr. Luthra has relied upon the observations made by this Court in case of Manish Sisodia vs. Central Bureau of Investigation1 in Criminal Appeal arising out of SLP (Crl) No. 8167 of 2023 and in case of Sanjay Raghunath Agarwal Vs. Directorate of Enforcement2. (iv) Bail cannot be denied merely on account of the crime being an economic off ence. In this regard, Mr. Luthra has relied upon the 1 (2023) SCC Online SC 1393 2 (2023) SCC Online SC 455 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. decision in case of Satender Kumar Antil vs. Central Bureau of Investigation and Another3. (v) ED failed to establish the rationale behind discriminating between the appellant and the individuals with similar roles who have not been taken as accused. In this regard, learned Senior Counsel has relied upon the observations made in State of Madhya Pradesh vs. Sheetla Sahai and Others4. (vi) Taking the Court to the allegations made against the appellant, the learned Senior Counsel submitted that the allegations and the roles attributed to the appellant in the commission of the alleged off ences are baseless. (vii) Lastly, Mr. Luthra submitted that the parameters of bail under Section 45 of the PML Act having been made out, and the custodial detention of the appellant being not necessary, the appellant should be released on bail. 6. The learned Additional Solicitor General, Mr. S.V. Raju for the respondent however, made the following submissions: (i) The appellant was the Vice President (Purchases) in Shakti Bhog Limited and was also a Director in various Shakti Bhog Group Companies and was actively involved in the bank fraud committed by the SBFL. (ii) The appellant along with other accused who were the Directors, promoters and shareholders were directly involved in diversion, rotation and siphoning of proceeds of crime. During the period 2007-08 to 2016-17, under the Directorship of the appellant crores of proceeds of crime were transferred to the shell companies without any genuine business transactions. The appellant had played active role in diverting the loan funds availed by the SBFL to shell entities on the basis of fake bills generated without any genuine business transactions. 3 (2022) 10 SCC 51 4 (2009) 8 SCC 617 TARUN KUMAR v. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR DIRECTORATE 823 OF ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] (iii) The appellant was also involved in the export activities of SBFL. (iv) The twin conditions contained in Section 45(1) of the PML Act would apply to the appellant having regard to the seriousness of the off ence and the investigation qua other accused being still in process, the appellant could not be granted bail on the ground that the other persons allegedly involved have not been arrested. Mr. Raju has relied upon the number of decisions of this Court which shall be dealt with as found necessary. 7. At the outset, before adverting to the submissions made by the learned counsels for the parties, it would be apt to note that the PML Act has been enacted to prevent money laundering and to provide for confi scation of property derived from, or involved in money laundering, and for the matters connected therewith and incidental thereto.