From the above date the period of three years would run up to 31 March, 2018. b) The fi rst OTS proposal is dated 16 March, 2017, within a period of three years of the date of acknowledgment of debt in the balance sheet. c) The second OTS proposal is dated 1st January, 2018, again within a period of three years from the date of the fi rst OTS proposal. d) The third OTS proposal is dated 16th May, 2019, once again within a period of three years from the date of the second OTS proposal. 15. The petition under Section 7 was fi led on 22nd January, 2020 within three years from the date of the fi rst, second and the third OTS proposals. 16. The question for consideration would be whether the debt acknowledged in the balance sheet of the fi nancial year would end on 31st March, 2015 and whether the three OTS proposals would give a fresh life 596 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of limitation of three years from each of the respective dates. Section 18 of the Limitation Act is the provision on which strong reliance has been placed upon by the Respondent No.2 for seeking such extension of limitation. 17. A plain reading of Section 18(1) of the Limitation Act would refl ect that where any acknowledgment of a liability has been made in writing by the party against whom any right is claimed, a fresh period of limitation would be computed from the time when the acknowledgment was so signed, subject to such acknowledgment being made before expiry of the prescribed period for fi ling a suit or application in that respect. 18. Section 18(2) of the Limitation Act may not be applicable in the present case inasmuch as all the acknowledgements in the present case have a date and, therefore, there would be no question of leading any oral evidence to establish the date of the acknowledgement. 19. Learned Senior counsel for the appellant has strongly contended that all the acknowledgments were fi rstly, not fi led along with the petition under Section 7 of the IBC but were subsequently fi led one at the stage of appeal before the NCLAT and two of such acknowledgements have been fi led before this Court, as such the same should not be entertained. This argument of the appellant may not have much force to disentitle a fi nancial creditor from claiming its right to recover the dues and initiate proceedings under the IBC. 20. Further, learned Senior counsel for the appellant also expressed doubt and apprehension about the correctness and genuineness of such acknowledgments but we are afraid to accept such a contention inasmuch as the same could be objected regarding its correctness by the Corporate Debtor and not by an unsecured creditor. It would be for the Adjudicating Authority to consider such a plea, if so raised by the Corporate Debtor. 21. Reference may be made to a recent judgement of this Court in the case of Dena Bank (supra) where facts were similar.