OF DELHI 751 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Afterdealing with thescopeand object of Section 73 in terms A extracted above and upon noticing that there was no inquiry or trial pending before the Court when the specimens were taken while bearing in mind that the prosecution did not disclose as to at what stage of investigation, inquiry or trial the accused was produced before the Executive Magistrate to take his specimen writings, and as to why the B specimen writings were obtained under direction of the Executive Magistrate and not of the Designated Court, it was held that the manner in which the specimen writing of the accused was taken was totally objectionable and against the provisions of Section 73 of the IEA, 1872. Therefore, the specimen writing was found unacceptable for comparison and the resultant report was discarded. C 46. In our view, Sukhvinder Singh(supra) does not lay down as law that during investigation the investigating agency cannot obtain specimen writing or signature of a suspect or an accused for the purposes of obtaining an expert report in respect of the disputed writing or signature.Rather, Sukhvinder Singh(supra) is to be understood as a D decision dealing with the scope and exercise of power vested in a Court under section 73 of the IEA, 1872 while conducting an inquiry or trial. 47. As to what procedure an investigating agency has to follow during investigation for obtaining specimen handwriting or signature of an accused,there existed no specific provision in the Code, at least none E shown to us, prior to insertion of Section 311-A in the Code by Act No.25 of 2005 w.e.f. 23.06.2006. 48. In Ram Babu Misra (supra),a decision rendered prior to insertion of Section 311-A in the Code, it was held that during the course of investigation a Magistrate is not empowered to direct the accused to F give his specimen writing inasmuch as the provisions of the Identification of Prisoners Act, 1920 (for short “the 1920 Act”) were silent with regard to issuance of directions by the Magistrate for taking specimen writing of prisoners. However, what is important is that the said decision is silent on the issue as to whether the specimen writing and signature of G an accused obtained by the investigating agency during investigation could be used for obtaining an expert report on the disputed handwriting or signature. 49. No doubt, by Act No.25 of 2005, with effect from 23.06.2006, Section 311-A has been inserted in the Code thereby empowering a Magistrate of the First Class to direct any person including an accused H 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A to give specimen signature or handwriting for the purposes of investigation but this provision would have no bearing on this case as it came into effect in the year 2006, whereas the instant case is of the year 2000. In Sukh Ram v. State of Himachal Pradesh11, this Courtheld that the amended provisions of Section 311-A of the Code would apply prospectively. Otherwise also, the purpose of obtaining permission/ B of the Magistrate is to maintain the sanctity of those specimens so as obviate fabrication.