Therefore, the price at which BIL sold the goods to Aventis Crop Science (India) Ltd., was to be treated as sales to a “related person”. 8. Mr. V. Shridharan, learned senior advocate appearing on behalf of BIL, submitted that the impugned is erroneous. He submitted C that the test applied consistently by this court to decide if an entity was “related” to another has been whether the seller has an interest in the business and affairs of the buyer; and likewise, whether the buyer has an interest in the business of the seller. Even if one were present, in the absence of the other, there would be no relationship, for the purpose of Section 4(4)(c) and the transaction should be treated as one at arm’s D length. Learned counsel relied on the decisions of this court, reported as Union of India & Others v. Atic Industries Ltd.2, Union Of India & Ors v. Hind Lamp Ltd.3, Commissioner of Central Excise, Hyderabad v. Detergents India Ltd.4, and Commissioner of Central Excise, Chandigarh v. M/s Kwality Ice Cream Co.5. It was argued that the E synergies in production, achieved by the creation of the JVA, optimised the development and resources of the JV partners; the sale by BIL (the assessee), to Aventis CropScience (India) Ltd. (the buyer), another subsidiary of AgrEvo SA/Aventis CropScience SA did not result in BIL being deemed to have an interest in its business or affairs; likewise, Aventis Crop Science (India) Ltd. did not have any interest in BIL’s F business. 9. Mr. Arijit Prasad, learned senior counsel appearing for the revenue, pointed out that business relationships, and interest of one entity in the affairs or business of another cannot be placed in a straitjacket. The formation of the JVA and BIL, in which the foreign company AgrEvo G SA/Aventis CropScience SA is a major shareholder, was for the purpose of ensuring that the products manufactured reached its overseas markets, 2 [1984] 3 SCR 930 3 [1989] 2 SCR 1023 4 [2015] 6 SCR 886 5 [2010] 14 SCR 409 H 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A through the medium of its subsidiary, Aventis CropScience (India) Ltd., which was owned to the extent of 100% by AgrEvo SA/Aventi CropScience SA. These clearly showed a real and live interest in the businesses of the buyer in each other. He therefore, submitted that the CESTAT’s should not be interfered with. B Analysis and Reasoning 10. The relevant part of Section 4 of the Act reads as follows: “4. Valuation of excisable goods for purposes of charging of duty of excise- (1) Where under this Act, the duty of excise is chargeable on any excisable goods with reference to their C value, then, on each removal of the goods, such value shall- (a) in a case where the goods are sold by the assessee, for delivery at the time and place of the removal, the assessee and the buyer of goods are not related and the price is the sole consideration for the sale, be the transaction value; D (b) in any other case, including the case where the goods are not sold, be the value determined in such manner as may be prescribed.