It is submitted by the learned Amicus that this issue has been pending since sometime in December, 2006. 12 years have gone-by but no effective steps have been taken by the State Governments in respect of the National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries mentioned above. D Under the circumstances, we direct that an area of 10 Kms around these 21 National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries be declared as Eco Sensitive Zone by the MoEF. The declaration be made by the MoEF at the earliest. E Liberty is granted to the State Governments to move an application for modification of this along with proposal only two weeks after submission of the proposals to the MoEF.” 28. It can be seen that this Court has recorded the submissions of the learned ASG that there were 104 National Parks and 558 Wildlife F Sanctuaries making a total of 662 National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries in the country. It was further recorded that the proposals for declaring areas around these National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries as ESZs had been received from the State Governments/Union Territories. It can further be seen that no proposals have been received in respect of 21 National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries. It further recorded that the G proposals had been accepted and notification had been issued in respect of 289 National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries as on 26th November 2018 and draft notification had been prepared in respect of 206 National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries. The Court therefore expected the MoEF & CC to actively pursue the preparation of the draft Notification and to H 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A issue a final Notification at the earliest. The Court then recorded 21 National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries in respect of which proposals have not yet been received by the MoEF & CC alongside its anguish that though 12 years had been passed, no effective steps have been taken by the State Governments in respect of the National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries named in the said . Therefore, the Court directed B that an area of 10 kilometres around these 21 National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries be declared as ESZs by the MoEF & CC. Liberty was granted to the State Governments to move an application for modification of the said . However, it further directed that the application should be along with the proposal for declaration of ESZs. C 29. It is to be noted that the learned Judges of this Court, in the case of Goa Foundation6, had directed that the MoEF & CC shall follow the procedure and issue notification of ESZs under Rule 5 of the Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986 (hereinafter referred to as “1986 Rules”). The relevant provisions of the 1986 Rules are reproduced hereinbelow: D “5. Prohibition and restriction on the location of industries and the carrying on of processes and operations in different areas.—(1) The Central Government may take into consideration the following factors while prohibiting or restricting the location of industries and carrying on of processes and operations in E different areas: (i) Standards for quality of environment in its various aspects laid down for an area.