to Homeopathic Doctors working in Government Homeopathic Colleges. The said writ petition was disposed of by the High Court on 29th March, 2010 with a direction issued to the State to consider the pending representations of the appellants and pass an within three months. Since the State did not take any decision on their representations, the appellants approached the High Court once again and fi led another writ petition3, which was dismissed by the learned Single Judge vide dated 19th July, 2010. Noting that the State Government did not amend Rule 60 (a) or 60 (c) Part (I) of the Kerala Service Rules8, the learned Single Judge held that the existing rule position as obtained from Rule 60(c) of the K.S. Rules, could not be ignored. It was also observed that the appellants had not challenged the G.O. dated 14th January, 2010. Instead, they approached the Court seeking parity with those covered under the said G.O., by claiming that it ought to be extended to them as well so as to enable them to continue in service beyond the normal date of retirement, which was impermissible. 4. Dissatisfi ed by the above judgement, the appellants fi led an appeal2 which came to be dismissed by the Division Bench of the High Court. Concurring with the view expressed by the learned Single Judge, the Division Bench observed that since extension of age for the teaching staff of Medical Colleges is a policy decision, it is not open for the High Court to issue any directions to the respondent No.1 – State to increase the retirement age of the teaching staff of Homeopathic Medical Colleges. Hence the present appeal. 7 Writ Petition (C) No.10709 of 2010 8 For short ‘K.S. Rules’ DR. PRAKASAN M.P. AND OTHERS v. STATE OF KERALA 297 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] THE RELEVANT RULES : 5. The conditions of service of persons employed by the State are regulated by the K.S. Rules, unless they are exempted entirely or in part as prescribed in Rule 3. Rule 60 falls under Chapter VIII of Part I of the K.S. Rules that deals with compulsorily retirement. Rule 60 (c) as it stood at the relevant point in time prescribed that : “60 (c) The teaching staff of all Educational Institutions (including Principals of Colleges) who complete the age of 55 years during the course of an academic year shall continue in service till the last day of the month in which the academic year due, before the last day of the month in which they attain the age of 55 years. But they shall not be eligible for increment or promotion during the period of their service beyond such date. If they are on leave on the day they attain the age of 55 years and if there is no prospect of their returning to duty before the closing day of the academic year for vacation they shall be retired with eff ect from the last day of the month in which they attain the age of 55 years.