Article 17 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights provides that, “Everyone has the right to own property alone as well as in association with others. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.” Self-determination also includes obligation for states to refrain from any forcible actions that deprive people of enjoying such rights. The concept of Free, Prior and Informed Consent(FPIC) within international development law is most clearly stated in the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples in 11 Law Commission, ‘Law of Acquisition and Requisitioning of Land’ (Law Com No. 10, 1977). URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 533 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] Articles 10, 11, 19, 28 and 29 which prescribes situations in which FPIC must be obtained before granting compensation, taking of indigenous property etc. Development experts have recognized that FPIC is not only important for Indigenous people but can also be used as a positive approach to involve local communities in decision-making about any proposed development. Engaging them in such processes fosters a greater sense of ownership and engagement and, moreover, helps safeguard their right to development as a basic human rights principle12. These principles are not to be found under the Land Acquisition Act, 1984 but the concept of acquiring land through consent and Social Impact Assessment (SIA) on whether a project serves “public purpose” has been added in the 2013 avatar of the Land Acquisition Act. Therefore, The Right To Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013 is found to be more attuned to the notion of fairness and is progressive to this extent. 15. While there are many instances of authorities failing to adhere to the acquisition regime, this Court has the benefi t of a study conducted by the Lands Rights Initiative of the Centre for Policy Research13. The outcome of the extensive study of around 1269 s of the Supreme Court of India between 1950 to 2016 on the legal trajectory of land acquisition cases in India lead to the following comments: “The process of land acquisition in India has been the source of increasing political and legal contestation for almost two hundred years. This stems from the inherently coercive nature of the process, which creates a severe imbalance in power between the state and land losers. Our review of Supreme Court litigation since the time India became a constitutional republic in 1950 shows that while much of this imbalance was created within the very text of the Land Acquisition 12 Sambhav Shrivastava et al., ‘Subversion of Due Process for Seeking the Consent of Communities in Land Acquisition and Resultant Land Confl icts’ (Oxfam 2020) <https://policy-practice.oxfam.org/resources/subversion-of-due-process-for-seeking- the-consent-of-communities-in-land-acquis-621109/> accessed 19 September 2023. 13 Namita Wahi, Ankit Bhatia et al, ‘Land Acquisition in India: A Review of Supreme Court Cases 1950-2016’(Centre for Policy Research 2017) 534 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Act, a considerable part of it could also be attributed to executive non-compliance with the rule of law. The result was a situation of great inequity for the land losers” [emphasis supplied] 16.