Learned Senior Counsel relied on the Constitution Bench s of this Court in the cases of Hamdard Dawakhana (Wakf) Lal Kuan, Delhi and another v. Union of India and others1 and Harakchand Ratanchand Banthia and others v. Union of India and others2 in support of his submissions. C 23. Shri Chidambaram submits that, in any case, the decision- making process in the present case was deeply flawed and, therefore, is liable to the scrutiny of judicial review by this Court. 24. The learned Senior Counsel submits that a plain reading of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act would reveal that the Central D Government can exercise the power only on the recommendation of the Central Board. It is, therefore, submitted that it is implicit in the said sub- section that the proposal for demonetization must emanate from the RBI. It is submitted that, from the scheme of the RBI Act, it is clear that the Central Board, consisting of Members specified in Section 8 of the RBI E Act, would consider all relevant material, weigh the pros and cons, consider the impact of the proposed measure on the people of the country and the consequences on the economy before making a recommendation. It is submitted that, on a plain reading of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act, it is clear that the Central Government is not bound to accept the recommendation of the Central Board. The word ‘may’ used F therein, postulates exercise of discretion and, therefore, the discretion so exercised by the Central Government must be exercised after considering the matter carefully, as to whether the recommendation of the RBI is required to be accepted or not. 25. Learned Senior Counsel, therefore, submits that it is implicit in G sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act that the Central Board constituted under Section 8 of the RBI Act must devote sufficient time to apply their mind while making a recommendation, particularly when a major step like demonetization is to be taken. 1 (1960) 2 SCR 671 H 2 (1969) 2 SCC 166 = (1970) 1 SCR 479 VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 39 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 26. Learned Senior Counsel submits that, however, in the present A case, the decision-making process is deeply flawed. He submits that, under Section 8 of the RBI Act, the only channel for non-government Directors to come on the Central Board of the RBI is through clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 8 of the RBI Act. He submits that, usually, experts in trade and commerce, economists, industrialists, etc. are B nominated in the said category. However, on the date on which the decision for demonetization was taken by the Central Board i.e. 8th November, 2016, there were only 3 independent Directors under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 8 of the RBI Act. He submits that, it is thus clear that, at the relevant time, the Central Board consisted of a majority of the Directors who were representatives of the Central C Government inasmuch as there were 7 vacancies of Directors in category under clause (c) of sub-section (1) of Section 8 of the RBI Act.