It must be a commercial loss and in its nature must be contemplable as such. Such penalties which are incurred by an assessee in proceedings launched against him for an infraction of the law cannot be called commercial losses incurred C by an assessee in carrying on his business. Infraction of the law is not a normal incident of business and, therefore only such disbursements can be deducted as are really incidental to the business itself. They cannot be deducted if they fall on the assessee in some character other than that of a trader. Therefore, where a penalty is incurred for the contravention D of any specific statutory provision, it cannot be said to be a commercial loss falling on the assessee as a trader, the test being that the expenses which are for the purpose of enabling a person to carry on trade for making profits in the business are permitted but not if they are merely connected with the E business…. Anything done which is an infraction of the law and is visited with a penalty cannot on grounds of public policy be said to be a commercial expense for the purpose of a business or a disbursement made for the purposes of earning the profits of such business.” F 17. Similar views have been expressed by the Punjab and Allahabad High Courts in Raj Woollen Industries v. Commissioner of Income-tax [[1961] 43 I.T.R. 36 (Punj.).] , Commissioner of Income-tax v. Mathura Prasad Hardwar Prasad Deoria [[1965] 55 I.T.R. 476 (All.).] and Mahabir Sugar Mills (P.) Ltd. v. Commissioner of Income-tax [[1969] 71 I.T.R. 87 (All.).] G 18. The Supreme Court in Badridas v. Commissioner of Income- tax [[1958] 34 I.T.R. 10, [1959] S.C.R. 690 (S.C.).] , considered what would amount to a trading loss. Venkatarama Aiyar J. observed: H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 123 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] “When a claim is made for a deduction for which there is no A specific provision in section 10(2), whether it is admissible or not will depend on whether, having regard to accepted commercial pratice and trading principles, it can be said to arise out of the carrying on of the business and to be incidental to it. If that is established, then the deduction must be allowed, B provided of course there is no prohibition against it, express or implied in the Act. The loss for which a deduction could be made under section 10(1) must be one that springs directly from the carrying on of the business and is incidental to it, and not any loss sustained by the assessee, even if it has some connection with his business.” C 19. Judged from the test laid down by their Lordships, it is impossible to hold that the confiscation of contraband gold, which is in the nature of a proceeding in rem, is a loss that springs directly from the business or trade carried on by the assessee-firm and is incidental to its business.