82. During the course of the hearing of the review petition, this court had passed an directing the counsel for the state to get instructions from jail authorities on the following aspects: (i) the conduct of the petitioner in jail; (ii) information on petitioner’s involvement in any B other case; (iii) details of the petitioner acquiring education in jail; (iv) details of petitioner’s medical records; and (v) any other relevant information. 83. Through an affidavit dated 26 September 2021, the Sub- Inspector of Police Kammapuram at Cuddalore District, Tamil Nadu C has informed the court that the conduct of petitioner has been satisfactory and he has not been involved in any other case. Furthermore, he is suffering from systemic hypertension and availing medication from the prison hospital. The petitioner has also acquired a diploma in food catering during his time in the prison. D 84. Separately, this Court also received a document dated 8 November 2018 from the Superintendent of Prisons, Central Prison, Cuddalore-4 in response to the letter from Assistant Registrar, Supreme Court of India communicating the seeking instructions from jail authorities. Notably, this document states that the petitioner tried to escape E from prison on 6 November 2013. It is concerning that the Respondent, in the affidavit dated 26 September 2021, has failed to include this information. 85. The non-disclosure of material facts amounts to misleading this Court and to an attempt at interfering with the administration of F justice. In the Suo Motu Contempt Petition (Civil) No 3 of 2021 titled In Re: Perry Kansagra, this Court discussed the line of precedent of this Court dealing with tendering of affidavits and undertakings containing false statements or suppressing / concealing material facts amounting to contempt of court: G 15. It is thus well settled that a person who makes a false statement before the Court and makes an attempt to deceive the Court, interferes with the administration of justice and is guilty of contempt of Court. The extracted portion above clearly shows that in such circumstances, the Court not only has the inherent H 1064 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A power but it would be failing in its duty if the alleged contemnor is not dealt with in contempt jurisdiction for abusing the process of the Court. Accordingly, we deem it appropriate to initiate suo moto contempt proceedings against the respondent for withholding material information B from this Court. 86. As per the written submissions of the petitioner, he was about 24 years old when the of the Trial Court was rendered on30 July 2010. He has been in prison since 2009,13 years. He had no prior antecedents and thejail authorities have stated that he has not been C involved in any other case. However, the jail authorities have brought to the notice of this Court, the attempt of petitioner to escape from prison. 87. In the review petition, it has also been submitted that the petitioner could not communicate mitigating circumstances bearing on his sentencing decision to the lawyer and his relatives, who being poor D and uneducated, could not properly contest the case for him.