He further submitted that the application which was filed on compassionate basis B was filled up by the Bank itself and the details stated in the said application were not accurate and that the respondent was entitled to be considered for an appropriate post in the appellant-Bank. 10. Learned counsel further submitted that the delay in consideration of the respondent’s application, coupled with the fact that C the rejection of the application without any reasoning had caused prejudice to the respondent and that there is no merit in the appeal and, therefore, the same may be dismissed. 11. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties, we find that the following points would arise for our consideration: - D (1) Whether the High Court was justified in setting aside the of the First Appellate Court and restoring the and decree of the Trial Court while answering the questions of law in favour of the respondent and against the Bank? (2) What ? E 12. It is necessary to reiterate that the appointment of a candidate on compassionate basis does not create any vested right and that it is only when a candidate is covered under all clauses of the Scheme applicable at the relevant point of time that he/she could be considered for compassionate appointment. F 13. In Balbir Kaur vs. Steel Authority of India Ltd., (supra) it was observed that the family benefit scheme assuring monthly payment to the family of deceased employee on the facts therein was not a substitute for compassionate appointment by the Steel Authority of India – Respondent in the said case. The said case proceeds on its own facts. G The said can be distinguished from the facts of the instant case as the 1998 Scheme specifically disentitles a candidate for compassionate appointment benefit on the application of the formula for calculation of monthly income if the same is not less than 60% of the total emoluments which the deceased was drawing at the time of his H 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A death. The object is that it is only when a deceased employee’s family is in penury and without any source of livelihood when the employee died in harness, compassionate appointment can be considered. Since appointment on compassionate basis is an exception to the general rule for appointment by an open invitation, the exception has to be resorted to only when the candidate and his family is in penury so as to provide B immediate succor on the death of the employee in harness. The same has been observed in General Manager (D&PB) vs. Kunti Tiwary (supra). In N.C.Santhosh vs. State of Karnataka (supra) a three Judge Bench of this Court reiterated that appointment on compassionate basis is a concession and not a right and the criteria laid down in the Rules and C Schemes applicable must be satisfied by all aspirants. Therefore, the case for compassionate appointment has to be considered in accordance with the prevalent Scheme.