It is on the strength of the provisions contained in Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules and Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules that the appellant would argue that the assignment of the share of the first defendant occasioned a breach of the law. The second defendant, on the C other hand, would point out that there was no issue of fragmentation ever raised before the courts and the same was not decided in the courts. 62. It is contended by the second defendant that the sale deed in favour of Respondent 1 specifically says that the sale is in respect D of one-third share in the residential House No. 13 of Sector 19-A, Chandigarh. After the sale deed, it is contended, one-third share of the party was duly transferred and mutated in the name of Respondent 1-second defendant by the Chandigarh Administration. The High Court, in fact, tides over this objection by the appellant by pointing out that once the second defendant steps into the shoes E of the first defendant, he became a co-owner and his remedy is to sue for partition and while fragmentation of property, is not “admissible”, the market value of the property can be determined, and buying each other’s share, as per the provisions of Sections 2, 3 and 4 of the Partition Act, 1893. F 63. While it may not be true that the issue of fragmentation was not raised in the courts, we would think that the appellant is not able to persuade us to hold that the assignment in favour of the second defendant is vulnerable on the basis that it involves fragmentation. We have noticed the deposition of the plaintiff about G partition of the house into three portions. We have noted the fact that one-third share has been duly transferred and mutated in the name of the first respondent-second defendant by the Chandigarh Administration.” 64. The second defendant has produced the communication dated 19-12-1997 which indicates the transfer of rights of site in Sector H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 649 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 19-A held by Vishnu Dutt Mehta (first defendant) is noted in favour A of the second defendant subject to certain conditions. This is obviously before the 2007 Rules came into force. 65. In the light of the aforesaid facts, we cannot permit the appellant to impugn the transaction on the said ground.” 87. It could thus clearly be seen that, in the said case also, the B property was bequeathed to plaintiff, the first defendant and another brother who was the third defendant. The second defendant had purchased the property from the first defendant and as such, he became a co-owner. The Court found that the assignment in favour of the second defendant was not vulnerable on the basis that it involved fragmentation. C However, it also noted the deposition of the plaintiff about partition of the house into three portions. It also noted that the 1/3rd share had been duly transferred and mutated in the name of the first respondent/second defendant by the Chandigarh Administration.