Article 25 (4) clarifi es that the tax payable in a Contracting State mentioned in clause 2 and clause 3 of the said Article shall be deemed to include the tax which would have been payable but for the tax incentive granted under the laws of the Contracting State and which are designed to promote development. 14. The revenue relied upon Article 11 which provides that dividends paid by a company which is a resident of a Contracting State to a resident of the other Contracting State may be taxed in that other Contracting State. Thus, according to the revenue, dividend received by the assessee is taxable in India and is not exempt because the same is not designed as tax incentive in Oman to promote development in that country. In the same manner, it is argued that the letter issued by the Secretary General for Taxation, Ministry of Finance, Oman was not issued by the competent Omani authority and has no statutory force. 15. The term ‘incentive’ is neither defi ned in the Omani Tax Laws nor in the Income Tax Act, 1961. Faced with this situation, the JV addressed a letter in November, 2000 to Oman Oil Company seeking clarifi cation regarding the purpose of Article 8 (bis) of the Omani Tax Laws. The clarifi cation letter dated 11.12.2000 addressed by the Secretary General for Taxation, Sultanate of Oman, Ministry of Finance, Muscat to Oman Oil Company SAOC is signifi cant, and reads as follows: 598 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “We refer to your letter dated 2nd December, 2000 and our previous letter dated 8 August, 2000 on the above subject. Under Article 8 of the Company Income Tax Law of Oman, dividend forms part of the gross income chargeable to tax. The tax law of Oman provides income tax exemption to companies undertaking certain identifi ed economic activities considered essential for the country’s economic development with a view to encouraging investments in such sectors. Before the recent amendments to the Profi t Tax Law on Commercial and Industrial Establishments, Article 5 of this law provided for exemption of dividend income in the hands of the recipients if such dividends were received out of the profi ts on which Omani income tax was paid by distributing companies. It meant that Omani income tax was payable by the recipients on any dividend income received out of the exempt profi ts from tax exempt companies. As a result, investors in tax exempt companies that undertake those activities considered essential for the country’s economic development suff ered a tax cost on their return on investments the tax treatment under the above-mentioned Article 5 had the negative impact on investments in tax exempt project. The company Income Tax Law of 1981 was, therefore, recently amended by Royal Decree No. 68/2000 by the insertion of a new Article 8 (bis) which is eff ective as from the tax year 2000. As per the newly introduced Article 8 (bis) of the Company Income Tax Law, dividend distributed by all companies, including the tax-exempt companies would be exempt from payment of income tax in the hands of the recipients.