3. Sardar Syedna Taher Saifuddin Saheb, who was the 51st Dai-al-Mutlaq and the head of the Dawoodi Bohra community, challenged the Ex-communication Act on the ground that the same infringes the F fundamental rights guaranteed under Articles 25 and 26 of the Constitution of India. The said petition was placed before a Constitution Bench. The Constitution Bench, by a majority, held that ex-communication amongst the Dawoodi Bohras forms an integral part of the management of the community. Therefore, interference with the right to ex- communicate amounts to interference with the right of the community to manage its G own affairs in matters of religion. This Court held that as the Ex-communication Act invalidates ex-communication on any ground whatsoever including religious grounds, it must be held to be in clear violation of the right of the Dawoodi Bohra community guaranteed under Article 26 (b) of the Constitution of India. Therefore, this Court proceeded H 300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A to hold that the Ex-communication Act is void, being in violation of Article 26 of the Constitution of India. 4. The prayer in the present writ petition filed by the Central Board of Dawoodi Bohra Community represented by its Secretary is for issuing a writ of mandamus directing the State Government to give B effect to the provisions of the Ex-communication Act after reconsidering the decision of this Court in the case of Sardar Syedna1. “Rule nisi” was issued in the petition on 25th August 1986. On 18th March 1994, a Division Bench directed that the petition be listed before a Bench of seven Judges. The 2nd Respondent – Syedna Mufaddal (53rd Dai-al-Mutlaq) made an application seeking a direction that the petition C should be listed before a Division Bench. The writ petition was listed before a Constitution Bench. By the and dated 17th December 20042, the Constitution Bench partly allowed the application filed by the 2nd Respondent. Paragraph 14 of the said read thus: “14. In the facts and circumstances of this case, we are satisfied D that the matter should be placed for hearing before a Constitution Bench (of five Judges) and not before a larger Bench of seven Judges. It is only if the Constitution Bench doubts the correctness of the law laid down in Sardar Syedna Taher Saifuddin Saheb case [1962 Supp (2) SCR 496 : AIR 1962 SC 853] that it may E opine in favour of hearing by a larger Bench consisting of seven Judges or such other strength as the Chief Justice of India may in exercise of his power to frame a roster may deem fit to constitute.” 5. In terms of the aforesaid , Writ Petition with the connected Criminal Appeal has been placed before this Bench. In the meanwhile, there was a subsequent event in the form of the enactment of the F Maharashtra Protection of People from Social Boycott (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2016 (for short, ‘the Social Boycott Act’). By clause (c) of Section 20 of the Social Boycott Act, the Ex-communication Act was repealed.