19. The incident is of 1995. It is not clear whether this aspect was argued before the Trial Court as the Trial Court has not reproduced the submissions of the counsel for the appellant. However, before the High Court, it was certainly canvassed as it forms a part of the written G submissions. 20. Even assuming that the defect or irregularity was curable, the question is whether today, the appellant-accused can be called upon to explain the said circumstance. More than 27 years have passed since the date of the incident. Considering the passage of time, we are of the view that it will be unjust now at this stage to remit the case to the Trial H 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Court for recording further statement of the appellant under Section 313 of CrPC. In the facts of the case, the appellant cannot be called upon to answer something which has transpired 27 years back. There is one more aspect of the matter which persuaded us not to pass an of remand. The said factor is that the appellant has already undergone incarceration for a period of 10 years and 4 months. B 21. Before we part with this , we must take a note of sub-section (5) added to Section 313 of CrPC w.e.f. 31st December 2009. Sub-section (5) reads thus : “313. Power to examine the accused.- (1) … … … C (2) … … … … (3) … … … … (4) … … … … (5) The Court may take help of Prosecutor and Defence Counsel D in preparing relevant questions which are to be put to the accused and the Court may permit filing of written statement by the accused as sufficient compliance of this section.” In many criminal trials, a large number of witnesses are examined, and evidence is voluminous. It is true that the Judicial Officers have to E understand the importance of Section 313. But now the Court is empowered to take the help of the prosecutor and the defence counsel in preparing relevant questions. Therefore, when the Trial Judge prepares questions to be put to the accused under Section 313, before putting the questions to the accused, the Judge can always provide copies of the said questions to the learned Public Prosecutor as well as the learned F defence Counsel and seek their assistance for ensuring that every relevant material circumstance appearing against the accused is put to him. When the Judge seeks the assistance of the prosecutor and the defence lawyer, the lawyers must act as the officers of the Court and not as mouthpieces of their respective clients. While recording the statement under Section G 313 of CrPC in cases involving a large number of prosecution witnesses, the Judicial Officers will be well advised to take benefit of sub-section (5) of Section 313 of CrPC, which will ensure that the chances of committing errors and omissions are minimized. 22. In 1951, while delivering the verdict in the case of Tara Singh6, H this Court lamented that in many cases, scant attention is paid to the RAJ KUMAR @ SUMAN v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 771 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.]