29. In the aforesaid context, we believe that we have to read the C powers of the State Bar Councils and the Bar Council of India in the context of their respective statutory provisions. The powers are not pari materia. Bar Council of India has much larger powers and authority as submitted and discussed aforesaid including in the submissions of the learned Amicus. D 30. We are unable to agree with the reasoning in V. Sudeer24that because the State Bar Councils’ power for providing training or for holding examination was taken away by the 1973 Amendment, it ipso facto amounts to taking away such powers if they so vested with the Bar Council of India. The legislative object was clear i.e. not to confer E such powers on the State Bar Councils. However, that could not affect the position of the power of the Bar Council of India, and naturally such a power existed. If the Bar Council of India never had such a power, then the same could not be read by implication. But, if the Bar Council of India had sufficient powers, then the 1973 Amendment would not take away those powers of the Bar Council of India as the said F amendment did not deal with the aspect of the powers of the Bar Council of India. 31. In addition, the learned Judges in V. Sudeer25 opined that if such a power has to be conferred, it should be conferred legislatively. While in principle, there can be no disagreement with the broad proposition, G the issue is whether such a power is already existing with the Bar Council of India under the statutory provisions. The functions of the Bar Council of India, as specified under Section 7, inter alia prescribe an exercise 24 (supra) 25 (supra) H 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A of general supervision and control over the State Bar Councils under Clause (g) of Sub- Section (1) of Section 7. Further, under Sub-Clause (l), the Bar Council of India has the power to perform all other functions conferred on it by or under the said Act and under Clause (m) to do all other things necessary for discharging the aforesaid functions. The powers are, thus, wide and extensive as conferred by the legislature. B Thus, when under Section 24(1), the Bar Council of India has the statutory power of prescribing Rules subject to which a person may be treated as qualified to be admitted as an Advocate in the State roll, then we believe that the Bar Council of India is not devoid of its jurisdiction in undertaking a pre-enrolment training course or examination prescribed by the Bar C Council of India. 32. In case of any subsisting doubt, we must refer to Section 49(1)(ag) of the said Act, which while dealing with the general powers of the Bar Council of India to make rules, specifically stipulates that the class or category of person entitled to be enrolled as advocates, is an D aspect for which all powers have been conferred on the Bar Council of India.