The fact that an item of expenditure is wholly and exclusively laid out for purposes of the business, by itself, is not suffi cient to entitle its allowance in computing the income chargeable to tax. In addition, the expenditure should not be in the nature of a capital expenditure. (b) In Empire Jute Co. Ltd., the question which arose was whether the sale of loom hours was to be held to be in the nature of capital receipt and hence not taxable. he transaction involved one jute mill transferring loom hours to another for consideration, subject to certain conditions. It was observed in the said case that a capital expenditure would be for securing an enduring benefi t but when it comes to acquiring an advantage in the commercial sense, the enduring benefi t test should not be applied mechanically. In the said case, another test was adopted, i.e., fi xed and circulating capital test. It was observed that the purchase of loom hours was not like circulating capital (labour, raw material, power etc.) but loom hours were also not part of fi xed capital. It was observed that whether an expenditure is revenue or capital should depend upon practical and business considerations rather than juristic classifi cation of legal rights. That the test to be adopted was whether the expenditure was in view of a business 424 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. necessity or expediency, i.e., was the expenditure a part of assessee’s working expenditure or a part of process of profi t earning; whether the expenditure was necessary to acquire a right of permanent character, the possession of which was a condition for carrying on trade was highlighted. (c) Insofar as lease agreements are concerned, this Court in Assam Bengal Cement Co. Ltd., in the context of acquiring lease of mining stone quarries for manufacture of cement for twenty years on payment of yearly rent as well as protection fee to ward off competition held the same to be capital expenditure. It was observed in the said case that the consideration payable was per annum but was for the entire or whole duration of the lease and it protected and gave right to the assessee to carry on business unfettered from outsiders. It was held that the expenditure was not a part of the working or operational expenses but for acquiring a capital asset. (d) In Sindhurani, salami or lump-sum payment of non-recurring nature made by the prospective tenant to the landlord as consideration for settlement of agricultural land and parting with certain rights paid anterior to landlord and tenant relationship was held not to be in the nature of rent and thus capital payment. It was held that the payment was not for use of land but for the land to be put to use by the assessee. Salami was not rent paid in advance. (e) In Enterprising Enterprises, this Court affi rmed the decision of Madras High Court after referring to Pingle Industries Ltd. vs. CIT, (1960) 40 ITR 67 (SC) (“Pingle Industries Ltd.”); Gotan Lime vs. CIT, (1999) 239 ITR 718 (“Gotan Lime”) and Aditya Minerals Pvt.