Can the Court ever compensate him for his incarceration which B is found to be unjustified? Would it be just at all for the Court to tell a person:‘We have admitted your appeal because we think you have a prima facie case, but unfortunately we have no time to hear your appeal for quite a few years and, therefore, until we hear your appeal, C you must remain in jail, even though you may be innocent?’What confidence would such administration of justice inspire in the mind of the public? It may quite conceivably happen, and it has in fact happened in a few cases in this Court, that a person may serve out his full term of imprisonment before his appeal is taken up for D hearing. Would a Judge not be overwhelmed with a feeling of contrition while acquitting such a person after hearing the appeal? Would it not be an affront to his sense of justice? Of what avail would the acquittal be to such a person who has already served out his term of E imprisonment or at any rate a major part of it? It is, therefore, absolutely essential that the practice which this Court has been following in the past must be reconsidered and so long as this Court is not in a position to hear the appeal of an accused within a reasonable period of time, the Court should ordinarily, unless there are cogent grounds F for acting otherwise, release the accused on bail in cases where special leave has been granted to the accused to appeal against his conviction and sentence.” 9. Learned counsel for the appellant then relied on the decision of this Court in Bhagirathsinh v. State of G Gujarat [(1984) 1 SCC 284 : 1984 SCC (Cri) 63] , Shaheen Welfare Assn. v. Union of India [(1996) 2 SCC 616 : 1996 SCC (Cri) 366] , Joginder Kumar v. State of U.P. [(1994) 4 SCC 260 : 1994 SCC (Cri) 1172] , etc. H 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 10. In our opinion none of the aforesaid decisions can be said to have laid down any absolute and unconditional rule about when bail should be granted by the Court and when it should not. It all depends on the facts and circumstances of each case and it cannot be said there is any absolute rule that because a long period of imprisonment has expired bail B must necessarily be granted.” (Emphasis supplied) 26. This Court, in the case of Ash Mohammad v. Shiv Raj Singh alias Lalla Babu and Another, reported in (2012)9 SCC 446, has C observed in para 30, as follows: “30. We may usefully state that when the citizens are scared to lead a peaceful life and this kind of offences usher in an impediment in establishment of ly society, the duty of the court becomes more pronounced and the burden is heavy. There should have been proper analysis of the criminal D antecedents.