It was also submitted that patient had made excellent recovery after neurosurgery and there were no post operative complications, therefore, he was shifted to recovery room and thereafter to private room. 16. Learned counsel has drawn our attention to the records of the hospital containing pre and post operative history of the patient. Thus, according to learned counsel, there is no negligence on the part of the hospital or the treating doctors. 17. Learned counsel for respondent no. 1 refutes the contentions of the appellant and submits that in view of the fi ndings of the Commission and the dicta of this Court in Bombay Hospital & Medical Research Centre v. Asha Jaiswal and Others6, the present appeal is liable to be dismissed. Submissions on behalf of Respondent-No.2/Dr. Bhatia 18. Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned senior counsel for respondent no. 2 adopts the submissions advanced on behalf of respondent no. 1 apropos fi ndings of the Commission in the impugned as well as the dicta of this Court in Bombay Hospital (supra). 19. Additionally, respondent no. 2 submits that it was explained to the appellant and the deceased that the patient would be examined in the recovery room fi rst and thereafter as per standard practice followed by the hospital, all patients who do not show signs of complications in the Recovery Room and have no pre-operative medical problems are shifted to their ward/ room. In case the patient develops some post-operative complications that requires round the clock care and observation, he/she would be transferred to the Neurology Intensive Care Unit. Respondent no. 2 also submits that the deceased had regained full consciousness at the time when he had been moved from the Operation Theatre to the Recovery Room. Also, less than half the numbers of neurosurgical patients operated upon are moved from the OT to Recovery Room and then to Neurosurgery ICU. In support of the same, he has submitted data of respondent no.1/hospital apropos the 6 2021 SCC online SC 1149 104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. neurosurgeries conducted and number of patients transferred to Neuro ICU thereafter. 20. Learned senior counsel further submits that Dr. Brahm Prakash of the Neuro-Sciences Department at the R-1/hospital met the deceased, and no complaint was made by the patient at that time. Similarly, at about 5 p.m. he along with Dr. Tyagi met with the deceased and examined him. The deceased at that time complained of only a mild neck pain, which is normal after an operation on the cervical (neck) region. Thereafter, he left the hospital for his premises and submits that since the time he left i.e., around 5,30 p.m. till the time he received a phone call from the appellant at about 11.15 p.m. about the condition of the deceased, he had not received any calls on his mobile phone or his landline, nor was any message left for him at his residence. 21. Learned senior counsel categorically refutes the contentions of the appellant and submits that the impugned suff ers from no infi rmity warranting interference by this Court and is liable to be accordingly dismissed.