8. In that circumstance, what is necessary to be taken note and consider herein is as to whether the conclusion as recorded by the NCDRC and noted above can said to be erroneous or perverse so as to call for interference. Though the matter was heard at length, the position as it exists if taken into consideration, the aspect to be determined in the instant case, fi rstly is as to whether there is suffi cient evidence to establish that the appellant in fact had suff ered ‘myositis’ and if so whether the cause for same was the vaccination Engerix-B being administered to the appellant. The second aspect is as to whether even if ‘myositis’ being a minimal cause is accepted, the non-mentioning of the same as an ‘adverse reaction’ in the literature or ‘vial’, if could be considered as ‘defi ciency of service’, more particularly in the instant facts and circumstances of the case. 9. As noted, there is no documentary evidence placed on record to indicate the very basic issue of the purchase of the vaccine and the same being administered. Be that as it may, the fact remains that the family doctor of the appellant namely Dr. Satyajit Pathak has fi led his affi davit stating that the Engerix B injection was administered by him to the appellant on PRAKASH BANG v. GLAXO SMITHKLINE 573 PHARMACEUTICALS LTD. & ANR. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] 10.08.1998 at the deltoid muscle on the left arm. The said doctor has stated that the vaccine was a single dose adult vaccine bought from a chemist in Pune. There is no details indicated as to whether he had advised and on his prescription the said vaccine was purchased. In a matter of the present nature where the appellant contends that he and his family members had taken the vaccination and his family members had no complaint whatsoever and also insofar as the appellant, since the earlier two doses had not caused any problem or discomfort but the pain was noticed only after fi nal dose, the matter requires to be viewed with circumspection. Hence the onus to discharge the initial burden was heavy on the appellant to establish his case in a fact of the present nature. Except for the affi davit fi led by the doctors known to the appellant, there is no other evidence available on record. The second witness on behalf of the appellant is his uncle who is stated to have been consulted by the appellant. The statements as contained in the said affi davit are more to refer with regard to the advice that they have tendered to the appellant and also to state with regard to similar complaint having come to their knowledge. 10. The learned senior counsel for the appellant in to contend that the said affi davits would be suffi cient for the Court to come to a conclusion with regard to the case put forth by the appellant has relied on the decision of this Court in Malay Kumar Ganguly vs. Dr. Sukumar Mukherjee & Ors.