It is submitted that the Committee further observed that the workers are the H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 107 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] nerve center of any company and in the event of any company becoming A insolvent or bankrupt, the workmen get affected adversely and therefore, priority must be given to their outstanding dues. Therefore, all sums due to any workman or employee from the Provident Fund, Gratuity Fund or Pension Fund should not be included in the liquidation estate assets. It is submitted that thus, to protect the interest of the workmen, the Committee B decided that the workmen dues for a period of 12 months as provided under Section 53 of the IBC be increased to 24 months preceding liquidation commencement date. 4.13 It is submitted that in light of the same, Section 36 of the IBC has clearly given outright protection to workmen’s dues under C Provident Fund, Pension Fund and Gratuity Fund which is not treated as liquidation assets and liquidator has no claim over such funds. That therefore, this share of workmen’s dues has consciously been taken outside the liquidation process. 4.14 It is submitted that liquidation costs cover the wages and D salary of the workmen during the liquidation process. It is submitted that the liquidation cost is defined in Section 5(16) of the IBC which includes the cost incurred by the liquidator during the period of liquidation subject to such regulations as specified by the Board. It is submitted that with respect to the liquidation process, the Board has notified the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 2016. E It is submitted that Regulation 2(ea) talks about liquidation cost which under Section 5(16) of the IBC includes the costs incurred by the liquidator in carrying on the business of the Corporate Debtor as a going concern. That, therefore, the salary and wages of the workmen in case of going concern liquidation are protected under the liquidation costs. It is further F submitted that under the Liquidation Regulations 2016, a mechanism is created wherein Regulation 19 provides for claim by workmen and employee and Regulation 31A has been inserted to bring in stakeholders Consultation Committee, where participation to workmen/ employees is given. 4.15 It is submitted that the issue with respect to the workmen G and secured creditor being kept at equal footing under Section 53 of the IBC is only in the case wherein the secured creditor has relinquished its security and the same is the part of the liquidation pool. It is submitted that Section 52 of the IBC specifically states about the secured creditor in the liquidation proceedings and Regulation 21A talks about the H 108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A presumption of security interest in the case of secured creditors. It is submitted that the said position has been duly considered by the respondent – Union of India in the Report of the Insolvency Law Committee (March, 2018) as well as Report of Insolvency Law Committee (February, 2020).