The potentiality of the act has to be examined in the light of the surrounding circumstances, posterior and anterior for the off ences under the Prohibition Act. 65. Just because four cases have been registered against the appellant detenu under the Prohibition Act, by itself, may not have any bearing on the maintenance of public . The detenu may be punished for the off ences which have been registered against him. To put it in other words, if the detention is on the ground that the detenu is indulging in manufacture or transport or sale of liquor then that by itself would not become an activity prejudicial to the maintenance of public because the same can be eff ectively dealt with under the provisions of the Prohibition Act but if the liquor sold by the detenu is dangerous to public health then under the Act 1986, it becomes an activity prejudicial to the maintenance of public , therefore, it becomes necessary for the detaining authority to be satisfi ed on material available to it that the liquor dealt with by the detenu is liquor which is dangerous to public health to attract the provisions of the 1986 Act and if the detaining authority is satisfi ed that such material exists either in the form of report of the Chemical Examiner or otherwise, copy of such material should also be given to the detenu to aff ord him an opportunity to make an eff ective representation. 66. It is relevant to note that the Explanation to Section 2(a) of the Act 1986 referred to above in para 11 incorporates a legal fi ction as to the adverse eff ect on public . In the case of Harpreet Kaur (supra), the connotation of the Explanation was elucidated as under:- “28. The explanation to Section 2(a) (supra) brings into eff ect a legal fi ction as to the adverse eff ect on ‘public ’. It provides that if any of the activities of a person referred to in clauses (i)- (iii) of Section 2(a) directly or indirectly causes or is calculated to 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. cause any harm, danger or alarm or a feeling of insecurity among the general public or any section thereof or a grave or a widespread danger to life or public health, then public shall be deemed to have been adversely aff ected. Thus, it is the fall-out of the activity of the “bootlegger” which determines whether ‘public ’ has been aff ected within the meaning of this deeming provision or not. This legislative intent has to be kept in view while dealing with detentions under the Act.” (Emphasis supplied) 67. It may be apposite to look into the decision of this Court in the case Rashidmiya @ Chhava Ahmedmiya Shaik (supra). It was a case under the provisions of the PASA. Section 2(b) of the PASA which defi nes a “bootlegger” is parimateria to Section 2(b) of the Act 1986 Act. Section 3(4) of the PASA reads as under:- “Section 3:..... (4) For the purpose of this section, a person shall be deemed to be “acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public ” when such person is engaged in or is making preparation for engaging in any activities whether as a bootlegger or common gambling house paper or and person or dangerous person or drug off ender or immoral traffi c off ender or property grabber, which aff ect adversely or are likely to aff ect adversely the maintenance of public .” 68.