In support of this allegation, the election petitioner B had annexed copies of a complaint and certain proceedings before the Magistrate at Garhwa. Likewise, the proceedings before the concerned Court in the cases relating to past convictions under the Payment of Wages Act and the Minimum Wages Act were mentioned. The appellant’s main contention is that the election petitioner’s assertions are false inasmuch as they rely upon a document, i.e., copies of certain C sheets in the pending criminal case relating to offences under the Forest Act before the Court in Garhwa and that so far as the past convictions under the Minimum Wages Act and the Payment of Wages Act are concerned, there was no requirement at all. 18. To clear the air, this court had summoned the file pertaining to D the pending criminal case before the Garhwa Court, the records of which show that the following were arrayed as accused: 1. Sri M.B. Patil, Director, M/s. Patil Construction, S/o Unknown, Sarget, Pune, Maharashtra E 2. Sri Ramayan Singh, S/o Late Ram Chhabila Singh, Shastri Nagar, P.S.-Garhwa, District-Garhwa. [A.G.M., Patil Construction, Kutchery Road, P.S.-Garhwa, District-Garhwa.] 3. Santosh Sinha, S/o Radha Prasad Sinha, Bijli Colony, P.S.- Garhwa, District-Garhwa. [Worker, Patil Constrcution]. F 4. Dharmpal, S/o Unknown, Patil Construction, Sarget, Pune, Maharashtra. 5. Sri Ranjan Das, S/o Chakradhar Das, 1917 Pokhanput, B.B.S.R. The complaint/intimation by the Forest Department with respect to seizure and the commission of the offences named - M/s. M.B. Patil G B.B. Patil Construction Company and four others (Ramayan Singh, Santosh Sinha, Dharampal and Ranjan Das) is dated 19.03.2013. The sheet dated 02.04.2013 named four persons [other than the present appellant] and stated that there was no need to issue warrants against the accused. According to the allegations, the constructions were carried H 1234 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A out by the company inside 1/3rd portion of the forest area and stones were broken and converted into stone chips. The Forest Department Report was to the effect that 5000 cub. Ft of small and big boulders were seized on 20.03.2013. The sheet for 28.06.2013 further discloses that Mr. Santosh Sinha, Ramayan Singh, Dharampal and only M.B. Patil were charged with committing the offence. This clearly shows B the appellant was not charged for the offences alleged in the complaint under the Indian Forest Act. 19. So far as the past convictions are concerned, the allegations are not per se denied by the appellant, but rather the application for rejection of the petition contended that no disclosure of this kind was C needed since they did not answer the description of the class of offences enumerated in Section 33A of the Act. 20. As far as criminal charges and offences go, the punishment for violating provisions of the Minimum Wages Act, 1948, is provided in Section 22, which prescribes a maximum prison term of 6 months or fine D upto 500/-. Section 22A prescribes punishment for other offences imposing fine upto 500/-. As regards the Payment of Wages Act, 1936, the penalty provision is Section 20, which prescribes a maximum fine of 7500/-.