It is also important to note that Parliament did not incorporate the expression “or is null and void” as was suggested by the Law Commission. This indicates that Parliament intended to confi ne the jurisdiction of the courts at the pre-arbitral stage to as minimum a level as possible. 145. The effect and impact of the 2015 Amendment Act was subsequently clarifi ed by this Court. In Duro Felguera, S A v. Gangavaram Port Ltd.,145 Justice Kurien Joseph noted that the intention of the legislature in incorporating Section 11(6A) was to limit the scope of the referral court’s jurisdiction to only one aspect – the existence of an arbitration agreement. To determine the existence of an arbitration agreement, the court only needs to examine whether the underlying contract contains a clause which provides for arbitration pertaining to the disputes which have arisen between the parties to the agreement. This Court further held that Section 11(6A) incorporates the principle of minimal judicial intervention: “59. The scope of the power under Section 11(6) of the 1996 Act was considerably wide in view of the decisions in SBP and Co. and Boghara Polyfab. This position continued till the amendment brought about in 2015. After the amendment, all that the courts need to see is whether an arbitration agreement exists—nothing more, nothing less. The legislative policy and purpose is essentially to minimise the Court’s intervention at the stage of appointing the arbitrator and this intention as incorporated in Section 11(6-A) ought to be respected.” 146. In 2017, the High-Level Committee to Review the Institutionalization of Arbitration Mechanism in India submitted a report noting that while the 2015 amendment facilitated the speedy disposal of Section 11 applications, they failed to limit judicial interference in arbitral proceedings. Accordingly, the High-Level Committee recommended the amendment of Section 11 to provide for appointment of arbitrators solely by arbitral institutions designated by the Supreme Court in case of international commercial arbitrations or the High Court in case of all other arbitrations. In view of the report of the High-Level committee, Parliament enacted the 145 (2017) 9 SCC 729 116 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act 2019146 omitting Section 11(6A) so as to leave the appointment of arbitrators to arbitral institutions. Section 1(2) of the 2019 Amendment Act provides that amended provisions shall come into force on such date as notifi ed by the Central Government in the offi cial gazette However, Section 3 of the 2019 Amendment Act which amended Section 11 by omitting Section 11(6A) is yet to be notifi ed. Till such time, Section 11(6A) will continue to operate. 147. In Mayavati Trading (P) Ltd. v. Pradyuat Deb Burman,147 a three-Judge Bench of this Court affi rmed the reasoning in Duro Felguera (supra) by observing that the examination under Section 11(6A) is “confi ned to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement and is to be understood in the narrow sense.” Moreover, it held that the position of law prior to the 2015 Amendment Act, as set forth by the decisions of this Court in Patel Engineering (supra) and Boghara Polyfab (supra), has been legislatively overruled.