26. Exclusion by necessary implication can be inferred from the language and the intent of a statute.18 In Jeewan Kumar Raut (supra), this Court looked at the words of the statute as well as the overall scheme of investigation under the CrPC to infer that Section 22 of the TOHO Act bars the applicability of Section 167(2) of the CrPC by necessary implication. In the present case, the 1960 Act casts a positive obligation on the auditor or the Registrar to fi le an FIR when they discover a fi nancial irregularity in a co- operative society. Section 81(5B) demands accountability and vigilance from the auditor and the Registrar in performance of their public duty. Moreover, a plain reading of the said provision does not lead to the conclusion that the legislature intends to debar any person other than the auditor or the Registrar from registering an FIR. Section 81(5B) cannot be interpreted to mean that any other person who comes to know about the fi nancial irregularity on the basis of the audit report is debarred from reporting the irregularity to the police. In the absence of any specifi c provision or necessary intendment, such an inference will be against the interests of the society. The interests of the society will be safeguarded if fi nancial irregularities in co-operative banks are reported to the police, who can subsequently take eff ective actions to investigate crimes and protect the commercial interests of the members of the society. In view of the above discussion, it is not possible for us to infer that Section 81(5B) of the 1960 Act bars by necessary implication any person other than an auditor or the Registrar from setting the criminal law into motion. 27. From the narration of submissions before this Court, it appears that on 31 May 2021, the Minister in-charge of the Co-operative department has set aside the audit report while directing a fresh audit report for 2016-2017 and 2017-2018. The of the Minister has been called into question in independent proceedings before the High Court. This Court has been apprised of the fact that the proceedings are being heard before a Single Judge of the High Court. The proceedings which have been instituted to challenge 18 Union of India v. Popular Construction, (2001) 8 SCC 470 DHANRAJ N ASAWANI v. AMARJEETSINGH MOHINDERSINGH 311 BASI AND OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the of the Minister will have no bearing on whether the investigation by the police on the FIR which has been fi led by the appellant should be allowed to proceed. The police have an independent power and even duty under the CrPC to investigate into an off ence once information has been drawn to their attention indicating the commission of an off ence. This power is not curtailed by the provisions of 1960 Act. There is no express bar and the provisions of Section 81(5B) do not by necessary implication exclude the investigative role of the police under the CrPC.