Although the appellant convict in his further statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC stated that he had refused to participate in the TIP as the eye witnesses had already seen him, yet except a bald assertion, no other foundation has been laid for off ering such an explanation. It is true that the explanation that the accused may off er when the Court confronts him with the incriminating materials in his further statement has to be tested on preponderance of probability and not on proof beyond reasonable doubt. However, even while testing the answer on preponderance of probability some foundation has to be laid for such explanation to be accepted. A mere bald assertion is not suffi cient. 76. The matter does not rest over here. There is something more against the appellant convict. It appears that the appellant was arrested on 20.08.2008. At the time of his arrest, he is said to have made a disclosure statement recorded in Ex. PW10/A. The statement was one relating to the weapon of off ence i.e. ice pick which was ultimately discovered from his house. The proceedings recorded in regard to the actual discovery of the ice pick is in the form of Ex. PW10/V. The statement is said to have been made by the appellant convict before the PW 10 SI Arvind Pratap Singh which led to the discovery of the fact i.e. the discovery of the ice pick. The PW 10 in his examination in chief has deposed as under:- “On 20-8-2008 in the evening I along with Inspt. Ram Chander and Ct. Baljit proceeded for investigation and when we reached at Out Gate, Azadpur Mandi then informer met us there and he told that the fourth accused wanted in this case is present behind the onion shed near Mall Godown, if raided he can be apprehended. On this information IO asked 4-5 public persons to join the investigation but none agreed and went away without telling their names and addresses. Thereafter, we along with secret informer reached behind the inion shed near Railway Track, Mall Godown and from there at the pointing out the MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 935 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] secret informer we apprehended accused Mukesh Singh, whose name came to know after inquiry and who is present in the court today. He was interrogated and arrested vide memo Ex. PW10/R and his personal search was conducted vide Ex. PW10/S both bearing my signatures at point A and he made disclosure statement Ex. PW10/T bearing my signatures at point A. The accused was kept in muffl ed face. Thereafter accused took us at the spot i.e. D block corner Azadpur Mandi, Opposite STD PCO Shop and pointed out the place of occurrence vide pointing out memo Ex. PW10/U bearing my signatures at point A. Thereafter accused took us at his house i.e. H.No. 101, Ravi Dass Colony, Sarai Peepal Thala & he took us in a room at the ground fl oor and taken out Rs.