28Section 30, Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. 29Chapter IV, Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. H 30Chapter VI-A, Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992. IFB AGRO INDUSTRIES LTD. v. SICGIL INDIA LTD. AND 549 OTHERS [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] regulation of stock brokers, share transfer agents, depositories, venture A capital funds, collective investment schemes etc. It also has the power to prohibit various transactions which interfere with the health of the securities market. 31. In the exercise of its adjudicatory powers under Section 15- B I, the SEBI has the power to appoint officers for holding an inquiry, give a reasonable opportunity to the person concerned and determine if there is any transgression of the rules prescribed. The Board has the power to impose penalties for violations and also restitute the parties. The adjudicatory power also includes the power to settle administrative and C civil proceedings under Section 15JB of the SEBI Act. 32.The regulatory jurisdiction of the Board also includes ex-ante powers to predict a possible violation and take preventive measures. The exercise of ex-ante jurisdiction necessitates the calling of information as provided in Sections 11(2)(i), 11(2)(ia) and 11(2)(ib) of the SEBI Act. D Where the Board has a reasonable ground to believe that a transaction in the securities market is going to take place in a manner detrimental to the interests of the stakeholders or that any intermediary has violated the provisions of the Act, it may investigate into the matter under Section 11(C) of the SEBI Act. In other words, being the real-time security E market regulator, the Board is entitled to keep a watch, predict and even act before a violation occurs. It is in this context, that the SEBI (SAST) Regulations and the SEBI (PIT) Regulations, with which we are concerned in this case, are to be understood. 33. The SEBI (PIT) Regulation prohibits dealing, communicating F etc., on matters relating to insider trading. Even if there is a suspicion about the transgression of the prohibition, the Board has the power to inquire (Regulation 4A) and come to a prime facie conclusion about the need to investigate (Regulation 5). Chapter III of the said Regulations provides for the entire procedure to be followed in the inquiry process. G This includes – procedural safeguards to be afforded to the insider (Regulation 6), submission of the report by the investigating authority (Regulation 8), communication of findings to the insider (Regulation 9), and the final s/directions to be passed by the Board (Regulation H 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 11). For an effective exercise of its ex-ante powers, the Board has provided the policy on disclosures in Chapter IV of the said Regulations. Under Regulation 13, any person holding more than 5% shares or voting rights in a company, shall disclose to the company within four working days, the number of shares or the extent of voting rights held by such B person. Regulation 13 places a continual obligation of disclosure.