17. It is undisputed that the process followed by respondent no. 1 was not fl awed in any manner, except to the extent of whether an endeavour should have been made by respondent no. 1 to locate the liabilities pertaining to the said award from the records of the Corporate Debtor. 18. If we analyse the aforesaid plea, it is quite obvious that respondent no. 1 did what could be done to procure the Corporate Debtor’s records by even moving an application under Section 19 of the IBC. That it was not fruitful is a consequence of the Corporate Debtor not making available the material. It is thus not even known whether there was a refl ection in the records on this aspect or not. 6 2023 SCC OnLine SC 842 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Paschimanchal’). 7 (supra). 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 19. The second question is whether the delay in the fi ling of claim by the appellant ought to have been condoned by respondent no. 1. The IBC is a time bound process. There are, of course, certain circumstances in which the time can be increased. The question is whether the present case would fall within those parameters. The delay on the part of the appellant is of 287 days. The appellant is a commercial entity. That they were litigating against the Corporate Debtor is an undoubted fact. We believe that the appellant ought to have been vigilant enough in the aforesaid circumstances to fi nd out whether the Corporate Debtor was undergoing CIRP. The appellant has been defi cient on this aspect. The result, of course, is that the appellant to an extent has been left high and dry. 20. Section 15 of the IBC and Regulation 6 of the IBBI Regulations mandate a public announcement of the CIRP through newspapers. This would constitute deemed knowledge on the appellant. In any case, their plea of not being aware of newspaper pronouncements is not one which should be available to a commercial party. 21. The mere fact that the Adjudicating Authority has yet not approved the plan does not imply that the plan can go back and forth, thereby making the CIRP an endless process. This would result in the reopening of the whole issue, particularly as there may be other similar persons who may jump onto the bandwagon. As described above, in Essar Steel8, the Court cautioned against allowing claims after the resolution plan has been accepted by the COC. 22. We have thus come to the conclusion that the NCLAT’s impugned cannot be faulted to reopen the chapter at the behest of the appellant. We fi nd it diffi cult to unleash the hydra-headed monster of undecided claims on the resolution applicant. 23. The result of the aforesaid is that the appeal is dismissed leaving the parties to bear their own costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Nidhi Jain 8 (supra)