His going to Lahore was therefore out of the question. A few days later Liaqat Ali Khan cast doubts on the genuineness of Nehru’s illness, but the truth is as I have stated. It was then decided that Lord Mountbatten should go alone.” 244. On 5 March 1948, Maharaja Hari Singh issued a Proclamation for the establishment of a “fully democratic constitution based on adult franchise with a hereditary Ruler from my dynasty as the Constitutional Head of an Executive responsible to the legislature”. Through the Proclamation, Maharaja Hari Singh replaced the Emergency Administration by a popular 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. interim Government pending the establishment of a fully democratic Constitution. The Council of Ministers, in terms of paragraph 1 of the Proclamation would consist of Sheikh Mohammad Abdullah as the Prime Minister and other Ministers who would be appointed on the advice of the Prime Minister. Para 4 noted that : “My Council of Ministers shall take appropriate steps, as soon as restoration of normal conditions has been completed, to convene a National Assembly based on adult suff rage, having due regard to the principle that the number of representatives from each voting area should, as far as practicable, be proportionate to the population of that area.” 245. The Constitution, the Proclamation noted, would provide adequate safeguards for minorities and contain appropriate provisions guaranteeing the freedom of conscience, speech and of assembly. The National Assembly, it was envisaged, would upon the completion of the work of framing the new Constitution, submit it through the Council of Ministers for the acceptance of Maharaja and anticipated the inauguration “in the near future, of a fully democratic Constitution”. 246. The events leading up to the accession of Jammu and Kashmir are summarised below: a. Two independent Dominions of India and Pakistan were established on 15 August 1947 by the Indian Independence Act 1947. In terms of the provisions of the Act, sovereignty of the British Monarch over Indian States would lapse and return to the Rulers of those States. The States then had a choice to either be independent of or accede to either the Dominion of Pakistan or India; b. The State of Jammu and Kashmir acceded to the Dominion of India by executing an IoA on 26 October 1947; c. Though the State of Jammu and Kashmir had acceded to the Dominion of India, it reserved the right to alter the terms of the arrangement in view of Clause 7 of the IoA read with Section 6(2) of the Government of India Act 1935 which was made applicable through the India (Provisional Constitution) 1947. In terms IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 155 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] of Clause 7 of the IoA, the State of Jammu and Kashmir reserved the right to alter the terms of arrangement of power between India and the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The Clause specifi cally reserves the right of the State to “enter into agreement with the Government of India under any future constitution”; d. It was not the IoA but the response of the Governor General to the off er by the State of Jammu and Kashmir which recorded that since the issue of accession was in dispute in Jammu and Kashmir, it shall be decided fi nally by the people; and e. On 5 March 1948, Maharaja Hari Singh issued a Proclamation for the establishment of a Constitution for the State of Jammu and Kashmir for the governance of the State.