In such a case, the Court proceeds on the footing that though a grave irregularity has occurred as regards compliance with Section 342, CrPC, the omission has not been shown to have caused prejudice to the accused. In the present D case, however, the High Court, though not the trial court has relied upon the presence of blood on the pants of the blood group of the deceased. We have not been shown what explanation the accused could have offered to this chemical finding particularly when we remember that his answer to the E question regarding the human blood on the blade of the knife was “I do not know”. Counsel for the appellants could not make out any intelligent explanation and the “blood” testimony takes the crime closer to the accused. However, we are not inclined to rely over much on this evidentiary circumstance, although we should emphasise how this inadvertance of the F trial court had led to a relevant fact being argued as unavailable to the prosecution. Great care is expected of Sessions Judges who try grave cases to collect every incriminating circumstance and put it to the accused even though at the end of a long trial the Judge may be a little fagged out.” G (emphasis added) 13. Then we come to the decision of this Court in the case of S. Harnam Singh v. State (Delhi Admn.)8. In paragraph 22, this Court held thus : H 8 (1976) 2 SCC 819 RAJ KUMAR @ SUMAN v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 765 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] “22. Section 342 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, casts A a duty on the court to put, at any enquiry or trial, questions to the accused for the purpose of enabling him to explain any circumstances appearing in the evidence against him. It follows as a necessary corollary therefrom that each material circumstance appearing in evidence against the accused is B required to be put to him specifically, distinctly and separately. Failure to do so amounts to a serious irregularity vitiating the trial if it is shown to have prejudiced the accused. If the irregularity does not, in fact, occasion a failure of justice, it is curable under Section 537, of the Code.” C (emphasis added) 14. Then we come to a decision in the case of Samsul Haque4 relied upon by the learned counsel for the appellant. In paragraphs 21 to 23, this Court held thus : “21. The most vital aspect, in our view, and what drives the nail D in the coffin in the case of the prosecution is the manner in which the court put the case to Accused 9, and the statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC. To say the least it is perfunctory. 22. It is trite to say that, in view of the s referred to by the learned Senior Counsel, aforesaid, the E incriminating material is to be put to the accused so that the accused gets a fair chance to defend himself.