Acting in a fraudulent manner, directly or indirectly, by an auditor is a very serious misconduct and therefore the necessary consequence of indulging into such fraudulent act shall follow. H 1012 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A At this stage, it is required to be noted and as observed hereinabove, Section 140(5) of the Act has been enacted with the specific object and purpose as referred to hereinabove and the same has been enacted after due deliberations and taking into consideration the recommendations of the Standing Committee as well as the respective stakeholders. Therefore, taking into consideration the object and purpose for which B section 140(5) of the Act is enacted, the same cannot be said to be arbitrary, excessive and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India and/or violative of fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) of the Constitution of India, as alleged. 15. Now far as quashing and setting aside section 212(14) direction C by the High Court by its impugned and is concerned, it appears that the High Court has set aside 212(14) direction mainly on two grounds, firstly, that the direction to prosecute was issued within 30 hours of report of the IFIN SFIO Report which demonstrates non- application of mind and secondly on the ground that IFIN SFIO Report D was an incomplete report as investigation had not been completed and therefore 212(14) direction was incompetent. 15.1 From the reasoning of the High Court, it appears that the High Court has set aside the direction under section 212(14) terming the same as non-application of mind since it was improbable that report of E about 750 pages and 32000 pages of annexures could have been considered in 30 hours. The High Court also observed that the relevant facts and documents to demonstrate application of mind have not been placed on record. With the above conclusion, the High Court has observed that even according to the investigating agency, SFIO Report was an interim report, even asked by the Central Government. F 15.2 Now so far as the observations made by the High Court that issuance of the direction to prosecute within 30 hours of the receipt of IFIN SFIO Report demonstrates non-application of mind as it was improbable that report of about 750 pages and 32000 pages of annexures could have been considered in 30 hours is concerned, the observations G made by the High Court cannot be accepted. Merely because the direction to prosecute was issued within 30 hours, by that itself, it cannot be presumed that there was a non-application of mind. A detailed note was prepared by the officer which was ultimately placed before the final authority who ultimately took a decision and issued a direction to prosecute. What was required to be considered was, whether there was H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 1013 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] any material to prosecute or not and whether the direction to prosecute A was properly given or not.