He has to establish the fact that he has not fathered the child born to his wife which is a negative plea by positive proof in accordance with Section 112 of the Evidence Act. 11.1. A Family Court, no doubt, has the power to direct a person D to undergo medical tests, including a DNA test and such an would not be in violation of the right to personal liberty under Article 21 of the Constitution, vide Sharda. However, the Court should exercise such power only when it is expedient in the interest of justice to do so, and when the fact situation in a given case warrants such an exercise. Thus, E an directing that a minor child be subjected to DNA test should not be passed mechanically in each and every case. 11.2. This Court has, while considering questions connected with Section 112 of the Evidence Act, consistently expressed the stand against DNA tests being ed on a mere asking. Further, the law does not F contemplate use of DNA tests as exploratory or investigatory experiments for determining paternity. The following decisions of this Court are highly instructive in determining the circumstances under which a DNA test may be ed by a Court in matters involving disputed questions of paternity: G i. In Goutam Kundu, this Court was required to consider whether a blood test of a minor child could be ed to be conducted as a means to determine disputed questions of paternity in what was essentially a matrimonial dispute concerning maintenance. In the said case, the appellant- husband therein disputed the paternity of the child and prayed H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 713 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] for blood group test of the child to prove that he was not A the father of the child. According to him, if that could be established, he would not be liable to pay maintenance. In that context, this Court held that due deference must be accorded to the presumption of legitimacy of a child born during the subsistence of a marriage, as expressed under B Section 112 of the Evidence Act. The consequence of the said presumption on the power of the Courts to direct blood test as a means to determine paternity in matrimonial disputes was discussed by this Court, and the following principles were culled out so as to guide the Courts in issuing such directions: C “26. From the above discussion it emerges: (1) that courts in India cannot blood test as a matter of course; (2) wherever applications are made for such prayers in D to have roving inquiry, the prayer for blood test cannot be entertained. (3) there must be a strong prima facie case in that the husband must establish non-access in to dispel the presumption arising under Section 112 of the E Evidence Act. (4) the court must carefully examine as to what would be the consequence of ing the blood test; whether it will have the effect of branding a child as a bastard and the mother as an unchaste woman.