This, in all probability, is because the inherent power under section 482 is the exclusive preserve of the high courts and not any other court exercising appellate power; hence, an “Appellate Court”, not being a high court, would be denuded of the power to stay a conviction under section 482 in case such a prayer were made during the pendency of an appeal before it (the appellate court). 26. It is considered most appropriate, at this stage, to refer to the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in K. Prabhakaran v. P. Jayarajan17. In a somewhat diff erent context, this Court did have the occasion to consider section 389, Cr. PC and made a pertinent observation as to what is permissible thereunder. The said observation reads: “42. *** A court of appeal is empowered under Section 389 to that pending an appeal by a convicted person the execution of the sentence or appealed against be suspended and also, if he is in confi nement, that he be released on bail or bond. What is suspended is 17 (2005) 1 SCC 754 AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1001 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] not the conviction or sentence; it is only the execution of the sentence or which is suspended. It is suspended and not obliterated. ***” (emphasis supplied) 27. Although the aforesaid observation in K. Prabhakaran (supra) correctly captures the essence of section 389, Cr. PC., it appears not to have been placed before the other Benches of this Court while it rendered decisions subsequent thereto (some of which have been noted hereinabove). Although a diff erence between an ‘ of conviction being stayed’ and ‘execution of the appealed against being suspended’ in the context of exercise of jurisdiction by the courts under the Cr. PC is discerned, such diff erence was not delineated possibly because the issue before the Court did not warrant it. In any event, K. Prabhakaran (supra) being a Constitution Bench decision, the same would bind all Benches of lesser strength and it is trite that any interpretation of section 389(1), Cr. PC not in line therewith has to yield to it. At the same time, Rama Narang (supra) without being doubted having held the fi eld so long and by which the power to stay conviction under section 389, Cr. PC stands judicially acknowledged, all later decisions including K. Prabhakaran (supra) must be read as complimentary to it. 28. At this juncture, it would also be of profi t to refer to the decision in Lalsai Khunte v. Nirmal Sinha18 where, while discussing the eff ect of stay of conviction as compared to suspension of the under appeal at some length, the Bench followed K. Prabhakaran (supra). In that case, the appellant had been convicted for off ences under sections 420 and 468 read with section 34 of the IPC and sentenced to two years imprisonment by the trial court’s dated 9th May, 2002. The appellate court by an dated 31st May, 2002 suspended the of the trial court dated 9th May, 2002 and granted bail to the appellant.