Certain Guidelines were prescribed to decide the persons who were left out due to genuine omission from being entered into F the Sikkim Subjects Register. It is averred that in terms of “clauses d, f, g and h’’ of the prescribed Guidelines, persons such as the petitioners were entitled to acquire Indian Citizenship in terms of Sikkim Citizenship (Amendment) , 1989, by virtue of their fathers’ Government employment in ‘Sikkim G Darbar’ prior to the commencement of the ‘exception’ clause introduced w.e.f., 1st April, 1974, by the Sikkim Government Establishment Rules, 1974. (g) Subsequently, vide Government of India s dated 7th August, 1990 and 08th April, 1991, a total of 73,431 persons were granted Indian Citizenship on the basis that it was found H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 325 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] that these persons were eligible to have been included in the A Sikkim Subjects Register. Most of these 73,431 persons included citizens of India and were persons who had permanently settled in Sikkim between 1946 and 1975. It is averred that applications in the prescribed format for inclusion in the Citizenship list in terms of the Sikkim Citizenship (Amendment) B , 1989, were submitted by the family members of petitioners in W.P. (C) No.1283 of 2021, which was duly acknowledged by the concerned District Collector. However, their names neither appeared in the approved list forwarded by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India nor in the rejected list. C 10. The legal and factual developments prior to the introduction of the I.T. Act, 1961, in Sikkim could be encapsulated as under as the controversy in these cases arises under the said Act: (a) In 1948, the Sikkim Income Tax Manual, 1948 (SITM) was promulgated by the Ruler of Sikkim (the Chogyal). Under the D SITM, all persons engaged in business were subjected to tax irrespective of their origin. Therefore, there was no difference made out between the original inhabitants of Sikkim, namely, the Bhutia-Lepchas and the persons of foreign origin settled in Sikkim like the Nepalis or persons of Indian origin who had settled down in Sikkim generations back. It is averred that under the SITM, E Income Tax was paid by all without any discrimination on the ground of place of birth, race or ethnicity. (b) In the year 1989, the I.T. Act, 1961 was extended to Sikkim by the Finance Act, 1989. Under the said Amendment, any law corresponding to the I.T. Act, 1961 which was in force in the F State of Sikkim stood repealed. Of course, since Parliament had no competence to levy a tax on agricultural income, the repeal of the SITM, 1948, would affect only the law insofar as it applied to taxes on income and would not affect its operation with respect to agricultural income. G (c) However, in spite of the fact that the I.T. Act, 1961, stood extended to Sikkim and the corresponding law stood repealed, pro tanto, all residents, including the petitioners, continued to pay income tax under the SITM, along with the other Indian citizens in Sikkim irrespective of whether their names had been registered in the Sikkim State Subjects Register or not.