In this context, we think it not inappropriate to refer to a decision of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh, in Nathia Bai and Ors. v. Gangaram and Ors.3, with which we agree, rendered relying on the decisions of this Court in Meenakshiammal (Dead) through Lrs. And others v. Chandrasekharan and Another4 and in P.P.K. Gopalan Nambiar v. P.P.K. Balakrishnan Nambiar5, that a party challenging the execution of a Will as suspicious must plead the suspicious circumstances and then only the propounder would legally be bound to remove these suspicious circumstances. In Nathia Bai’s case it was held thus:- “11. The Will is required to be proved just like any other document by adducing the additional evidence to prove the ingredients as envisaged under Section 63(c) of the Succession Act by examining the attesting witness according to Section 68 of the Evidence Act. It is also well settled that the propounder of the Will is required to prove the Will by removing all suspicious circumstances. Thus, if suspicious circumstances would have been pleaded by the defendants, then only the plaintiffs, who are the propounder of the Will, were legally bound to remove those suspicious circumstances. The contestant opposing the Will, according to me, was required to bring the material on record so that the Will can be said to be a suspicious document and in that event the onus would shift back on the propounder of the Will to satisfy the Court by adducing positive evidence that the Will is not suspicious....... (Underline Supplied) In the decision in Meenakshiammal’s case (supra), it was held in paragraphs 19 and 20 thus:- “19. In the case of Chinmoyee Saha v. Debendra Lal Saha6 it has been held that if the propounder takes a prominent part in the 3 (2010) 1 MPLJ 140 4 (2005) 1 SCC 280 5 AIR 1995 SC 1852 6 AIR 1958 Cal 349 155 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. execution of the will, which confers a substantial benefit on him, the propounder is required to remove the doubts by clear and satisfactory evidence. Once the propounder proves that the will was signed by the testator, that he was at the relevant time in a sound disposing state of mind, that he understood the nature and effect of the disposition and put his signature out of his own free will, and that he signed it in presence of the witnesses who attested it in his presence, the onus, which rests on the propounder, is discharged and when allegation of undue influence, fraud or coercion is made by the caveator, the onus is on the caveator to prove the same. 20. In the case of Ryali Kameswara Rao v. Bendapudi Suryaprakasarao7 this Court while discussing the provisions of Section 63 of the Succession Act, 1925, has held that the suspicion alleged must be one inherent in the transaction itself and not the doubt that may arise from conflict of testimony which becomes apparent on an investigation of the transaction.