This is clear from the directives enunciated by ONGC (supra), through the majority opinion, which has the concurrence of the third judge as well: “1. [..] 2. In cases where the arbitrator(s) are appointed by parties in the manner set out in the arbitration agreement, the fees payable to the arbitrators would be in accordance with the arbitration agreement. However, if the arbitral tribunal considers that the fee stipulated in the arbitration agreement is unacceptable, the fee proposed by the arbitral tribunal must be indicated with clarity in the course of the preliminary hearings in accordance with these directives. In the preliminary hearings, if all the parties and the arbitral tribunal agree to a revised fee, then that fee would be payable to the arbitrator(s). However, if any of the parties raises an objection to the fee proposed by the arbitrator(s) and no consensus can be arrived at between such a party and the tribunal or a member of the tribunal, then the tribunal or the member of the tribunal should decline the assignment. 3. Once the Terms of Reference have been fi nalised and issued, it would not be open for the arbitral tribunal to vary either the fee fi xed or the heads under which the fee may be charged. 4. The parties and the arbitral tribunal may make a carve out in the Terms of Reference during the preliminary hearings that the fee fi xed therein may be revised upon completion of a specifi c number of sittings. The quantum of revision and the stage at which such revision would take place must be clearly specifi ed. The parties and the arbitral tribunal may hold another meeting at the stage specifi ed for revision to ascertain the additional number of sittings that may be required for the fi nal adjudication of the dispute which number may then be incorporated in the Terms of Reference as an additional term.” 34. The ruling in ONGC (supra) is undoubtedly clear that fee increase can be resorted to only with the agreement of parties; in the 101 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. event of disagreement by one party, the tribunal has to continue with the previous arrangement, or decline to act as arbitrator. Yet, whether the breach of that rule, as in the present case, by insisting that the increase of fee should prevail does not in this court’s opinion, amount to a per se ineligibility, reaching to the level of voiding the tribunal’s appointment, and terminating its mandate. This can be illustrated with the facts in HRD (supra), where the challenge was on the ground of existence of factors mentioned in the fi fth schedule, i.e. rendering of opinion by a former Chief Justice, to one of the parties to the dispute, in relation to an unconnected case. The court rejected the plea of ineligibility. Similarly, the objection to the continuance of another arbitrator, a former judge, because he had rendered an award in a previous reference between the same party, and the assumption that he would have some kind of subject matter bias, was overruled.