She describes how many hijras enter into unions with men, who are referred to as their ‘pantis.’ These unions span over many months or many decades, depending on the couple in question. Many men in such unions have made their natal families aware about their relationship with their partner, and in some cases, the hijras would sometimes meet their partner’s natal family. They sometimes referred to their relationship as one of ‘marriage.’ Men also assaulted their partners and displayed other violent tendencies. Some hijras maintained contact with their biological family, most notably the mother. Although many hijras were in romantic, long-lasting partnerships with men or in touch with their natal family, they considered other hijras as constituting their family as opposed to their ‘pantis’ or their biological 81 Gayatri Reddy, With Respect to Sex: Negotiating Hijra Identity in South India (The University of Chicago Press 2005) 129 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. families.82 In many communities, hijras are customarily invited to auspicious events (such as the birth of a child) to bless the family in question. 84. Like the English language, some English words employed to describe queer identities may have originated in other countries. However, gender queerness, transgenderism, homosexuality, and queer sexual orientations are natural, age-old phenomena which have historically been present in India. They have not been ‘imported’ from the ‘west.’ Moreover, if queerness is natural (which it is), it is by defi nition impossible for it to be borrowed from another culture or be an imitation of another culture. b. Queerness is not urban or elite 85. The respondents, including the Union of India, have contended that homosexuality and queer gender identities or transgenderism are predominantly present in urban areas and amongst the elite sections of society. They assert that variations in gender and sexual identity are largely unknown to rural India and amongst the working classes. Nothing could be further from the truth. While they may not use the words “homosexuality,” “queer,” “lesbian,” “gay” or any other term which populates the lexicon of English-speaking persons, they enter into unions with persons of the same sex as them or with gender queer persons; these unions are often long-lasting, and the couple performs a marriage ceremony. The incidence of queerness amongst the rural and working-class communities has been documented in academic scholarship as well as newspaper reports. In the absence of evidence aliunde, the details narrated in newspaper reports are not facts which are proved in terms of the Indian Evidence Act 1872.83 However, in cases (such as the present one) which require this Court to examine social phenomena and their incidence, newspaper reports serve as a useful tool in the exercise of illuminating social realities. 86. This Court need look no further than the petitioners in this case to illustrate the point that queerness is neither urban nor elite: a. One of the petitioners grew up in Durgapur, West Bengal and Delhi and states that she came to terms with her sexuality when 82 ibid 83 Laxmi Raj Shetty v. State of T.N., (1988) 3 SCC 319 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.