Since under the pre-amended section 25, such a transfer could be made by the transferor State only if the transferee State were to consent to it, it was rightly observed in the SOR that it was not the function of the States to decide on such transfer. G Though advisedly, we presume, that there is absence of any reference in the SOR about the uncertainty centering around cooperation or the lack of it between the relevant States prior to a transfer of the nature referred to in section 25 being effected, it does not take too long to comprehend that Parliament did proceed in the right direction and sought H 1002 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A to address the mischief that could ensue if the two States were not on the same page resulting in depriving a litigant of having his cause vindicated. Be that as it may. CONSIDERATION OF THE DECISIONS 29. Having surveyed the provisions of the Constitution relating to B the High Courts in general and how the Gauhati High Court has taken shape as the common High Court for, inter alia, the States of Assam and Nagaland, it is time to look into the decision in Durgesh Sharma (supra), cited by Mr. Balgopal and by Mr. Goswami as well as the other decisions cited by him for the appellants. C 30. In Durgesh Sharma (supra), this Court was seized of the question as to whether the High Court of Madhya Pradesh was justified, on an application under section 23 of the Code, in ing transfer of a petition under section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, instituted by the appellant-husband in a court in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh, to a court in Malegaon, District Nashik, Maharashtra to be tried along with a petition D under section 9 of the said Act instituted by the respondent-wife. Considering the provisions of law, this Court held as follows: “46. Having considered the scheme of the Code as amended from time to time, in our , the law relating to transfer of cases (suits, appeals and other proceedings) is well settled. It is found in E Sections 22 to 25 of the Code and those provisions are exhaustive in nature. Whereas Sections 22, 24 and 25 deal with power of transfer, Section 23 merely provides forum and specifies the court in which an application for transfer may be made. Section 23 is not a substantive provision vesting power in a particular court to F transfer. 47. In our considered opinion, where several courts having jurisdiction are subordinate to one appellate court, an application for transfer may be made to such appellate court and the court may transfer a case from one court subordinate to it to another G court subordinate to it. Likewise, where such courts are subordinate to the same High Court, an application may be made and action may be taken by the High Court transferring a case from one court subordinate to it to any other court subordinate to that High Court.