Signifi cantly, the statute has used the expression “examine the application”, “ascertain” and “satisfi es the requirements” and “recommend” the acceptance or rejection of the application. The use of these expressions leaves no manner of doubt that the resolution professional is not intended to perform an adjudicatory function or to arrive at binding conclusions on facts. The role of the resolution professional is purely recommendatory in nature and cannot bind the creditor, the debtor or, the adjudicating authority. 55. This distinction between the role of the resolution professional in a CIRP under Part II, and an IRP under Part III is of crucial importance. The reason why the legislature has chosen it fi t to interpose the function of the resolution professional even before the adjudicating authority under Section 100 comes, is that the application under Section 94 or Section 95, is sought to be moved principally against an individual or a partnership. In terms of Section 78, Part III applies to individuals or partnership fi rms where the amount of default is not less than one thousand rupees or any amount which DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 599 the Central Government may specify, not exceeding one lakh rupees. The adjudicating authority would be inundated if all amounts of alleged defaults as low as one thousand rupees were to be judicially determined. Bearing in mind the nature and context of the insolvency resolution, the legislature has stepped in by providing an intermediate stage where the resolution professional will collate and compile the relevant materials and submit it in the form of a report to the adjudicating authority recommending either the acceptance or the rejection of the application for initiating insolvency. 56. The next aspect of the analysis would require us to dwell on the impact of the moratorium which is imposed under Section 96. 3. The impact of a moratorium under Section 14 of Part II vis- a-vis interim-moratorium under Section 96 of Chapter III of Part III 57. Section 96, as its marginal note indicates, deals with an “interim- moratorium”. In terms of Section 96, the interim moratorium takes eff ect on the date of the application. In other words, the very submission of an application under Section 94 or Section 95 triggers the interim moratorium which then ceases to have eff ect on the date of the admission of the application (under Section 100). The consequences which fl ow from an interim moratorium are specifi ed in clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 96. The impact of the interim-moratorium under Section 96 is that a legal action or proceeding pending in respect of any debt is deemed to have been stayed and the creditors or the debtors shall not initiate any legal action or proceedings in respect of any debt. The crucial words which are used both in clause (b)(i) and clause (b)(ii) of sub-section (1) of Section 96 are “in respect of any debt”. These words indicate that the interim-moratorium which is intended to operate by the legislature is primarily in respect of a debt as opposed to a debtor.