Hence, we find no merit in the first submission.” 14. The provision of Section 120 of the Act relied on by learned counsel for the appellant is also inapplicable to the facts of the instant case. Section 120 deals with the power of Summary Court Martial. Sub- sections (1), (2) and (4) of Section 120 reads as follows : D “120. Powers of summary courts- martial. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub- section (2), a summary court- martial may try any offence punishable under this Act. (2) When there is no grave reason for immediate action and reference can without detriment to discipline be made to the E officer empowered to convene a district court- martial or on active service a summary general court- martial for the trial of the alleged offender, an officer holding a summary court- martial shall not try without such reference any offence punishable under any of the sections 34, 37 and 69, or any F offence against the officer holding the court .” xxxx xxxx xxxx (4) A summary court- martial may pass any sentence which may be passed under this Act, except a sentence of death or transportation, or of imprisonment for a term exceeding the G limit specified in sub- section (5).” 15. It is explicit from the aforesaid provision that the said section deals with the offences punishable under Section 34 i.e., offences in relation to the enemy and punishable with death, Section 37, i.e., Army H 1208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A mutiny and Section 69 i.e., Civil Offences. Sub-section (2) of Section 120 places an embargo on an officer holding a SCM to try any of the offences mentioned in Sections 34, 37 and 69 without any reference to a District Court Martial or a Summary General Court Martial for trial of the alleged offender. Read in the aforesaid context, sub-section (4) of Section 120 clearly states that a SCM can pass any sentence as B contemplated under the Act except for a sentence of death or transportation or of imprisonment for a term that may exceed a period of one year for an officer of the rank of Lieutenant Colonel and above and a period of three months for an officer below that rank, as specified in sub-section (5). Quite clearly, the aforesaid provision is not applicable C here and cannot come to the aid of the appellant for insisting that a District Court Martial or Summary General Court Martial ought to have been convened in his case, when SCM can try any offence punishable under the Act. 16. Regulation 448 of the DSR cited by learned counsel D contemplated the scale of punishments awardable by the SCM. The said Regulation states in so many words that these are general instructions issued for the guidance of officers holding SCM for passing a sentence and that nothing contained in the said Regulation would be construed as limiting the discretion of the Court to pass any legal sentence, even if there is good reason for doing so.