In his cross-examination, he also stated that the person who stabbed him was dark in complexion MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 933 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] and had a cut mark on his face. It would be therefore seen that right from the fi rst statement, the stand of PW-1 had been that he can identify the assailants and in fact he had identifi ed them when they were also present at the time of his deposition in court. The refusal of these assailants to participate in the test identifi cation parade proceedings thus goes against them. The trial court is correct in taking a view that the onus shifted on the accused persons to prove on record that their photographs were shown to PW-1 prior to the holding of the said test identifi cation parade. PW-1 is quite candid in stating in his court deposition that he had seen these assailants on 15th September 2008 when they were produced in a court at Rohini Courts Complex. In this background, it is diffi cult to accept the argument of counsel for the appellant that the prosecution had failed to establish the identity of these assailants who committed the said crime.” [Emphasis supplied] 74. In para 42, the High Court elaborated further the issue of identifi cation. Para 42 reads thus:- “42. Learned counsel for the appellant – Mukesh was quite emphatic in his contention that PW-1 in his cross examination admitted the fact that he had clearly seen the face of one assailant, who stabbed him and this deposition of PW-1 clearly meant that he was stabbed by the assailant to whom he described as person with dark complexion having a cut mark on his face and therefore, Mukesh had no role in the commission of the said crime. The court has to take an overall view of the entire testimony of a witness, which includes his examination in chief as well as his cross examination. PW-1 while giving his evidence in examination in chief, had clearly identifi ed all the four accused persons being the assailants who were involved in the said incident and in cross examination he merely said that he had clearly seen the face of only one assailant who stabbed him. The said statement of PW-1 in his cross examination can lead to only one inference that so far as the face of one assailant was concerned, he could see him with more clarity, but that would not mean that he did not see the faces of the other assailants or he was not in a position to identify the other assailants, may be with the help of their other descriptions including 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. their height, gait and manner of walking, etc. We also cannot subscribe to the said contention raised by counsel for these appellants as we fi nd no reason for PW-1 to implicate these persons to save the actual culprits of the said crime. We thus fi nd no force in the above contention raised by counsel for the appellant.” [Emphasis supplied] 75.