Therefore, compassionate appointment in respect D of municipalities would be governed by the scheme under Circular Nos. 301-Emp., 302-Emp. and 303-Emp. In light of the aforesaid observations, the Division Bench of the High Court set aside the passed by the Single Judge and directed the Director of Local Bodies, Burdwan E Division, Government of West Bengal to reconsider the Memo dated12th June, 2013 whereby the Chairman, Burdwan Municipality, had sought for the approval of recommended names for being appointed under compassionate grounds. Further, the Director of Local Bodies was directed to examine whether proper inspection F of the documents had been carried out while recommending such names and whether the parameters mentioned under the scheme contained in Circular Nos. 301-Emp., 302-Emp. and 303-Emp. had been properly adhered to by the officials of Burdwan Municipality while making the recommendation. G Aggrieved by the said directions of the High Court and the findings as to the eligibility of the Respondents-Writ Petitioners to seek appointment on compassionate grounds, the present appeals have been filed by the State of West Bengal. H 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 3. We have heard Sri Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Counsel and learned counsel, Ms. Madhumita Bhattacharjee appearing on behalf of the Appellant-State of West Bengal and learned counsel Sri Indradeep Pal for the Respondent-Writ Petitioners, and perused the material on record. B Submissions: 4. Learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant-State of West Bengal at the outset submitted that the findings of the Division Bench of the High Court of Calcutta were based on an incorrect appreciation of law and facts and therefore the same are liable to be set aside. C 4.1. It was further submitted that directing at such a belated stage, that the Respondents-Writ Petitioners ought to be appointed on compassionate grounds would have no redeeming purpose. That the rationale behind a policy of compassionate appointment is to provide immediate succor to the dependent(s) of a government employee dying in harness. This object would require that immediate steps be taken to D enable the dependent(s) to recover from the sudden financial crisis as a result of death or disablement of a breadwinner of a family. If the said purpose is not going to be accomplished, the Court may not direct the same granting compassionate appointment. That in the instant cases, the applications made by the Respondents-Writ Petitioners for E compassionate appointment relates to the year 2005-2006. That a direction to act on the same now, i.e., 17-18 years after the applications seeking compassionate appointment were made, would not further the object of a scheme of compassionate appointment. 4.2. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in State of F Himachal Pradesh vs. Shashi Kumar, (2019) 3 SCC 653 (“Shashi Kumar”) to contend that where there is a significant gap between making the application for compassionate appointment and filing a Writ Petition to challenge inaction on the part of the Government, a direction to consider the application for compassionate appointment may not be issued.