In addition, E many other Central enactments incorporated in Table- 1 of the Fifth Schedule to the J&K Reorganisation Act became applicable to the Union territory of J & K; (f) The Representation of the People Act, 1951 (for short ‘the RP Act of 1951’) was not applicable to the elections F to fill in the seats in either House of Parliament in the State of Jammu and Kashmir and the House of Legislature of the said State. An amendment was carried out to the RP Act of 1951 by the J&K Reorganisation Act by which the provisions of the RP Act of 1951 were made applicable to both the newly created Union G Territories. Prior to that, The Jammu and Kashmir Representation of the People Act, 1957 (for short “J&K R.P Act”) was applicable to the State. We may note here that as the Representation of the People Act, 1950 (for short ‘the RP Act of 1950’), was applicable to the H 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A State of Jammu and Kashmir, the same continues to apply to the two newly created Union Territories; (g) By virtue of Section 13 of the J&K Reorganisation Act, the provisions contained in Article 239A which were earlier applicable only to the Union Territory of B Puducherry were made applicable to the Union Territory of J and K. Article 239A, inter alia, provides that Parliament may by law create a body to function as a legislature of the Union Territory of Puducherry. The issue of the validity of provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act. C 13. We may note here that during the course of the hearing of submissions of the learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners, he attempted to assail the validity of certain provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act. Therefore, we pointed out to him that there is no challenge incorporated in the present writ petition to the constitutional D validity of any of the provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act. The initial response of the senior counsel was that he does not wish to challenge the provisions. However, subsequently, he submitted that the challenge to the relevant provisions of the J&K Reorganisation Act is implicit in this writ petition. E 14. There cannot be any doubt that when a party wants to challenge the constitutional validity of a statute, he must plead in detail the grounds on which the validity of the statute is sought to be challenged. In absence of the specific pleadings to that effect, Court cannot go into the issue of the validity of statutory provisions. The Constitutional Courts F cannot interfere with the law made by the Legislature unless it is specifically challenged by incorporating specific grounds of challenge in the pleadings. The reason is that there is always a presumption of the constitutionality of laws. The burden is always on the person alleging unconstitutionality to prove it. For that purpose, the challenge has to be specifically pleaded by setting out the specific grounds on which the G challenge is made.