Similarly, this Court in Raghunath Thakur v. State of Bihar, (1989) 1 SCC 229 struck down an of blacklisting for future contracts on the ground of non-observance of the principles C of natural justice. The relevant extract of the in that case is as follows: (SCC p. 230, para 4) “4. … [I]t is an implied principle of the rule of law that any having civil consequences should be passed only after following the principles of natural justice. It has to be realised D that blacklisting any person in respect of business ventures has civil consequence for the future business of the person concerned in any event. Even if the rules do not express so, it is an elementary principle of natural justice that parties affected by any should have right of being heard and making E representations against the .” 18. This Court in Gorkha Security Services v. State (NCT of Delhi), (2014) 9 SCC 105 has described blacklisting as being equivalent to the civil death of a person because blacklisting is stigmatic in nature and debars a person from participating in government tenders thereby precluding him from the award of F government contracts. It has been held thus: (SCC p. 115, para 16) “16. It is a common case of the parties that the blacklisting has to be preceded by a show-cause notice. Law in this regard is firmly grounded and does not even demand much G amplification. The necessity of compliance with the principles of natural justice by giving the opportunity to the person against whom action of blacklisting is sought to be taken has a valid and solid rationale behind it. With blacklisting, many civil and/ or evil consequences follow. It is described as “civil death” of H ISOLATORS AND ISOLATORS THR. ITS PROP. MRS. SANDHYA MISHRA 469 v. MPMKVVCL [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] a person who is foisted with the of blacklisting. Such an A is stigmatic in nature and debars such a person from participating in government tenders which means precluding him from the award of government contracts.” 19. In light of the above decisions, it is clear that a prior show- cause notice granting a reasonable opportunity of being heard is B an essential element of all administrative decision-making and particularly so in decisions pertaining to blacklisting which entail grave consequences for the entity being blacklisted. In these cases, furnishing of a valid show-cause notice is critical and a failure to do so would be fatal to any of blacklisting pursuant thereto.” C 22. As regards maintainability of these appeals, learned counsel for the appellant has rightly referred to the decision in A.P. State Financial Corporation (supra) wherein, while dealing with an akin question about maintainability of fresh appeal, after withdrawal of the earlier one and after another round of approach to the High Court,this D Court, inter alia, observed as under: - “6. Learned counsel for the contesting respondents have strenuously contended that the special leave petitions against the of the Division Bench of the High Court in writ appeals, having been rejected by this Court, the High Court has E achieved finality and, as such, these appeals are liable to be dismissed on that short ground.