So what are we doing? The executive Govt. can H 30 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A register the case because no one else can register a case. The executive Govt., through its agency, can investigate the case. But, before sanction is granted under 45(1) we are interposing an independent authority which will review the entire evidence, gathered in the investigation, and then make a recommendation whether this is a fit case of prosecution. B So, here, we are bringing a filter, a buffer, an independent authority who has to review the entire evidence that is gathered and, then, make a recommendation to the State Govt. or the Central Govt. as the case may be, a fit case for sanction. I think, this is a very salutary safeguard. All sections of the C House should welcome it. This is a biggest buffer against arbitrariness which many Members spoke about. Sir, these are the features in the Bill.” (Emphasis supplied) 39. We shall now proceed to look into the provisions of the NIA D Act. Section 16 of the NIA Act relates to the procedure and powers of Special Courts. Sub section (1) of Section 16 is relevant for our purpose. The same reads thus: “16. Procedure and powers of Special Courts.— (1) A Special Court may take cognizance of any offence, E without the accused being committed to it for trial, upon receiving a complaint of facts that constitute such offence or upon a police report of such facts.” 40. Section 18 of the NIA Act relates to sanction for prosecution. Section 18 reads thus: F “18. Sanction for prosecution.— No prosecution, suit or other legal proceedings shall be instituted in any court of law, except with the previous sanction of the Central Government, against any member of the Agency G or any person acting on his behalf in respect of anything done or purported to be done in exercise of the powers conferred by this Act.” 41. Section 22 of the NIA Act is with respect to the power of the State Government to designate the Court of Sessions as Special Courts. H Section 22 of the NIA Act reads thus: JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 31 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “22. Power of State Government to designate Court of Session A as Special Courts.— (1) The State Government may designate one or more Courts of Session as Special Courts for the trial of offences under any or all the enactments specified in the Schedule. (2) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply to the Special B Courts designated by the State Government under sub-section (1) and shall have effect subject to the following modifications, namely—(i) references to “Central Government” in sections 11 and 15 shall be construed as references to State Government; C (ii) reference to “Agency” in sub-section (1) of section 13 shall be construed as a reference to the “investigation agency of the State Government”; (iii) reference to “Attorney-General for India” in sub-section (3) of section 13 shall be construed as reference to “Advocate- D General of the State”.