All the above activities took place on a single day, except the dismissal of the application for bail. The Habeas Corpus petition fi led by the appellant’s wife was taken up for hearing on 15.06.2023 on an urgent mentioning, whereby the appellant was directed to be shifted to a private hospital of his choice to undergo a bypass surgery. A surgery was accordingly done. 11. On the application fi led by the respondents, the learned Principal Sessions Judge granted custody to them for a period of 8 days, while dismissing the bail application as noted earlier. “24. In the result, the petition is allowed and Shri Karthik Dasari, Deputy Director, Directorate of Enforcement, Chennai is permitted to have the custody of the accused Sh. V. Senthil Balaji for 8 days from 16.06.2023 with the following conditions: (1) The Deputy Director of Enforcement Directorate shall not remove the accused from the Kaveri Hospital, who has been admitted for treatment. (2) The Deputy Director of Enforcement Directorate shall interrogate the accused at the hospital by taking into consideration of his ailments and the treatment given to him in the hospital after 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. obtaining necessary opinion from the team of Doctors, who are giving treatment to him about his fi tness for interrogation. (3) The Deputy Director of Enforcement Directorate interrogate the accused without any hindrance to the health conditions of the accused and also the treatment provided to him. (4) The Deputy Director of Enforcement Directorate is directed to provide suffi cient food and shelter to the accused and they should not use third degree method and should not cause any cruelty to the accused. (5) No threat of coercion will be made on the Respondent/accused. (6) The family members of the accused are to be permitted to see the accused during the custody, subject to the medical advice. (7) The Deputy Director of Enforcement Directorate is directed to provide necessary security for the accused while he is in his custody. (8) The Deputy Director of Enforcement Directorate is directed to produce the accused on 23.06.2023 by 3.00 p.m. through video conference and the petition is ed accordingly.” 12. After fi ling an application on 17.06.2023, seeking a direction that the fi rst 15 days custody period should not come in the way of actual period of custody, before the learned Principal Sessions Judge, the respondents approached this Court in Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No. 7437 of 2023. Incidentally, another Special Leave Petition (Criminal) No. 7460 of 2023 was fi led assailing the conditions imposed in the dated 16.06.2023 by which 8 days custody was granted as afore-stated in favour of the respondents. 13. Taking note of the pendency of the Habeas Corpus petition, while keeping the Special Leave Petitions pending, the following was passed on 21.06.2023, “1. We have heard Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General of India on behalf of the petitioner and S/Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Devadatt Kamat and Vikram Chaudhry, learned Senior Counsel, who are on caveat, on behalf of the Respondents.