[State of Haryana v. Mukesh Kumar34 (two-Judge Bench)] 22. In the instant facts, for the respondents to be granted the enjoyment of the disputed property, clear, continuous and hostile possession would have to be established by way of cogent evidence and the animus possidendi must be demonstrated. We now proceed to examine whether these requirements are met with in the present case. 23. Here, we are concerned with the respondents staking claim on property which undisputedly belongs to the state. Keeping in view the principles hitherto reproduced, we may once again, with benefi t, refer to Harphool Singh (supra), this Court observed : 32 (2007) 6 SCC 59 33 (2014) 16 SCC 731 34 (2011) 10 SCC 404 GOVERNMENT OF KERALA & ANR. v. 283 JOSEPH AND OTHERS [SANJAY KAROL, J.] “12. So far as the question of perfection of title by adverse possession and that too in respect of public property is concerned, the question requires to be considered more seriously and eff ectively for the reason that it ultimately involves destruction of right/title of the State to immovable property and conferringupon a third-party encroacher title where he had none. The decision in P. Lakshmi Reddy v. L. Lakshmi Reddy [AIR 1957 SC 314 : 1957 SCR 195] adverted to the ordinary classical requirement — that it should be nec vi, nec clam, necprecario — that is the possession required must be adequate in continuity, in publicity and in extent to show that it is possession adverse to the competitor. It was also observed therein that whatever may be the animus or intention of a person wanting to acquire title by adverse possession, his adverse possession cannot commence until he obtains actual possession with the required animus. In the decision reported in Secy. of State for India in Council v. Debendra Lal Khan [(1933) 61 IA 78 : 1934 All LJ 153 (PC)] strongly relied on for the respondents, the Court laid down further that it is suffi cient that the possession be overt and without any attempt at concealment so that the person against whom time is running, ought if he exercises due vigilance, to be aware of what is happening and if the rights of the Crown have been openly usurped it cannot be heard to plead that the fact was not brought to its notice. In Annasaheb Bapusaheb Patil v. Balwant [(1995) 2 SCC 543 : AIR 1995 SC 895] it was observed that a claim of adverse possession being a hostile assertion involving expressly or impliedly in denial of title of the true owner, the burden is always on the person who asserts such a claim to prove by clear and unequivocal evidence that his possession was hostile to the real owner and in deciding such claim, the courts must have regard to the animus of the person doing those acts.” (Emphasis supplied) 24. The claimants via a claim of adverse possession seek to be declared the owners, by lapse of time of land belonging to the government.