(7) The sanction accorded by the Board under sub- section (4) shall be conclusive evidence that all the requirements of this scheme relating to the reconstruction or amalgamation, or any C other measure specified therein have been complied with and a copy of the sanctioned scheme certified in writing by an officer of the Board to be a true copy thereof, shall, in all legal proceedings (whether in appeal or otherwise) be admitted as evidence. (8) On and from the date of the coming into operation of D the sanctioned scheme or any provision thereof, the scheme or such provision shall be binding on the sick industrial company and the transferee company or, as the case may be, the other company and also on the shareholders, creditors and guarantors and employees of the said companies. E (9)If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of the sanctioned scheme, the Board may, on the recommendation of the operating agency 38[or otherwise], by do anything, not inconsistent with such provisions, which appears to it to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulty. (10) The Board may, if it deems necessary or expedient so F to do, by in writing, direct any operating agency specified in the to implement a sanctioned scheme with such terms and conditions and in relation to such sick industrial company as may be specified in the . (11) Where the whole of the undertaking of the sick G industrial company is sold under a sanctioned scheme, the Board may distribute the sale proceeds to the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the provisions of Section 529-A and other provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956). H 1064 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (12) The Board may monitor periodically the implementation of the sanctioned scheme.” 11.14 Under Section 18 of the SICA, 1985, it is the operating agency to prepare a scheme with respect to the sick company providing for any one or more of the measures mentioned in Section 18, which B include:- (i) the financial reconstruction of the sick industrial company; (ii) such other preventive, ameliorative and remedial measures as may be appropriate. 11.14.1 The operating agency is defined under Section 3(i) and it C means any public financial institution, State-level institution, scheduled bank or any other person as may be specified by general or special as its agency by the Board. No other persons including the unsecured creditors comes into picture like preparing the scheme under Section 18. Section 18 of the SICA does not provide that at the time of D preparing of the scheme under Section 18 or when it is sanctioned by the Board, the unsecured creditors are required to be heard. The only provision for the consent required is Section 19 and the agency/person, who is required to give the financial assistance, its consent is required. Once the rehabilitation scheme / scheme under Section 18 prepared by the operating agency is sanctioned by the BIFR, which may include the E scaling down the value of dues of the unsecured creditors, the same shall bind all, otherwise the rehabilitation scheme shall not be workable at all and the object and purpose of enactment of the SICA, 1985 will be frustrated.