A matter of denial of the revised pay scale to the employees who were otherwise treated at par with those with the Government employees at the time of revision of pay scale (as in the Haryana case, supra); or taking away vested rights accrued to the employees (as in the Punjab case, supra), cannot be imported to the present case where the H STATE OF ORISSA v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES 1075 BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] Government has not found itself agreeable to the proposed alteration of A the service conditions of the Board’s employees with retrospective effect, i.e., with effect from 01.04.1976. It has not been a case of denial of any vested or accrued right of the employees of the Board. 16. In the given set of facts and circumstances, the decision of this Court in the case of Air India (supra), reaffirming the principles B against hostile discrimination is also of no assistance to the respondents because what Article 14 forbids is hostile discrimination but not reasonable classification. In the referred passage in the case of Air India (supra), this Court re-emphasised the principles against hostile discrimination but, at the same time, underscored the principles of C reasonable classification while observing as under: “39…. “(1)….. (2) Article 14 forbids hostile discrimination but not reasonable classification. Thus, where persons belonging to a particular D class in view of their special attributes, qualities, mode of recruitment and the like, are differently treated in public interest to advance and boost members belonging to backward classes, such a classification would not amount to discrimination having a close nexus with the objects sought to be achieved so that in E such cases Article 14 will be completely out of the way. (3) Article 14 certainly applies where equals are treated differently without any reasonable basis. (4) Where equals and unequals are treated differently, Article 14 would have no application. F (5) Even if there be one class of service having several categories with different attributes and incidents, such a category becomes a separate class by itself and no difference or discrimination between such category and the general members of the other class would amount to any discrimination G or to denial of equality of opportunity. (6) In to judge whether a separate category has been carved out of a class of service, the following circumstances have generally to be examined: H 1076 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (a) the nature, the mode and the manner of recruitment of a particular category from the very start, (b) the classifications of the particular category, (c) the terms and conditions of service of the members of the category, B (d) the nature and character of the posts and promotional avenues, (e) the special attributes that the particular category possess which are not to be found in other classes, and the like.”” C 16.1. The observations in the impugned and dated 20.12.2012 as also the contentions urged on behalf of the respondents, seeking to put the employees of the Board at par with the employees of the State Government for all purposes, carry their own shortcomings.