In this context it is worthy to note that even after the recording of the statements of PW-8 and PW-10, as revealed from their depositions, there was no evidence as to how the appellants came to know that Devinder was in the fodder room (if at all they were there) and what was the motive etc. Taking into account all the afore-mentioned aspects revealed from the records, but were not at all considered by the trial Court and the High Court, we are of the considered view that evidence of PW-7 on extra judicial confession could not inspire confi dence. 41. Now, we will consider the other link in the chain of circumstances relied on to convict the appellants. It is recovery of the weapon viz., the chunni used for strangulation. The fi ndings of the Courts are to the eff ect that it was not recovered from a public place. In this context, it is to be noted that the sole independent witness for the recovery is Sri. Gobind, who is the brother of the deceased was not examined by the prosecution. That apart, PW-6 who was the then Inspector, SHO, PS Meham and then posted as S.I. C.I.A staff , Sonipat deposed that he joined the investigation along with PW-14 Ram Kala. He deposed during his cross-examination regarding the recovery of ‘chunni’ and purse thus:- “It is correct that these types of chunni and purse are usually available in the market. There is a common passage near the place of recovery of chunni and purse, a number of persons uses that passage and is accessible to all.” PW-14 also deposed in regard to the said recovery that it is correct that the place of recovery is an open place and is accessible to all. In the aforesaid circumstances non-examination of the independent witness along with the deposition of PW-6 and PW-14 as above, would make the recovery of chunni and purse inconsequential. 42. Having carefully considered the rival contentions and perusing the evidence on record, which made us to make the observations, conclusions and fi ndings as above, we have no hesitation to hold that the trial Court as also the High Court have appreciated the evidence in an utterly perverse manner viz., against the weight of evidence. In view of our fi ndings on each KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF 885 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] of the links in the chain of circumstances no conviction can be entered against the appellants under Sections 201, 300 and 302, IPC read with Section 34, IPC. They are individually or even collectively not suffi cient to connect the appellants with the crime. Consequently, the impugned of High Court in C.R.A. No. D-671-DB of 2002 and C.R.A. No. D-685-DB of 2002 that confi rmed the of the trial Court in Sessions Case No.121/99/2000 and Sessions Trial No.17/2000 by Additional Sessions Judge, Sonepatare set aside. The appellants are acquitted granting benefi t of doubt. Since the appellants are already on bail, their bail bonds are discharged.