A Constitution of India to do ‘complete justice’ in a ‘cause or matter’ is prohibited only when the exercise is to pass an which is plainly and expressly barred by statutory provisions of substantive law based on fundamental considerations of general or specific public policy. As explained in Supreme Court Bar Association, the exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India B being curative in nature, this Court would not ordinarily pass an ignoring or disregarding a statutory provision governing the subject, except to balance the equities between conflicting claims of the litigating parties by ironing out creases in a ‘cause or matter’ before it. In this sense, this Court is not a forum of C restricted jurisdiction when it decides and settles the dispute in a ‘cause or matter’. While this Court cannot supplant the substantive law by building a new edifice where none existed earlier, or by ignoring express substantive statutory law provisions, it is a problem-solver in the nebulous areas. As long as ‘complete justice’ required by the ‘cause or matter’ is achieved D without violating fundamental principles of general or specific public policy, the exercise of the power and discretion under Article 142(1) is valid and as per the Constitution of India. This is the reason why the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India is undefined and uncatalogued, so as to E ensure elasticity to mould relief to suit a given situation. The fact that the power is conferred only on this Court is an assurance that it will be used with due restraint and circumspection. [Para 13][188-F; 189-A-C; 190-A-F] 2. Question as to the power and jurisdiction of this Court F under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India is answered holding that this Court can depart from the procedure as well as the substantive laws, as long as the decision is exercised based on considerations of fundamental general and specific public policy. While deciding whether to exercise discretion, this Court must consider the substantive provisions as enacted and not G ignore the same, albeit this Court acts as a problem solver by balancing out equities between the conflicting claims. This power is to be exercised in a ‘cause or matter’. [Para 42][212-D-E] H SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 169 Whether Court, while hearing a transfer petition, or in any A other proceedings, can exercise power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, in view of the settlement between the parties, and grant a decree of divorce by mutual consent dispensing with the period and the procedure prescribed under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act, and also quash and dispose of other/connected B proceedings under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, Section 125 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, or criminal prosecution primarily under Section 498-A and other provisions of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. If the answer to this question is in the affirmative, in which cases and under what circumstances should this Court exercise jurisdiction under Article C 142(1) of the Constitution of India is an ancillary issue to be decided; 3.There is a difference between existence of a power, and exercise of that power in a given case.