59. In Gujarat Inns (supra), another three-judge Bench of this H Court held that the connection sought by auction-purchasers of properties K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 679 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] would constitute a fresh connection. The Court held that in case of a A fresh connection, the auction purchasers cannot be held liable to clear the arrears incurred by the previous owners in the absence of any specific statutory provision. It was observed: “3. In our opinion, the present two cases are cases of fresh connection. The learned counsel for the respondents (auction- B purchasers) have stated that they have taken fresh connections and they have no objection if their connections are treated as fresh connections given on the dates on which the supply of electricity was restored to the premises. We are clearly of the opinion that in case of a fresh connection though the C premises are the same, the auction-purchasers cannot be held liable to clear the arrears incurred by the previous owners in respect of power supply to the premises in the absence of there being a specific statutory provision in that regard. Though we find some merit in the submission of the learned counsel for the appellant calling for reconsideration of the D wide propositions of law laid down in Isha Marbles case [(1995) 2 SCC 648] we think the present one is not a case for such exercise. We leave the plea open for consideration in an appropriate case.” (emphasis supplied) E 60. In Isha Marbles (supra), a three-judge Bench of this Court held that an application for supply of electricity to the same premises is to be regarded as a reconnection. This Court, while interpreting the provisions of the 1910 Act, gave its reasoning on the assumption that the supply of electricity is with respect to premises and not the consumer. However, the 2003 Act has statutorily clarified the position that supply F of electricity is with respect to the consumer. It necessarily follows that when a new owner or occupier of the premises applies for supply of electricity in terms of Section 43 of the 2003 Act, it will constitute a fresh connection, regardless of the fact that the premises for which the electricity is sought was being supplied with electricity previously. An G application for supply of electricity can be categorised as reconnection only when the same owner or occupier of the premises, who was already a consumer, applies for supply of electricity with respect to the same premises in case the electricity supply is disconnected. 61. We need to highlight that the 2003 Act contemplates a synergy between the consumer and premises. Under Section 43 of the 2003 Act, H 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the owner or occupier of premises can seek a supply of electricity for particular premises. Perforce, when electricity is supplied, the owner or occupier becomes a consumer only with respect to those particular premises for which electricity is sought and provided.