Further, referring to Section 15 of the IMC Act, 1956, it was observed that qualifications included in the Schedules shall be sufficient qualification for enrolment in any State Medical Register; H 1000 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A but in none of the Schedules, the qualifications of integrated courses figure. Consequently, by virtue of this section, persons holding degrees in integrated courses cannot be registered in any State Medical Register. Hence, by Act 24 of 1964, Section 15 of the IMC Act, 1956, was modified by adding two more sub-sections. Section 15(2)(b) thereof B prohibits all persons from practicing modern scientific medicine in all its branches in any State except a medical practitioner enrolled in a State Medical Register. There are two types of registration as far as the State Medical Register is concerned: the first is under Section 25 and the second is C under Section 15(1) of the said Act. The third category of registration is in the “Indian Medical register” which the Indian Medical Council is enjoined to maintain under Section 21 of the said Act for which recognised medical qualification is a prerequisite. D (iv) The privileges of persons who are enrolled in the Indian Medical Register are mentioned in Section 27 of the IMC Act, 1956, and include the right to practice as a medical practitioner in any part of India. On the other hand, State Medical Registers are maintained by the State Medical Council of respective States which are not constituted under E the IMC Act, 1956, but are constituted under any law for the time being in force, in any State regulating the registration of practitioners of medicine. It is, thus, possible that in any State, the law relating to registration of practitioners of modern scientific medicine may enable a person to be F enrolled on the basis of the qualifications other than the “recognised medical qualification” which is a prerequisite, only for being enrolled in the Indian Medical Register and not for the purposes of registration in a State Medical Register. A person holding “recognised medical qualification” cannot be denied registration in any State Medical Register, G but a person registered in a State Medical Register cannot be enrolled in the Indian Medical Register unless he possesses “recognised medical qualification”. This follows from a combined reading of Sections 15(1), 21(1) and 23 of the IMC Act, 1956. So, by virtue of such qualifications as H prescribed in a State Act and on being registered in a State BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 1001 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Medical Register, a person will be entitled to practice A allopathic medicine under Section 15(2)(b) of the IMC Act, 1956. (v) In this context, it would be relevant to mention what are the recognised medical qualifications in the context of the First and Third Schedules to the IMC Act, 1956. While the First B Schedule deals with recognised medical qualifications secured by persons from recognised Universities in India, on the other hand, the Third Schedule deals with medical qualification attained under the Pre-Independence recognised medical enactments such as Bombay Medical C Act, 1912, the Bihar and Orissa Medical Act, 1916, the Punjab Medical Registration Act, 1916, etc.