In several cases, even the names of persons actually involved in the commission of off ence are not mentioned in the FIR and described as unknown accused. Even, the particulars as unfolded are not fully recorded in the FIR. Despite that, the accused named in any ordinary off ence is able to apply for anticipatory bail or regular bail, in which proceeding, the police papers are normally perused by the concerned Court. On the same analogy, the argument of prejudice pressed into service by the petitioners for non-supply of ECIR deserves to be answered against RAM KISHOR ARORA v. DIRECTORATE OF 755 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] the petitioners. For, the arrested person for off ence of money- laundering is contemporaneously informed about the grounds of his arrest; and when produced before the Special Court, it is open to the Special Court to call upon the representative of ED to produce relevant record concerning the case of the accused before him and look into the same for answering the need for his continued detention. Taking any view of the matter, therefore, the argument under consideration does not take the matter any further.” 12. Since, much reliance has been placed on the decisions in case of V. Senthil Balaji vs. State (supra) and in Pankaj Bansal vs. Union of India (supra), the relevant part thereof also deserve to be reproduced. In V. Senthil Balaji (supra), the two-Judge Bench while dealing with Section 19 of PMLA observed as under: - “39. To eff ect an arrest, an offi cer authorised has to assess and evaluate the materials in his possession. Through such materials, he is expected to form a reason to believe that a person has been guilty of an off ence punishable under the PMLA, 2002. Thereafter, he is at liberty to arrest, while performing his mandatory duty of recording the reasons. The said exercise has to be followed by way of an information being served on the arrestee of the grounds of arrest. Any non-compliance of the mandate of Section 19(1) of the PMLA, 2002 would vitiate the very arrest itself. Under sub-section (2), the Authorised Offi cer shall immediately, after the arrest, forward a copy of the as mandated under sub-section (1) together with the materials in his custody, forming the basis of his belief, to the Adjudicating Authority, in a sealed envelope. Needless to state, compliance of sub-section (2) is also a solemn function of the arresting authority which brooks no exception.” 13. In Pankaj Bansal case (supra), the two-Judge Bench after analyzing the provisions contained in Section 19(1) of PMLA observed as under:- “39. On the above analysis, to give true meaning and purpose to the constitutional and the statutory mandate of Section 19(1) of the Act of 2002 of informing the arrested person of the grounds of arrest, we hold that it would be necessary, henceforth, that a copy of such written grounds of arrest is furnished to the arrested person as a matter of course and without exception.