It is submitted that therefore the payment was necessitated and sanctioned and approved as per the s of the High Court and the arbitration award as well as shareholders themselves. It is submitted that infact in the interim award there was a specific clause which entitles the Company to sell the assets to discharge F the liabilities. It is submitted that as per the arbitration award, the claims have to be paid off of the shareholders. This was an encumbrance which has to be discharged pursuant to the s of the Court and arbitration award. “Paville House” was therefore required to be sold to discharge the encumbrances and from sale proceeds to pay off the shareholders G and therefore, the discharge of encumbrances was the cost improvement. It is submitted that therefore the amount paid to the shareholders which was rightly held to be to remove encumbrance, was rightly held to be deduction as claimed to remove encumbrance on computation of capital gains. H 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 5.7 It is submitted that therefore the Commissioner wrongly assumed the jurisdiction under Section 263 of the IT Act on the ground that the passed by the AO was an erroneous and prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue. Making above submissions and relying upon the decision of this B Court in the case of Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra), it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 6. Heard. 7. In the present case, the Commissioner, in exercise of the powers under Section 263 of the Income Tax Act and in exercise of the revisional C jurisdiction, set aside the assessment by specifically observing that the assessment was erroneous as well as prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue. However, the High Court by the impugned and has set aside the passed by the Commissioner by observing that the Commissioner wrongly invoked the powers under Section 263 of the Act. D 7.1 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra). It is true that in the said decision and on interpretation of Section 263 of the Income Tax Act, it is observed and held that in to exercise the jurisdiction under Section 263(1) of the E Income tax Act, the Commissioner has to be satisfied of twin conditions, namely, (i) the of the Assessing Officer sought to be revised is erroneous; and (ii) it is prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue. It is further observed that if one of them is absent, recourse cannot be had to Section 263(1) of the Act. “What can be said to be prejudicial to the F interest of the Revenue” has been dealt with and considered in paragraphs 8 to 10 in the case of Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra), which are as under:- “8. The phrase “prejudicial to the interests of the Revenue” is not an expression of art and is not defined in the Act.