The objection has only come for the fi rst time in form of additional affi davits before the High Court in the writ proceedings when the validity of these two appointments was challenged. The additional affi davit fi led by the Registrar General of the High Court before the Division Bench of the High Court says that these appointments were not made in consultation with the High Court. This, however, does not refl ect the correct position, to say the least. The High Court has placed the entire blame on the post selection exercise undertaken by the State Commission. This is not the correct position, though undoubtedly the Commission as the selecting authority must ultimately bear the brunt, yet the blame must be shared equally by the State Government and the High Court. VIVEK KAISTH & ANR v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL 641 PRADESH & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 35. Having gone through the pleadings of the appellants and that of the respondents, we are of the considered view that there has been a violation of the process in making selection/appointment of the appellants, in as much as the vacancies on which the appellants were appointed were never advertised, and strictly speaking these vacancies cannot be termed as “anticipated vacancies” for the simple reason that these vacancies were only created on 18.04.2013 i.e. after the selection process had begun and advertisement was issued on 01.02.2013. 36. What is also important for our consideration at this stage is that the appellants in the present case have been working as Judicial Offi cers now for nearly 10 years. They are now Civil Judge (Senior Division). These judicial offi cers now have a rich experience of 10 years of judicial service behind them. Therefore, unseating the present appellants from their posts would not be in public interest. Ordinarily, these factors as we have referred above, would not matter, once the very appointment is held to be wrong. But we also cannot fail to consider that the appellants were appointed from the list of candidates who had successfully passed the written examination and viva voce and they were in the merit list. Secondly, it is nobody’s case that the appellants have been appointed by way of favouritism, nepotism or due to any act which can even remotely be called as “blameworthy”. Finally, they have now been working as judges for ten years. There is hence a special equity which leans in favour of the appellants. In a recent Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Sivanandan C.T. and Ors. v. High Court of Kerala and Ors. (2023) SCC OnLine SC 994 though the fi nding arrived at by this Court was that the Rules of the game were changed by the High Court of Kerala by prescribing minimum marks for the viva voce, which were not existing in the Rules and therefore in essence the appointment itself was in violation of the Rules, yet considering that those persons who had secured appointments under this selection have now been working for more than 6 years it was held that it would not be in public interest to unseat them.