It was also their opinion that in that 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. case all the internal organs like stomach or lungs may be congested. They have also opined that if on opening of stomach detectable smell may found, that may be the eff ects of the poison like organophosphorus compounds, opium, formaldehyde etc. Here, in this case the post mortem observations shows that it was defi nitely a case of death due to poisoning. It is fact that the nature of poison could not be ascertained but all the symptoms proves that the death of Tuli was due to consumption of poison and there is no other probable cause of her death. Obviously the death was caused otherwise than under the normal circumstances.” (Emphasis supplied) 25. The aforesaid fi ndings recorded by the trial court were looked into by the High Court in paragraph 13 of its impugned discussed as under:- “The accused persons in vain sought to set up a futile plea by way of suggestion to the prosecution witnesses that Tuli died under normal circumstances due to illness and not by consuming poison. This plea could not be substantiated by any iota of evidence. Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act provides that when any fact is specially within the knowledge of any person, the burden of providing that fact is upon him. It is not in dispute that Tuli was married to the appellant No.1 on 24th February, 2011. The fact that Tuli died in her matrimonial house within seven months of her marriage has not been denied. From the evidence of PW-9 Dr. N. Ghatak it transpires that no poison was found in the viscera sample of deceased which was received on 22nd February, 2012. PW-10 is the medical offi cer who held post-mortem examination over the dead body of Tuli on 17th September, 2011. This witness testifi ed in his evidence that on visceral examination “odour material with pungent smell was found in the stomach”. PW-10 opined that if anyone takes poison, such kind of pungent smell may be found. PW-10 did not give any conclusive opinion as to the cause of death since the viscera was sent for chemical examination. Being quizzed in course of evidence, PW-10 admitted that if delay is caused in sending viscera sample for chemical examination, the poison might not be BUDDHADEB SAHA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF WEST 339 BENGAL found. In the present case, the viscera was received for chemical examination on 22nd February, 2012 that is, after fi ve months. There is nothing on record to show that the viscera sample was preserved properly during the aforesaid period. Though no poison could be detected in the viscera sample of the deceased, the factual position of the case in hand substantiated by the evidence of the witnesses and the inquest report go to show that death of Tuli had occurred “otherwise than under normal circumstances”. The inquest report lends credence to the prosecution case as it appears therefrom that death of Tuli was caused by consuming poison.