in favour of the Th e products in assessee, and question were the access was already being granted on a manufactured non-exclusive by the assessee basis. and the know- how would only increase the assessee’s profitability. Th erefore, the expenditure would be in the nature of revenue expenditure. 6. C o m m i s - Royalty pay- R e v e n u e Th at since royal- sioner of In- able annually by expenditure ty was payable on come Tax vs. the assessee, on the quantity of the Sharda Mo- the number of good produced, tors, (2009) pieces manufac- the same would be 319 ITR 109 tured, to a Ko- revenue expendi- (High Court rean Co. which ture. of Delhi) had provided technical know- how to the as- sessee. 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 7. CIT vs. Modi R o y a l t y Revenue expen- Th at notwith- Revlon Pvt. consideration diture standing the fact Ltd., 2012 paid by the that the assessee SCC OnLine a s s e s s e e was the sole licen- Del 4463 annually, as cee of the brand (High Court a percentage within a given of Delhi) of sales price, territory, expen- to Revlon diture would be Mauritius Ltd. revenue in na- for supply ture because the of technical ownership of the know-how to brand continued manufacture to be with Revlon goods. Mauritius. Th at there was nothing in the agreement suggestive of any vesting of the know-how or part of it, or the good- will of the brand, in the assessee. 16. We may also refer to some decisions of the Courts in England, with a view to cull-out certain tests, which, although should not be treated as over-exacting, may suggest some broad and general guidelines to ascertain as to which side of the line the outlay in any particular case might reasonably be held to fall. 16.1. The City of London Contract Corporation Ltd. vs. Styles, (1887) 2 TC 239 is the fi rst of the line of cases where courts in England considered the issue as to the categorisation of expenditure, as capital or revenue. Bowen, L.J. broadly indicated that the outlay on the “acquisition of the concern” would be capital while an outlay in “carrying on the concern” is revenue. 16.2. In Vallambrosa Rubber Co. Ltd. vs. Farmer, (1910) 5 T.C. 529, Lord Dunedin observed that a proposition could be stated “in a rough way”, to the eff ect that capital expenditure is a thing that is going to be spent once and for all and income expenditure is a thing which will incur every year. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 449 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] This test was adopted by Rowalatt J. in Ounsworth (Surveyor of Taxes) vs. Vickers Ltd., (1915) 3 K.B. 267 (“Vickers Ltd.”) wherein it was observed that the real test was between expenditure which was made to meet a continuous demand for expenditure as opposed to an expenditure which was made once and for all.