Only when the court is certain that no valid arbitration agreement exists or the disputes/subject- matter are not arbitrable, the application under Section 8 would be rejected. At this stage, the court should not get lost H NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. 861 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] in thickets and decide debatable questions of facts. Referral A proceedings are preliminary and summary and not a mini trial… … 138…On the other hand, issues relating to contract formation, B existence, validity and non-arbitrability would be connected and intertwined with the issues underlying the merits of the respective disputes/claims. They would be factual and disputed and for the Arbitral Tribunal to decide. 139. We would not like to be too prescriptive, albeit observe C that the court may for legitimate reasons, to prevent wastage of public and private resources, can exercise judicial discretion to conduct an intense yet summary prima facie review while remaining conscious that it is to assist the arbitration procedure and not usurp jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal. Undertaking a detailed full review or a long-drawn D review at the referral stage would obstruct and cause delay undermining the integrity and efficacy of arbitration as a dispute resolution mechanism. Conversely, if the court becomes too reluctant to intervene, it may undermine effectiveness of both the arbitration and the court. There are certain cases E where the prima facie examination may require a deeper consideration. The court’s challenge is to find the right amount of and the context when it would examine the prima facie case orexercise restraint. The legal needs a right balance between avoiding arbitration obstructing tactics at referral stage and protecting parties from being forced to arbitrate F when the matter is clearly non-arbitrable. 140. Accordingly, when it appears that prima facie review would be inconclusive, or on consideration inadequate as it requires detailed examination, the matter should be left for final determination by the Arbitral Tribunal selected by the G parties by consent. The underlying rationale being not to delay or defer and to discourage parties from using referral proceeding as a ruse to delay and obstruct. In such cases a full review by the courts at this stage would encroach on the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal and violate the legislative H 862 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A scheme allocating jurisdiction between the courts and the Arbitral Tribunal. Centralisation of litigation with the Arbitral Tribunal as the primary and first adjudicator is beneficent as it helps in quicker and efficient resolution of disputes.” (emphasis supplied) B 24. Following the general rule and the principle laid down in Vidya Drolia (supra), this Court has consistently been holding that the arbitral tribunal is the preferred first authority to determine and decide all questions of non-arbitrability. In Pravin Electricals Pvt. Ltd. v. Galaxy Infra and Engg. Pvt. Ltd.19, Sanjiv Prakash v. Seema Kukreja and C Ors.20, and Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. v. NCC Ltd.,21 the parties were referred to arbitration, as the prima facie review in each of these cases on the objection of non-arbitrability was found to be inconclusive.