Under the CIRP Regulations, the resolution professional has to vet and verify claims made, and ultimately, determine F the amount of each claim as follows: “10. Substantiation of claims.—The interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, may call for such other evidence or clarification as he deems fit from a creditor for substantiating the whole or G part of its claim. * * * 12. Submission of proof of claims.—(1) Subject to sub- regulation (2), a creditor shall submit claim with proof on or before the last date mentioned in the public announcement. H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1013 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (2) A creditor, who fails to submit claim with proof within A the time stipulated in the public announcement, may submit the claim with proof to the interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, on or before the ninetieth day of the insolvency commencement date. B (3) Where the creditor in sub-regulation (2) is a financial creditor under Regulation 8, it shall be included in the committee from the date of admission of such claim: Provided that such inclusion shall not affect the validity of any decision taken by the committee prior to such C inclusion. 13. Verification of claims.—(1) The interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, shall verify every claim, as on the insolvency commencement date, within seven days from the last date of D the receipt of the claims, and thereupon maintain a list of creditors containing names of creditors along with the amount claimed by them, the amount of their claims admitted and the security interest, if any, in respect of such claims, and update it. E (2) The list of creditors shall be— (a) available for inspection by the persons who submitted proofs of claim; (b) available for inspection by members, partners, F Directors and guarantors of the corporate debtor; (c) displayed on the website, if any, of the corporate debtor; (d) filed with the adjudicating authority; and G (e) presented at the first meeting of the committee. 14. Determination of amount of claim.—(1) Where the amount claimed by a creditor is not precise due to any contingency or other reason, the interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, shall make the H 1014 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A best estimate of the amount of the claim based on the information available with him. (2) The interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be, shall revise the amounts of claims admitted, including the estimates of claims made under B sub-regulation (1), as soon as may be practicable, when he comes across additional information warranting such revision.” It is clear from a reading of these Regulations that the resolution professional is given administrative as opposed to C quasi-judicial powers. In fact, even when the resolution professional is to make a “determination” under Regulation 35-A, he is only to apply to the adjudicating authority for appropriate relief based on the determination made as follows: “35-A.