The legislative intent behind making an Agreement to Sell, a compulsorily registrable document has been completely ignored by the Hon’ble High Court. 3.6 It is submitted that after introduction of a specific provision relating to Agreement to Sell in Section 17(1)(g) of the Act, and in the D absence of any amendment in Section 17(2) to include clause (g) also within its fold, Section 17(2)(v) will only operate in relation to documents covered under the general provision of Clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1). it is submitted that in that sense Section 17(2)(v) will apply to all other agreements to mortgage, to lease, to release, to exchange etc. but will not apply to an Agreement to Sell. E 3.7 Making above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and quash and set aside the impugned passed by the Hon’ble High Court and to restore the passed by the learned Trial Court. 4. While opposing the present appeal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of original plaintiff has heavily relied upon the proviso to Section F 49 of the Registration Act which specifically provides that an unregistered document affecting the immovable property and required by the Registration Act to be registered may be received as evidence of a contract in a suit for specific performance under Chapter-II of the Specific Relief Act or as evidence of any collateral transaction not required to be G affected by registered instrument. 4.1 It is submitted that as rightly observed and held by the Hon’ble High Court though Section 17(1) of the Registration Act has been amended by the Tamil Nadu Act, 2012 by inserting Section 17(1)(g), making the Agreement to Sell/ Agreement affecting any immovable H 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A property compulsorily required to be registered, there is no corresponding amendment to Section 49 more particularly proviso to Section 49 of the Registration Act. 4.2 It is further submitted that even the object and purpose of Tamil Nadu Amendment Act, 2012 more particularly inserting Section B 17(1)(g) is required to be considered which has been elaborately dealt with and considered by the Hon’ble High Court in the impugned and . It is submitted that a perusal of statement of objects and reasons to the Act No.29 of 2012 would suggest that primarily the amendment has been introduced by the State of Tamil Nadu by reason of the fact that instruments of agreement relating to sale of immovable C property, instruments of power of attorney relating to immovable property and instruments evidencing agreement of deposit of title deeds, which were not registrable were resulting in loss to the exchequer as the public were executing these documents on white paper or on stamp paper of nominal value. D 4.3 With the above submissions and heavily relying upon the proviso to Section 49 of the Registration Act, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. 5. We have heard the learned counsel appearing on behalf of respective parties at length. The short question posed for the consideration E of this Court is effect of Section 17(1)(g) of the Registration Act applicable to the State of Tamil Nadu by which Section 17(1)(g) of the Registration Act has been inserted and instruments of agreement relating to sale of immovable property of the value of Rs.100/- and upwards is made compulsorily registrable and whether such unregistered agreement F relating to sale of immovable property can be received in evidence in a suit for specific performance?