The nature of powers exercised by the CIC or SICs under Section 18 is supervisory in nature.6 Under Section 18(3), the CIC or SICs have the same powers as are vested in a civil court while trying a suit in respect of the matters specifi ed under the said provision. 11. Section 19 provides the appellate procedure by allowing any person who is aggrieved by refusal of information to seek an eff ective redress and remedy. Section 19(1) allows any person who does not receive a decision within the time specifi ed in Section 7 to prefer a fi rst appeal to a senior offi cer of CPIO or SPIO. Section 7(3) allows any person who is aggrieved by the decision of such senior offi cer of CPIO or SPIO to fi le a second appeal with the CIC or SIC. In such proceedings, the onus to prove that the denial of request was justifi ed lies on the CPIO or SPIO who denied the request. Section 19(8) provides that a CIC or SIC, while deciding, has the power to: (a) require the public authority to take such steps as may be necessary to secure compliance with the provisions of the RTI Act, including – (i) provide access to information, if so requested, in a particular form; (ii) appoint a CPIO or SPIO, as the case may be; (iii) publish certain information or categories of information; (iv) make necessary changes to its practices in relation to the maintenance, management and destruction of records; 6 Chief Information Commissioner v. State of Manipur, (2011) 15 SCC 1 486 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (v) enhance the provision of training on the right to information for its offi cials; (vi) provide it with an annual report in compliance with clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 4; (b) require the public authority to compensate the complainant for any loss or other detriment suff ered; (c) impose any of the penalties provided under this Act; and (d) reject the application. 12. The SICs exercise broad powers, including among them the power to conduct inquiries into complaints from any person, hear appeals, and impose penalties. They decide on matters and issues pertaining to the right to information. In Union of India v. Namit Sharma,7 this Court held that the Information Commissions are required to act in a fair and just manner while following the procedure laid down in Sections 18, 19, and 20. 13. Section 26(3)(b) requires the appropriate government, if necessary, to update and publish guidelines referred to in sub-section (2) including the postal and street address, phone and fax number and, if available, electronic mail address of the CPIO or SPIO, as the case may be of every public authority appointed under Section 5(1). 14. In pursuance of the issuing notice, counter affi davits have been fi led by SICs of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Bihar, Goa, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal. The position in regard to the SICs has been summarized in the following tabulation contained in the rejoinder: S.No.