The Court was also infl uenced by the recommendations of the 241st Law Commission Report which had suggested incorporation of additional guidelines in addition to an elaboration of what had been spelt out in Aruna Shanbaug (supra). The Court rejected the argument that the previous ruling in Gian Kaur v. State of Punjab125 did not rule that passive euthanasia can only be given eff ect to through legislation and further that the Court could only issue guidelines. 141. The approach of Common Cause (supra) as can be seen from the varied opinions of the Judges forming the Bench was one of seeing the workability and the need to elaborate guidelines formulated in Aruna Shanbaug (supra). The Court had no occasion, really speaking, but to consider 120 1997 Supp 3 SCR 404 121 (1983) 1 SCR 828 122 (2000) 3 SCR 644 123 (2015) 8 SCC 289 124 Aruna Ramchandra Shanbaug v. Union of India, (2011) 4 SCR 1057. 125 (1996) 3 SCR 697 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1501 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] whether the directions given could not have been given. Furthermore, there were reports in the form of Law Commission recommendations which formed additional basis for the Court’s discretion and the fi nal guidelines. An important aspect is that all s in Common Cause (supra) located the right to passive euthanasia premising upon the right to human dignity, autonomy and liberty under Article 21. 142. Vishaka (supra) was an instance where in every sense of the term, there was all round cooperation as is evident from the position taken by the Union of India which had expressly indicated that guidelines ought to be formulated by the Court. The trigger for these guidelines was the resolve that gender equality (manifested in Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution as well as the right to dignity) and the right to pursue one’s profession and employment [Article 19(1)(g)] needed some express recognition to ensure protection from sexual harassment in the workplace and to work with dignity, is a basic human right which needed to be addressed in the context of women at workplace. The Court took note of international conventions and instruments and also held that guidelines had to be formulated for enforcement of Fundamental Rights till a suitable law is made. The Court expressly indicated what kind of behaviour was sexual harassment (para 2 of the guidelines) and further that regulations had to be formulated for prohibited sexual harassment and providing for appropriate penalties at workplace. Other directions were that if the conduct amounted to an off ence, the employer had to initiate appropriate action according to law and also ensure that the victims had to be given the option of transfer of their perpetrator or their own transfer. Furthermore, disciplinary action in terms of the rules was directed with a further requirement that necessary amendments were to be carried out. The Court then went on to request the State to consider adopting suitable measures indicating legislation to ensure that the guidelines in the were employed by the Government.