I cannot recollect single instance of open tender as I have forgotten; D (iii) During my tenure I did not initiate anything to cancel the award of contract to Entoma Hydro Systems. It is true that I did not take steps to annul the contract as the circumstances did not warrant that; (iv) I am the competent person to call the tenderers for E negotiation and in that capacity I wrote several letters to the contractors; (v) Exhibit P-55 is the letter dated 02.01.1993 by me to Entoma Hydro Systems asking them to send fresh offer before 07.01.1993; F (vi) Exhibit P-53 is one such letter dated 31.12.1992 written by me to Mercantile Construction Corporation; (vii) In Exhibits P-53 and P-54 it is mentioned as “in continuation of the telephonic conversation we had”; G (viii) As per Exhibit P-39, one Mr. R. Ilango represented Mercantile Construction Corporation in the meeting held on 11.01.1993. As per Exhibit P-40 one Mr. J.N.J. Chandran attended the meeting held on 11.01.1993 representing Raghav Engineers and Builders; and H 23 (1995) 3 SCC 351 A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 61 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (ix) As per the limited tender policy, tender enquiry ought to be A addressed only to eligible and qualified parties. Keeping it in my mind I have prepared Exhibit P-27 note, dated 25.11.1992. 86. In his examination-in-chief, PW-16 claimed thatsomewhere in 1992 he came to know for the first time from A-1 regarding the B proposal for construction of Desalination Plants and that one day A-1 called him to his office and said that he had located a person in Chennai who was a dynamic person, resourceful person, go-getter and an achiever.It was his positive assertion in chief examination that on the same day A-1 told him to prepare tender documents and hence C he returned to his office and instructed the Tender Department to prepare the tender document. What has happened subsequently is narrated by PW-16 in chief examination as follows: “… After some time A1 again called me to his office and told me that he had collected the names and addresses of some contractors D from TWAD Board who were in a position to take up the work if awarded. Then I told him that the tender documents were ready and that I could send the same if it was furnished with the names and address of the contractors. Then, A1 dictated the following 5 names E 1) Entomo Hydro Systems, Madras. 2) East Coast Builders, Madras. 3) Turn Key Construction Company, Madras. 4) Raghava Engineers and Builders, Madras. F 5) Mercantile Construction Company, Madras. I noted down these names. Then I told him that I had no knowledge of any of these 5 companies, might be they were exclusively the TWAD Board contractors and I might not be aware of them. Some of these names like East Coast Builders, Turn Key G Construction Company, Raghava Engineers and Builders appeared to be similar to the names of big companies i.e.