1 (2021) 13 SCC 716 2 2022 SCC OnLine SC 991 780 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 8. Shri Grover further submitted that Irshad Khan (PW-7) is the father of deceased Rizwan and Rihan, who were allegedly shot at their own house. He submitted that there are material contradictions in the evidence of Irshad Khan (PW-7) also. It is submitted that, in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., Irshad Khan (PW-7) stated that he was present on the roof of the adjoining house and not inside the room in his house and hence, could not have witnessed the incident at his house. It is submitted that these contradictions have been put to him in cross-examination. It is submitted that non-examination of Mehmoona Begum, mother of deceased Rizwan and Rihan, who was present at the place of incident, also casts doubt about the presence of Irshad Khan (PW-7) at the place of incident. He submitted that if Irshad Khan (PW-7) was really present at the place of incident, then there was no reason as to why he did not receive any injury. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that the presence of this witness is not supported from his deposition given in Tehrir. It is submitted that the conduct of Irshad Khan (PW-7) in not informing the police about the incident also casts doubt about his presence. 9. Shri Grover submitted that the presence of Harpal Singh (PW- 10) at the place of incident is also doubtful. In his deposition, Harpal Singh (PW-10) has stated that he was at the village main road, 4-5 steps ahead of the victims at Rashid’s house. On hearing the sound of fi ring, he allegedly hid near Amanullah’s house at the time of incident. However, in his statement recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., he has stated that at the time of incident, he was near the private school rickshaw stand which was about 600 metres away from the place of incident. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that a perusal of the spot map would show that the private school is not near the place of incident. The learned Senior Counsel submitted that further the evidence of this witness is not corroborated by the injured witness or other eye witnesses including Sudhir (PW-11). It is further submitted that there are material contradictions with regard to time of incident in the deposition of the said witness and as such, the testimony of this witness is not credible. 10. Insofar as Lokendra (PW-1) is concerned, Shri Grover submitted that the testimony of the said witness suff ers from material omissions with regard to involvement of appellant Madan in the incident. In his statement MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 781 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] recorded under Section 161 Cr.P.C., Lokendra (PW-1) had stated that there were 2-3 unknown people involved in the crime. Further in his testimony, there were material omissions in this regard. In his testimony, Lokendra (PW-1) vaguely mentioned that the appellant Madan and his family members were involved in the crime.