Thereafter, in terms of sub-section (3), the Central Government has to determine within a stipulated period on the basis of the information made D available by the State Government “or received from other sources”, whether the offence is a scheduled offence or not and whether having regard to the gravity of the offence and other relevant factors, it is a fit case to be investigated by the agency. Upon forming such an opinion, the Central Government is empowered under sub-section (4) to direct the NIA to investigate the offence. E 8. Sub-section (1) of Section 6 casts an affirmative obligation initially on the officer in-charge of a police station to report to the State Government, on receipt of information under Section 154 relating to any scheduled offence. Section 6(2) casts a duty upon the State Government to forward the report to the Central Government expeditiously. As regards F the role of the Central Government, sub- section (3) makes it abundantly clear that the formation of opinion on whether the offence is a scheduled offence and whether the case is a fit case to be investigated by the NIA having regard to the gravity of the offence, may be based not only on the information which has been made available by the State Government G but also on such information as is received from other sources. The power of the Central Government to refer an investigation to the NIA is not constrained to the report which is submitted by the State Government upon receipt of the initial report of the officer in-charge of the police station. H 846 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 9. The Central Government, in terms of its mandate, has to apply its mind to whether firstly, the offence is a scheduled offence or not; and secondly, whether having regard to the gravity of the offence and other relevant factors, it is a fit case to be investigaged by the NIA. 10. Independent of these provisions, sub-section (5) of Section 6 B which is prefaced by a non obstante provision empowers the Central Government to exercise a suo moto power to direct the NIA to investigate an offence when it forms the opinion that a scheduled offence has been committed which is required to be investigated under the Act. Upon exercise of powers by the Central Government either under sub-section (4) or sub-section (5), the State Government and any police officer of C the State Government investigating the offence would stand restrained from proceeding with the investigation and are duty bound to transfer the relevant documents and records to the NIA forthwith. 11. The directions of the High Court in the impugned were rendered on 27 April 2023. Following this, on 8 May 2023, the Central D Government issued a notification in exercise of its power under Section 6(5). The notification which has been issued by the Central Government makes a reference to the passed by the High Court but, having done so, it proceeds to expressly clarify that the power was also being exercised in terms of the provisions of Section 6(5).