D (2) The application under sub-regulation (1) shall be made in Form- FA of the Schedule accompanied by a bank guarantee- (a) towards estimated expenses incurred on or by the interim resolution professional for purposes of regulation 33, till the date E of filing of the application under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1); or (b) towards estimated expenses incurred for purposes of clauses (aa), (ab), (c) and (d) of regulation 31, till the date of filing of the application under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1). F (3) Where an application for withdrawal is under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), the interim resolution professional shall submit the application to the Adjudicating Authority on behalf of the applicant, within three days of its receipt. (4) Where an application for withdrawal is under clause (b) of G sub-regulation (1), the committee shall consider the application, within seven days of its receipt. 63 Subs. by Notification No. IBBI/2019-20/GN/REG048, dated 25th July, 2019 for regulation 30A (w.e.f. 25-7-2019). H 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (5) Where the application referred to in sub-regulation (4) is approved by the committee with ninety percent voting share, the resolution professional shall submit such application along with the approval of the committee, to the Adjudicating Authority on behalf of the applicant, within three days of such approval. B (6) The Adjudicating Authority may, by , approve the application submitted under sub-regulation (3) or (5). (7) Where the application is approved under sub-regulation (6), the applicant shall deposit an amount, towards the actual expenses incurred for the purposes referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of C sub-regulation (2) till the date of approval by the Adjudicating Authority, as determined by the interim resolution professional or resolution professional, as the case may be, within three days of such approval, in the bank account of the corporate debtor, failing which the bank guarantee received under sub-regulation (2) shall be invoked, without prejudice to any other action permissible D against the applicant under the Code.] 64[35. Fair value and Liquidation value.- (1) Fair value and liquidation value shall be determined in the following manner:- (a) the two registered valuers appointed under regulation 27 shall submit to the resolution professional an estimate of the fair value E and of the liquidation value computed in accordance with internationally accepted valuation standards, after physical verification of the inventory and fixed assets of the corporate debtor; (b) if in the opinion of the resolution professional, the two estimates F of a value are significantly different, he may appoint another registered valuer who shall submit an estimate of the value computed in the same manner; and (c) the average of the two closest estimates of a value shall be considered the fair value or the liquidation value, as the case may G be. (2) After the receipt of resolution plans in accordance with the Code and these regulations, the resolution professional shall provide 64 Subs. by Notification No. IBBI/2017-18/GN/REG024, dated 6th February, 2018, for Regulation 35 (w.e.f.