These are only illustrative and not exhaustive. It is not that there has been any lack of eff ort to speed up the Justice Delivery System. However, the attempts made hitherto have yielded limited results. Time and again various provisions of C.P.C. and Cr.P.C. have been amended to cater the ever-increasing demands for speedy disposal of cases and the results are not inspiring. There is an urgent need to take pro-active steps to not only clear the huge backlog of cases at all levels but there should be introspection by all the stakeholders to gear up to meet the aspirations of the litigant public who would only seek for speedy justice and to curtail the methods adopted to delay the proceedings which may suit certain section or class of the litigant public. When millions of consumers of justice fi le their cases by knocking at the doors of the courts of fi rst instance, they expect speedy justice. Thus, an onerous responsibility vests on all stakeholders to ensure that the people’s faith in this system is not eroded on account of delayed justice. It is imperative to note that about 6 per cent of the population in India is aff ected by litigation, in such a scenario the YASHPAL JAIN v. SUSHILA DEVI & OTHERS 961 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] courts would play an important role in the life of a nation governed by Rule of Law. Peace and Tranquility in the society and harmonious relationship between the citizens are achieved on account of eff ective administration of justice and its delivery system, even the economic growth of a country is dependent on the robust Justice Delivery System which we have in our country. 20. When the effi ciency has become the hallmark of modern civilization and in all spheres of life there is an urgent need to hasten the pace of delivery of justice by reducing the time period occupied by the trial of suits and criminal proceedings as also the off shoots of such litigation which results in revisions, appeals etc. arising out of them. A historical outlook of steps taken to curb the Judicial delay 21. The issue of delay has been bothering all the stakeholders for ages. Way back in the year 1924, a committee was constituted known as the Civil Justice Committee to enquire into the issues relating to changes and improvements necessary to bring in “more speedy, economical and satisfactory dispatch of the business transacted in the courts” under the chairmanship of Justice Rankin. Delay in disposal of cases beyond a period of two and a half years was a crucial concern and it was emphasized by the said Committee that “where the arrears are unmanageable, improvement in the methods can only palliate. It cannot cure”.1 The Central Government under the chairmanship of Justice S.R. Das set up a committee known as High Court Arrears Committee in the year 1949. In 1979, the Law Commission of India in its 77th Report on ‘delay and arrear in trial courts’ observed that the delay in civil or criminal matters have decreased the confi dence among the general public about the judicial system.