In other words, the Court cannot, in such circumstances, judge on the expediency or inexpediency to dispense with the inquiry as it was arrived at based on the subjective satisfaction of the President based on materials. In the above circumstances, we do not find any reason to F interfere with the disinclination on the part of the Tribunal and then the High Court, on the aforesaid issue. 25. The aforesaid conclusion would take us to the next question as to whether the non-interference with the of dismissal warrants any interference. In this context, it is required to be noted that the G retrospectivity given to the of dismissal from 01.09.2003 was interfered with, by the Tribunal. It has become final and it was given effect to by the respondent organization by modifying the date of its effect from the date of the of dismissal. While considering the above question, it is relevant to refer again to the decision of the H 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Constitution Bench in Tulsiram Patel’s case (supra). Though it was held that such an would be open to challenge on the ground of mala fides or being based wholly on extraneous grounds, it is relevant to note that in the case on hand, the of dismissal is not put to challenge on any of such grounds. Going by the decision in Tulsiram Patel’s case (supra), when once such a power is invoked to dispense with inquiry the B consideration as to what penalty should be imposed upon a delinquent employee must be ex-parte. In other words, on that question no opportunity of being heard is to be given. Even-after holding so, in paragraph 114 of Tulsiram Patel’s case (supra), it was held that in to arrive at a decision as to which penalty should be imposed, the disciplinary authority C has to take into consideration the various factors set out in T.R. Chellappan’s case (supra). Then, the question is what are such factors to be taken into account in that regard in terms of T.R. Chellappan’s case (supra). A scanning of the decision in T.R. Chellappan’s case (supra), would go to show that it was held therein that the disciplinary authority while deciding the question as to what penalty should be imposed D on the delinquent employee in the facts and circumstances of a particular case would have to take into account the entire conduct of the delinquent employee, a gravity of the misconduct committed by him, the impact which his misconduct is likely to have on the administration and other extenuating circumstances or redeeming features if any present in the E case and so on and so forth. Such aspects were looked into by the Tribunal. We have also referred hereinbefore the acts and omissions on the part of the appellant having regard to his role as a scientist/engineer in ISRO and the role of ISRO as the space agency of India. It is not the mere unauthorized absence of the appellant that actually weighed with the authority and evidently, the organization is perfectly justified in casting F suspicion on the honesty, integrity, reliability, dependability and trustworthiness in view of the factual situation obtained in this case, as explained in the counter affidavit, besides entertaining the stand that his unauthorized association with foreign institution, especially in the area of propulsion, which is a strategic research and development subject in the G organization and based on which the nation’s rocketry and ambitious launch vehicle programs are/were advancing, was a matter of concern for the security of the State.