There is no question of impairing the freedom under Article 301 by refusing to exempt or by withdrawing an exemption. Not to pat on the back is not to stab in the back. True, straw by straw, the burden of taxation on tourist vehicles increases as each State adds its bit of straw, E but, then, each State is concerned with its coffers and has the right to tax vehicles using its roads; and, the contribution which a tourist carriage is required to make to its treasury is no more than what other contract carriages are required to make. We are firmly of the view that there is no impairment of the freedom under Article 301. The special submission on behalf of the F ‘Karnataka Operators’ that the withdrawal by the Karnataka Government of the exemption granted to ‘outsiders has resulted in the ‘Karnataka Operators’ having to pay tax in every State in the country and, therefore, the withdrawal has impaired the freedom under Article 301 is but the same general submission, G seen through glasses of a different tint. It does not even have the merit that the withdrawal of the Karnataka exemption affects them directly. The submission is rejected.” 37. Similarly, in the case of Bolani Ores Ltd. vs. State of Orissa (supra), a question arose with regard to the taxes imposed H under Entry 57 of List II being in the nature of regulatory and THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 911 KULLU ETC. ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] compensatory measures. The appellants in the said case were A companies engaged in mining operations and were seeking a declaration that rockers, dumpers and tractors were not taxable under the Bihar and Orissa Motor Vehicles Taxation Act 1930 as they were not motor vehicles defined under the Act. The contention of the appellants was that the tractors, dumpers and rockers were not using B any roads but were only plied within the premises of the mining area which was privately owned by the companies, and would not be liable to any tax so long as they are within the premises. However, if they use the roads, then the tax component will be applicable. In para 29 of the report, this Court again explained the nature of the State Legislation relating to taxation on motor vehicles as being regulatory C measure and compensatory in nature to raise revenue. Relevant extract is reproduced hereunder: “The Taxation Act is a regulatory measure imposing compensatory taxes for the purpose of raising revenue to meet the expenditure for making roads, maintaining them and for D facilitating the movement and regulation of traffic. The validity of the taxing power under Entry 57 List I of the Seventh Schedule read with Article 301 of the Constitution depends upon the regulatory and compensatory nature of the taxes. It is not the purpose of the Taxation Act to levy taxes on vehicles E which do not use the roads or in any way form part of flow of traffic on the roads which is required to be regulated.