A b. In terms of the decision of this Court in Cheeranthoodika Ahmmedkutty & Anr. vs. Parambur Mariakutty Umma & Ors8, where it was held that in the absence of any material to doubt the veracity of the Purchase Certificates due weight should have been given to them as per law, it was submitted that the Purchase Certificate issued B in suo motu proceedings under Section 72K of the KLR Act in favour of inter alia Mr. Mathew was conclusive proof of his title, and since the same has remained unchallenged, would operate as res judicata. c. The Respondents as objectors had set up title, independent C of the -debtors, and that their objection deserved to be adjudicated by the Executing Court. d. That apart, the Executing Court had only held the objectors’ applications to be maintainable; in such circumstances, this Court ought not to interfere when adjudication on merits D was yet to be made. e. Brahmdeo Chaudhary vs. Rishikesh Prasad Jaiswal9, is an authority for the proposition that a claim filed pursuant to Section 47 read with XXI Rule 97 CPC is maintainable despite the right being independent of that of E the -debtor. f. The decision in T Vijendradas & Anr. vs. M. Subramanian & Ors10 has held that if any or was obtained by fraud, then the same is a nullity; and since the in A.S. No. 27/1991 was obtained without impleading all the legal representatives of Mr. Mathew, for F this reason, the proceedings are vitiated by fraud and a nullity due to suppressio veri. g. In ITI Ltd. v. Siemens Public Communications Network Ltd11, this Court had noted that despite the vast powers it had to directly entertain an appeal, litigants should G not be encouraged to bypass other available remedies in the potential hope of a more efficacious remedy. 8 (2000) 2 SCC 417 9 (1997) 3 SCC 694 10 (2007) 8 SCC 751 H 11 (2002) 5 SCC 510 JINI DHANRAJGIR & ANR. v. SHIBU MATHEW & ANR. ETC. 565 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] h. The Appellants’ conduct in directly approaching this Court A under Article 136 of the Constitution of India without invoking the revisional or appellate jurisdiction of the appropriate forum is open to criticism based on the decision in Columbia Sportswear Company v. Director of Income Tax, Bangalore12, where this Court opined that B the scope of discretionunder Article 136 of the Constitution of India while granting special leave was such that only a substantial question of general importance or one already pending before this Court should be entertained, especially when remedies under Article 226 and/or 227 were available on the same grounds before the High Court. C i. The question of application of lis pendens doctrine does not arise on facts and in the circumstances of the present case since the sale transactions were effected when no lis was pending. D 14. Resting on the aforesaid contentions, Mr. Chitambaresh urged that no case for interference has been set up by the Appellants and that the Executing Court ought to be left free to decide the objections on merits.