Though the tenant denied the same, Mr. Vinay Navare, learned senior counsel, would assert that the admissions made by him during his deposition as DW1 speak volumes to the contrary. He would point out that the tenant categorically admitted execution of the partnership agreement dated 01.01.1985 (Exh.48) and the assignment agreement G dated 15.01.1985 (Exh.49), apart from conceding that the Invitation Card (Exh.44), issued in connection with the Satyanarayan Pooja performed in the hotel, mentioned his name along with those of Hotel Ambika and Krishna B Shetty. 17. Countering these contentions, Mr. Sudhanshu S. Choudhari, learned counsel, would argue that execution of a partnership deed by H YUVRAJ @ MUNNA PRALHAD JAGDALE & ORS. v. 1143 JANARDAN SUBAJIRAO WIDE [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] the tenant, whereby a third party was inducted into the business as a A partner, is of no consequence. He would point out that the partnership agreement dated 01.01.1985 (Exh.48) mentioned that the business would be undertaken as a partnership with the tenant; his brother, Laxman; and Krishna B Shetty, as partners and that the relevant clause in the said document, marked as Exh.51, indicated that Krishna B Shetty would B look after the business transactions. He would place reliance on Parvinder Singh Vs. Renu Gautam and others1and Mahendra Saree Emporium (II) Vs. G.V. Srinivasa Murthy2 in support of his contention that such a business arrangement would not amount to creation of an assignment or sub-tenancy. C 18. In Parvinder Singh (supra), this Court observed that if the tenant is actively associated with the partnership business and retains the use and control over the tenanted premises with him, maybe along with partners, the tenant may not be said to have parted with possession, but if the user and control of the tenanted premises has been parted with and the deed of partnership has been drawn up as an indirect method of D collecting consideration for creation of a sub-tenancy or for providing a cloak to conceal a transaction not permitted by law, the Court is not estopped from tearing the veil of partnership and finding out the real nature of the transaction entered into between the tenant and the alleged sub-tenant. E 19. This Court observed in Mahendra SareeEmporium(supra) that the transfer of a right to enjoy immovable property to the exclusion of all others during the term of the lease is the sine qua non of a lease under Section 105 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, and a sub- lease would imply parting with, by the tenant, of the right to enjoy such F property in favour of his sub-tenant. This Court further noted that the phraseology employed for inferring sub-letting is quite wide and would embrace within its scope sub-letting of the whole or part of the premises as also assignment or transfer in any other manner of the lessee’s interest in the tenanted premises. On facts, however, it was held that the tenant therein had not created a sub-tenancy merely by converting his sole G proprietary business into a partnership business and as the tenant never dissociated himself from the business activity.