This statutory authority enables the Supply Code to C provide for recovery of dues of the previous owner from the subsequent owner; and iii. The condition of payment of outstanding dues is not a compulsory extraction of money and does not require a primary legislation by Parliament or state legislature. D Such a condition can be prescribed by a subordinate legislation. d. Electricity arrears as charge over the premises i. i. It is not the case of the Electric Utilities that there is any mortgage or charge over the property in the form E that thelicensee is a secured creditor. The licensee has the right to insist on clearance of outstanding dues of the premises before giving a new connection. e. Civil and Statutory remedies to recover electricity arrears of the Utilities F (i) Section 56(2) of the 2003 Act does not bar the recovery of electricity arrears through other avenues of recovery in accordance with law; (ii) The limitation of two years under Section 56(2) of the G 2003 Act is with reference to bar on disconnection by the licensee. There is no limitation under Section 56 after the electricity is discontinued for non-payment of dues. A Condition of Supply to recover electricity arrears is not barred by limitation under Section 56(2) of the 2003 Act; and H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 663 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (iii) The right of a distribution licensee to deny electricity A connection till outstanding dues are cleared is a continuing right and cannot be said to be extinguished. It can be exercised when the new owner or occupier approaches the licensee for connection. f. Implication of an auction-sale of premises on “as is where B is” basis I. i. The auction purchasers were put to notice of the requirement of clearing the dues as the public auction- sale of the premises on “as is where is” basis would include a condition of acknowledging all liabilities in C respect of the said premises, with or without specific reference to the payment of electricity dues; i. ii. There is an obligation on persons acquiring the premises to verify and obtain a no dues certificate from the licensee or otherwise factor the dues while quoting the D bid price in the auction; and ii. iii. The purchaser cannot deny knowledge of the requirement to clear outstanding dues of the premises when these areprovided for in the conditions of supply or Supply Code. E II. Auction Purchasers 26. Sarvashri Shekhar Naphade, Mr. V Giri, Mr. PS Patwalia, Mr. S Ganesh, senior counsel, and Mr. Puneet Jain, Mr. Amar Dave, Mr. EMS Anam, Mr. DN Ray, Mr. T Srinavasa Murthy, Mr. Bharat Patel, Mr. Ram Lal Roy, Mr. Purvish Jitendra Malkan, and Mr. MY F Deshmukh learned counsel on behalf of the auction purchasers have urged the following submissions: a. USO is absolute i. (i) Electricity constitutes goods within the meaning of G Entries 53, 54, and 56 of List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution and under the Sale of Goods Act 1930; ii.