The emphasis even in the Preamble on “fraternity” is an indication that the survival of all fundamental rights and the survival of democracy itself depends upon mutual respect, accommodation and D willingness to co-exist in peace and tranquility on the part of the citizens. Let us now see a few examples. The Fundamental Duty enjoined upon every citizen of the country under Article 51-A (e) to “promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India transcending religious, linguistic and regional or sectional diversities and to renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of E women”, is also an indicator that no one can exercise his fundamental right in a manner that infringes upon the fundamental right of another. 41. As articulated by Jeevan Reddy, J. in Cricket Association of Bengal, no one can exercise his right of speech in such a manner as to violate another man’s right. In paragraph 152 of the decision in Cricket F Association of Bengal, Jeevan Reddy, J. said : “Indeed it may be the duty of the State to ensure that this right is available to all in equal measure and that it is not hijacked by a few to the detriment of the rest. This obligation flows from the Preamble to our Constitution, which seeks to secure all its citizens liberty of thought, expression, G belief and worship………...Under our Constitutional scheme, the State is not merely under an obligation to respect the fundamental rights guaranteed by Part-III but under an equal obligation to ensure conditions in which those rights can be meaningfully and effectively enjoyed by one and all.” H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 643 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 42. The above passage from the opinion of Jeevan Reddy, J., in A Cricket Association of Bengal, was quoted with approval by the Constitution Bench in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited case. 43. There are several instances where this Court either struck a balance or placed on a slightly higher pedestal, the fundamental right of B one over that of the other. Interestingly, the competing claims arose in many of those cases, in the context of Article 19(1)(a) right of one person qua Article 21 right of another. Let us now take a look at some of them. (i) In R. Rajagopal (supra), the rights pitted against one another were the freedom of expression under Article C 19(1)(a) and the right to privacy of the Officers of the Government under Article 21. This Court propounded: “26. We may now summarise the broad principles flowing from the above discussion: (1) The right to privacy is implicit in the right to D life and liberty guaranteed to the citizens of this country by Article 21. It is a “right to be let alone”. A citizen has a right to safeguard the privacy of his own, his family, marriage, procreation, motherhood, child-bearing and education among other matters. None can publish E anything concerning the above matters without his consent — whether truthful or otherwise and whether laudatory or critical.