38.3 The forensic investigation report dated 10.12.2018 analysed various aspects, including the chemical analysis of debris and CCTV footage from the 17 cameras installed in the insured premises. It determined that a short-circuit was not the cause but rather sparks from rooftop welding work may have triggered the fi re. The surveyor’s report from M/s. Bhansali & Co. dated 15.04.2019 also aligned with such conclusion. Investigators found that substantial welding work was conducted that day and pointed towards sparks igniting the stored fl ammable chemicals in the warehouse. According to them, the insured’s negligence during construction work in a warehouse with numerous hazardous chemicals, was the root cause for the fi re. 38.4 Although the footage from Camera No. 3 and video from Camera No.9 were not available, the forensic team analysed the available CCTV footage. They observed that welding equipment with cylinders were being brought to the rooftop at 11:51:17 hrs and the welding work being carried out from 11:51:17 hrs to 11:56:16 hrs, after which the equipments were removed from the vicinity. At 12:10:17 hrs., a worker was observed removing the welding red boxes. This is noteworthy as it indicates that the welding equipments were taken away by the workers around four hours before the fi re occurred. Subsequently, the workers were seen transporting GI roofi ng sheets as head loads to the roofi ng work site, which continued until 16:04 hrs. The CCTV footage showed workers also using a crane to move GI NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. & ORS. v. M/S. MUDIT 1043 ROADWAYS [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] roofi ng sheets and MS Roofi ng Trusses to the roof repair area post-welding. A substantial time gap of 4 hours, 19 minutes, and 43 seconds separated the end of welding work from the fi re itself. Even if rooftop repair continued until 16:04 hrs., a signifi cant 26-minute time lag existed before the fi re started. 38.5 The Forensic Investigator’s conclusion that sparks from rooftop welding caused the fi re appear to be illogical, as they overlooked other potential causes like short-circuit. Negligence despite workers not being involved in welding-related tasks near the time of the fi re, was wrongly attributed to the insured. Moreover, evidence was not available that sparks fell on fl ammable chemicals attributable to activities, undertaken by workers. 39. Of the nine reports, seven suggest short-circuit as the likely fi re cause, while two infer negligence on the insured’s part, for in-adequate precautions, during warehouse construction. 40. Logically if it were the welding sparks which caused the fi re, it should have occurred shortly after 11:54:27 during the welding works or around 16:04 hours during rooftop repair. The 4 hours 19 minutes 43 seconds time gap is startlingly signifi cant. The 26-minute time lag after roofi ng work ended and the fi re does not have any rational explanation. There is no evidence of welding during the roofi ng work at 16:04 or closer to the fi re time, which explains the inconclusive forensic report stating sparks “could have” caused the fi re at 16:30.