Simultaneously, the Court negated Narain Dass’ (Dfdt. 1) claim, since he had limited right and was not competent to alienate the suit property. The Court also found that Dfdt. 1 had taken recourse to self-contradictory pleas asserting ownership rights as well as occupancy rights. Thus, the annulment of sale deeds to Dfdts No. 2-5 with a directive to restore the suit land possession to the common village pool was ed. 7. The transferee Lajja Ram & sons (Dfdts. No. 2-5) then fi led the RSA No. 4041 of 2007 and RSA No. 2552 of 2008 before the High Court. In the impugned dated 12.08.2009, the High Court noted that the prior decree granted by the Asst. Collector against the Gram Panchayat could not have been used against the biswedars of the village given their absence as parties in the previous proceedings. Additionally, it was found that the ownership of the shamlatdeh land did not vest with the Gram Panchayat. 8. The High Court particularly noted that Narain Dass had no title or authority to sell the suit land to Dfdts. No. 2-5. The sale, executed by an incompetent party without a valid title, was deemed by the High Court as insuffi cient to confer valid title to Dfdts. No. 2-5. Moreover, the sale 153 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. by a vendor without any title could be disregarded even in a collateral proceeding, i.e., the present suit by the proprietors. The High Court deemed the later suit to be within the period of limitation since reckoning time would not commence from the date of sale deed’s registration but from the date of knowledge of the sales, by the biswedars. Consequently, the High Court upheld the First Appellate Court’s decision decreeing the suit against Dfdts. No. 2-5, and dismissed the second appeal under the impugned . 9. In to adjudicate the present lis, we need to briefl y refer to the concept of a bhondedar, and the nature & extent of rights that a bhondedar exercises with respect to shamlatdeh lands. 10. The term ‘bhondedar’ has no statutory or legislative defi nition. But over a period of time, the term is equated with limited grant of land for service to be rendered by the grantee. It is a customary practice in the Punjab region (present-day areas comprising largely in the states of Punjab & Haryana)1 for proprietors of land as well as the larger village community, to set apart a parcel of land to be held rent-free towards a temple, mosque or shrines, or granted on favourable terms to a saint, pandit or any other person belonging to a religious . As long as such grant (also known as a ‘dholi’ in erstwhile Punjab) was being used for the assigned purpose, the person assigned such dholi (referred to as a ‘dholidar’ in erstwhile Punjab), could not be asked to vacate the same. The terms dholidar and bhondedar are often interchangeably used albeit with minor variance. While a dholi is granted in lieu of a service directly connected with religion, a bhonda would ordinarily be granted towards rendering secular services like that of a village messenger or watchman, towards the proprietors of the said land.2 The bhondedar could be ejected upon failure to fulfi l the conditions of such grant or even at the will of the proprietors.