Learned counsel for the appellant has endeavoured to argue that there are several shortcomings and lacunae in the prosecution case, particularly in view of several inconsistencies and contradictions in the versions of the witnesses; and that the relied upon factors are not providing C such links in the circumstances which may lead to the finding on the guilt of the appellant. While dealing with such submissions, we may usefully take note of the basic principles applicable to this case, as noticeable from the relevant cited decisions. 12.1. The principles explained and enunciated in the case of D Sharad Birdhichand Sarda (supra) remain a guiding light for the Courts in regard to the proof of a case based on circumstantial evidence. Therein, this Court referred to the celebrated decision in the case of Hanumant v. State of Madhya Pradesh: AIR 1952 SC 343 and deduced five golden principles of proving a case based on circumstantial evidence in E the following terms:- “152. It may be useful to extract what Mahajan, J. has laid down in Hanumant case: “It is well to remember that in cases where the evidence is of a circumstantial nature, the circumstances from which the conclusion F of guilt is to be drawn should in the first instance be fully established, and all the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused. Again, the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency and they should be such as to exclude every hypothesis but the one proposed to be proved. In other words, there must be a chain of evidence so far G complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for a conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and it must be such as to show that within all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.” H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 973 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 153. A close analysis of this decision would show that the following A conditions must be fulfilled before a case against an accused can be said to be fully established: (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. B It may be noted here that this Court indicated that the circumstances concerned “must or should” and not “may be” established. There is not only a grammatical but a legal distinction between “may be proved” and “must be or should be proved” as was held by this Court in Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade v. State of Maharashtra7 where the observations were made: C “Certainly, it is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty before a court can convict and the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from sure conclusions.” (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the D hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty, (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency, E (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved, and (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the F innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.