1 and four other aides H 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of respondent no.1, which lead towards the accusation of Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 in the crime. 4. In support of the arguments, learned counsel for the appellant has placed reliance upon the of this Court in the case of State of Maharashtra and Anr. v. Dr. Maroti S/o.Kashinath Pimpalkar1. B 5. On the other hand, learned counsel for Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 submitted that it is a case of blind murder, hence, there was no eye- witness. There was no enmity of Respondent Nos. 1 and 2 with the deceased. They were happily living in the neighbourhood. A false story was built up by the prosecution for which there is no material to support. C He further submitted that Trial Court had failed to exercise jurisdiction vested in it to discharge the respondent no. 1 and 2. They have been falsely implicated in the case. It would be abuse of the process of the Court in case they are made to face trial. The relevant material collected by the prosecution was considered by the High Court. 6. Though the passed by the High Court as such has not D been challenged by the State. The learned counsel for the State having no explanation therefor sought to argue that the impugned cannot be legally sustained as at the stage of consideration of application for discharge, appreciation of the evidence as such was not possible as the same could be only after the evidence is recorded in the Court after E trial. At the stage of framing of charge only prima facie case is to be seen. 7. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the record and relevant papers. 8. After registration of FIR, investigation was conducted and F statements of number of persons were recorded under Section 161 and 164 of Cr.P.C. Even a Psychological Evaluation including Psychological Profiling, Polygraph Testing and Brain Electrical Oscillations Signature Profiling (BEOS) of Respondent No. 1 was conducted on 31.5.2007 and similar tests were conducted on the other four persons viz. Baliram G Chidhu Khade, Mohan Vijayamma Shridharan, Ashok Gajraj Chaudhary, Mehboob Dastagi Sheikh who were close aides of respondent no.1. 9. As it was a blind murder, the crime was investigated and chargesheet dated 09.12.2009 was filed against Hussain Mohammed H 1 (2023) 4 SCC 298 CAPTAIN MANJIT SINGH VIRDI (RETD.) v. HUSSAIN 473 MOHAMMED SHATTAF & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] Shattaf and Waheeda Hussain Shattaf (Respondent nos. 1 and 2) and A Zaanish Khan stating therein that while Respondent no.1 was staying in Dubai for the purpose of his business, his wife respondent no.2 came in contact with the deceased and developed friendship. They started meeting each other frequently. The friendship turned into physical relationship. When the Respondent No.1 returned from Dubai, he came B to know about the same. To take revenge, he in connivance with respondent no.2 and one Zaanish Khan conspired to kill the deceased through unknown assailants.