The respondent cannot take undue advantage of the internal communication. The same was not supported by the decision taken in the Board meeting which alone would be binding on the appellant. (c) It was very clearly mentioned in the agreement of sale cum lease that the rate of Rs.1 Crore was tentative rate. It was further stipulated in clear terms that at the time of fi nal execution of sale cum lease deed, the prevailing rate would be charged as would be fi nalised in due course of time depending upon other attending 2 The Limitation Act 3 (2004) 3 SCC 458 KARNATAKA STATE ELECTRONICS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 781 LTD. v. KUMAON ENTERTAINMENT AND HOSPITALITIES PVT. LTD. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] charges which may be liable to be paid by the appellant. Under the decision of the 141st Board meeting, the prevailing rate in 2007 at the time when change in nature of use was sought was Rs.3.2 Crores per acre and further addition of 40% was liable to be paid for the change in nature as the use was for commercial purposes. (d) The Single Judge and the Division Bench failed to appreciate that all other entities, list of which was provided, had been charged at the fi nal rate determined as per the 141st Board resolution. In case the respondent is allowed to pay at the tentative rate only, all other similarly placed entities who have paid at the fi nal rate would start claiming refund from the appellant causing immense loss of public revenue. (e) The communication based on ignorance of a Board decision, demanding only Rs. 5 lakhs could not be said to be the decision of the appellant. It was a mistake committed by the staff apparently because the Board resolution had been passed about two months earlier. It may not have come to the knowledge of the staff dealing with the request made by the respondent for execution of sale- cum-lease deed after change of nature of the use. (f) The Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court fell in error in not appreciating that any loss to the appellant would amount to loss to the public exchequer. The appellant is a Public Sector Undertaking working under the aegis of the State of Karnataka. It is a non-profi t organisation, established for the growth and promotion of Information Technology and Electronics sector in the State of Karnataka. It had been established to help the IT industries to fl ourish in the State of Karnataka. Hundred per cent shares of the appellant company are held by the State of Karnataka. (g) The impugned passed by the Division Bench deserves to be set aside, the appeal deserves to be allowed and as a result the writ petition preferred by the respondent is liable to be dismissed. 16. The submissions advanced by the learned counsel for the respondent are briefl y summarised as under: 782 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (a) The price of land refl ected in the Letter of Allotment could be done only on two counts namely towards development work or fi nalization of court of awards.