The answer to this question has to be relative to the punishment awarded. When the employee is dismissed or removed from service and the inquiry is set aside because the report is not furnished to him, in some cases the non-furnishing of the report may have prejudiced him gravely while in other cases it may have made no diff erence to the ultimate punishment awarded to him. Hence to direct reinstatement of the employee with back-wages in all cases is to reduce the rules of justice to a mechanical ritual. The theory of reasonable opportunity and the principles of natural justice have been evolved to uphold the rule of law and to assist the individual to vindicate his just rights. They are not incantations to be invoked nor rites to be performed on all and sundry occasions. Whether in fact, prejudice has been caused to the employee or not on account of the denial to him of the report, has to be considered on the facts and circumstances of each case. Where, therefore, even after the furnishing of the report, no diff erent consequence would have followed, it would be a perversion of justice to permit the employee to resume duty and to get all the consequential benefi ts. It amounts to rewarding the dishonest and the guilty and thus to stretching the concept of justice to illogical and exasperating limits. It amounts to an “unnatural expansion of natural justice” which in itself is antithetical to justice. 31. Hence, in all cases where the enquiry offi cer’s report is not furnished to the delinquent employee in the disciplinary proceedings, the Courts and Tribunals should cause the copy of the report to be furnished to the aggrieved employee if he has not already secured it before coming to the Court/Tribunal and give the employee an opportunity to show how his or her case was prejudiced because of the non-supply of the report. If after hearing the parties, the Court/Tribunal comes to the conclusion that the non-supply of the report would have 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. made no diff erence to the ultimate fi ndings and the punishment given, the Court/Tribunal should not interfere with the of punishment. The Court/Tribunal should not mechanically set aside the of punishment on the ground that the report was not furnished as is regrettably being done at present. …” (Emphasis supplied) 65. Applying the aforesaid dictum as laid by this Court no prejudice could be said to have been caused to the respondent even if we believe that he was not asked to plead guilty to the second complaint. Had the respondent been asked if he pleaded guilty to the allegations levelled in the second complaint, then in such circumstances, whether the result would have been any diff erent? The answer to this has to be an emphatic “No”. We say so because the respondent had denied all the ten charges which were framed against him. In other words, the respondent answered to all the ten points by way of his written statement of defence and even had an opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses on each of the charges.