60. We may observe that the Maharashtra Police Manual6, when speaking of the integrity of scientific evidence in Appendix XXIV states- “The integrity of exhibits and control samples must be safeguarded G from the moment of seizure upto the completion of examination in the laboratory. This is best done by immediately packing, sealing 5 (2019) 12 SCC 460 6 Available here-https://www.mahapolice.gov.in/uploads/acts_rules/ MumbaiPoliceManualPartIII.pdf H 176 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A and labeling and to prove the continuity of the integrity of the samples, the messenger or bearer will have to testify in Court that what he had received was sealed and delivered in the same condition in the laboratory. The laboratory must certify that they have compared the seals and found them to be correct. Articles should always be kept apart from one another after packing them B separately and contact be scrupulously avoided in transport also.” 61. In the present case, the delay in sending the samples is unexplained and therefore, the possibility of contamination and the concomitant prospect of diminishment in value cannot be reasonably ruled out. On the need for expedition in ensuring that samples when C collected are sent to the concerned laboratory as soon as possible, we may refer to “Guidelines for collection, storage and transportation of Crime Scene DNA samples For Investigating Officers- Central Forensic Science Laboratory Directorate Of Forensic Sciences Services Ministry Of Home Affairs, Govt. of India”7 which in particular reference to blood and semen, irrespective of its form, i.e. liquid or dry (crust/stain or spatter) D records the sample so taken “Must be submitted in the laboratory without any delay.” 62. The document also lays emphasis on the ‘chain of custody’ being maintained. Chain of custody implies that right from the time of taking of the sample, to the time its role in the investigation and processes subsequent, is complete, each person handling said piece of evidence E must duly be acknowledged in the documentation, so as to ensure that the integrity is uncompromised. It is recommended that a document be duly maintained cataloguing the custody. A chain of custody document in other words is a document, “which should include name or initials of the individual collecting the evidence, each person or entity subsequently F having custody of it, dated the items were collected or transferred, agency and case number, victim’s or suspect’s name and the brief description of the item.” 63. Indisputably, these “without any delay” and “chain of custody” aspects which are indispensable to the vitality of such evidence, were not complied with. In such a situation, this court cannot hold the DNA G Report Ext.85 to be so dependable as to send someone to the gallows on this basis. We have carefully perused FSL as well as DNA report forming part of the record. A snapshot of the said reports, in a tabulated format is presented as under : 7 Available at- http://cfslchandigarh.gov.in/Uploads/Media/Original H 20180627121024_IO-SOP%20Final.pdf PRAKASH NISHAD @ KEWAT ZINAK NISHAD v. STATE OF 177 MAHARASHTRA [SANJAY KAROL, J.]