Section 43(1) opens with the words “save as otherwise provided in the Act”, which brings in compliance with other provisions of the 2003 Act including Section 50 which empowers the State Commission to specify the Electricity Supply Code; G iii. The Explanation to Section 43(1) requires the applicant to submit an application complete in all respects along with documents showing payment of necessary charges and other compliances. This payment not only includes application fees, but also includes the charges related H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 661 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] to supply of electricity; The other compliances would A include due discharge of any pending or outstanding dues, if so demanded by the licensee; and iv. Section 43(2) specifically provides that the applicant has to fulfil the obligation to pay the price as determined by the State Commission to demand the supply of B electricity. The term “price” used in Section 43 is the consideration for the supply of electricity. b. Supply of electricity is with respect to premises i. The supply of electricity is with reference to the C “premises” according to Sections 2(15), 43, 45, and 50 of the 2003 Act. Similar provisions existed in the 1910 Act and 1948 Act. Further, the disconnection dealt in Section 56 of the 2003 Act and Section 24 of the 1910 Act necessarily relate to identified premises; ii. The definition of consumer under Section 2(15) of the D 2003 Act includes “any person whose premises are for the time being connected for the purpose of receiving electricity with the works of a licensee…” Hence the expression “premises” is the continued identified place for supply of electricity, irrespective of E any change in the owner or occupier; and iii. The Electric Utilities are required to have an infrastructure in place for the purposes of supplying electricity to consumers. They have to incur operation and maintenance costs to be in readiness to supply F electricity. Therefore, if liability is not fastened to the premises, such charges would ultimately be borne by the general consumers since this would be factored in the fixation of tariff. c. Regulatory regime to recover arrears of electricity dues G i. Section 49 of the 1948 Act empowers the Electricity Board to supply electricity upon such terms and conditions as the Board thinks fit. Under Section 79 of the 1948 Act, the Board can make regulations not inconsistent with the Act and the Rules made H 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A thereunder. In Hyderabad Vanaspathi (supra) this Court held that terms and conditions of supply framed by the Electricity Board under Section 49 of the 1948 Act are statutory in character; ii. The terms and conditions of supply under the 2003 Act B are framed by independent regulators in terms of Section 50 read with Section 181(2)(x) of the 2003 Act after following a detailed procedure. Therefore, the Electricity Supply Code framed by the State Commission is a subordinate legislation and has a statutory character.