The complainant was a victim of a serious road accident, wherein, it is common for various serious infections and complications to occur. The Complainant failed to produce any evidence proving that Dr. Pradhan opined that the complications were only a result of the forced ‘NI’. Relying on the expert committee, it was held that subsequent medical complications, and infections are common after serious road accidents. 24. The NCDRC awarded Mrs. Sunita a compensation of Rs. 6,11,638/- @ 9% p.a. for the medical expenses she incurred at Suretech Hospital. Reasoning, that as only a single act of negligence is proved, that too not attributable to all subsequent medical complications, it is only fair to announce compensation against the medical expenses incurred at Suretech Hospital. The NCDRC further directed that Rs. 50,000/- be paid to Mrs. Sunita as cost towards her litigation expenses. PLEADINGS ASSAILING THE IMPUGNED NCDRC : 25. Assailing the NCDRC dated 16.02.2018, Mrs. Sunita fi led Civil Appeal 4847 of 2018, seeking enhancement of Rs. 6,11,638/- compensation. She also claimed a higher rate of interest at 18% instead of the awarded 9% interest p.a. The patient claims that though the NCDRC was correct in attributing medical negligence with respect to the unjustifi ed forced ‘NI’ procedure, replacing the existing ‘TT’, the NCDRC erred in holding 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. that there is no direct link attributable to the said act of negligence leading to subsequent prolonged medical complications, permanent respiratory damage, and voice-loss. Mrs. Sunita claims that the sole reason why she lost her voice and suff ered from tracheal stenosis, is the forced ‘NI’. Though the Bronchoscopy report on 13.05.2004 indicated that she has a normal airway enabling normal breathing through the existing ‘TT’, the ‘NI’ was yet conducted forcefully, resulting in a tracheal injury. Furthermore, the ‘NI’ procedure was undertaken despite multiple failed attempts to decannulate the ‘TT’. Resultantly, the patient developed Frank Pus. She also further suff ered from ‘Severe Septicemia’, directly attributing it to her tracheal injury. Moreover, Mrs. Sunita averred that Suretech Hospital’s discharge summary does not mention any details about the ‘NI’ procedure, indicating an attempt to hide the commission of the aforesaid negligent act. 26. On 30.01.2005, Dr. A.G. Pusalkar performed tracheoplasty on Mrs. Sunita, wherein, a 3.5cm Grade-IV subglottic stenotic segment was excised. As a result, she now has to live permanently with a shortened windpipe. It is further claimed that as per medical science, 95% subglotticstenosis cases are acquired, and out of those about 90% cases result from traumatic ‘NI’. Resultantly, it is claimed that she has to live with a life-long respiratory problem, with a danger of aspiration, causing a potential life-threatening situation like asphyxia. As a result, Mrs. Sunita claimed Rs. 75,00,000/- for the deformity of her respiratory tract, and another Rs. 75,00,000/- for losing her voice. She seeks another Rs. 5,00,000/- for permanent disfi guration of her neck. She further sought Rs. 50,00,000/- as compensation towards the mental and physical suff ering she had to undergo due to her prolonged treatment.