The purpose of emphasizing this distinction is that the reservation which is contemplated by clause (a) of sub-section (1A) of Section 7 is in the character of the Bhutia-Lepcha as a section. This is distinct from reservations for tribes. 82. Article 371F of the Constitution contains special provisions for the State of Sikkim and begins with a non-obstante clause. Clause (f) empowers 20 (1-B) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), in the Legislative Assemblies of the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Nagaland, to be constituted at any time after the commencement of the Representation of the People (Third Amendment) Act, 1987 (40 of 1987),— (a) [fi fty-nine seats] shall be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Arunachal Pradesh; [(1-C) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), twenty seats shall be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tripura to be constituted at any time after the commencement of the Representation of the People (Amendment) Act, 1992 PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1109 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Parliament to make provision for the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly which may be fi lled by candidates “belonging to such sections” and for the delimitation of constituencies. Parliament is entrusted with this enabling power “for the purpose of protecting the rights and interest of diff erent sections of the population of Sikkim”. 83. Article 371F creates special provisions for setting apart seats in the Legislative Assembly for such sections as Parliament may seek to legislate upon. It was in exercise of the power under Article 371F(f) that Parliament enacted the provision enabling the reservation of twelve seats for Sikkimese of Bhutia-Lepcha origin under Section 7(1A) of the RP Act. 84. The validity of Section 7(1A) was challenged before this Court in RC Poudyal (supra). Justice MN Venkatachaliah (as the learned Chief Justice then was) delivered the of the majority, in the Constitution Bench and observed that the principle of proportionality specifi ed in Article 332(3) is a broad and general principle which is not intended to be arithmetically precise. Article 332(3)(a) was, hence, together with Article 333, regarded as illustrative of the broad principle of proportionality. The learned Judge observed: “126. An examination of the constitutional scheme would indicate that the concept of ‘one person one vote’ is in its very nature considerably tolerant of imbalances and departures from a very strict application and enforcement. The provision in the Constitution indicating proportionality of representation is necessarily a broad, general and logical principle but not intended to be expressed with arithmetical precision. Articles 332(3-A) and 333 are illustrative instances. The principle of mathematical proportionality of representation is not a declared basic requirement in each and every part of the territory of India. Accommodations and adjustments, having regard to the political maturity, awareness and degree of political development in diff erent parts of India, might supply the justifi cation for even non- elected Assemblies wholly or in part, in certain parts of the country.