We, therefore, allow this appeal, set aside the decisions rendered by the Single Judge [Abhijit Singh Pawar v. State of M.P., WP No. 9412 of 2013, dated 31-7- 2014 (MP)] as well as by the Division Bench [State of M.P. v. Abhijit Singh Pawar, 2015 SCC OnLine MP 7517] and dismiss Writ Petition No. 9412 of 2013 preferred by the respondent. No costs. 13. In Rajasthan Rajya Vidhut Prasaran Nigam Limited and Another v. Anil Kanwaria19, where the employer had invited applications for the post of a Technical Helper and on qualifying for the said post, the respondent therein was appointed as a probationer trainee, in the course of his police verifi cation which was a pre-condition for confi rming him to the post, it had transpired that he had been convicted by the trial Court for off ences under Sections 323 and 341 of the IPC but was extended benefi t under the Probation of Off enders Act, 1958 and released on good conduct. This Court observed that at the time of submitting an application for appointment, the respondent had already suff ered a conviction by the competent Court which fact was withheld by him and he had fi led a false declaration. These facts emerged only after receiving the police verifi cation report. After distilling the law on appointments obtained by fraud or misrepresentation/ by suppression of material facts, this Court proceeded to quash and set aside 19 (2021) 10 SCC 136 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND OTHERS v. 453 BHUPENDRA YADAV [HIMA KOHLI, J.] the passed by the learned Single Judge and upheld the passed by the Division Bench of the High Court, directing reinstatement of the respondent – employee and held that said decision was unsustainable in view of the fact that the employee had not disclosed/suppressed material facts and had fi led a false declaration. 14. In the captioned case, this Court expressed a view that even where there was a subsequent acquittal, the employee having furnished false information/indulged in suppression of material fact of a pending criminal case, cannot claim appointment as a matter of right. Following are the observations made regarding the credibility of such an employee from the perspective of the employer: “14. The issue/question may be considered from another angle, from the employer’s point of view. The question is not about whether an employee was involved in a dispute of trivial nature and whether he has been subsequently acquitted or not. The question is about the credibility and/or trustworthiness of such an employee who at the initial stage of the employment i.e. while submitting the declaration/ verifi cation and/or applying for a post made false declaration and/or not disclosing and/or suppressing material fact of having involved in a criminal case. If the correct facts would have been disclosed, the employer might not have appointed him. Then the question is of trust. Therefore, in such a situation, where the employer feels that an employee who at the initial stage itself has made a false statement and/or not disclosed the material facts and/or suppressed the material facts and therefore he cannot be continued in service because such an employee cannot be relied upon even in future, the employer cannot be forced to continue such an employee.