14.6 In this regard, we also take the note of Hon’ble Supreme Court directions in dated 24.08.2014 in Manohar Lal G Sharma Vs. Principal Secy., in W.P. (CRL) 120 of 2012 (Para 158) that coal from captive coal mines is to be used for UMPP alone and no diversion of coal for commercial exploitation would be permitted. Keeping these facts in view, we notice the glowing difference between an independent coal mines up for exploitation and selling coal on commercial lines and a captive coal mine set H 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A up to meet requirement of UMPP only to generate power for the ultimate benefit of the Respondent procurers and in turn, consumers for obtaining electricity at cheaper rates. The actual positions purported the assumption made by the Appellant that the customs duty exemptions will be available for import of the equipment for the entire project including captive mines and power plants. We B find force in the argument of the learned counsel for the Appellant that being the integral and inseparable part of the UMPP, the custom duty rates applicable for stand alone coal mining projects would not be applicable in the present case and the exemption would need to be given effect to. We, thus opine that the Central C Commission appears to have been mechanically guided by the mere description of the relevant entry (Sl.No.399 & 400) in the said custom duty notifications and has not appreciated that the captive coal mines being integral part of the UMPP cannot be equated to a stand alone coal mines, having commercial line of utilization. The Appellant was thus right in assuming that Custom D Duty exemption will be available for the coal mining equipments. As such, this issue needs to be examined afresh in accordance with law and various provisions of the RFQ/RFP/PPA. Therefore, we answer this issue in favour of the Appellant.” (19) On the basis of the aforesaid findings, the Tribunal remanded E the matter back to the Commission. We may also notice the sequel to the impugned . Pursuant to the remand, the Commission reconsidered the matter in regard to the water intake. The Commission ed payment of sum of Rs.176 crores. As far as the claim for compensation on the basis that the issuance of the office memorandum F by the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Power having brought about a change in law, it was found that the goods in question had been imported not by the first respondent but by its parent company. This, in turn, has triggered two sets of appeals again before the Tribunal and they are still pending. Their fate, undoubtedly, will depend upon the decision which we will be rendering in these cases. G (20) We have heard Mr. P. Chidambaram, Mr. Dhruv Mehta, Mr. Rana Mukherjee, Mr. M. G. Ramachandran, Mr. G. Umapathy, learned senior counsel, assisted by Mr. Nikunj Dayal and Ms. Pallavi Sehgal. We have also heard Mr. Shubham Arya, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant in one of the appeals.