103 2023 SCC OnLine SC 138 104 State of West Bengal v. Union of India, (1964) 1 SCR 317 105 Babulal Parate v. State of Bombay, (1960) 1 SCR 605 106 Raja Ram Pal v. Hon’ble Speaker, Lok Sabha, (2007) 3 SCC 184 107 S.R. Bommai (supra) IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 345 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] On a query as to when the elections would be held, it was stated that the endeavours are being made to do so at the earliest and that grassroot democracy have already been restored by the elections held at the Panchayat levels. It was submitted that the Hon’ble Home Minister on the fl oor of the House had already said that this was a temporary measure, and it would again become a State. B. The suspension of the proviso to Article 3 was permissible. i. The proviso to Article 3 has been suspended each time Article 356 is invoked. Every provision of the Constitution that refers to any decision to be made by the Legislative Assembly is suspended in this manner, notwithstanding whether that decision is legislative or recommendatory in character. The Parliament then substitutes the Assembly in all capacities. ii. The exercise of powers of the State Legislature by the Parliament under Article 356 for the purpose of reorganizing the State of Punjab in 1966 was upheld by the High Court of Delhi in Manohar Lal v. Union of India108. This includes the takeover of powers of the State Legislature to meet and express its views, as contemplated by the proviso to Article 3. This was because the Governor’s power to summon the Legislature was itself suspended. iii. The views contemplated by the proviso to Article 3 can be given by the Parliament itself without obviating the federal structure of the Constitution. At times, reorganization of a State is required to bring it out of the situation that necessitated the imposition of President’s Rule in the fi rst place. The principle that the Indian Constitution is both, unitary and federal, must, thus, be appreciated in this context. Resolution of Constitutional Dilemma: 45. The task which confronts us is of analyzing the wide spectrum of submissions to assess the constitutionality of the path adopted by the 108 AIR 1970 Del 178 346 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. respondents. The submissions advanced before us by both sides and diff erent counsels have been set forth hereinabove. In the conspectus of the same, we have analyzed these submissions under the following broad heads: 1. The Constitutional Relationship between the Union and the State of Jammu and Kashmir prior to the impugned actions. A. The concept of internal sovereignty after the IoA. 46. The petitioners urge that Maharaja Hari Singh retained an element of ‘internal sovereignty’ with himself, having signed the IOA but not a Merger Agreement. To our mind, this question is no longer res integra, having received earlier consideration by a coordinate bench of this Court in Prem Nath Kaul,109 where the vires of the Jammu & Kashmir Big Landed Estate Abolition Act, 1950 was in question.