9. Section 62 defines ‘primary evidence’ thus:- 62. Primary evidence. –– Primary evidence means the document itself produced for the inspection of the Court. H Explanation 1. ––Where a document is executed in several M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 381 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] parts, each part is primary evidence of the document. Where A a document is executed in counterpart, each counterpart being executed by one or some of the parties only, each counterpart is primary evidence as against the parties executing it. Explanation 2. –– Where a number of documents are all made by one uniform process, as in the case of printing, lithography B or photography, each is primary evidence of the contents of the rest; but, where they are all copies of a common original, they are not primary evidence of the contents of the original. A person is shown to have been in possession of a number of placards, all printed at one time from one original. Any one C of the placards is primary evidence of the contents of any other, but no one of them is primary evidence of the contents of the original. 10. Section 63 of the Indian Evidence Act defines secondary evidence which reads thus: - D “63. Secondary evidence. –– Secondary evidence means and includes –– (1) certified copies given under the provisions hereinafter contained; (2) copies made from the original by mechanical processes E which in themselves ensure the accuracy of the copy, and copies compared with such copies; (3) copies made from or compared with the original; (4) counterparts of documents as against the parties who did F not execute them; (5) oral accounts of the contents of a document given by some person who has himself seen it.” 11. Thus, the definition ‘secondary evidence’ means and includes what are mentioned in clauses ‘1 to 5’.Though, the inclusive definition G speaks of different kinds of secondary evidence, such as, mentioned under clauses ‘1 to 5’, a careful scanning of the Evidence Act would reveal that copies which fall under clause (1) of Section 63 alone carry the presumption of genuineness and correctness, by virtue of the provision under Section 79 of the Evidence Act. Section 79 reads thus:- H 382 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “79. Presumption as to genuineness of certified copies. –– The Court shall presume [to be genuine] every document purporting to be a certificate, certified copy or other document, which is by Law declared to be admissible as evidence of any particular fact, and which purports to be duly certified by any officer [of the Central Government or B of a State Government, or by any officer [in the State of Jammu and Kashmir] who is duly authorized thereto by the Central Government]: Provided that such document is substantially in the form and purports to be executed in the manner directed by law in that C behalf. The Court shall also presume that any officer by whom any such document purports to be signed or certified, held, when he signed it, the official character which he claims in such paper.” 12.