47. Accordingly, we analyse the evidence considered by the High Court and this Court in appeal without relying upon the CDRs. The High D Court took note of the following evidence in its before arriving at the conclusion of the guilt of the petitioner and confirming his conviction: 18. According to P.W.1 the mother of the deceased child Suresh, the child used to leave for School every day at about 8.00 A.M. and come back at about 4.30 P.M., and on the date of occurrence, E i.e., 27.7.2009, the child as usual went to the school. From the evidence of P.W.6, the Correspondent of Sakthi Matriculation School, Vridhachalam, and also the attendance register, Ex.P3, it would be quite evident that the child attended the school that day and was returning from the school in the van meant for that purpose. According to P.W. 2, she is also studying along with the F deceased Suresh, and on the day, both were returning from the school in the van and got down at Karkudal, and at that time A-1 who was standing under a Neem tree along with the motorbike, came to them and told the child Suresh that both his mother and grandmother were not doing well and on that false reason, took G the child from the place. The evidence of P.W.2 was much commented by the learned Counsel for the appellant. But, those contentions cannot be agreed. The learned trial Judge has categorically pointed out before recording the evidence that the maturity of the mind of the child, P.W.2, to give evidence was actually tested and found satisfactory, and then he recorded the H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1045 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] evidence. The child at the time of occurrence, was 10 years old, A and at the time of giving evidence, it was aged 11. […] 19. It would quite clear that if the evidence of a child witness is cogent and convincing, the Court can accept that evidence. In the B instant case, the evidence of P.W.2 is narrated above. According to P.W.1, immediately when the child did not return by 4.30 P.M., she entertained suspicion and went in search of her son, and she immediately met P.W.2, the other child.P.W.2 informed P.W.1 that the child Suresh was taken by a person in a motorbike telling the above reasons. Now, at this juncture, in to accept the C evidence of P.W.2, the earliest version as found in Ex.P1, in the considered opinion of the Court, would suffice. A perusal of Ex.P1, the complaint, would clearly indicate that after the child did not return, P.W.1 met P.W.2 Kamali, the other child, and she was informed by P.W.2 that the child was taken by a person in a D motorbike with the above false reasons. Thus the earliest version found therein, would clearly indicate that P.W.2 has come with a true version. That apart, the child was able to identify the motorbike, marked as M.O.5, before the Court.