G 19. Another submission made on behalf of the appellant, that her husband has not been examined by the prosecution, does not take her case any further. Her husband was not shown to be in the country at the time of incident and he was not a direct witness in relation to the material facts to be established by the prosecution. Other way round, if at all the H 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A appellant considered him to be a material witness, nothing prevented her from making a prayer to the Court for his examination and nothing prevented her from making specific submissions in that regard during her examination under Section 313 CrPC. 20. As regards the statement under Section 313 CrPC, the appellant B has not given any explanation whatsoever and has not made any statement except denying the circumstances put to her. In the facts of the present case, when the prosecution evidence categorically established the fact that the victim child was last seen alive with the appellant only; she was required to explain the circumstances leading to the demise of the child. Upon her failure to do so and failure to give the explanation C with regard to the circumstances under which death may have taken place, burden of Section 106 of the Evidence Act operates heavily against the appellant, as noticeable from the decisions above referred, particularly in the cases of Satpal and Sabitri Samantaray (supra). 21. In an overall comprehension of the material on record and the D findings recorded by the Trial Court and the High Court, in our view, no case for interference with the concurrent findings of fact is made out. 22. The submissions made in the alternative that in the given set of circumstances, the present case could only be of culpable homicide not amounting to murder has only been noted to be rejected. Even if it be E taken that there was a quarrel of the appellant with her mother-in-law (PW-1) in the morning of the date of incident because the appellant wanted to go the place of her father, it cannot be said that such a quarrel would make it a case of grave and sudden provocation. The circumstances as proved on record, and the manner of commission of crime, make it clear that the present case cannot be brought under any of the Exceptions F of Section 300 IPC; and conviction and sentencing of the appellant under Section 302 IPC cannot be faulted. 23. In view of the above, this appeal fails and is, therefore, dismissed. G Ankit Gyan Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Keya Philomena Rebello and Mahendra Yadav, LCRAs) H