The provision casts a duty on the distribution licensee to supply electricity to the owner F or occupier’s premises. Correspondingly, the owner or occupier of the premises has a right to apply for and obtain electric supply from the distribution licensee.22 Both the right and the corresponding duty are imposed by the statute. The owner or occupier of the premises has to submit an application to avail of the supply of electricity. G 32. In Brihanmumbai Electric Supply & Transport Undertaking v. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission,23 a two-judge Bench of this Court observed that the obligation of the distribution licensee to supply electricity to premises will begin after the 22 Chandu Khamaru v. Nayan Malik, (2011) 12 SCC 314 23 (2015) 2 SCC 438 H 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A owner or occupier of such premises submits a completed application. The explanation to Section 43 clarifies that the application must be complete in all respects along with the necessary documents showing payment of “necessary charges” and other compliances, as required by the distribution licensee. Thus, under Section 43, the distribution licensee is obligated to supply electricity to the premises of an owner or occupier, B provided that the owner or occupier pays all charges and complies with all conditions stipulated by the distribution licensee. Section 43 begins with the words “Save as otherwise provided in this Act”. Hence, the operation of Section 43 will also be subject to compliance with the other provisions of the 2003 Act. C 33. Section 45 lays down the manner of computation of the price to be charged by the distribution licensee for supply of electricity under Section 43. It provides that a distribution licensee may fix charges for supply of electricity in accordance with the tariffs fixed from time to time in accordance with the methods and principles specified by the D concerned State Commission. Under Section 46, a distribution licensee is empowered to charge from any person who seeks supply of electricity any expenses reasonably incurred in providing any electric line or electric plant used for the purpose of giving electricity. Section 47 empowers the distribution licensee to seek a reasonable security from any person who requires supply under Section 43. It further provides that the distribution E licensee can refuse to supply electricity to any person who fails to give the security deposit. The provision is extracted below: “47. Power to require security – (1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a distribution licensee may require any person, who requires a supply of electricity in pursuance of section 43, to F give him reasonable security, as may be determined by regulations, for the payment to him of all monies which may become due to him – (a) in respect of the electricity supplied to such person; or (b) where any electricity line or electrical plant or electric meter G is to be provided for supplying electricity to such person, in respect of the provision of such line or plant or meter, And if that person fails to give such security, the distribution licensee may, if he thinks fit, refuse to give the supply of H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 671 ORS.