In such a case the court must ascertain the substance of the pleadings to determine the question. It is not desirable to place undue emphasis on form, instead, the substance of the pleadings should be considered. Whenever the question about lack of pleading is raised the enquiry should not be so much about the form of the pleadings; 14 (1987) 2 SCC 555 (2-Judge Bench) MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 891 instead, the court must fi nd out whether in substance the parties knew the case and the issues upon which they went to trial. Once it is found that in spite of defi ciency in the pleadings, parties knew the case and they proceeded to trial on those issues by producing evidence in that event it would not be open to a party to raise the question of absence of pleadings in appeal….” 29. We may also refer to Udhav Singh v. Madhav Rao Scindia15, wherein a bench of two learned judges observed: “25...If the plea or ground of defence “raises issues of fact not arising out of the plaint”, such plea or ground is likely to take the plaintiff by surprise, and is therefore required to be pleaded. If the plea or ground of defence raises an issue arising out of what is alleged or admitted in the plaint, or is otherwise apparent from the plaint, itself, no question of prejudice or surprise to the plaintiff arises. Nothing in the rule compels the defendant to plead such a ground, not debars him from setting it up at a later stage of the case, particularly when it does not depend on evidence but raises a pure question of law turning on a construction of the plaint.” 30. A reading of the s above would imply that substance is what the courts need to look into, and therefore, in reference to the production of documents, in the considered view of this court, so long as the document is produced for the limited purpose of eff ective cross-examination or to jog the memory of the witness at the stand is not completely divorced from or foreign to the pleadings made, the same cannot be said to fl y in the face of this established proposition. 31. Save and except the cross-examination part of a civil suit, at no other point shall such confrontation be allowed, without such document having accompanied the plaint or written statement fi led before the court. For this purpose, reference be made to VII Rule 14(4)(This Rule speaks of the plaintiff necessarily listing in his plaint and, producing before the court, the documents upon which they seek to place reliance, in support of his claim. Sub-rule 4 exempts from this obligation documents produced 15 (1977) 1 SCC 511 892 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. for the limited purpose of cross-examination or to jog the memory of a witness), VIII Rule 1A(4)(a) (This Rule speaks of the defendant necessarily listing in his Written Statement and, producing before the court the documents upon which they seek to place reliance, in defense of his claim for set-off or counterclaim.