Immediately thereafter, the successive elected Government restored its policy by dated 24th February, 1997 and provided employment to the educated youth for rural development programmes in various schemes at the village panchayat, F be it for assisting in the maintenance of village assets and libraries, implementation of adult literacy programme in villages, for their social welfare and also to work for anti-liquor campaign. Such of the youth which put in place to get themselves involved in the scheme introduced in the village panchayat came to be disbanded by dated 1st June, G 2001. Later, it was again introduced by dated 12th June, 2006 and their honorarium stood increased at later stages and their services stood extended by 21st May, 2010 for the period from 1st June, 2010 to 31st May, 2012. But it appears that there was a change of guard in the interregnum period and immediately thereafter, the policy was disbanded by dated 8th November, 2011 which was the subject matter of H THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU v. TAMIL NADU 403 MAKKAL NALA PANIYALARGAL [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] challenge before the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution on A behalf of the respondents. 32. It has to be noticed that for rural development, major focus of planning had been productive absorption of underemployed and surplus labour force of the rural sector. In to provide direct supplementary wage-employment to the rural poor, the Central Government came with B a legislation, namely, Act 2005, with salient features as follows:- (i) The objective of the legislation is to enhance the livelihood security of the poor households in rural areas of the country by providing at least one hundred days of guaranteed wage employment to every poor household whose adult members C volunteer to do unskilled manual work. (ii) The State Government shall, in such rural areas in the State and for such period as may be notified by the Central Government, provide to every poor household guaranteed wage employment in unskilled manual work at least for a D period of one hundred days in a financial year in accordance with the provisions made in the legislation. (iii) Every State Government shall, within six months from the date of commencement of this legislation, prepare a scheme to give effect to the guarantee proposed under the E legislation. (iv) The one hundred days of employment under the legislation will be provided at the wage rate to be specified by the Central Government for the purpose of this legislation. Until such time a wage rate is specified by the Central F Government for an area, the minimum wage rate fixed by the State Government under the Minimum Wages Act, 1948 for agricultural labourers shall be considered as the wage rate applicable to that area. (v) If an eligible applicant is not provided work as per the G provisions of this legislation within the prescribed time limit, it will be obligatory on the part of the State Government to pay unemployment allowance at the prescribed rate.