place within the (2-A) Where a motor vehicle plies State but through the for hire or reward in contravention intervening territory of the provisions of the Motor of another State] to Vehicles Act, 1988 the owner any place within the of such vehicle shall, without, State, or from any prejudice to any action which place within the State is or may be taken under that to any place outside Act, be liable to pay tax at the the State the tax shall rate specifi ed in sub-section (1) be payable in respect or such amount of fares and of the distance covered freights as may be determined within the State at the in the prescribed manner by the rate laid down in sub- prescribed authority.] section (1) and shall (3) Where passengers are carried be calculated on such or goods transported by a motor amount as bears the vehicle from any place outside the same proportion to the State but through the intervening total fare and freight as territory of another State] to any the distance covered in place the State bears to the NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 31 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] total distance of the outside the State the tax shall be journey. payble in respect of the distance covered within the State at the rate laid down in sub-section (1) and shall be calculated on such amount as bears the same proportion to the total fare and fright as the distance covered in the state bears to the total distance of the journey. (Underlining by us) 9.1. Apart from the above, the salient Sections to be noticed are Sections 5 to 9 of the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 which read as under: “5. In Section 3A, of the Principal Act, for the words “stage/contract carriage”, the words “transport vehicle, excluding a goods vehicle/ carriage”, shall be substituted. 6. In Section 3B and 21A of the Principal Act, the word “Schedule”, wherever it occurs, the word “Schedule-II” shall be substituted. 7. The existing “SCHEDULE” to the Principal Act shall be re- numbered as “SCHEDULE-II and before the “SCHEDULE-II” so re-numbered, the following “SCHEDULE-I” shall be inserted namely:- (not typed in the Paperbook) * * * * * * * * 8. The amendments to the Principal Act, made by Sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of the Act shall and shall always be deemed to have been made retrospectively from the date of the commencement of the Principal Act. 9. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any , decree, or of any court or other authority to the contrary, any assessment, levy, charge or payment of any tax on passengers and goods carried to have been made or any action taken or anything done under the provisions of the Principal Act at any time on or after 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the commencement of the Act, but before the commencement of the Himachal Pradesh Passengers and Goods Taxation (Amendment and Validation) Act, 1997 (hereinafter referred to as this ‘Act’), shall be deemed to be a valid action or thing had been made, taken or done under the provisions of the said Act as amended by this Act and accordingly- i) the aforesaid tax assessed, levied, charged, paid or collected or purporting to have been assessed, levied, charged, paid or collected under the provisions of the said Act, before the commencement of this Act shall be deemed to be and always be deemed to have been validly assessed, levied, charged, paid or collected in accordance with law: (ii) no suit or other proceeding shall be maintained or continued in any court or before any authority for the refund of, and no enforcement shall be made by any court or authority of any decree or directing the refund of any such aforesaid tax, which has been collected; (iii) recoveries, if any, shall be made in accordance with the provision of the said act of all amounts which would have been collected thereunder as such aforesaid tax if this Act had been in force at all material times; and (iv) anything done or any action taken (including any rule or made, notifi cation issued or direction given or exemption granted or penalty imposed) under the said Act before the commencement of this Act shall be deemed always to have been validly done or taken in accordance with this Act.