The relevant observations read as under: - “16. …Tenure means a term during which an offi ce is held. It is a condition of holding the offi ce. Once a person is appointed to a tenure post, his appointment to the said offi ce begins when he joins and it comes to an end on the completion of the tenure unless curtailed on justifi able grounds. Such a person does not superannuate, he only goes out of the offi ce on completion of his tenure. …” 44. A similar view as aforesaid was taken by this Court in P. Venugopal v. Union of India reported in (2008) 5 SCC 1. 45. In another decision of this Court in J.S. Yadav v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another reported in (2011) 6 SCC 570, it was held that a person appointed to a tenure post only goes out once the tenure is completed. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “17. An employee appointed for a fi xed period under the statute is entitled to continue till the expiry of the tenure and in such a case there can be no occasion to pass the of superannuation for the reason that the tenure comes to an end automatically by effl ux of time….” 46. We are not impressed with the submission canvassed on behalf of the appellants that the post of the Vice-Chancellor being a “tenure post” reappointment is not permissible. The statute itself has provided for reappointment with some object in mind. The ordinary meaning that can be ascribed to the term “reappointment” is the act or process of deciding essentially that someone should continue in a particular job. Ordinarily, the object behind providing for reappointment is twofold. First is “retention” i.e., where the incumbent to the offi ce/post during his term is found to be extraordinary and has established himself or herself to be an asset to the institution, then in such circumstance, such person is retained with a view to allow him to continue on the same post for one more term. Secondly, DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 419 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] having regard to the nature of the post the organization or institution may not be in a position to fi ll up the post in a time bound manner and in such circumstances, the provision for reappointment may enable the organization or institution to relieve itself of the tedium of going through the entire selection process afresh every time the post becomes vacant. 47. In view of the aforesaid, we hold that reappointment is permissible even in case of a tenure post. ii) Whether the outer-age limit stipulated under sub-section (9) of Section 10 of the Act 1996 is applicable in case of reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor? 48. On a plain reading of sub-section (9) of Section 10 of the Act 1996, it appears that the person sought to be appointed as a Vice-Chancellor must not be more than sixty-years of age at the time of appointment i.e., it provides the outer age limit for appointment.