vs. Union of India AIR 1978 SC 803; (1978) 2 SCC 50, a Seven- Judge Bench of this Court considered the question whether Parliament enacting an Act consequent upon the G of the Calcutta High Court would unsettle the binding effect of the said . In that case, the appeal filed against the of the Calcutta High Court was not pressed before this Court and the said was allowed to become final. This Court held that there was nothing in the H 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Act passed subsequent to the of the Calcutta High Court which had nullified the effect of the same or which could unsettle the or take away the binding character of the same. In the circumstances, it was held that Life Insurance Corporation which was a party in that case was liable to make the payment of cash bonus for the B year 1975-1976 to its Class III and IV employees in accordance with the said of the Calcutta High Court as it was not absolved of the obligations imposed by the said despite the Parliament passing an Act subsequent thereto on the ground that the of the C Calcutta High Court was binding on the parties thereto. (c) Further, in Neelima Srivastava vs. State of Uttar Pradesh (2021) SCC online 610, reference was made to Secretary, State of Karnataka vs. Uma Devi (3) (2006) 4 SCC 1 (“Uma Devi 3”), in which the Constitution Bench D had stated, “it is also clarifted that those decisions which run counter to the principle settled in this decision, or in which directions running counter to what we have held herein, will stand denuded of its status as precedent.” It was observed in Neelima Srivastava that the import of the aforesaid observations was that earlier E decisions running counter to the principles settled in the decision of Uma Devicould not be treated as a precedent. This does not mean that the of a competent Court delivered prior to the decision in Uma Deviwhich attained finality and is binding inter-se between the parties need not F be implemented. It was further observed that, “mere overruling of the principles, on which the earlier was passed, by a subsequent of higher forum will not have the effect of uprooting the ftnal adjudication between the parties and set it at naught.” G Moreover, it was held that there is a distinction between overruling of a principle and reversal of a . The between the parties has to be assailed and overcome in a manner known to or recognised by law by a higher forum. Mere overruling of principles by a subsequent H GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 251 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] will not dilute the binding effect of the decision on A parties to the overruled. It was held that observation at paragraph 54 of Uma Devi case does not absolve the parties in other cases to comply with the directions issued prior to the in Uma Devi’s case.