of that amount in the manner as may be prescribed.” D 17. A plain reading of the aforesaid provisions of the Act 1986 and Act 2019, respectively would indicate that the remedy of appeal to this Court is available only with respect to the s passed by the NCDRC in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 21(a)(i) of the Act 1986 and 58(1)(a)(i) or 58(1)(a)(ii) of the Act 2019. In other words, both the Acts provide for the remedy of appeal to this Court only with E respect to the s which are passed by the NCDRC in its original jurisdiction or as the court of first instance (original s) and no further appeal lies against the s which are passed by the NCDRC in exercise of its appellate or revisional jurisdiction. 18. Adverting to the case at hand, the appeal before the NCDRC F was against the passed by the SCDRC under Section 17(1)(a)(i) of the Act 1986. Such appeal to the NCDRC was maintainable, as provided under Section 21(a)(ii) of the Act 1986. As per Section 23 of the Act 1986, any person, aggrieved by an made by the NCDRC in exercise of its powers conferred by Section 21(a)(i), may prefer an G appeal against such to this Court. Therefore, an appeal against the passed by the NCDRC to this Court would be maintainable only in case the is passed by the NCDRC in exercise of its powers conferred under Section 21(a)(i) of the Act 1986. No further appeal to this Court is provided against the passed by the NCDRC in exercise of its powers conferred under Section 21(a)(ii) of the Act 1986. There H M/S UNIVERSAL SOMPO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. 1163 SURESH CHAND JAIN AND ANR. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] is no provision for filing any further appeal against the passed on A the appeal filed against the of the SCDRC. In such circumstances, the petitioner has come before this Court under Article 136 of the Constitution. SCOPE AND GRANT OF SPECIAL LEAVE UNDER ARTICLE 136 OF THE CONSTITUTION B 19. This Court has held in Pritam Singh v. State reported in1950 SCC 189 : 1950 SCR 453 at p. 459: “Generally speaking this Court will not grant special leave, unless it is shown that exceptional and special circumstances exist, that substantial and grave injustice has been done and that the case in question presents features of sufficient C gravity to warrant a review of the decision appealed against”. It was also said in that case that the view that once an appeal has been admitted by special leave the entire case is at large and that the appellant is free to contest all the findings of fact and raise every point which could be raised in the High Court is wrong. Only those points can be D urged at the final hearing of the appeal which are fit to be urged at the preliminary stage when leave to appeal is asked for. This principle was stated, it is true, in a criminal case but it is of as much significance in civil cases as in the trial of criminal appeals.