38 of 2020, made the following submissions: a. Section 7 of the Arbitration Act requires the arbitration agreement to be in writing. Therefore, an arbitration agreement cannot be created on the basis of implied consent of the non-signatory; b. Complex multi-party contracts are outcomes of detailed negotiations entered into after parties have fully applied their mind. To impute intention to parties in contradiction to the express terms of the agreement would defeat the purpose of the parties’ memorializing their understanding in a negotiated, written document; c. An arbitration agreement which sets out the executing parties and the arbitral procedure agreed among them cannot be read to expand its reach to third parties; d. The group of companies doctrine cannot be traced to the phrase “claiming through or under” as provided under Sections 8 and 45 of the Arbitration Act; and e. Chloro Controls (supra) erroneously failed to consider whether an implied consent derived from the conduct of a non-signatory satisfi ed the requirement of a clear intention to arbitrate. Moreover, Chloro Controls (supra) wrongly held that the courts have the discretion to refer non-signatory parties to arbitration under Sections 8 or 45 of the Arbitration Act in exceptional cases. The introduction of such a discretion brings in uncertainty in the arbitration practice in India. 13. Mr Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India, made the following submissions: a. Since India follows the UNCITRAL Model Law, concepts of ‘commercial element’ and ‘business prudence’ have to be considered while interpreting the provisions of the Arbitration Act; b. The group of companies doctrine is inbuilt in the overall scheme of the Arbitration Act. Section 7 uses the broad phrase “defi ned relationship whether contractual or otherwise” to convey that an arbitration agreement is not restricted to a conventional agreement; 646 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. c. The insertion of the words “claiming through or under” in Section 8 of the Arbitration Act is merely in furtherance of the legislative intent to confer locus on yet another category of persons to insist that the judicial authority must refer the dispute before it to arbitration; and d. If the referral court under Sections 8 and 11 cannot prima facie determine the issue of joinder of a non-signatory to the arbitration agreement on the basis of the group of companies doctrine, it can refer the issue to be decided by the arbitral tribunal. 14. Mr Sanjoy Ghose, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner in SLP (C) No. 8607 of 2022, made the following submissions: a. Section 2(1)(h) uses the term “party” and not “signatory” to account for situations where a non-signatory enters the shoes of a signatory party either by succession, operation of law, assignment, or death; and b. The group of companies doctrine contravenes the provisions of corporate law by fi xing liability on an entity that is not a party to an arbitration agreement. Mere participation in the negotiation or performance of the contract cannot bind a non-signatory to the arbitration agreement in the absence of express consent.