F The compensation will be payable only for a period of 12 months. The apartment buyers in their complaint filed before the National Commission made a prayer for refund of the amount deposited along with interest @ 20% p.a. compounding quarterly till its realisation. The apartment buyers, in their submissions have stated that they have obtained home loans on which interest @ 7.90% G p.a. is being paid, even as on date. 51. We have considered the rival submissions made by both the parties. The delay compensation specified in the apartment buyer’s Agreement of Rs 7.5 per square foot which translates to 0.9% to H 1130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 1% p.a. on the amount deposited by the apartment buyer cannot be accepted as being adequate compensation for the delay in the construction of the project. At the same time, we cannot accept the claim of the apartment buyers for payment of compound interest @ 20% p.a., which has no nexus with the commercial realities of the prevailing market. We have also taken into B consideration that in IREO Grace Realtech (P) Ltd. v. Subodh Pawar [IREO Grace Realtech (P) Ltd. v. Subodh Pawar, 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1937], this Court recorded the statement of the counsel for the developer that the amount would be refunded with interest @ 10% p.a. A similar was passed in IREO Grace C Realtech (P) Ltd. v. Surendra Arora [IREO Grace Realtech (P) Ltd. v. Surendra Arora, 2019 SCC OnLine SC 1943]. However, the in these cases were passed prior to the outbreak of the pandemic. 52. We are cognizant of the prevailing market conditions as a D result of Covid-19 Pandemic, which have greatly impacted the construction industry. In these circumstances, it is necessary to balance the competing interest of both parties. We think it would be in the interests of justice and fairplay that the amounts deposited by the apartment buyers is refunded with interest @ 9% SI p.a. from 27-11-2018 till the date of payment of the entire amount. E The refund will be paid within a period of three months from the date of this . If there is any further delay, the developer will be liable to pay default interest @ 12% SI p.a. 53. The developer shall not deduct the earnest money of 20% from the principal amount, or any other amount as mentioned in F Clause 21.3 of the Agreement, on account of the various defaults committed by the developer, including the delay of over 7 months in obtaining the fire NOC.” 14.5. The case of NBCC (India) Ltd. (supra) was directly a case of delayed delivery of possession and therein, this Court awarded G simple interest @ 7% p.a. for the default period and did not approve of awarding any additional amount towards compensation. This Court, inter alia, said as under: - “13. As regards, the date on which interest would become payable, having regard to the one-year period which is stipulated, H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR.