Chief Justice Kania, in his opinion proceeded to dismiss the Appeal. Justice M.C. Mahajan and Justice S.R. Das wrote D separate concurring opinions. Justice B.K. Mukherjea also agreed that the Appeal must be dismissed and he substantially agreed with the reasoning of Justice S.R. Das. In the Company in question, the authorised Capital was Rs.10 lakhs. The plaintiffs in the Suit, from which the case arose, were aligned with a certain Group, which had proceeded to buy- E up the majority shareholding in the Company. It was to, apparently, ‘protect the Company’ from the Group, which sought to acquire controlling interest in the Company, that the Group in management of the Company decided to issue the balance of the unissued Authorised Capital’. The shares were issued in the ratio of 4:5 to the existing shareholders. It was further decided that any balance shares, which were not applied for, F were to be disposed of by the Directors, in the manner they considered best. From the opinion rendered by Justice M.C. Mahajan, we find the following to be one of the two questions, which was articulated: “11…. (1) whether the issue of further shares by the Directors G was in contravention of the provisions of Section 105-C of the Indian Companies Act, ...” 52. Section 105-C of the Companies Act, 1913 read as follows: “105-C. Further issue of capital.—Where the Directors decide to increase the capital of the company by the issue of further H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 275 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] shares such shares shall be offered to the members in proportion A to the existing shares held by each member (irrespective of class) and such offer shall be made by notice specifying the number of shares to which the member is entitled, and limiting a time within which the offer, if not accepted, will be deemed to be declined; and after the expiration of such time, or on receipt of an intimation B from the member to whom such notice is given that he declines to accept the shares offered, the Directors may dispose of the same in such manner as they think most beneficial to the company.” 60. The case of the appellants who were the unsuccessful plaintiffs was based on there being a violation of Section 105-C. In the opinion of C Justice M.C. Mahajan, we find the following formulation: “18. … The language employed in the section admits of three possible interpretations: (1) that its scope is limited to cases where there is an increase in D the capital of the company according to the provisions of Section 50; (2) that the section covers within its ambit all issue of further capital whether made by increasing the nominal capital or by issuing further shares within the authorised capital; E (3) that the section has application only to cases where the Directors issue further shares within the authorised limit.” 61. The appellants, in the said case, laid store by the second interpretation whereas the respondents (the company inter alia) took F shelter under the third interpretation.