fi rst week of March, 1992 expressing its inability to continue with the arrangement. It did not choose to do so and waited till April to share with Baker, that a de-canalisation had been issued. Its reason for not lifting the goods was attributed to de-canalisation again on 31.08.1992 when MMTC intimated to Baker that the de-canalisation had resulted in large sulphur consuming units importing sulphur from Gulf countries where the landing cost was much lower than the landing cost of sulphur from US and other north American based suppliers. Again, nothing had prevented MMTC, at least from the record, and nothing was shown to prevent 6 (1999) Supp 2 SCR 621; (1999) 9 SCC 449 294 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. it from communicating this aspect at the earliest point of time, for Baker to have made alternative arrangements. For these reasons too, the award for the previous period does not call for interference. 16. Turning now to the award for the balance period, July-December 1992, there cannot be two opinions about the fact that the measure of damages has to be in accord with the previous underlying Section 73 of the Contract Act, i.e. the market price of goods on the date of the breach, less the contract price. The Division Bench, after noticing the record held that Baker had clearly shown its disinclination to negotiate the price for the second half of 1992 before resolving the shipping problem that period. In the circumstances, there was no negotiation and no attempt was made on its behalf to contact MMTC after April 1992 save a few letters. This formed the only basis for the grant of award for the second half to the extent of US$ 3,00,000. The Tribunal had noted that the sale prices “in the semester have been shown as ranging from US$ 37 per MT to US$ 55 per MT, as per some invoices fi led on behalf of Baker”. For that period, Fertecon prices were shown to be $ 58 to $ 63 in terms of some invoices fi led on behalf of Baker. Nevertheless, the tribunal fi xed the sale price at US$ 49 per MT as noted from the documents fi led by Baker from July to December 1992. 17. The depositions on behalf of Baker conducted during the arbitration proceeding were taken into account by the Division Bench. It reveals that then Baker’s Vice President had admitted that several contracts were entered at varying rates, including with Chimiques du Senegal (Senegal) at diff erent rates. Other contracts too were spoken about, all indicating a varying price range depending on the distance to be covered and the quantity in question. 18. It was admitted in the deposition that even the quantity of goods to be lifted in the fi rst period, to MMTC was not readily available in January, but could have been made available only in March 1992. Given all these circumstances, the least that Baker could have done was to produce evidence that it possessed on record, which is the sale of 50000 MT sodium.