The said decision of this Court may not have a direct bearing on the question of classification of the product in question H 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A for the purpose of the Act of 1985 but, it cannot be denied that the product in question has been found answering to the description of a ‘drug’ for the purpose of the Act of 1940 as also for the purpose of the said Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957. Viewed from any angle, it remains a medicament. [Para 29][350-H; 351-A-C] B 3.1 It is apparent that the product in question had rightly been classified as ‘medicament’ in the past and nothing material had changed so as to re-classify the same. However, the Revenue has attempted to rely on the amendment of the tariff structure in the year 2012 as justification for re-look at its classification. The C Adjudicating Authority stated this justification in the manner that there were substantial changes in the tariff headings, particularly when Chapter 30 came to be reworded so as to remove the distinction between patent/proprietary and generic medicaments and to classify them according to whether they are put up in unit D containers for retail sale or not; the mention about the Act of 1940 and the various Pharmacopeia came to be deleted; and under Chapter 33, the phrase ‘Hair oil’ became prominent under which, subsidiary headings of ‘perfumed hair oil’ and ‘others’ came to be specified. According to the Adjudicating Authority, all these changes merited interpretation of the new entries vis-à-vis the E product in question than what was decided or settled earlier. There had been no justification in the Department seeking to re- open the settled position in relation to the product in question merely with reference to certain changes made in Chapter 30 and Chapter 33, which had essentially broadened their ambit and F scope and provided modified marginal notes and tariff entries with detailed specifications. These changes had otherwise no impact, so far as AHAHO, is concerned. [Para 30][351-C-G] 3.2 The change of classification cannot be accepted merely on the ground of coming into force of different tax structure G without showing that the product has changed its character. Thus, mere broad-basing of the entries in Chapter 30 and Chapter 33 of the First Schedule to the Act 1985, by itself, could not have been the justification for an attempt at re-classification of the product in question. [Para 31][352-B, D] H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 289 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY 3.3 Even as regards the amendment of the entries, the stand A of the appellant-Revenue has been that Chapter 30 was reworded so as to remove the distinction between patent/proprietary and generic medicaments and to classify them according to whether they are put up in unit containers for retail sales or not. Further, it has been stated that reference to the Act of 1940 and various B pharmacopoeia had been deleted. Thirdly, it has been contended that in Chapter 33, the phrase hair oil had become prominent with subsidiary entries of perfumed hair oils and other.