Quite literally, it provides that when a is passed in ignorance of a relevant precedent or any other binding authority, the same is said to be postulating incorrect law. It becomes pertinent to resolve the conflict arising from diverging opinions by taking recourse to the ratio decidendi E of the earliest opinion. In this context MN Venkatachaliah J., in the 7- judge Bench decision of A.R. Antulay vs. R.S. Nayak [(1988) 2 SCC 602] opined that: “…the point is that the circumstance that a decision is reached per incuriam merely serves to denude the decision of its precedent value. F Such a decision would not be binding as a judicial precedent. A coordinate Bench can disagree with it and decline to follow it. A larger Bench can overrule such a decision…”19 Likewise, a Constitution Bench in Shah Faesal vs. Union of G India20 taking note of this Court’s decision in Sandeep Kumar Bafna Vs. State of Maharashtra21 pertinently observed: 19 AR Antulay vs. RS Nayak (1988) 2 SCC 602, para 183 (per MN Venkatchaliah J.) 20 Shah Faesal vs. Union of India, (2020) 4 SCC 1 (para 33) 21 2014 (16) SCC 623 H ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA v. 939 KAPIL WADHAWAN & ANR. ETC. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] “…a decision or judgement can also be per incuriam if it is A not possible to reconcile its ratio with that of a previously pronounced judgement of a co-equal or larger bench or if the decision of the High Court is not in consonance with the views of this court…” 31. It logically flows from the above that the operative part in B Rustam (Supra) with respect to the 60/90 day period of computation, arrived at after, invoking Sections 9 and 10 of the General Clauses Act, 1897, where the court excluded the date of remand and ignored the contrary opinion in Chaganti (supra), cannot be a binding judicial precedent as the same is rendered per incuriam. C 32. Significantly the principle of computing the 60/90 day period by including the date of remand, as laid down in Chaganti (supra), has been followed in State vs. Mohd. Ashraft Bhat (supra), Pragnya Singh Thakur (supra), and in Gautam Navlakha (supra). 33. The 3-Judge Bench in M. Ravinrdan (supra), followed D Rustam (supra) viz. a viz. Ravi Prakash (Supra), wherein the date of remand is excluded. However, the computation as stipulated in Rustam (supra), being per incuriam, cannot in our opinion be considered as the correct law. Therefore, the Court in Ravindran (supra) ought to have followed the computation principle laid down in Chaganti and not Rustam. E 34. The learned Single Judge in the impugned was conscious of the ratio in Rustam (supra) and Ravi Prakash (supra) where the Court had taken into consideration Section 9 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 and observed that Section 9 may have some relevance where the concerned statute prescribes the period of limitation and the exclusion of first in a series of days or any other period of time, F may then be in .