Although the High Court’s justifi cation, when analyzed on its own terms, is compelling, it is not grounded in legality. The High Court’s decision to apply a minimum cut-off for the viva voce frustrated the substantive legitimate expectation of the petitioners. Since the decision of the High Court is legally untenable and fails on the touchstone of fairness, consistency, and predictability, we hold that such a course of action is arbitrary and violative of Article 14. iii. What should this Court do? 53. The question which now arises before the Court is in regard to the relief which can be granted to the petitioners. The fi nal list of successful candidates was issued on 6 March 2017. The candidates who have been selected have been working as District and Sessions Judges for about six SIVANANDAN C T AND OTHERS v. HIGH COURT OF KERALA AND 703 OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] years. In the meantime, all the petitioners who are before the Court have not functioned in judicial offi ce. At this lapse of time, it may be diffi cult to direct either the unseating of the candidates who have performed their duties. Unseating them at this stage would be contrary to public interest since they have gained experience as judicial offi cers in the service of the State of Kerala. While the grievance of the petitioners is that if the aggregate of marks in the written examination and viva-voce were taken into account, they would rank higher than three candidates who are respondents to these proceedings, equally, we cannot lose sight of the fact that all the selected candidates are otherwise qualifi ed for judicial offi ce and have been working over a length of time. Unseating them would, besides being harsh, result in a situation where the higher judiciary would lose the services of duly qualifi ed candidates who have gained experience over the last six years in the post of District Judge. 54. For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that it would not be possible to direct the induction of the petitioners into the Higher Judicial Service at the present stage. Many of the petitioners would have since joined the Bar and would be in active practice. It needs to be clarifi ed that their having failed to gain selection to the Higher Judicial Service in the process which was initiated on 30 September 2015, is not a refl ection either on their merits or ability and shall not come in the way of their being considered for any other offi ce, judicial or otherwise, in the future. E. Conclusions 55. The following are our conclusions in view of the above discussions: (i) The principles of good administration require that the decisions of public authorities must withstand the test of consistency, transparency, and predictability to avoid being termed as arbitrary and violative of Article 14; (ii) An individual who claims a benefi t or entitlement based on the doctrine of substantive legitimate expectation has to establish the following: (i) the legitimacy of the expectation; and that (ii) the denial of the legitimate expectation led to a violation of Article 14; 704 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.