72. Mr. Luthra intended to rely on the decision in Cherukari Mani vs. Chief Secretary, Government of Andhra Pradesh32. According to the appellant, the detention could only be in force for a period of three months in the fi rst instance and that such on a periodic assessment was required to be reviewed for continuous detention till the maximum period permissible. The contention was accepted by this Court. 73. While hearing of the appeal was in progress, came the decision in Pesala Nookaraju (supra) overruling Cherukari Mani(supra). It was held that the “State Government need not review the s of detention every three months after it has passed the confi rmatory ”. Fairly, Mr. Luthra did not seek to rely on Cherukari Mani(supra) further. 74. However, according to Mr. Dave, the decision in Pesala Nookaraju (supra) answered the issue under consideration. Reference was made to a sentence in paragraph 44 where this Court held that: “44. *** The Act does not contemplate a review of the detention once the Advisory Board has opined that there is suffi cient cause for detention of the person concerned and on that basis, a confi rmatory is passed by the State Government to detain a person for the maximum period of twelve months from the date of detention. ***” 31 Crl. Appeal No.2304 of 2023, decided on 16th August, 2023 32 (2015) 13 SCC 722 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 1003 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 75. Mr. Luthra rightly pointed out that the excerpted sentence is part of the discussion made by this Court while dealing with the fi rst contention of the appellant that the detention was contrary to the proviso to section 3(2) of the 1986 Act. 76. Mr. Dave next relied on the reasons assigned in Pesala Nookaraju (supra) to contend that the impugned Detention should be held legal and unexceptionable. 77. On the merits of the matter, we fi nd the Court in Pesala Nookaraju (supra) to have found the impugned of detention to be perfectly valid. This is borne out by paragraphs 65 and 71, which we quote hereunder: “65. *** if the detention is on the ground that the detenu is indulging in manufacture or transport or sale of liquor then that by itself would not become an activity prejudicial to the maintenance of public because the same can be eff ectively dealt with under the provisions of the Prohibition Act but if the liquor sold by the detenu is dangerous to public health then under the Act of 1986, it becomes an activity prejudicial to the maintenance of public , therefore, it becomes necessary for the detaining authority to be satisfi ed on the material available to it that the liquor dealt with by the detenu is liquor which is dangerous to public health to attract the provisions of the 1986 Act and if the detaining authority is satisfi ed that such material exists either in the form of report of the Chemical Examiner or otherwise, copy of such material should also be given to the detenu to aff ordhim an opportunity to make an eff ective representation.