The doctrine is a consensual theory premised on the existence of a dispute arising from a defi ned legal relationship and mutual intention of the parties to be bound by the arbitration agreement. The intention of the non-signatory has to be ascertained from the cumulative factors laid down in Chloro Controls (supra); c. The following requirements must be met for the application of the group of companies doctrine to bind the non-signatory as a “veritable” party to the arbitration agreement: i. mutual intention of all the parties, both signatories and non- signatories, to be bound by the arbitration agreement; ii. absolute and unqualifi ed acceptance by the non-signatory party to the arbitration agreement; and iii. such acceptance must either be expressed or implied. In the context of a non-signatory, such acceptance will be implied and manifested in the negotiation, performance, or termination of the contract; d. Mutual consent of the parties to refer disputes arising out of their defi ned legal relationship to arbitration is the essential ingredient of an arbitration agreement. It would be against the concept of party autonomy to bind a non-signatory to an arbitration agreement without ascertaining their consent; e. The concept of “party” to an arbitration agreement is distinct from the concept of “person claiming through or under” a party. The latter expression conveys the notion of a derivative cause of action where the non-signatory steps into the shoes of the party rather than claiming an independent right under the agreement. The typical scenarios where a person claims through or under a party are assignment, subrogation, and novation; and f. Concepts such as ‘tight group structure’ and ‘single economic unit’ cannot be the sole basis to invoke the group of companies doctrine. This doctrine cannot be applied to bind a non-signatory COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 643 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] merely on account of it being under the ownership, control, or supervision of the signatory party; 9. Dr A M Singhvi, learned senior counsel appearing for the interveners in IA No. 92757 of 2022, made the following submissions: a. The group of companies doctrine constitutes a true and genuine eff ectuation of the real intent of the parties to subject both the signatory and non-signatory parties to the arbitration agreement; b. The doctrine is a reasonable and natural extension of the principle of piercing the corporate veil. The application of the doctrine is also justifi ed in affi xing responsibility when the requisite and suffi cient degree of common ownership and control exists; c. The intention of the parties cannot be the only basis to join a non- signatory party to an arbitration agreement. The court can also consider non-consensual doctrines such as piercing the corporate veil, alter ego, or tight group structure; and d. The Arbitration Act does not prohibit or inhibit the adoption of the group of companies doctrine in Indian arbitration jurisprudence. On the contrary, Section 7 of the Arbitration Act provides an expansive concept of an arbitration agreement.