B 15. Issues: The following issues arise for consideration: (i) Whether the selection process concluded, and the candidates acquired a vested right to be appointed before the amendment of the Regulations? C (ii) Whether the Act, read with the Rules and Regulations made thereunder, contemplates ‘deemed appointment’ if the approval of the DIOS is not given within a period of 15 days? (iii) Whether the posts of teachers could be filled as per the Rules and Regulations that existed when the vacancies arose D and not as per the amended Regulations? 16. Educational institutions like the Respondent Colleges are conducted through a Committee of Management, recognised under Section 16-A of the Act11. The Management is empowered to appoint Teachers as well as the Head of the Institution12 as per the procedure E prescribed in the Act, and the Regulations made thereunder. In the case of institutions established and administered by minorities, the Management constitutes a five- member Selection Committee to shortlist and recommend candidates for appointments to the Management13. After receiving the recommendations of the Selection F Committee, the Management proposes the names to the DIOS for approval. 17. On 12.03.2018, the Government of Uttar Pradesh notified amendments to Chapter II of the Regulations, including Regulation 17, which now prescribes a written examination for the selection of Teachers G in minority institutions. 11 hereinafter ‘the Management’. 12 U.P. Intermediate Education Act 1921, section 16-E. 13 U.P. Intermediate Education Act 1921, section 16-E read with proviso to section 16- FF(1). H 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Re issue no. 1: Whether the selection process concluded, and the candidates acquired a vested right to be appointed before the amendment of Regulations? 18. To consider the submissions of the Respondents that the candidates whose names are recommended by the Management for B approval by the DIOS acquire a vested right to be appointed as Teachers, it is necessary to examine Section 16-FF: 16-FF. Savings as to minority institutions (1) Notwithstanding anything in sub-section (4) of section 16-E, and section 16-F, the Selection Committee C for the appointment of a Head of Institution or a teacher of an institution established and administered by a minority referred to in clause (I) of Article 30 of the Constitution shall consist of five members (including its Chairman), nominated by the Committee of Management: D Provided that one of the members of the Selection Committee shall — (a) in the case of appointment of the Head of an Institution, be an expert selected by the Committee of Management from a panel of experts prepared by the Director; E (b) in the case of appointment of a teacher be the Head of the Institution concerned. (2) The procedure to be followed by the Selection Committee referred to in sub- section (1) shall be such as may be F prescribed. (3) No person selected under this section shall be appointed, unless — (a) in the case of the Head of an Institution the proposal of appointment has been approved by the Regional Deputy G Director of Education; and (b) in the case of a teacher such proposal has been approved by the Inspector.