In this regard, it was further submitted as follows: i. That in both the aforesaid cases sought to be relied upon by Sri Datar, a single source of expenditure was not split partly as capital and partly as revenue expenditure. On the contrary, in both of 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. those decisions, this Court examined two diff erent constituents of expenditure and held one to be capital and the other to be revenue in nature. ii. That in Sarada Binding Works the facts were that the agreement in question envisaged conveyances of two distinct aspects: fi rst, the right to run the business of Chandamama Publications for a consideration of a fi xed sum of Rs.5000/- per annum; second, royalty on the sales equivalent to 10% of the net profi t of each year of business. The High Court’s categorically records that annual payments based on the turnover had no nexus with the payment made to acquire the right to carry on trade, which was also paid annually at Rs.5000/- every year. However, in the facts of the present case, the entry fee as well as the annual licence fee payable as a percentage of AGR, are both towards the same purpose, i.e., acquisition of licence to carry on telecommunication operator services. iii. That similarly, in the case of Mewar Sugar Mills Ltd., two diff erent payments were made, relatable to two diff erent subject matters. In the said , this Court noted that the payment of royalty based on quantity of sugar manufactured, was not with a view to acquire monopoly rights. In the said case, there were two clearly discernible purposes towards which the payment of lump-sum consideration and payment of royalty were made. However, in the present case, the purpose of payment of entry fee as well as the annual licence fee, is singular, i.e., to acquire and retain the right to carry on the business of rendering telecommunication services. In light of the aforesaid submissions, Sri N. Venkataraman urged that this Bench may allow the appeals fi led by the Revenue. Points for consideration: 9. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties and on perusal of the material on record, the following points would emerge for our consideration: i. Whether the variable annual licence fee paid by the respondents- assessees to the DoT under the Policy of 1999 is revenue in nature C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 401 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] and is to be allowed deduction under Section 37 of the Act, or, the same is capital in nature and is accordingly required to be amortised under Section 35ABB of the Act? ii. Whether the High Court of Delhi was right in apportioning the licence fee as partly revenue and partly capital by dividing the licence fee into two periods, that is, before and after 31st July, 1999 and accordingly holding that the licence fee paid or payable for the period upto 31 July, 1999 i.e. the date set out in the Policy of 1999 should be treated as capital and the balance amount payable on or after the said date should be treated as revenue?