*** It is true that the constituent power, that is to say, the power to amend any provision of the Constitution by way of an addition, variation or repeal must be exercised by the Parliament itself and cannot be delegated to an outside agency. That is clear from Article 368 (1) which defi nes at once the scope of the constituent power of the Parliament and limits that power to the Parliament. The power to issue a notifi cation 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. for bringing into force the provisions of a Constitutional amendment is not a constituent power because, it does not carry with it the power to amend the Constitution in any manner. It is, therefore, permissible to the Parliament to vest in an outside agency the power to bring a Constitutional amendment into force. In the instant case, that power is conferred by the Parliament on another organ of the State, namely, the executive, which is responsible to the Parliament for all its actions. The Parliament does not irretrievably lose its power to bring the Amendment into force by reason of the empowerment in favour of the Central Government to bring it into force. If the Central Government fails to do what, according to the Parliament, it ought to have done, it would be open to the Parliament to delete Section (2) of the 44th Amendment Act by following the due procedure and to bring into force that Act or any of its provisions.” 80. In the opinion of this Court, the mere circumstance that Section 19 does not get added to the Constitution, would not make any diff erence. If one looks closely at Articles 243 ZF which this Court interpreted in Bondu Ramaswamy (supra) and Article 243 ZT which was interpreted in Vipulbhai (supra) the eff ects of those provisions are the same as Section 19. Although those provisions continued to be part of the Constitution, they have no meaning and were merely historical. The reason is that they were operative, for a limited duration – like Section 19. However, the fact remains that those provisions as well as Section 19 were enacted in exercise of the constituent power. Section 19 is not, in this court’s opinion comparable to a mere Parliamentary enactment. There cannot be any gain in saying that Section 19 is not a mere legislative device. It was adopted as part of the 101st Constitutional Amendment Act. Undoubtedly, it was not inserted into the Constitution. Whatever reasons impelled Parliament to keep it outside the body of the Constitution, the fact remains that it was introduced as part of the same Amendment Act which entirely revamped the Constitution. 81. Furthermore, it is clear that apart from Section 19 there is another proviso to Section 20 (which is also part of the 101st Amendment Act) that proviso reads as follows: “20. (1) If any diffi culty arises in giving eff ect to the provisions of the Constitution as amended by this Act (including any diffi culty in relation THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS.