C C. 4 Whether the State Government could have exercised its powers under Article 138 of the AoA of RIICO to direct cancellation? 79. It has already been noted that RIICO is a 100% Government owned company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956. RIICO, D in deference to the statutory requirements of the Companies Act, has formulated its own Articles of Association (AoA). Article 138 of these Articles reads as follows: “138. Directions and instruction of the Governor. Notwithstanding anything contained in any of these articles, the E State Government may from time to time, issue such directions or instructions as he may consider necessary in regard to the affairs of the conduct of the business of the Company or Directors thereof and in like manner may vary and annul any such direction or instruction. The Directors shall duly comply with and give F immediate effect to director instruction so issued.” 80. It is a matter of common knowledge that clauses of this nature are invariably inserted in AoAs of most Public Sector Undertakings and/ or Corporations owned and controlled by the State. The State Government being the sole investor, its overriding powers have been acceded to by G RIICO through Article 138 of its AoA. It is pertinent to note that Article 138 opens with a non obstante clause and, thus, the power given to State Government to issue directions under this provision cannot be curtailed and is not subject to any other provision within the Articles. It is categorically provided in Article 138 that the State Government may issue “such directions or instructions……in regard to the affairs of the H 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A conduct of the business of the Company or Directors thereof…”. Article 138 also empowers the State Government to “vary and annul any such direction or instruction”. The Directors are obligated to comply with the Government directions/instructions. 81. In the present case, the State Government has directed RIICO B to recall its permission for conversion of the usage of land, sub-division of plots and supplementary lease deeds executed in favour of Respondent No. 1. All these actions of RIICO pertained to its business affairs. Since RIICO took these decisions exceeding its powers and in a completely unauthorised and illegal manner, the State Government, in our considered opinion, was well within its rights to invoke Article 138 of AoA and C nullify the unauthorised and unlawful decisions taken by RIICO. The very objective behind reposing power in the State Government under Article 138 of the AoA is to enable it to undo and annul the decisions taken by RIICO in the conduct of its business affairs, which the State Government may find is derogating from public interest or in conflict D with its own policy. The State Government is entitled to resort to Article 138 where it finds that the business affairs have been conducted by RIICO detrimental to the State’s interest as a Principal stake holder. C. 5 Whether the Rules of Business were not followed?