500 crores. Clause 3 of the said policy, of course, provided that a theme park/amusement park could be established and operated by private sector, public- private partnership or any authority by creating special purpose F vehicle and in that situation all the decisions regarding assessment of the desired land, selection of the private investor and implementation of the project were to be taken by the concerned authority/government body/public undertaking under its own rules but the Court is unable to find any correlation G whatsoever of this stipulation of the policy with the subject land that had been given on lease to the petitioner as also with the project of the petitioner which could never be termed as any theme park or amusement park. Viewed in this light, the letter dated 31.01.2015 as sent by the Managing Director of UPSIDC, H 1056 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A recommending the case of the petitioner to declare its multiplex, hotel and commercial construction as tourist destination, turns out to be rather baseless and its accompanying document, stating the demand of the petitioner to convert the land in question to freehold, also appears to be wanting in logic. The project of the petitioner cannot be correlated with this policy dated 06.11.2013, B meant for theme park/amusement park and that too with involvement of a Government body or an instrumentality of the Government in selection of the private investor as also with participation by way of investment upto 20% of the cost of the land. [Para 15.2][1083-G-H; 1090-A-E] C 1.4. On 16.04.2015, respondent No. 2 issued second completion certificate in respect of the project of the petitioner. Even until this point of time, there was no amendment to the policy in question. As regards the amendment of the policy in question by way of Office Memo dated 03.05.2016, of course, the D policy to promote tourism was modified so as to grant certain other concessions and was also expanded to include theme-based mall but then, such broadening of the policy came with typical and peculiar stipulations. A Committee was put in place for giving recommendations for permissions in the matters related with theme-based mall. Significantly, clause 4 of the original policy E was modified in the manner that for theme-based mall, the limit of partnership of public enterprise/company of the State Government was changed from 20% of the maximum cost of land to minimum 20% of cost of land; and it was provided that the working agency will provide freehold to the SPV after acquiring F the land as per the rules, for which freehold charge will be payable. These stipulations occurring in the said Office Memo dated 03.05.2016 make it more than clear that as regards theme-based mall a minimum of 20% of the partnership of the State Government or its instrumentality was stipulated; and such instrumentality of the State Government was also referred to as the working agency, G which was to provide freehold land to the SPV to be created for the purpose.