It is important therefore that an accused should be properly F examined under Section 342 and, as their Lordships of the Privy Council indicated in Dwarkanath Varma v. Emperor [Dwarkanath Varma v. Emperor, AIR 1933 PC 124 at p. 130 : 1933 SCC OnLine PC 11] , if a point in the evidence is considered important against the accused and the conviction G is intended to be based upon it, then it is right and proper that the accused should be questioned about the matter and be given an opportunity of explaining it if he so desires. This is an important and salutary provision and I cannot 6 1951 SCC OnLine SC 49 H 762 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A permit it to be slurred over. I regret to find that in many cases scant attention is paid to it, particularly in the Sessions Courts. But whether the matter arises in the Sessions Court or in that of the Committing Magistrate, it is important that the provisions of Section 342 should be fairly and faithfully observed.” B (emphasis added) Again in paragraph 23, this Court held thus: “23. Section 342 requires the accused to be examined for the purpose of enabling him “to explain any circumstances appearing in the evidence against him”. Now it is evident that when the C Sessions Court is required to make the examination under this section, the evidence referred to is the evidence in the Sessions Court and the circumstances which appear against the accused in that court. It is not therefore enough to read over the questions and answers put in the Committing Magistrate’s Court and ask the accused whether he has anything to say about them. In the D present case, there was not even that. The appellant was not asked to explain the circumstances appearing in the evidence against him but was asked whether the statements made before the Committing Magistrate and his answers given there were correctly recorded. That does not comply with the requirements E of the section.” The second important decision on this aspect is the decision of a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court. This is a decision in the case of Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade & Anr. v. State of Maharashtra7. In paragraph 16 of the decision, this Court F examined the issue of non-compliance with the requirements of Section 342 of CrPC of 1898. Paragraph 16 reads thus: “16. The discovery of incriminating materials pursuant to confessions made by the accused constitutes the third category of evidence. Obviously, the confessions are inadmissible but G the discoveries are, provided they are pertinent to the guilt of the accused. So far as Accused 2 is concerned, his statement resulted in the discovery of a knife (Vide Panchnama, Ext. 13). Of course, knives were discovered long ago and not now but this knife lay buried and was recovered by the accused H 7 (1973) 2 SCC 793 RAJ KUMAR @ SUMAN v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 763 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.]