[Para 15][484-B-D] 1.3 Forwarding a copy of the to the Principal Secretary (Higher Education) as also to the Secretary (Secondary E Education) to ensure deployment of examiners/evaluators ‘in a reasonably efficient manner’ does not appear to be of giving specific directions which are capable of implementation with certainty. In any case, such general expectations of reasonable efficiency are applicable to every area of activity, whether of an individual or of the State or of an instrumentality of the State but, F stating such expectations as a part of mandamus of the Court cannot be said to be in conformity with the requirements of concluding an adjudicatory process with certitude. In other words, while rendering decision in a litigation, the Court would be expected to issue only such directions which could be executed/ G implemented with certainty. The observations of the nature made by the High Court, which are largely of general expectations, are difficult to be approved as a mandamus from the writ Court. [Para 16][484-E-G] 1.4 The High Court proceeded to issue directions in the H manner that all the examinations of the appellant-University DR. B R AMEDKAR UNIVERSITY, AGRA v. DEVARSH NATH 473 GUPTA & ORS. during the preceding three years are thrown open for re- A assessment or re- evaluation. There is no logic or rationale in such directions, and is disapproved. When there is no provision for re- evaluation in the Statute of the University, issuance of any writ of mandamus of this nature would practically amount to issuing directions for doing something which is not provided for B by law. [Para 17, 17.2][484-G-H; 485-F] 1.5 In a Court of law, when a particular litigation in reference to its subject-matter is taken up for final decision, ordinarily, the decision ought to remain confined to the issues arising for determination in the matter. Even if an ancillary relief or direction C is considered appropriate, the same could be granted or issued by the Court only in direct correlation with the facts and circumstances of the case and not beyond. Moreover, for one particular fault of one individual in one particular matter, all the concluded matters cannot be ed to be re- opened. If the assessment by one examiner/evaluator has been found D questionable by the High Court, neither all the examiners could be presumed to be irresponsible nor every result declared by the University could be re-opened. [Para 17.1][485-B-C] 1.6 Even if the Court is to express its dissatisfaction as regards any particular state of affairs, the circumspection requisite E of the Court even as regards the expressions cannot be forsaken; and the relief to be granted in a given case ought to remain confined to the subject-matter of litigation before the Court. It gets perforce reiterated that one particular fault or infirmity at one particular level, when being appropriately dealt with by the F Court, cannot be generalised and all other similar processes in any institution or by the person concerned cannot be presumed to be suffering from illegalities or infirmities.