As evinced by the discussion of the historical trajectory of the relationship of Jammu and Kashmir with the Union of India, sovereignty was surrendered in part with the signing of the IoA and in full, with the issuance of the Proclamation by Yuvraj Karan Singh in November 1949. It remains to consider whether the Constitution of India or the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir lead to the conclusion that the State retained an element of sovereignty. c. Neither the constitutional setup nor any other factors indicate that the State of Jammu and Kashmir retained an element of sovereignty 149. Article 1 of the Constitution of India provides that India is a Union of States. The immutability and import of Article 1 in its application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir may be gleaned from many provisions: a. Article 1 (as it then stood) referenced Part III States, and Jammu and Kashmir was listed as a Part III State in the First Schedule to the Constitution of India; b. Article 370(1)(c) of the Indian Constitution reiterates that Article 1 shall apply to the State. While Article 370 contains provisions 90 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. for applying other provisions of the Constitution with modifi cation or exceptions to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, there is no provision for the modifi cation or abrogation of Article 1; and c. Section 3 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir declares that Jammu and Kashmir is an integral part of India: “Relationship of the State with the Union of India The State of Jammu and Kashmir is and shall be an integral part of the Union of India.” d. Section 147 prohibits any amendment to Section 3. These provisions, too, contradict the argument that an agreement of merger was necessary for Jammu and Kashmir to surrender its sovereignty. The Constitution, once adopted and in force, became the supreme governing document of the land. The merger of Jammu and Kashmir with the Union of India was an unequivocal fact, as evinced from these provisions. 150. On 17 November 1956, the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir approved and adopted the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. The Preamble to the Constitution states: “WE, THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR, having solemnly resolved, in pursuance of the accession of this State to India which took place on the twenty-sixth day of October, 1947 to further defi ne the existing relationship of the State with the Union of India as an integral part thereof.” (emphasis supplied) Three aspects of the Preamble are of signifi cance: a. The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was not adopted independently of the Union of India but was adopted in pursuance of the accession of the State to India; b. The Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir was only to further defi ne the relationship between the Union of India and the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The relationship was already defi ned by the IoA, the Proclamation issued by Yuvraj Karan Singh in IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 91 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] November 1949 and more importantly, by the Constitution of India; and c. That the State of Jammu and Kashmir was an integral part of the Union of India was reiterated in the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir.