They should be punished for every negligence act of non-compliance of provisions (l) pay compensation of rupees fi fty 50,00,000/- (Rupees fi fty lacs) in case any person dies while entering or after entering into sewage for cleaning it manually during pendency of this petition, (m) provide for good drinking water on demand of public in areas where there is no provision for water supply and water available is contaminated and not fi t for human use (n) repair all roads on demand of public within a period of three months2 6. On February 22, 2023, this court, inter alia, issued several directions aimed at ensuring eff ective implementation of the provisions outlined in the two acts, which is reproduced below: (I) the respondent – Union shall place on record the steps taken pursuant to the of this Court, viz.-a-viz. The Status of implementation of the 2013 Act i.e., Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and Their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 including the steps towards rehabilitation of such persons falling within the defi nition of ‘Manual Scavengers’. (II) Steps taken towards abolition/demolition of Dry Latrines, state- wise. (III) Status of Dry Latrines and Safai Karamcharies in Cantonment Boards and Railways. 2 (pg. 17-20 of Writ Petition) DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1093 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (IV) Employment of Safai Karamcharies in Railways and Cantonments Boards whether directly or indirectly i.e., through Contractors or otherwise. (V) State-wise set up of Municipal Corporation and the nature of equipment (as well as the description of technical equipment), deployed by such bodies to mechanize sewage cleaning. (VI) The feasibility of developing internet-based solutions for real time tracking of sewage deaths and action taken by their concerned authorities including the appropriate Government towards payment of compensation and rehabilitation of families. 7. Further, this court also added as parties to the present proceedings, the Union of India through Secretary, Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment (hereafter “Union”); the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis (hereafter “NCSK”) ; the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (hereafter “NCSC”), and the National Commission for Scheduled Tribes (hereafter “NCST”). The court appointed Mr. K Parmeshwar, Advocate as Amicus Curie. On April 12, 2023, this court took note of two notifi cations issued by the Ministry of Railways dated 4.6.2014, and 13.10.2014 which stipulates that individuals engaged in cleaning sanitary latrines in passenger coaches and railway tracks at stations would not be subject to the prohibitions set forth in the Act of 2013 if they are provided with basic equipment such as face masks, gloves, boots, and brooms. Additionally, this court considered the observations made by the NCSK regarding the lack of action by the Railways, as presented in reports included in the compilation submitted to the court by the Amicus Curiae. In light of this, the court directed the Railways to submit a specifi c affi davit addressing these aspects. 8. During the course of proceedings, on May 2, 2023, it was brought to notice of this court about irregular functioning of the Central Monitoring Committee envisaged under the Act of 2013.