20. Per contra, while supporting the finding recorded by the High C Court, learned counsel for the respondent submits that this being settled by this Court in a catena of s that eligibility is to be looked into on the last date of submission of application or the cut-off date indicated in the relevant rules. In the instant case, when the rules are silent in such circumstances, what being laid down by this Court is the law on the subject and the eligibility of the applicant is to be looked into on the last D date of application which in the instant case is 31st August, 2021 and admittedly, each of the applicant was not holding their certificate related to category as demanded of the period prior to 31st August, 2021 and accordingly, no error was committed by the respondent and have rightly been treated in open category and it is not the case of the appellant that E any candidate who has been recommended and appointed in open category is lower in the of merit in the selection process held by the respondent pursuant to advertisement dated 21st July, 2021 and in support of his submission, learned counsel has placed reliance on the of this Court reported in Ashok Kumar Sonkar (Supra) followed with Rakesh Kumar Sharma vs. State (NCT of Delhi) and F Others (2013) 11 SCC 58 and submits that this being a settled law held by this Court and relied upon by the High Court, no error has been committed by the High Court, which may called for interference of this Court. 21. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties and with G their assistance perused the material available on record. 22. It is not disputed that the post of Civil Judge is included in the Schedule appended to the Rules, 2010 and is to be filled up by direct recruitment in terms of Part IV and the advertisement was notified by the respondents on 22nd July, 2021 holding selection against 120 vacancies H of Civil Judge for the year 2020-2021. 602 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 23. It is not disputed that the Rules of 2010 is a complete code and silent in reference to the date when certificate of the category has to be furnished and so far as the advertisement is concerned, it nowhere indicates as to what should be the crucial date for the purpose of furnishing the caste related certificate by the applicants who intended to participate in the selection process and admittedly each of the appellant B holds the certificate of the category and the period prior to as have been notified by the respondent while their provisional list of the candidates to be called for interview has been published on 04th August, 2022. 24. It may be noticed that reservation to MBC (NCL) and EWS category has been introduced for the first time and the candidates are C completely alien to the procedure and the format in which the certificate of their category has to be furnished and so far as the candidates who appeared in EWS quota is concerned, it has been submitted that father of the appellant Parul Jain submitted the Income-Tax Returns of the previous years and applied for EWS certificate on E-mitra kiosk on 16th D August, 2021 and the appellant was assured that she will receive EWS certificate within 6-7 days but despite the appellant demanding her certificate, it was issued by the E-mitra kiosk on 07th September, 2021 but it is not disputed by the respondent that the appellant belongs to EWS category.