The “make available” condition, in other DTAAs was consciously omitted from the notifi cation. 60. The omission of certain benefi ts (available to other member countries of OECD who had entered into DTAAs with India) in the subsequent notifi cation, dated 10.07.2000, is another indication that a “trigger” event such as India granting favourable relief to a country per se does not cover all the benefi ts granted through the later instrument. Therefore, the benefi t which India granted France, was within the framework of its treaty originally negotiated. In the case of the other country (granted benefi ts later, through a convention, by India), a diff erent trajectory of negotiations might have led to diff erent kind of benefi ts to the third country (UK and Portugal, in the case of France). In other words, the structure of the main DTAA, and its phraseology, based on negotiations with the countries concerned, i.e., Netherlands, France and Switzerland, also plays a role in the kind of benefi ts that are assured through it. The structure and terms of other DTAAs might be diff erent; the coverage and defi nition of certain terms (FTS, permanent establishment, etc.) might be dissimilar. The revenue’s argument that grant of automatic benefi ts based on the other country’s entry into OECD, as unfeasible, has merit. 61. As far as Switzerland is concerned the earlier discussion has noticed the three diff erent dates when DTAA and the two later Protocols were entered into. They were given eff ect to by three separate notifi cations (No. GSR 357(E), dated 21.04.1995; as amended by Notifi cation No. GSR 74(E), dated 07.02.2001 and Notifi cation No. S.O. 2903(E), dated 27.12.2011). 118 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. The second Protocol contained a condition, which constituted the “trigger” event. That provision is extracted below: “D With reference to Articles 10, 11 and 12 If after the signature of the Protocol of 16th February, 2000 under any Convention, Agreement or Protocol between India and a third State which is a member of the OECD India should limit its taxation at source on dividends, interest, royalties or fees for technical services to a rate lower or a scope more restricted than the rate or scope provided for in this Agreement on the said items of income, then, Switzerland and India shall enter into negotiations without undue delay in to provide the same treatment to Switzerland as that provided to the third State.” 62. Nestle had argued that this provision has been deleted, and instead, another condition added, by the 2010 Protocol, which reads as follows: “ARTICLE 11 Paragraph 4 of the Protocol to the Agreement shall be deleted and replaced by the following paragraph: With reference to Articles 10, 11, 12 and 22 The provisions of Articles 10, 11, 12 and 22 shall not apply in respect to any dividend, interest, royalty, fees for technical services or other income paid under, or as part of a conduit arrangement. The term “conduit arrangement” means a transaction or series of transactions which is structured in such a way that a resident of a Contracting State entitled to the benefi ts of the Agreement receives an item of income arising in the other Contracting State but that resident pays, directly or indirectly, all or substantially all of that income (at any time or in any form) to another person who is not a resident of either Contracting State and who, if it received that item of income directly from the other Contracting State, would not be entitled under a Convention or Agreement for the avoidance of double taxation between the State in which that other person is resident and the Contracting State in which the income arises, or otherwise, to benefi ts with respect to that item of income which are equivalent to, or more favorable than, those available under this Agreement to a resident of a Contracting State; ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1187 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.]