5.3 Thus, from the aforesaid, it is apparent that earlier except the B land in question belonging to the writ petitioners of CWP No. 16346/ 2013, all other lands have been released except the small parcel/plot of the lands belonging to the original writ petitioners. Now, non-release of land is sought to be justified on the ground that the same is now proposed to be used as shopping mall and parking. It is required to be noted that C the land in question has been acquired in the year 1987 along with the total land measuring 46.49 acres, out of which, except the present small parcel/part of the land, all other lands have been released and/or the acquisition with respect to same have been quashed. Considering the aforesaid facts and circumstances, when the High Court has allowed the writ petition - CWP No. 16346/2013 and has quashed the acquisition D proceedings and has directed to release the land in question, it cannot be said that the learned Single Judge and/or Division Bench of the High Court has committed any error which caused for interference of this Court. No interference of this Court is called for. However, at the cost of repetition, we deprecate the manner in which the State has dealt with E the acquisition proceedings and have released the land(s) and/or permitted the acquisition to be quashed in a most arbitrary manner. The lands as such were acquired for the residential and commercial development purposes which could not have been utilized and used for public purposes and development of the area/sector and the State Government by exercising the powers arbitrarily and/or in favoritism has failed to use F the lands for public purposes for which the lands were acquired. The State Government is guardian of the public interest and the public and the public interest was required to be considered the paramount interest rather than releasing the lands at initial stage in favour of the influential persons. The State shall take care in future and must use the lands G acquired for the purpose for which the same have been acquired otherwise the object and purpose of acquiring the land will be frustrated. 5.4 Now, so far as the Civil Appeal arising out of CWP No. 10452/ 2014 is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that the land in question is already utilized and used for the sewage lines and H 28 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A approximately Rs. 17 crores have been spent in constructing sewage lines. Therefore, the High Court has committed a very serious error in quashing and setting aside the acquisition with respect to the said land which is already put to use for the sewage lines which is being used for the public purpose and for the residents of the locality. If the and passed by the High Court stands in that case, the entire sewage B lines will have to be removed which has been constructed after spending Rs.