And further authorized the Managing Director for taking necessary actions in this regard. For KARNATAKA STATE ELECTRONICS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION LIMITED.” 21. There is no denying the fact that the appellant is a fully owned Undertaking/ Corporation of the State of Karnataka. Any loss suff ered by it would be a loss to the Public Exchequer. The respondent, on the other hand, has shifted its purpose of setting up an IT related industry to a Hospitality sector to set up a hotel. If the amount for such conversion of usage is not legally recovered from the respondent, as a result, loss being suff ered by the appellant, would not be in public interest. It is also not disputed that all other similarly situate allottees have paid at the rate determined in the 141st Board Meeting of the appellant. 22. The respondent seems to be getting undue advantage merely because the clerical staff and the offi cer signing the demand notice for conversion charges applied the tentative rate of Rs. 1 Crore per acre instead of the prevailing rate of Rs.3.2 Crores per acre and in addition, additional 40 percent for use as commercial as the rate of Rs.3.2 Crores per acre being that for residential purposes. Neither the clerical staff nor an offi cer of the appellant would be competent to override or deviate from the decision of the Board of Directors taken in the 141st Board Meeting. The 141st Board Meeting has taken place prior to the respondent applying for change of use and issuing of the demand notice for conversion, there could be no justifi cation for not adhering to the decision taken in the 141st Board Meeting. A bona fi de mistake could always be corrected. 23. The arguments advanced by the respondent and strongly relied upon by the learned Single Judge as also the Division Bench regarding the stand taken by the appellant in fi ling its objections to the audit report 790 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. regarding the fi nancial loss, also cannot be of any help to the respondent. The said objections being contrary to the 141st Board Meeting decision, would again be a mistake at the hands of the clerical staff and some offi cers of the appellant Corporation. The audit objection is based upon correct appreciation of the decisions taken in the Board Meeting, in particular, 141st Board Meeting as also based upon the terms and conditions laid down in the Letter of Allotment and the Lease Agreement. We have no reason to fi nd any fault with the audit objections. 24. The relevant clauses of the allotment letter as also the lease agreement have already been reproduced in the earlier part of this . They are very clear that the rate of Rs.1 Crore per acre was tentative rate and the fi nal rate was to be determined later on which would be binding on the lessee i.e. the respondent. The respondent cannot, in any manner, go against the terms and conditions given under the Letter of Allotment as also the Lease Agreement.