The said test was conducted in the year 2005, and his age was determined in the range of 22 to 40 years. If we take 22 years as his age in 2005, then his year of birth would haven been 1983. That would broadly correspond to the date of birth contained in the admission register. F 42. In the case of Rishipal Singh Solanki (supra), it has been laid down that if two views are possible on the same evidence the Court should lean in favour of holding the accused to be a juvenile in bline cases. In the case of State of Jammu & Kashmir (Now U.T. of Jammu and Kashmir) and Others -vs- Shubham Sangra [2022 SCC OnLine SC 1592], the decision of Parag Bhati (supra) was followed, which laid G down that benefits of the 2000 Act ought to be extended to only such cases wherein the accused is held to be a juvenile on the basis of clear and unambiguous case that the accused was minor on the date of the incident and the documentary evidence at least prima facie inspires confidence regarding his minority. It was opined in this that H when an accused commits a grave and heinous offence, his plea of NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1113 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] juvenility cannot be allowed to come to his rescue and Court cannot take A a casual or cavalier approach in determining his minority. A somewhat different view has been expressed in the case of Rishipal Singh Solanki (supra), which we have referred to above. A view similar to that taken in Rishipal Singh Solanki (supra) was reflected in the decision of a two-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Rajinder Chandra -vs- B State of Chhattisgarh and Another [(2002) 2 SCC 287]. In our opinion however, in the event the Court, Board or the Committee is satisfied that the claimant on the date of offence was a juvenile, the dimension of gravity of the offence cannot be considered by the Court to reject the benefit granted to an accused or convict under the 2015 Act. We agree with the observations made in the cases of Shubham Sangra (supra) C and Parag Bhati (supra) that a casual or cavalier approach should not be taken in determining the age of the accused or convict on his plea of juvenility, but a decision against determination of juvenility ought not to be taken solely for the reason that offence involved is heinous or grave. The degree or dimension of the offence ought not to direct approach of D the Court in its inquiry into juvenility of an accused (in this case a convict). The exception where a different view can be taken has been provided by the legislature itself in Section 15 of the 2015 Act and if on the basis of commission of heinous crime, a juvenile is required to be denied the benefit of the 2015 Act, the course specified therein would be required to followed.