The Court held4: “(ii) Even if the words “arbitration” and “Arbitral Tribunal (or arbitrator)” are not used with reference to the process of settlement or with reference to the private tribunal which has to adjudicate upon the disputes, in a clause relating to settlement of disputes, it does not detract from the clause being an arbitration agreement if it has the attributes or elements of an arbitration agreement. They are: (a) The agreement should be in writing. (b) The parties should have agreed to refer any disputes (present or future) between them to the decision of a private tribunal. (c) The private tribunal should be empowered to adjudicate upon the disputes in an impartial manner, giving due opportunity to the parties to put forth their case before it. (d)The parties should have agreed that the decision of the private tribunal in respect of the disputes will be binding on them.” (emphasis added). 19. The following conditions must be satisfi ed by a valid arbitration agreement: (i) The agreement must be in writing, as stipulated by sub-section (3) of Section 7; (ii) Parties should have agreed to refer any disputes, present or future, between them to an arbitral tribunal; (iii) The arbitral tribunal should be empowered to adjudicate upon the disputes in an impartial manner giving due opportunity to the parties; and 4 (2007) 5 SCC 719, 724. SOLARIS CHEM TECH INDUSTRIES LTD v. ASSISTANT 471 EXECUTIVE ENGINEER KARNATAKA URBAN WATER SUPPLY AND DRAINAGE BOARD (iv) The parties should have agreed that the decision of the tribunal would be binding between them. 20. In the present case, Clause 11.2 of the agreement does not constitute the Chief Engineer as an arbitral tribunal. A similar clause was considered by this Court in Jaipur Jila Dugdh Utpadak Sahkari Sangh Limited vs Ajay Sales and Suppliers.5 A distributorship agreement between the parties contained an arbitration clause in clause 13, stipulating that all disputes arising out of or in any way touching or concerning the agreement, whatsoever shall be referred to the sole Arbitrator, the Chairman, Jaipur Zila Dugdh Utpadak Sahkari Sangh Ltd. and his decision shall be fi nal and binding upon the parties. Accordingly, the respondent in the case approached the Chairman and while the dispute was pending before the Chairman, the respondent made an application for appointment of an arbitrator and an arbitrator came to be appointed by the High Court. Aggrieved by this, the appellant moved this Court. Section 12(5) of the Arbitration Act, which was introduced in the year 2015 by way of an amendment indicates that notwithstanding any prior agreement to the contrary, certain persons whose relationships with the parties fall under the Seventh Schedule of the Act, are ineligible to be appointed as an arbitrator. The issue was whether this disqualifi cation applied to arbitration agreements executed prior to the amendment which came into eff ect on 23 October 2015. Dismissing the appeal, the Court answered the question in the affi rmative. Reiterating the observations in Voestalpine Schienen GMBH v. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited6, the Court held that the object and purpose of Section 12(5) of the Act is to ensure the “neutrality of arbitrators”.