Case No.65/2015. 3. The above-stated FIR, under Section 302 IPC, was registered on the receipt of an ejahar submitted by P.W.8 (Well Borja), on the same day, 836 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. to the eff ect that his younger brother – Markush Borja had been assaulted and killed by the appellant with a bamboo stick. The occurrence took place inside the house of the appellant. The informant had gone to the house of the appellant and found his brother, who had been staying with his in-laws for the last 3/4 months, lying dead. 4. Following the registration of the FIR, the appellant was arrested and a chargesheet under Section 302 IPC was fi led against him. The prosecution examined nine witnesses including the wife of the appellant – Mononit Jajara (P.W.5) and his daughter – Sarani Boria (P.W.6). The appellant’s wife supported the prosecution’s case to the extent that her son-in-law was killed by the appellant. However, she did not witness the occurrence as she could not enter the house out of fear. The statement of the appellant’s daughter, who is the wife of the deceased (P.W.6), has a direct and material bearing on the fate of this appeal. Hence, we propose to reproduce her statement in extenso, which reads as under: “I know accused Sri Markash Jajara who is present in the dock of the court today. The accused is my father. I also knew deceased Markush Borha who happened to be my husband. The incident occurred about one & a half years back. On the date of incident I alongwith my husband proceeded towards the house of our parents as they were suff ering from illness. On the date of incident I was present at my work place. When I returned back home at about 4 P.M. I came to know that my husband had been murdered by my father [accused]. Out of fear I did not enter into the house. When police arrived at our house then only I entered into my house. I noticed the dead body of my husband lying in the fl oor of the kitchen of the house. I questioned my father about the incident and he confessed before me that he had murdered my husband. Police took the dead body of my husband to the hospital for post-mortem examination. My father was also taken to the police station. MARKASH JAJARA v. THE STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 837 CROSS-EXAMINATION : ON BEHALF OF ACCUSED I do not know anything about the incident. I did not witness the incident. We reside separately from our parents. My parents resided alongwith my brother and his wife. My husband was an alcoholic person. Prior to the date of incident my husband used to quarrel with me as well as with my father after consuming alcohol. My father murdered my husband as he used to ill-treat me after consuming alcohol. My father confessed before me that he had murdered my husband with a piece of bamboo.” 5.