11 30. Submission of resolution plan.—(1) A resolution applicant may submit a resolution plan along with an affidavit stating that he is eligible under Section 29-A to the resolution professional prepared on the basis of the information memorandum. (2) The resolution professional shall examine each resolution plan received by him to E confirm that each resolution plan— (a) provides for the payment of insolvency resolution process costs in a manner specified by the Board in priority to the payment of other debts of the corporate debtor; (b) provides for the payment of debts of operational creditors in such manner as may be specified by the Board which shall not be less than— (i) the amount to be paid to such creditors in the event of a liquidation of the corporate debtor under Section 53; or F (ii) the amount that would have been paid to such creditors, if the amount to be distributed under the resolution plan had been distributed in accordance with the of priority in sub-section (1) of Section 53, whichever is higher, and provides for the payment of debts of financial creditors, who do not vote in favour of the resolution plan, in such manner as may be specified by the Board, which shall not be less than the amount to be paid to such creditors in accordance with sub-section (1) of Section 53 in G the event of a liquidation of the corporate debtor. Explanation 1.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this clause shall be fair and equitable to such creditors. Explanation 2.—For the purposes of this clause, it is hereby declared that on and from the date of commencement of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Amendment) Act, 2019, the provisions of this clause shall also apply to the corporate insolvency resolution process of a corporate debtor— H 130 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of the Code. Substantial part of clause (b) of sub-section (2) to Section 30 of the Code relates to the payment of debts of operational creditors, which is not relevant for us. However, the later portion of clause (b) of sub-section (2) to Section 30 of the Code provides for the payment of debts of financial creditors who do not vote in favour of the resolution plan. The amount payable to them, it stipulates, shall not be less than the B amount to be paid to such creditors in accordance with sub-section (1) to Section 53 of the Code in the event of a liquidation of the corporate debtor. Sub-section (4) to Section 30 of the Code states when and how a Committee of Creditors is to approve the resolution plan. Sub-section (6) states that the resolution professional shall submit the resolution plan C as approved by the Committee of Creditors to the adjudicating authority. Section 3112 of the Code relates to approval of the resolution plan. The (i) where a resolution plan has not been approved or rejected by the Adjudicating Authority; (ii) where an appeal has been preferred under Section 61 or Section 62 or such an appeal D is not time barred under any provision of law for the time being in force; or (iii) where a legal proceeding has been initiated in any court against the decision of the Adjudicating Authority in respect of a resolution plan; (c) provides for the management of the affairs of the corporate debtor after approval of the resolution plan; (d) the implementation and supervision of the resolution plan; (e) does not contravene any of the provisions of the law for the time being in force; E (f) conforms to such other requirements as may be specified by the Board.