in Pune Urban area. To say it diff erently, the contention is that Billimoria5 is not founded upon a plenary interpretation of Section 2(q)(i) of the Ceiling Act and what has been held therein is an acknowledgement of two separate independent units of each co-owner, where 2/3rd area of each unit was required to be kept open mandatorily as per the Building Regulations. 742 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 33. We have considered the rival submissions. There is undoubtedly a note of discordance between Jhonson1 [two-Judge Bench] and Billimoria5 [three-Judge Bench]. Jhonson1, on facts, was not a case under Section 2(q) (i) but this Court consciously resorted to interpret and explain the entire scheme of the Act including the fall out of Section 2(q)(i) thereof. Meera Gupta2 mis-applied Jhonson1, hence, was rightly doubted in Angoori Devi3. However, before the controversy could be authoritatively settled by a fi ve-Judge Bench, Angoori Devi3 was rendered infructuous due to repeal of the Ceiling Act in the State of Uttar Pradesh. Unfortunately, the lead judgement in Billimoria5 did not even notice Jhonson1 though apparently it was brought to the notice of the Bench. We say so for the simple reason that the concurring opinion specifi cally refers to Jhonson1. Billimoria5 did not expressly overrule Jhonson1. Whether Jhonson1, to the extent it opined on Section 2(q)(i) of the Ceiling Act, has been impliedly overruled or not, is a debatable issue. 34. Billimoria5 perhaps lends support to the contentions raised on behalf of the appellants. 35. The Ceiling Act indeed is an expropriatory Legislation. The `payment’ under Section 11 of the Act to a land owner is not fair and just market value of the surplus vacant land. Principles of strict construction would thus be attracted to such a statute. 36. The words, “….in an area” as incorporated in all the sub-clauses of Section 2(g) and 2(q) also deserve special attention but have not been explicitly discussed in any of the cited decisions. 37. We are thus of the considered opinion that the interpretation, spirit and object of the Ceiling Act, as it was envisaged at the time of its enactment, when juxtaposed against the regressive impact experienced in diff erent States which is indicated in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Repeal Act, invite an authoritative determination of all the related issues by a Larger Bench. This case may, therefore, be placed before Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for appropriate directions. Headnotes prepared by: Matter to be placed before Nidhi Jain Hon’b le CJI for appropriate directions.