Although no such provision exists in the Indian Constitution, our Courts are no stranger to interpreting statutory laws through fundamental rights. In Central Inland Water Transport Corpn. v Brojo Nath Ganguly, the Supreme Court was concerned with the interpretation of ‘public policy’ under Section 23 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872.19 In this context, this Court observed: “It is thus clear that the principles governing public policy must be and are capable, on proper occasion, of expansion or modifi cation. Practices which were considered perfectly normal at one time have today become obnoxious and oppressive to public conscience. If there is no head of public policy which covers a case, then the court must in consonance with public conscience and in keeping with public good and public interest declare such practice to be opposed to public policy. Above all, in deciding any case which may not be covered by authority our courts have before them the beacon light of the Preamble to the Constitution. Lacking precedent, the court can always be guided by that light and the principles underlying the Fundamental Rights and the Directive Principles enshrined in our Constitution.” 26. This technique of reading in Constitutional values should be used harmoniously with other canons of statutory interpretation. In this context, legislations that confer benefi ts on the basis of marriage should be construed to include civil unions as well, where applicable. The need for an anti-discrimination law 27. I am wholeheartedly in agreement with the opinion of the Hon’ble Chief Justice that there is a need for a separate anti-discrimination law which inter alia prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. Presently, there are several laws that have an anti-discrimination aspect to them. However, they are fragmented and may fail to capture the 18 1996 (3) SA 850. 19 (1986) 3 SCC 156. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1429 UNION OF INDIA [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] multitudinous forms of discrimination. Another compelling reason for a law that places a horizontal duty of anti-discrimination is provided by the spirit of Article 15, which prohibits discrimination by both the State and private actors. Presently, although the Court assumes its role as the ‘sentinel on the qui vive’, the only method to enforce this Constitutional right under Article 15 would be through its writ jurisdiction. There are signifi cant challenges for marginalized communities to access this remedy. Therefore, the proliferation of remedies through an anti-discrimination statute can be a fi tting solution. Such legislation would also be in furtherance of the positive duty of the State to secure social and to promote justice and social welfare under Article 38 of the Constitution. 28. My suggestions for an anti-discrimination law are as follows. First, such a law should recognize discrimination in an intersectional manner. That is to say, in assessing any instance of discrimination, the Court cannot confi ne itself to a singular form of discrimination. Instead, discrimination must be looked at as a confl uence of factors – as identities and individual instances of oppression that ‘intersect’ and create a distinct form of disadvantage.20 Discrimination laws can only be eff ective if they address the types of inequality that have developed in the given society.