The expression “in connection with the application” indicates that Parliament has not contemplated a roving enquiry by the resolution professional but an enquiry for the purpose of making the ultimate recommendation in the report on the nature of the application itself. The resolution professional, after carrying out the process which is evidenced in sub-sections (2) and (4), in particular, is then required to make an ascertainment in terms of sub- section (6). It is thereafter that the resolution professional would submit a report either recommending the acceptance or rejection of the application together with the reasons in support of the report. 67. The provisions of Section 99 thus leave no manner of doubt that the process which takes place before the resolution professional is not an ex parte process in the absence of a debtor against whom the insolvency resolution process is sought to be initiated. Though, the ultimate report of the resolution professional has only a recommendatory value, the legislature has ensured that the recommendation is made after taking into account the information or, as the case may be, the explanation that is furnished by the debtor. Thus, it cannot be said that there is any element of bias in a report submitted by an RP who is nominated by the creditor. In the decision in Ravi Ajit Kulkarni v. State Bank of India18, it has been emphasized that under Section 98 of the IBC, the debtor retains the option to replace the RP appointed under Section 97 by fi ling an appropriate application with the adjudicating authority. 18 (2021) SCC OnLine NCLAT 641, para 42. DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 603 68. The submission which has been urged on behalf of the petitioners, however, is that Section 97(5) contemplates a role for the adjudicating authority in the appointment of a resolution professional anterior to the stage which is contemplated during the course of adjudication under Section 100. It has been urged that when the adjudicating authority appoints a resolution professional under Section 97(5), the adjudicating authority should be required to decide the jurisdictional questions on the basis of which the provisions of Part III are implicated. In other words, it is urged that, at that stage, it would be necessary for the adjudicating authority to apply its mind as to whether (i) a debt subsists; and (ii) the relationship of creditor and debtor subsists. This is similar to the UNCITRAL Guide which emphasises the need for the insolvency court to evaluate commencement criteria before admitting insolvency proceedings, ensuring a fair hearing for the parties involved.19 69. Reliance has been placed on the decision in Ujjam Bai v State of Uttar Pradesh20 to support the submission that unless such an exercise is carried out, the debtor would be exposed to a wide-ranging enquiry by the resolution professional under Section 99 accompanied by a duty to furnish information or an explanation as required by the resolution professional. We are not inclined to accept this assertion. The principles articulated in Swiss Ribbons Private Limited v Union of India21 elucidate that the resolution professional’s functions are administrative, not adjudicatory.