It does not mean that NCTD is subsumed in the unit of the Union merely because it is not a “State”. As B the opinion of the majority in 2018 Constitution Bench judgement held: “Such an interpretation would be in consonance with the concepts of pragmatic federalism and federal balance by giving the Government of NCT of Delhi some required degree of independence subject to the limitations imposed by the C Constitution.” The interpretation of Article 239AA(3)(a) in an expansive manner would further the basic structure of federalism. I. Scope of Legislative and Executive Power between the Union and NCTD D 78. Article 239AA(3)(a) indicates that the Legislative Assembly of Delhi shall have the power to make laws for the whole or any part of NCTD with respect to matters in the State List and the Concurrent List, except for entries 1, 2, and 18 of the State List, and entries 64, 65 and 66 insofar as they relate to the entries 1, 2, and 18. Therefore, the legislative E power of NCTD is limited to entries it is competent to legislate on. 79. Article 239AA(3)(b) provides that Parliament can “make laws with respect to any matter” for a Union Territory or any part of it. Therefore, the legislative power of Parliament shall extend to all subjects in the State List and the Concurrent List in relation to NCTD, besides of F course the Union List. In case of a repugnancy between a law enacted by Parliament and a law made by Legislative Assembly of NCTD, the former shall prevail in terms of Article 239AA(3)(d). 80. The position that emerges from Article 239AA(3) is that NCTD has legislative power over entries in List II with limits (as G excluded by the provision) but Parliament’s legislative power extends to subjects in all three lists relation to NCTD. As noted previously, the scope of division of legislative and executive powers between the Union and NCTD fell for the consideration in the 2018 Constitution Bench . Interpreting Article 239AA(4), the 2018 Constitution Bench H 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A held that the executive power of GNCTD was co-extensive with the legislative power of NCTD. 81. Article 73(1) of the Constitution stipulates that the executive power of the Union shall extend to matters with respect to which Parliament has the power to make laws. The proviso to Article 73(1) B provides that the executive power of the Union shall not extend “in any State” to matters with respect to which the Legislature of the State also has power to make laws unless expressly provided in the Constitution or by a law made by Parliament: “Article 73. Extent of executive power of the Union- (1) Subject C to the provisions of this Constitution, the executive power of the Union shall extend- To the matters with respect to which Parliament has power to make laws; [...] D Provided that the executive power referred in sub-clause (a) shall not, save as expressly provided in this Constitution, or in any law made by Parliament, extend to any State to matters with respect to which the Legislature of the State has also power to make laws.” E 82.