PRINCIPLES GOVERNING THE EXERCISE OF CONTEMPT JURISDICTION 40. The object of the discipline enforced by the court in case of contempt of court is not to vindicate the dignity of the court or the person of the Judge, but to prevent undue interference with the administration of justice. 41. Any interference with the course of justice is an aff ront to the majesty of law and the conduct of interference is punishable as contempt of court. Public interest demands that there should be no interference with the judicial process, and the eff ect of the judicial decision should not be pre-empted or circumvented. (Reliance Petrochemicals Ltd. v. Proprietors of Indian Express Newspapers Bombay Pvt. Ltd. and Others reported in(1988) 4 SCC 592). 42. If a party, who is fully in the know of the / of the Court, is conscious and aware of the consequences and implications of the of the Court, acts in violation thereof, it must be held that disobedience is wilful. To establish contempt of court, it is suffi cient to prove that the 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. conduct was wilful, and that the contemnor knew of all the facts which made it a breach of the undertaking. 43. The following conditions must be satisfi ed before a person can be held to have committed civil contempt: (i) there must be a , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court; (ii) there must be disobedience to such , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court; and (iii) such disobedience of the , decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court must be wilful. [Patel Rajnikant Dhulabhai and Another v. Patel Chandrakant Dhulabhai and Others, reported in (2008) 14 SCC 561] 44. It behoves the court to act with as great circumspection as possible, making all allowances for errors of . It is only when a clear case of contumacious conduct, not explainable otherwise, arises that the contemnor must be punished. Punishment under the law of contempt is called for when the lapse is deliberate and in disregard of one's duty and in defi ance of authority. Contempt proceedings are quasi-criminal in nature, and the standard of proof is the same as in other criminal cases. The alleged contemnor is entitled to the protection of all safeguards/rights, including benefi t of doubt. [Kanwar Singh Saini v. High Court of Delhi reported in (2012) 4 SCC 307]. 45. The sanctity to judicial proceedings is paramount to a society governed by law. Otherwise, the very edifi ce of democracy breaks and anarchy reigns. The Act 1971 is intended to correct a person deviating from the norm and trying to breach the law/assuming law on to himself. It intends to secure confi dence of the people in the administration of justice by disciplining those erring in disobeying the s of the Court/undertaking given to court. 46. This Court in a plethora of cases has explained the true purport of exercise of powers under the 1971 Act.