Further, after going through the Grounds of Arrest the Arrestee Ram Kishor Arora on last page in his own handwriting wrote that – “I have been informed and have also read the above mention grounds of arrest” Therefore, the ratio of Pankaj Bansal judgement will not be applicable in the instant case. 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. A copy of Grounds of arrest is annexed herewith and marked as Annexure R-1.” 6. The appellant without specifi cally denying the said assertion made by the respondent ED in paragraph 16 of the counter-affi davit, fi led the response by fi ling an affi davit in rejoinder. The response of the appellant in the rejoinder to paragraph 16 of the counter-affi davit reads as under:- “i. It is respectfully submitted that the very fact that the respondent has now annexed the copy of the grounds of arrest establishes the fact that the petitioner was not served the copy of the grounds of arrest. Rather it is an admission on the part of the respondent that the copy of the grounds of arrest were not served on the petitioner. This Hon’ble Court in V. Senthil Balaji Vs State and Ors. 2023 SCC OnLine SC 934 in Para 39 has held that the ground of arrest is to be “served” to the arrestee. The same was also reiterated and clarifi ed by this Hon’ble Court in Pankaj Bansal Vs Union of India and Others, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 1244. ii. It is submitted that the compliance of serving the grounds of arrest must be at the time when the Petitioner’s arrest was made and not thereafter. iii. The non-service of grounds of arrest is an illegality and not an irregularity that can be regularized later. If the law requires that something be done in a particular manner, then it must be done in that manner, and if not done in that manner, then the same has no existence in the eye of law at all. iv. Mere perusal of grounds of arrest for getting it signed, without serving the same by providing a copy thereof at the time of arrest, does not meet the requirements in law and the arrest of the petitioner is thus illegal.” v. It is submitted that the fi ling the copy of the grounds of arrest at this stage (Annexure R-1 in counter affi davit, page no. 36), will not help Respondent to cure this illegality. This is an incurable illegality making the very arrest illegal.” RAM KISHOR ARORA v. DIRECTORATE OF 749 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] LEGAL PROVISION: - 7. Since the entire controversy centres around the interpretation of Section 19 of PMLA which deals with the Power of the ED to arrest, the same is reproduced for ready reference. “19. Power to arrest.- (1) If the Director, Deputy Director, Assistant Director or any other offi cer authorised in this behalf by the Central Government by general or special , has on the basis of material in his possession, reason to believe (the reason for such belief to be recorded in writing) that any person has been guilty of an off ence punishable under this Act, he may arrest such person and shall, as soon as may be, inform him of the grounds for such arrest.