He submitted that he, along with PW-14 Gunner Gurtej Singh and the appellant, were having dinner. At that time, the deceased stood on duty outside the guard room with a weapon and ammunition. He described B that there was an altercation between the appellant and the deceased on the issue of seniority. According to his version, when he was sitting in the guard room, he heard a sound of a gunshot. When he looked outside, the appellant was holding a rifle. According to him, the appellant informed him that he had shot the deceased. PW-13 sought help. He tried to give C a ring to headquarters but the telephone was engaged. He told PW-14 to shout for help from nearby posts. PW-13 further stated that he along with the appellant, lifted the deceased and after reaching the roadside, they laid the deceased on the ground. By that time ambulance reached the place. He stated that Naib Subedar Chandrika Prasad (PW-8), a nursing assistant and the appellant put the deceased into an ambulance D and all of them took the deceased to hospital. We may note here that the learned prosecution counsel sought permission to declare PW-13 as a hostile witness. However, the Court Martial rejected the request of the prosecution counsel. PW-13 stated that the rifle used by the appellant was lying in the snake pit. There was an empty magazine and a filled E magazine. There were 19 rounds in the filled magazine. The witness admitted that he, along with the deceased and the appellant, consumed liquor. But he claimed that it was one and half hours before the incident. In the cross-examination, the witness admitted that it was the deceased who brought the liquor bottle without consulting him. He admitted that the appellant and the deceased were friends before the incident. He F stated that the appellant told him that he had committed a mistake and he had fired a bullet at the deceased. While answering the court question, the witness stated that he had not seen the appellant firing from the rifle. He saw the appellant immediately after hearing the sound of firing. 9. PW-14 Gunner Gurtej Singh stated that he was having dinner G on 4th December 2004 at about 2015 hrs with PW 13 in the guard room. After hearing the sound of a gunshot, he got up and saw the appellant holding a rifle and standing near the entrance of the guard room. He stated that the appellant took out the magazine from the rifle and threw it on a side. Thereafter, he made the rifle safe by cocking the rifle. He H threw the rifle into a snake pit. He stated that when the appellant was NO.15138812Y L/NK GURSEWAK SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA 1145 & ANR. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] questioned by him, he responded by stating that he had committed a A mistake. He stated that earlier he had heard the appellant asking the deceased to bring water for him. The deceased refused to get water by saying that he was senior to the appellant.