The following three categories of persons are mentioned therein: (a) by some person executing or claiming under the same, or, in the case of a copy of a decree or , claiming under the decree B or , or (b) by the representative or assign of such a person, or (c) by the agent of such a person, representative or assign, duly authorised by power-of- attorney executed and authenticated in manner mentioned therein. Therefore, it is evident that plaintiff no. 2, had the authority as per Section 32 (c) to present a document for registration in his capacity as the attorney of the original owner C of the suit property. [Para 22][180-E-H] 2.4 Non-production of the power of attorney in the suit is also not fatal to the case of the plaintiffs. Production of the original power of attorney is not an indispensable requirement to establish the validity of execution of a sale deed. It would therefore follow D that production of a power of attorney is not a necessary requirement to prove a sale deed before a court of law executed through a power of attorney. [Para 23][181-A; 183-F] 2.5 Section 67 of the Evidence Act deals with proof of documents such as a sale deed as in the instant case. The plaintiff E No.1 has proved her right, title and interest in the land in question. There is no contra evidence produced by the defendants so as to defeat the validity of the sale deeds. The said documents speak for themselves. Therefore, there is no substance in the contentions of the appellants arising under the provisions of the F Registration Act, 1908. Thus, plaintiff No.1 has acquired title to the land in question. Further, when a sale deed is executed on the strength of deed of power of attorney, the non-production of thedeed of power of attorney in the suit is not fatal to the case of the plaintiff. [Para 24][183-G; 184-B-C] G 2.6 The sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 was executed on the strength of the power of attorney which was executed in conformity with Section 33 (1) (c) of the Registration Act, 1908 because the power of attorney has been duly executed H 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A before the Magistrate, East Pakistan as noted from the two sale deeds. There is no contra evidence produced by defendants in that regard. Since the requirements of execution of a sale deed are duly complied with, and there is no reason to doubt the recitals of the sale deed which has been proved in accordance with law, it would follow that the statutory presumption under Section 60 of B the Registration Act could be invoked in the instant case. [Para 25][184-D-F] 2.7 It is trite that registration of a document is a solemn act of parties and the recitals of a registered document are presumed to be valid unless such a presumption is rebutted by strong C evidence to the contrary. This is because, the document speaks for itself.