B 18. We may briefly refer to the relevant argument and the findings returned by this Court in the impugned dated 10.08.2021. In paragraph 26 of the impugned , this Court summarized the four points argued by Mr. Salve. The said paragraph is reproduced hereunder: “26. Shri Harish Salve, learned Senior Advocate appearing C on behalf of Arun Dev Upadhyaya, argued that the commission of a tort would be outside contractual disputes that arise under the Arbitration Agreement and that since the cause of action really arose in tort, the Award was vitiated on this ground. He also argued relying heavily upon Dallah Real D Estate and Tourism Co v Ministry of Religious Affairs of the Government of Pakistan [2010] 3 WLR 1472 [“Dallah”] that a full review based on oral and/or documentary evidence ought to have been undertaken which was not done on the facts of this case, the Division Bench merely echoing the Arbitrator’s findings. He then made a distinction between E Section 46 and Section 35 of the Arbitration Act, and argued that under Section 46, a foreign award is to be treated as binding only on persons as between whom it was made and not on persons who 25 may claim under the parties. He also argued that insofar as his client was concerned, there was no F evidence to show his involvement in any manner and that the findings against his client are unreasoned and perfunctory, and on this ground also the Award stands vitiated.” (emphasis supplied) 19. Paragraph 298 of the deals with the analysis and G interpretation of Section 44 of the Act. This Court noticed that there would be six ingredients to qualify an arbitral award to be a foreign award. Paragraph 29 is reproduced hereunder: 8 The paragraph nos. are from the original impugned annexed in the paper book. H 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “29. A reading of Section 44 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 would show that there are six ingredients to an award being a foreign award under the said Section. First, it must be an arbitral award on differences between persons arising out of legal relationships. Second, these differences may be in contract or outside of contract, B for example, in tort. Third, the legal relationship so spoken of ought to be considered “commercial” under the law in India. Fourth, the award must be made on or after the 11th day of October, 1960. Fifth, the award must be a New York Convention award – in short it must be in pursuance of an C agreement in writing to which the New York Convention applies and be in one of such territories. And Sixth, it must be made in one of such territories which the Central Government by notification declares to be territories to which the New York Convention applies.” D 20. In Paragraph Nos.30 to 33, this Court discussed the ingredients. Further, in paragraphs 34 to 37, the Court dealt with the scope of Section 47 of the Act and the argument of the counsel for the Review Petitioner that evidence should be adduced and it should be a full trial to prove that the non-signatory would also be bound by a foreign award, was rejected.