17. In her defense, the convict-appellant categorically denied the accusation of having killed any child, much less the child in question. She states that Baiga Gond, who had fathered the child she was carrying, in an endeavor to get rid of the child, forcibly tried to have her take some medicine. He pushed her into ‘Suraj ki dabri’ on her refusal, leading to her miscarriage. The further defence set up by her was that she had not killed the child and was being falsely implicated. 18. A perusal of the statement of the convict-appellant gives rise to the question as to whether she had admitted her guilt? Whether upon such a statement, the onus on the prosecution stood shifted? Whether it could be said that the convict-appellant was obliged to disclose her pregnancy, if so, and what became of such child that she was allegedly carrying? 19. Further, what must be considered is whether the convict-appellant has no right of privacy of not disclosing the prosecution or the Court as to what happened to her child which she was carrying in her womb, particularly when the prosecution failed to discharge the initial burden and onus of establishing the deceased, in any manner to be related to the accused? 20. Is not, inherent in a lady the right of confi dentiality and privacy in matters concerning her personal life, of not disclosing any circumstances, as may be required by law? INDRAKUNWAR v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 967 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] LAW ON PRIVACY 21. In searching for answers to the questions above, it is pertinent for us to intervene when structures of injustice and persecution deeply entrenched in patriarchy are destructive of constitutional freedom.4 The right to privacy is the underpinning of human dignity and is fundamental to the realization of human rights. 22. Right to Privacy is regarded as one of the most crucial human rights in the contemporary day. In many diff erent countries and civilizations, privacy is cherished. It is also protected by numerous international and regional human rights treaties, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and many more. 23. The importance of this right was underscored by U.S. Supreme Court as far as the year 19585 by quoting William Pitt, Earl of Chatham: “The poorest man may in his cottage bid defi ance to all the force of the Crown. It may be frail; its roof may shake, the wind may blow through it, the storms may enter; the rain may enter but the King of England cannot enter, all his forces dare not cross the threshold of the ruined tenement.” 24. In K.S. Puttaswamy (Privacy-9J.) v. Union of India,6 this Court, speaking through Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) while discussing the essential nature of privacy observed: “297. What, then, does privacy postulate? Privacy postulates the reservation of a private space for the individual, described as the right to be let alone.