These provisions illustrate that in the absence of a State Legislature during an emergency, the power of governance and daily administrative duties cannot be kept in abeyance and must be transferred to any other competent authority till the resumption or election of a State Legislature. It is imperative for the President or the Union Parliament to take up the powers of the State Legislature; otherwise, a State without any administrative and governmental oversight is nothing short of anarchy. When the President is permitted to take over the legislative functions of the State Legislature under Article 357 and has received judicial imprimatur even to take extreme irreversible steps, such as dissolving the State Legislature, albeit after both Houses of Parliament approve the proclamation, there is no reason to curtail the President from exercising non-legislative powers of the State Legislature. 104. It is only in exceptional situations that the Constitution contemplates the exercise of such unitary powers. Constitutional and judicial safeguards have been imposed to ensure that the exercise of powers during an emergency is not unfettered and absolute. The imposition of an emergency is subject to judicial review as per S.R. Bommai126 and Rameshwar Prasad v. Union of India,127 and the Courts can assess the material that formed the basis of the advice to the President to impose an emergency. Furthermore, every proclamation must be ratifi ed and approved by both Houses of Parliament under Article 356(3) within two months from the date of the proclamation. 5. The extent of powers under Article 3 and the constitutionality of the Reorganization Act. A. The Parliament’s authority to alter or extinguish a State under Article 3. 126 (supra) 127 (2006) 2 SCC 1 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 105. We may note that CO 272 had already been issued by the President at the time the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganization Bill, 2019 was taken up for discussion by the Parliament. This implied that all provisions of the Constitution of India were applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Article 3, as applicable to the rest of the country, was thus also applicable to Jammu and Kashmir. The Reorganization Act needs to be considered in this conspectus. 106. If we examine the powers of the Parliament under Article 3, it provides that Parliament may by law inter alia form new States, diminish the area of any State, and alter the boundaries or names of existing States. The Explanation I provides that in clauses (a) to (e) of Article 3, a ‘State’ includes ‘Union Territory’. This implies that the power of the Parliament under Article 3(a), to make a law or form a new State or alter the boundary of a State includes the power to make law to form a new Union Territory. Explanation II to the provision notes that the power under clause (a) implies that the Parliament can form a Union Territory by uniting parts of any State or Union Territory to any other State or Union Territory. 107.