Constitution of India – Art. 309 – Conditions of service – Scope – Art. 309 does not by itself provide for recruitment or conditions of service of Government servants, but confers this power E on the appropriate legislature to make the laws and on the President and the Government of a State to make rules relating to these matters – However, any Act or Rule that violates the rights guaranteed to a government servant under Article 311, would be void – Similarly, such an Act or Rule would be treated as void if it violates any of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. F Constitution of India – Art. 310 – Doctrine of Pleasure – Article 310 embodies the “Doctrine of Pleasure” and in the context of Government servants, relates to their tenure of service – The origin of Government servants may be contractual, once appointed to the post or office, they acquire a status and their rights and G obligations are no longer determined by the consent of both the parties, but are governed by the Statute or Statutory Rules. Constitution of India – Art. 311 – Manifestation of the Principle of Natural Justice – To provide a sense of security of tenure to Government servants, the framers of the Constitution have H 774 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A incorporated safeguards in respect of the punishment or dismissal or removal or reduction in their rank as provided for in Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 311 – At the same time, being mindful of the very same public interest and public good which does not permit that Government servants found to be corrupt, dishonest or inefficient be continued in service, a remedy is provided under the second B proviso to Clause (2) of Article 311 whereunder their services can be dispensed with, without conducting a disciplinary inquiry. Constitution of India – Art.14 – A Bedrock of Principles of Natural Justice – Principles of natural justice that are reflected in Article 311, are not an empty incantation – They form the very C bedrock of Article 14 and any violation of these principles tantamounts to a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution – Denial of the principles of natural justice to a public servant can invalidate a decision taken on the ground that it is hit by the vice of arbitrariness and would result in depriving a public servant of equal protection D of law. Principles/Doctrines – Principle of Natural Justice – Twin anchors : Nemo Judex In Causa Sua and Audi Alteram Partem – The twin anchors on which the principles of natural justice rest in the judicial process, whether quasi-judicial or administrative in nature, E are Nemo Judex In Causa Sua, i.e., no person shall be a judge in his own cause as justice should not only be done, but should manifestly be seen to be done and Audi Alteram Partem, i.e. a person affected by a judicial, quasi-judicial or administrative action must be afforded an opportunity of hearing before any decision is taken.