This principle flows from various s of this Court which we have discussed hereinafter. For example, under Section 79(1)(g) the Central Commission is required to levy fees for the purpose of G the 2003 Act. An imposing regulatory fees could be passed even in the absence of a regulation under Section 178. If the levy is unreasonable, it could be the subject-matter of challenge before the appellate authority under Section 111 as the levy is imposed by an /decision-making process. Making of a regulation under Section 178 is not a precondition to passing of an levying a H 64 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A regulatory fee under Section 79(1)(g). However, if there is a regulation under Section 178 in that regard then the levying fees under Section 79(1)(g) has to be in consonance with such regulation.” (95) We are unable to see how the said can advance B the case of the first respondent. The question which fell for consideration and the opinion which has been rendered do not in any way detract from the view which we have taken. Substantially, it was held that the making of regulation was not a pre condition for levying a regulatory fee under Section 79(1)(g). It is no doubt true that Commission has an adjudicatory function. It is also empowered to give opinions. Power to frame regulations C indicates that it also has legislative powers. The point is that since in this case we are concerned with the adjudicatory function of the Commission, we are concerned with the trammels to which it is subject in the form of the express terms of the contract. All that we are holding is that in a case where the matter is governed by express terms of the contract, it D may not be open to the Commission even donning the garb of a regulatory body to go beyond the express terms of the contract. It is apposite that we notice para 58 reads as follows: “58. One must understand the reason why a regulation has been made in the matter of capping the trading margin under Section 178 of the Act. Instead of fixing a trading margin (including capping) E on a case-to-case basis, the Central Commission thought it fit to make a regulation which has a general application to the entire trading activity which has been recognised, for the first time, under the 2003 Act. Further, it is important to bear in mind that making of a regulation under Section 178 became necessary because a F regulation made under Section 178 has the effect of interfering and overriding the existing contractual relationship between the regulated entities. A regulation under Section 178 is in the nature of a subordinate legislation. Such subordinate legislation can even override the existing contracts including power purchase agreements which have got to be aligned with the regulations G under Section 178 and which could not have been done across the board by an of the Central Commission under Section 79(1)(j).” (96) While it may be open as indicated therein for a regulation to extricate a party from its contractual obligations, in the course of its H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 65 LTD. & ORS.