[DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] or the legality or illegality of the action comes to an end. However, with passage of time, and expansion and development of law, it is no longer the law that a preventive detention action, howsoever lawful it might appear on its face, cannot be invalidated by the Constitutional Courts. This is so, as at present, there is no administrative aff ecting rights of the subjects that can legitimately claim to be impregnably guarded by a protective shield, which judicial scrutiny cannot penetrate. 21. Apart from the aforesaid decisions, multiple decisions have been rendered by this Court over the years which provide suitable guidance to us to complete the present exercise; however, we wish to conclude this discussion by referring to one decision of this Court delivered little in excess of a decade back by a Bench of 3-Judges. 22. In Rekha vs. State of Tamil Nadu14, this Court observed that: “21. It is all very well to say that preventive detention is preventive not punitive. The truth of the matter, though, is that in substance a detention of one year (or any other period) is a punishment of one year’s imprisonment. What diff erence is it to the detenu whether his imprisonment is called preventive or punitive? (italics in original) *** 29. Preventive detention is, by nature, repugnant to democratic ideas and an anathema to the Rule of law. No such law exists in the USA and in England (except during war time). Since, however, Article 22(3)(b) of the Constitution of India permits preventive detention, we cannot hold it illegal but we must confi ne the power of preventive detention within very narrow limits, otherwise we will be taking away the great right to liberty guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution of India which was won after long, arduous and historic struggles. It follows, therefore, that if the ordinary law of the land (the Penal Code and other penal statutes) can deal with a situation, recourse to a preventive detention law will be illegal.” 14 (2011) 5 SCC 244 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 23. There could be little doubt with the thought process that although the executive would pass an under the preventive detention laws as a preventive or a precautionary measure, its eff ect viewed strictly from the stand point of the detenuis simply and plainly punitive. Signifi cantly, an of detention is not relatable to an alleged commission of off ence which a court is seized of and, thus, the conduct of the accused complained of is yet to be found blameworthy; on the contrary, since it relates to an anticipated off ence based on past conduct, the detenu could well feel that he is at the receiving end of a subjective satisfaction of the executive despite he not being proved to be on the wrong side of the law on any previous occasion. If someone loses his liberty and lands up in prison not having a semblance of a chance to resist or protest, the very circumstance of being put behind bars for such period as specifi ed in the of detention based on an anticipation that an off ence is likely to be committed by him seems to be an aspect which does not sync with the norms and ethos of our very own Constitution and the decisions of this Court in which the concept of ‘LIFE’ has been explained in such a manner that ‘LIFE’ has been infused in the letters of Article 21 (see Common Cause vs. Union of India15).