596 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 4P OS.RCT.RS. 596 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A ABHISHEK SINGH v. HUHTAMAKI PPL LTD. & ANR. (Civil Appeal No(s). 2241 of 2023) B MARCH 28, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI AND VIKRAM NATH, JJ.] Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016: ss.9 and 12A – Interpretation of s. 12A and Regn 30A – Withdrawal of application of Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process-CIRP before the C constitution of Committee of Creditors-CoC – Validity of – Held: s.12A permits withdrawal of applications admitted u/ss. 7, 9 and 10 – s. 12A does not debar entertaining applications for withdrawal even before constitution of CoC – Application u/s. 12A cannot be said to be kept pending for constitution of CoC, even where such D application was filed before the constitution of CoC – Furthermore, Regn 30A clearly provided for withdrawal applications being entertained before constitution of CoC – It does not in anyway conflicts or is in violation of s.12A – There is no inconsistency in the two provisions – It only furthers the cause introduced vide s.12A – On facts, petition u/s.9 filed by Operational Creditor-OC before E NCLT for its outstanding amount against the Corporate Debtor- CD – Petition admitted and CIRP initiated – Within two days of admission , OCs and CD entered into a settlement for payment of the amount even before constitution of CoC – After receipt of the settlement amount, OC filed application u/s.12A and Interim F Resolution Professional filed an application u/Regn 30A seeking withdrawal of CIRP against the CD – However, the NCLT rejected the withdrawal application – Said cannot be sustained – NCLT erred in taking a contrary view – At the time when the application for withdrawal of the proceedings was filed the CoC was not constituted as such there could not have been any other concerned G parties except the OC, CD and IRP – It was only because of the delay caused by the NCLT in disposing of the applications u/s. 12A and Regn 30A that large number of creditors filed their claims – Inherent powers are to be invoked in to meet the ends of justice which the NCLT failed to invoke – Thus, application filed u/ H Regn 30A allowed and application u/s. 9 filed by the OCs stands 596 ABHISHEK SINGH v. HUHTAMAKI PPL LTD. & ANR. 597 withdrawn – Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Insolvency A Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 2018 – Regn. 30 A. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 Plea of alternative remedy is a self-imposed B restriction by the superior Courts and is never an absolute bar unless barred by the statute. Further, in the present case, this Court had entertained the SLP in 2021 itself and had granted an of status quo on 20.04.2021. Substantial time has passed since then. As such this Court is not inclined to entertain the said objection relating to availability of alternative remedy of filing C the appeal before the NCLT. IBC provides a statutory timeframe for disposal of matters.