In either case, the situation is brought to the attention of the Manager SIB or BM, who even otherwise will be expected to check these statements every month. The abnormalities indication (sic.) in item 6 of the Notes on Form SIF 6 are illustrative. There could be other abnormalities which could be inferred on the basis of this form. Sri Krishnamurthy Urala - PW4 deposed on page 10,11 of the proceedings that the charged offi cial has not conducted any periodical inspection. This deposition clearly proves the above charge. Accordingly, I conclude that the charges levelled against him regarding conduct of periodical inspection has been amply proved.” (In the summary of fi ndings ‘I’ is recorded as indicating the Field Offi cer) No doubt, the report records that no such report has been produced by the defence to prove that the “inspections have been conducted by him”. To satisfy ourselves, whether the onus has been wrongly shifted on the employee, we perused the evidence of PW-4 Krishnamurthy Urala to whose 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. deposition, copious references were made both by Mr. Sanjay Kapur, learned Counsel and Mr. S.N. Bhat, learned Senior Counsel. 20. In the charge memo, the respondent was specifi cally charged that the respondent had recommended and obtained sanction from the Branch Manager, credit limits to various units as detailed therein and permitted excess drawings on an on-going basis and the respondent did not report to the controlling offi ce the excess drawings and did not conduct periodical inspections as per the extant instructions. A number of units were mentioned in the charge memo to substantiate the allegation that periodical inspections, as per the extant instructions, were not conducted on them. The following have emerged in the deposition of PW-4 - Shri Krishnamurthy Urala recorded on 17.02.1993: “PO: Mr. Urala do you by chance know who was the fi eld offi cer handling this unit between June 86 to 1988. PW4: Yes. It is Mr. AGD Reddy. …. ….. PW4: What is the procedure for conducting inspections to units as per laid down instructions. PO: The laid down instruction is the unit has to be inspected normally once in a month by FO along with the stock statements to verify whether the disbursal of the funds from the a/cs has been properly utilized. The fi eld offi cer should carry branch inspection book to the units and write the observations thereon, and also he has to make the observations in the inspection book kept at the unit.” ….. ……. PO: Were the inspections conducted for these units. PW4: No.” Deposition of PW-4 recorded in the enquiry on 03.03.1993: “DR: You said certain units have not been inspected by your predecessors. Can you tell us the basis for this allegation. SSTTAATTEE BBAANNKK OOFF IINNDDIIAA vv.. AA..GG..DD.. RREEDDDDYY 665 [[KK.. VV.. VVIISSWWAANNAATTHHAANN,, JJ..]] PW 4: No proper records were maintained. DR: Did you trace/see the inspection cards relating to the period of 1988, 87 & back.