It is needless to say that in a suit for pre-emption, the vendor i.e., the owner of the suit land who had allegedly not given any notice of sale to the plaintiff as required D to be given under Section 19 of the Pre-emption Act and against whom the right to pre-empt the sale is claimed would be a proper party if not a necessary party, for a complete and final adjudication on the issues involved in the suit. When a right to pre-empt the sale was claimed by the plaintiff JS as a co-sharer in the lands E along with the owner , alleging that the mandatory provisions contained in Section 19 i.e., for giving notice to the pre-emptor, was not complied with by the owner or seller JS, his presence as the party defendant was desirable along with the other defendants and Others, to effectively and finally decide the disputes between the parties. Though, I, Rule 9 states that no suit shall be F defeated by reasons of the misjoinder or non-joinder of parties, care must be taken by the court to ensure that all the parties, be it the plaintiff or the defendant, whose presence is necessary for complete and final adjudication on the issues involved in the suit, are before the court. That is the reason why the courts are G empowered to strike out or add parties, at any stage of the proceedings as per I, Rule 10, C.P.C. [Paras 12, 13][577- F-G; 578-A-C] 1.2 Having regard to the absolutely sketchy and loosely drafted plaint in the instant case, the Court is tempted to H 566 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A regurgitate the basic and cardinal rule of pleadings contained in VI, Rule2(1) of the Code, according to which every pleading (i.e., plaint or written statement) has to contain a statement in concise form of the material facts on which the party pleading relies for his claim or defence, as the case may be. Of course, the pleading need not contain the evidence by which such material B facts are to be proved, nonetheless the facts necessary to formulate a complete cause of action i.e., the material facts must be stated. Omission of a single material fact would lead to an incomplete cause of action and in that case, the statement of claim would become bad in the eye of law. [Para 14][578-D-F] C 1.3 Apart from the fact that the right of pre-emption is very weak right and capable of being defeated by all legitimate methods, the pre-emptor must establish that he had the right to pre-empt on the date of sale, on the date of the filing of the suit and on the date of the passing of the decree by the Court of the D first instance. The pre-emptor or the claimant-plaintiff who claims the right to pre-empt the sale on the date of sale, has also to prove that such right continued to subsist till the passing of the decree of the first court.