A solely to it in sealed cover. The relevant material is not removed from the proceedings. The material is only removed from the affected party’s docket. The party defending its actions, which most often is the State, and adjudicating authority rely on the material while making arguments and while reaching a finding respectively. B 54. An ancillary question that must be answered at this stage is whether the three alleged procedural infractions have to be individually or collectively assessed to decide if the right to a fair and reasonable hearing is violated. We are of the opinion that the court must determine if the procedure that was followed as a whole is fair and reasonable. C After the of this court in Maneka Gandhi (supra), where this court prioritised the process (and the effect of the process) as opposed to the outcome (and the objective of the outcome), it is sufficient if the affected party proves that the procedure that was followed by the adjudicating authority was not procedurally fair and reasonable without D any reference to the impact on the outcome due to non-compliance. While doing so, it is well within the power of the claimant to argue that multiple facets of the right to a fair trial were infringed. However, the court while undertaking the exercise of assessing the validity of such a claim must view violation claims from a holistic procedural perspective. This is for the simple reason that the principles of natural justice are E mouldable. The requirement of procedural fairness “does not impose a uniform, unvarying standard to be applied irrespective of the context, facts, and circumstances.46 Adjudicatory bodies must be provided sufficient flexibility in deciding procedural requirements. As observed above, a non-compliance of every facet and component of natural justice F does not render the procedure unreasonable. The claimant must prove that the effect of non-compliance of a component of natural justice is so grave that the core of the right to a fair trial is infringed while making an argument from a component-facet perspective. The procedure followed must not infringe upon the core which secures reasonableness of a procedure. G 55. The appellants have discharged their burden by proving that the non-compliance of the above three principles infringed the core of the principles of natural justice: the right to a fair and reasonable hearing. H 46 A & Ors. v. The United Kingdom, Application no. 3455/05 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 643 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 56. The principles of natural justice ensure that justice is not only A done but it is seen to be done as well. A reasoned is one of the fundamental requirements of fair administration. It holds utmost significance in ensuring fairness; scholars and courts now term it as the third principle of natural justice.47 The rule of a reasoned serves five important purposes. Firstly, it ensures transparency and B accountability. It places a check on arbitrary exercise of power. Lord Denning observed that in giving reasons “lies a whole difference between a judicial decision and an arbitrary one”.48 Justice Bhagwati observed in Maneka Gandhi (supra) that the rule is “designed to secure the rule of law and the court should not be too ready to eschew it in its application to a given case.” Secondly, non-reasoned s have the practical C effect of placing the decision out of the purview of judicial review.