But they are just short of it and that is why they are in the waiting list. The purpose of a “waiting list” is only to fi ll the shortfall of “clear and anticipated vacancies.” 25. What constitutes a “waiting list” and what its purpose is has been explained by this Court in Gujarat State Dy. Executive Engineers’ Association (supra) as follows: “8. Coming to the next issue, the fi rst question is what is a waiting list? ; can it be treated as a source of recruitment from which candidates may be drawn as and when necessary? ; and lastly how long can it VIVEK KAISTH & ANR v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL 635 PRADESH & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] operate? These are some important questions which do arise as a result of direction issued by the High Court. A waiting list prepared in service matters by the competent authority is a list of eligible and qualifi ed candidates who in of merit are placed below the last selected candidate. How it should operate and what is its nature may be governed by the rules. Usually it is linked with the selection or examination for which it is prepared. For instance, if an examination is held say for selecting 10 candidates for 1990 and the competent authority prepares a waiting list then it is in respect of those 10 seats only for which selection or competition was held. Reason for it is that whenever selection is held, except where it is for single post, it is normally held by taking into account not only the number of vacancies existing on the date when advertisement is issued or applications are invited but even those which are likely to arise in future within one year or so due to retirement etc. It is more so where selections are held regularly by the Commission. Such lists are prepared either under the rules or even otherwise mainly to ensure that the working in the offi ce does not suff er if the selected candidates do not join for one or the other reason or the next selection or examination is not held soon. A candidate in the waiting list in the of merit has a right to claim that he may be appointed if one or the other selected candidate does not join. But once the selected candidates join and no vacancy arises due to resignation etc. or for any other reason within the period the list is to operate under the rules or within reasonable period where no specifi c period is provided then candidate from the waiting list has no right to claim appointment to any future vacancy which may arise unless the selection was held for it. He has no vested right except to the limited extent, indicated above, or when the appointing authority acts arbitrarily and makes appointment from the waiting list by picking and choosing for extraneous reasons. 9. A waiting list prepared in an examination conducted by the Commission does not furnish a source of recruitment.