(iv) Clause (b) of Regulation (7) states that any Sikkimese woman B who marries a person who is not a Sikkim Subject shall cease to be a Sikkim Subject. 50. Thus, under the 1961 Regulation, as far as women are concerned, marriage has been the basis of acquiring the status of having a domicile in Sikkim and being a Sikkim Subject or losing domicile or C status as a Sikkim Subject which aspect shall be discussed while considering the challenge to the proviso to Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961. 51. In my view, marriage of a Sikkimese woman is also the basis for discrimination against her whereas there is no such discrimination vis-à-vis a Sikkimese man marrying a Sikkimese or a non-Sikkimese D woman on or after 1st April, 2008. Article 14 of the Constitution states that, State shall not deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India. Article 15 (1) of the Constitution states that the State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds only of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth or any E of them. In fact, Article 15(3) empathetically states that nothing in Article 15 shall prevent the State from making any special provision for women and children but in the instant case, according to petitioners, instead of the proviso being in favour of Sikkimese women, it is antithetical to Articles 14 and 15 (1) and (2) of the Constitution of India as it is discriminatory against Sikkimese women who have married a non-Sikkimese, that too, F after 1st April, 2008. 52. This discussion has also to be viewed in light of the Explanation to Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961. The Explanation states that, the term ‘Sikkimese’ shall mean, an individual whose name is recorded in the Register of Sikkim Subjects immediately before 26th G April, 1975, or an individual whose name is included in the said Register by virtue of the Government of India s dated 07th August, 1990 and 08th April, 1991, or also an individual whose name does not appear in the said Register but, it is established beyond doubt that name of such individual’s father or husband or paternal grandfather or brother from H the same father has been recorded in that Register. The expression “an ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 341 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] individual” in clauses (1) to (3) of the Explanation cannot refer to only a A Sikkimese man and exclude a Sikkimese woman. Any other interpretation would mean that a Sikkimese woman has no identity of her own even if she is covered under the Explanation to be a Sikkimese and therefore is entitled to the benefit of the provision. It would also mean that a Sikkimese woman covered under the Explanation would be excluded from the benefit B of the provision if she is covered under the proviso.