4. After investigations were completed, the police, in their final B report, alleged that the appellants were guilty of the offences. Charges were framed against them, by the court. The prosecution, to establish its allegations, relied on the testimony of 12 witnesses. The defence did not examine any witness. Based on the materials placed before it, the trial court convicted the appellants, who then appealed to the High Court. The impugned affirmed the trial court’s findings. C Appellants’ contentions 5. It is argued, on behalf of the appellants, that the conviction and sentence imposed in this case, is unsustainable. It was argued that no reason was given why the FIR was lodged almost five weeks after the D deceased boy went missing and after his body was found on 10.10.1999. The complainant stated that on 12.10.1999, he was told by the witnesses that on 8.10.1999, the third appellant, A-3 Husn Jahan, was seen taking the child inside her house, and on 9.10.1999 at 6 AM, the child was seen along with accused Jabir and Jakir. The application under section 156(3) Cr. P.C. was moved on 19.11.1999, i.e., after more than one month. In E the mean-time no application was sent to any officer. There is no explanation for a delay of more than a month. 6. It was urged that there is discrepancy in the testimonies of various witnesses, particularly that of PW-1 (father of the deceased) and the others, particularly PW-4 and PW-5, as to whether the suspicion F of the accused’s involvement was, in fact, reported within a couple of days after the boy’s body was found. Counsel especially highlighted that the police witnesses did not support the version of PW-1 that he had voiced suspicions contemporaneously. Further, it was submitted that the testimonies of witnesses were that the accused’s role was not known to PW-1 and others on 10.10.1999, but this was not reflected in the G inquest report. 7. Learned counsel submitted that the prosecution witnesses are untrustworthy since they appear to have been added as after thoughts. It was submitted that the appellants’ consistent case was that they were named much after the incident, on account of enmity with the deceased H 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A father’s family. It was pointed out that in the testimony of the first IO, (PW-8) that PW-2 did not mention about the role and involvement of A- 3 and that she was with the deceased on 8th October, 1999. Further, that witness (PW-8) also testified that the villagers had initially suspected Saleem and Mansoor, and not the present accused. 8. Learned counsel highlighted that P-4 and PW-5 are wholly B unreliable witnesses. In fact, the police statement of PW-4 was recorded much after the incident in December, 1999. This witness, as indeed PW- 5, were introduced to somehow implicate the first two appellants (A-1 and A-2) since there was no other witness who supported the prosecution with respect to their alleged involvement or presence. The idea of C introducing them was to link them with the deceased.