As to what could be done under the same was specifi ed in Clauses (a) to (e). It does not mention any power to abolish a State and such power could not be read into it. This was submitted to be in line with the principle of a two-tier democracy. ii. While referring to the pre-Constitutional period, as a development in that behalf, it was urged that there was a consistent progression towards self-governance and statehood since the Government of India Act, 1919, where Section 15 of that Act also mandated the process of obtaining opinions from the local Government prior to reorganization into a Governor’s province. This practice was also adopted in the Government of India Act, 1935, which was a precursor to Article 3 of the Constitution of India. Thus, Mr. Chandra Uday Singh, learned senior counsel, urged that the abolishment of a State and a lowering of status to Union Territory was not something envisaged from earlier times. iii. Once again from a historical perspective, it was urged that since the introduction of the Seventh Amendment in 1955, no State had been reduced to a Union Territory, though the reverse was true i.e. Union Territories had been converted into States such as Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Manipur, etc. It may be possible to carve out a Union Territory 95 K.N. Rajgopal v. M. Karunanidhi, (1972) 4 SCC 733 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 335 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] out of a State, as in the case of Chandigarh, on account of it being the capital of both Punjab and Haryana. The enormous potentiality of misuse of the process was emphasized, as in the future any politically inconvenient elected Government of a State could be aff ected by reducing that State into a Union Territory. iv. The conversion of a State into Union Territory was an exercise carried out through a simple majority of both Houses of Parliament. This extinguishes several Constitutional rights guaranteed to States, such as rights to borrow upon the Security of the Consolidated Fund of State under Article 293, as urged by Mr. Chandra Uday Singh, learned Senior Counsel. Such an exercise, if at all, at best, could have been carried out only through a Constitutional Amendment with all its checks and balances. The Constitution (18th Amendment) Act, 1966, which contained the explanations to Article 3, had not been extended to Jammu & Kashmir till the impugned action. It may be observed that the Explanation I refers to Clauses (a) to (e) including Union Territory within the expression ‘State’, but in the Proviso the ‘State’ did not include a Union Territory. Explanation II referred to power conferred on the Parliament by Clause (a) to include the power to form a State or Union Territory by uniting a part of any State or Union Territory to any other State or Union Territory. B. The suspension of proviso to Article 3 was illegal. i. The proviso to Article 3, as applicable to the State of Jammu & Kashmir, could not be suspended through the route of Article 356, as urged by Mr. Rajeev Dhavan.