Xxx xxx xxx G We must now distinguish commands which are laws from commands which are not. Imagine a state governed by an absolute ruler R. Here the law is what R command. But is the converse true? Are all R’s commands law? Xxx xxx xxx H 1060 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Now if particular commands can qualify as laws, how can we distinguish laws from commands which are not? Everyday life is sprinkled with examples of people giving commands to others: masters give s to servants, teachers to pupils, parents to children and so forth. B Xxx xxx xxx Such criticism overlook the importance of Austin’s second requirement: for to qualify as law a command must have been given by a political superior, or sovereign. Xxx xxx xxx C To define law as a command can mislead us in several ways. First, though this may be a not in appropriate way of describing certain portions of law such as the criminal law, the greater part of a legal system consists of laws which neither command nor forbid things to be come, but which empower people by certain D means to achieve certain results: e.g., laws giving citizens the right to vote, laws conferring on lease-holders the right to buy the reversion, laws concerning the sale of property and the making of wills: indeed the bulk of law of contract and of property consists of such power-conferring rules. At this point the theory could be saved by arguing that a rule conferring a right on one person is E really an indirect command addressed to another: a law empowering the citizen to vote is really an to the returning officer to register the vote. Xxx xxx xxx F Thirdly, “command” conjures of the picture of an given by one particular commander on one particular occasion to one particular recipient. Laws differ in that they can and do continue in existence long after the extinction of the actual law-giver (r). Xxx xxx xxx G But whether we define law as a command or a rule, we must still distinguish commands (or rules) which are law from those which are not. For Austin, as we saw, a command can only be law if it emanates from a sovereign. This raises the question how far there can exist laws other than those made by the sovereign. Obviously H in a complex modern state it would be impossible for a sovereign ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1061 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] to enact every legal rule: much law-making will in fact be done by A subordinates to whom legislative powers have been delegated. A good deal of English law consists of such delegated legislation, e.g., regulation made by Ministers under Acts of Parliament. Here Austin finds no problem, since he sees no difficulty in the notion of a sovereign conferring law-making powers on others (u). B 36. The distinguishing feature of law has been the subject matter of considerable debate and we may only for the purpose of these cases note that one of the essential features which mark out law from an executive is that ‘law’ has general application.