Democracy is meaningful only if the sublime goals enshrined in the preamble to the Constitution receive the undivided H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 97 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] attention of the rulers, namely, social, political and economic justice. The A concepts of liberty, equality and fraternity must not be strange bedfellows to the ruling class. Secularism, a basic feature of the Constitution must inform all actions of the State, and therefore, cannot be spurned but must be observed in letter and spirit. Democracy can be achieved only when the governing dispensation sincerely endeavours to observe the B fundamental rights in letter and spirit. Democracy also, needless to say, would become fragile and may collapse, if only lip service is paid to the rule of law. We cannot be oblivious to the fact that the founding fathers have contemplated that not only must India aspire for a democratic form of government and life but it is their unambiguous aim that India must be a Democratic Republic.The conventional definition of a ‘Republic’ is C that it is a Body Polity, in which, the Head of State is elected. However, the republican character of our democracy also means that the majority abides by the Constitution ensuring rights granted under it and also pursues goals enshrined in it. A brute majority generated by a democratic process must conform to constitutional safeguards and the demands of D constitutional morality. A Democratic Republic contemplates that majoritarian forces which may be compatible with a democracy, must be counter balanced by protection accorded to those not in the majority. When we speak about the minority, the expression is not to be conflated with or limited to linguistic or religious minorities. These are aspects which again underly the need for an independent election commission. E 93. It may be true that the resort to courts is not a remedy for all ills in a society (see Common Cause v. Union of India and Others26) We are equally cognizant that the courts must not try to run aGovernment nor behave like emperors. We also take notice of the following words of this Court in Divisional Manager, Aravali Golf Club and Another v. F Chander Hass and Another,27 where the merit of exercising judicial restraint has been emphasized. “33. Judicial restraint is consistent with and complementary to the balance of power among the three independent branches of the State. It accomplishes this in two ways. First, judicial restraint G not only recognises the equality of the other two branches with the judiciary, it also fosters that equality by minimising inter-branch 26 (1996) 1 SCC 753 27 (2008) 1 SCC 683 H 98 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A interference by the judiciary. In this analysis, judicial restraint may also be called judicial respect, that is, respect by the judiciary for the other coequal branches. In contrast, judicial activism’s unpredictable results make the judiciary a moving target and thus decreases the ability to maintain equality with the co-branches. Restraint stabilises the judiciary so that it may better function in a B system of inter-branch equality.” “34.