Without such sanction, no enquiry shall be initiated by the SPE. (ii) All cases referred to the Administrative Ministries/Departments by CBI for obtaining necessary prior sanction as aforesaid, except those pertaining to any offi cer of the rank of Secretary or Principal Secretary, should be disposed of by them preferably within a period of two months of the receipt of such a reference. In respect of the offi cers of the rank of Secretary or Principal Secretary to Government, such references should be made by the Director, CBI to the Cabinet Secretary for consideration of a Committee consisting of the Cabinet Secretary as its Chairman and the Law Secretary and the Secretary (Personnel) as its members. The Committee should dispose of all such references preferably within two months from the date of receipt of such a reference by the Cabinet Secretary. (iii) When there is any diff erence of opinion between the Director, CBI and the Secretary of the Administrative Ministry/Department in respect of an offi cer up to the rank of Additional Secretary or equivalent, the matters shall be referred by CBI to Secretary (Personnel) for placement before the Committee referred to in Clause (ii) above. Such a matter should be considered and disposed of by the Committee preferably within two months from the date of receipt of such a reference by Secretary (Personnel). (iv) In regard to any person who is or has been Cabinet Secretary, before SPE takes any step of the kind mentioned in (i) above the case should be submitted to the Prime Minister for s.” The validity of the above Single Directive No.4.7(3) was considered in the case of Vineet Narain (supra). 16.2. After considering the material placed on record, the three Judge Bench in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) came to the conclusion that such 28 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. directive could not be held to be valid and, accordingly, struck it down. The in the case of Vineet Narain (supra) was delivered on 18.12.1997. 16.3. The requirement of sanction similar to Single Directive No.4.7(3) was introduced by way of an Ordinance w.e.f. 25.08.1998 and the same lasted till 27.10.1998 when it lapsed. Thereafter, in 2003, Section 6A, akin to Single Directive No.4.7(3), was inserted in the DSPE Act w.e.f. 11.09.2003 vide Section 26(c) of Central Vigilance Commission Act, 2003 (Act No. 45 of 2003)49. The said provision is reproduced hereunder: “Section 6A of the DSPE Act 6A. Approval of Central Government to conduct inquiry or investigation.- (1) The Delhi Special Police Establishment shall not conduct any inquiry or investigation into any off ence alleged to have been committed under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (49 of 1988) except with the previous approval of the Central Government where such allegation relates to- (a) the employees of the Central Government of the Level of Joint Secretary and above; and (b) such offi cers as are appointed by the Central Government in corporations established by or under any Central Act, Government companies, societies and local authorities owned or controlled by that Government.