We are afraid the prosecution has not been able to discharge this burden. H DINESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 237 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] The factors which have to be taken into consideration by the Court A in a case of circumstantial evidence, are too well settled to be stated but nevertheless these factors which are being reproduced from Anjan Kumar Sarma (supra) are as under :- (1) the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established. The circumstances B concerned “must” or “should” and not “may be” established; (2) the facts so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused, that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty; C (3) the circumstances should be of a conclusive nature and tendency; (4) they should exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved; and D (5) there must be a chain of evidence so complete as not to leave any reasonable ground for the conclusion consistent with the innocence of the accused and must show that in all human probability the act must have been done by the accused.” E 15. In our considered view, in the present case the prosecution has not been able to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. The evidence of last seen, only leads upto a point and no further. It fails to link it further to make a complete chain. All we have here is the evidence of last seen, which as we have seen looses much of its weight under the circumstances of the case, due to the long duration of time between last F seen and the possible time of death. What we can call as discovery here under Section 27 of the Act, is the discovery of ‘Parna’ and watch of the deceased. This evidence in itself is not sufficient to fix guilt on the appellant. In a case where there is no direct eye witness to the crime, the G prosecution has to build its case on the circumstantial evidence. It is a very heavy burden cast on the prosecution. The chain of circumstances collected by the prosecution must complete the chain, which should point to only one conclusion which is that it is the accused who had committed the crime, and none else. Each evidence which completes the chain of H 238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A evidences must stand on firm grounds. In our considered opinion, the evidence placed by the prosecution in this case does not pass muster- the standard required in a case of circumstantial evidence. 16. This appeal therefore succeeds. The s of the trial court and the High Court dated 11.03.2007 and 31.05.2017, respectively are B hereby set aside. Appellant is in jail shall now be released forthwith unless his presence is required in any other case. Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Aarsh Choudhary, LCRA) C D E F G H