The proposition enunciated by the High F Court which forms the sole basis of its decision is too wide to be acceptable and has to be limited in the manner indicated hereafter. In contractual sphere as in all other State actions, the State and all its instrumentalities have to conform to Article 14 of G the Constitution of which non-arbitrariness is a significant facet. There is no unfettered discretion in public law: A public authority possesses powers only to use them for public good. This imposes the duty to act fairly and to adopt a procedure which is ‘fairplay in action’. Due observance of this obligation as a part of good administration raises a reasonable or H 848 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A legitimate expectation in every citizen to be treated fairly in his interaction with the State and its instrumentalities, with this element forming a necessary component of the decision- making process in all State actions. To satisfy this requirement of non-arbitrariness in a State action, it is, therefore, necessary to consider and give due weight to the reasonable B or legitimate expectations of the persons likely to be affected by the decision or else that unfairness in the exercise of the power may amount to an abuse or excess of power apart from affecting the bona fides of the decision in a given case. The decision so made would be exposed to challenge on the ground C of arbitrariness. Rule of law does not completely eliminate discretion in the exercise of power, as it is unrealistic, but provides for control of its exercise by judicial review.” 24. Further, in the case of M.P.Oil Extraction & Anr. vs. State Of M.P. & Ors.12,this Court held that the doctrine of legitimate expectation operates in the sphere of public law and as such, is a D substantive and enforceable right depending on the facts and circumstances of the case. The relevant paragraph from the said is being extracted hereunder:- “The renewal clause in the impugned agreements executed in favour of the respondents does not also appear to be unjust E or improper. Whether protection by way of supply of sal seeds under the terms of agreement requires to be continued for a further period, is a matter for decision by the State Government and unless such decision is patently arbitrary, interference by the Court is not called for. In the facts of the case, the F decision of the State Government to extend the protection for further period cannot be held to be per se irrational, arbitrary or capricious warranting judicial review of such policy decision. Therefore, the High Court has rightly rejected the appellant’s contention about the invalidity of the renewal clause. The appellants failed in earlier attempts to challenge G the validity of the agreement including the renewal clause. The subsequent challenge of the renewal clause, therefore, should not be entertained unless it can be clearly demonstrated that the fact situation has undergone such changes that the discretion in the matter of renewal of H 12 (1997) 7 SCC 592 M/S.