Sections 33 or 35 are not concerned with any copy of the instrument and party can only be allowed to rely on the document which is an instrument within the meaning of Section 2(14). There is no scope for the inclusion of the copy of the document for the purposes of the D Stamp Act. Law is now no doubt well settled that copy of the instrument cannot be validated by impounding and this cannot be admitted as secondary evidence under the Stamp Act, 1899.” (Emphasis supplied) 97. The submission appears to be that the Scheme provides for a E certified copy of the Arbitration Agreement and if the Arbitration Agreement is a part of the contract, which is either not stamped or insufficiently stamped and, since, it cannot be impounded under Section 33 of the Stamp Act, cannot be validated. All that the Court has to look into is, whether an Arbitration Agreement exists. F 98. It is, no doubt, true that under the Scheme, an applicant can produce, either the Original or the certified copy. What is a certified copy? A certified copy is to be understood in the light of Section 76 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the Evidence Act’, for short). It reads as follows: G “76. Certified copies of public documents.—Every public officer having the custody of a public document, which any person has a right to inspect, shall give that person on demand a copy of it on payment of the legal fees therefor, together with a certificate written at the foot of such copy that it is a true copy of such H document or part thereof, as the case may be, and such certificate M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 365 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] shall be dated and subscribed by such officer with his name and A his official title, and shall be sealed, whenever such officer is authorized by law to make use of a seal; and such copies so certified shall be called certified copies.—Every 3public officer having the custody of a public document, which any person has a right to inspect, shall give that person on demand a copy of it on B payment of the legal fees therefor, together with a certificate written at the foot of such copy that it is a true copy of such document or part thereof, as the case may be, and such certificate shall be dated and subscribed by such officer with his name and his official title, and shall be sealed, whenever such officer is authorized by law to make use of a seal; and such copies so C certified shall be called certified copies.” Explanation. —Any officer who, by the ordinary course of official duty, is authorized to deliver such copies, shall be deemed to have the custody of such documents within the meaning of this section.” 99. This necessarily would take us to Section 74 of the Evidence D Act, which defines what is a ‘public document’.