F 31. Shri Chidambaram further submits that neither the RBI nor the Central Government took into consideration the relevant factors and eschewed irrelevant factors before making such a far-reaching recommendation and decision respectively, that would have serious consequences. He submits that, as a result of demonetization, 86.4% of the currency (by value) was declared no longer to be legal tender and G was eventually withdrawn. He submits that, in terms of absolute value, it amounted to Rs.15,44,000 crore. It is submitted that 2,300 crore distinct notes had become illegal overnight. It is submitted that, at the relevant time, the notes in the denomination of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- were commonly used and, since they were demonetized overnight, millions of H people were left with no valid bank notes to buy essential goods, such VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 41 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] as, food, milk or even medicines, etc. Thousands of families went without A a meal. In fact, various voluntary organizations distributed free food to thousands of families during the relevant period. 32. Shri Chidambaram submits that the result of demonetization was disastrous. It resulted in steep unemployment within a short period. Wages were not paid for several weeks. Millions of farmers were unable B to withdraw or deposit money. They did not have money to buy seeds or fertilizers or to hire labour. It is submitted that the price of agricultural products dropped to a huge extent, thereby causing loss to the farmers. 33. Shri Chidambaram submits that the Government also did not take into consideration the fact that over 2 lakh ATMs were required to C be recalibrated to dispense the newly issued notes. It is submitted that the Government, as also the RBI, also did not take into consideration that, out of 1,38,626 bank branches in India, over two-thirds were located in metropolitan, urban and semi-urban areas, while only one-third were located in rural areas, and that 90% of all ATMs were located merely in D 16 States. He submits that the seven States in North-East India had only 5199 ATMs, of which 3645 were in Assam alone. As a result thereof, the individuals residing in rural areas and those in the Northeast region were disproportionately and adversely impacted. They had to travel long distances and stand in queues to exchange notes, forsaking their livelihood at considerable expense. E 34. Learned Senior Counsel submits that, without taking into consideration all these factors, the Central Board made the recommendation and the Central Government took the decision of demonetization. It is submitted that the consequence thereof is that demonetization cost the economy about 1-2% of the GDP, i.e. about F Rs.1,50,000 crore. 35. Shri Chidambaram further submits that the objectives stated in the impugned Notification were false and illusory which could not have been achieved and which, in fact, were not achieved. He submits that one of the objectives was to weed out fake currency notes that G were causing adverse effect on the economy. Another objective was to stop the use of high denomination bank notes for the storage of unaccounted wealth.