The exercise of power by the President under Article 370(1)(d) to issue CO 272 is not mala fi de. Thus, CO 272 is valid to the extent that it applies all the provisions of the Constitution of India to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. vii. The Challenge to CO 273 429. The President in exercise of the power under Article 370(3) and upon the recommendation of Parliament declared that Article 370 shall cease to exist. The provision was substituted with a clause which stipulated that all provisions of the Constitution as amended from time to time, without any modifi cations or exceptions shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir notwithstanding anything contrary in any provision of the Constitution of India or Jammu and Kashmir or any law. We have in the preceding segment of the held the substitution of the phrase Constituent Assembly of the State with Legislative Assembly of the State by CO 272 is invalid. The Union of India made an alternative argument that the power under Article 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 370(3) subsists independent of the proviso after the Constituent Assembly of the State was dissolved in 1957. If this contention is accepted then the invalidity of the substitution to the proviso to Article 370(3) would not aff ect the exercise of power by the President under the provision to CO 273. 430. We have in the preceding portion of this held that the President has the power to unilaterally issue a notifi cation under Article 370(3) declaring that Article 370 shall cease to exist or that it shall exist with such modifi cations and that the dissolution of the Constituent Assembly does not aff ect the scope of power held by the President under Article 370(3). The next issue that falls for the consideration of this Court is whether the exercise of power under Article 370(3) in issuing CO 273 was justifi ed. The President while deciding if the power under Article 370(3) must be exercised determines if the special circumstances which warranted a special solution in the form of Article 370 have ceased to exist. This is a policy decision which completely falls within the realm of the executive. The Court cannot sit in review of the decision of the President on whether the special circumstances which led to the arrangement under article 370 have ceased to exist. However, the decision is not beyond the scope of judicial review. It is settled law that the exercise of executive power can be challenged on the ground that it is mala fi de. 431. The petitioners have referred to the questions which were asked in Parliament after the Proclamation under Article 356 was issued about whether the Government proposed to repeal Article 370.282 The Union Government did not give a categorical answer to the questions which were raised in Parliament. This in itself does not lead to the conclusion that the exercise of power was mala fi de, irrational and without application of mind.