4. Next, the recital clause (1) reads as follows: “NOW THE VENDOR HEREBY ASSURES AND F COVENANTS THE VENDEE AS UNDER: In consideration of the said amount paid by the Vendee, the Vendors here.by scll, transfer, convey, alienate, assign unto and to the use of the Vendee absolutely and forever all that the scheduled property along with all the rights, easements, interests etc., the rights which G ordinarily pass on through such sale on and over the said land in favour of the Vendee to hold and to enjoy the same as absolute owner.” 5. Next, we must notice the schedule of the property which inter alia reads as follows: H 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “All that piece and parcel of the property admeasuring acres of 46.7167 cents situated at Dusi Village, Srikakulam District, within the limits of Sub-Registrar, Amudalavalasa, belonging to M/s. Midwest Iron & Steel Co. Ltd. in the above R.S. Numbers sold by the Vendor to Vendee is bounded by…” The boundaries are hereafter set out. B 6. Since the sale deed in favour of the nominee, namely, the first respondent came to be executed pursuant to of the Company Judge dated 15.06.2004 made in C.A. No.1202 of 2004 as stated in Clause E (supra), we may notice the prayers and relevant part of the . They read as under: C “Application under Section of the Companies Act, 1956 R/W Rule 9 of the Companies (Court) Rule, 1959, praying that this High Court may be pleased to direct the Official Liquidator to execute the sale deed in respect of the land and building and civil works belonging to the company in liquidation fora consideration of Rs. D 40,13,000/- in favour of the Applicant’s nominees-M/s. Dankun·1 Steels Lim.1ted. b) Direct the Official Liquidator to execute a sale certificate in favour of the Applicant’s nominees. M/s. Dankuni Steels Limited, in respect of the plant and machinery fora consideration Rs. 751.27 E Lakhs and in respect of the current assets and furniture and fixtures in the sum of Rs. 43,60,000/-. c) Direct the Official Liquidator to obtain all the original documents of title deposited by company in liquidation with financial institutions viz., ICICI Bank Limited, IDBI, Canara Bank, United Western F bank Limited, IFCI, IIBI and State Bank of India, and deliver the same to the Applicant’s nominees, M/s. Dankuni Steels Limited. This Application coming on for s upon readingthe Judge’s Summons and the affidavit dated: 23-4-2004 and filed by Mr. Amar Chand Choudary, authorized Representative of the Application in G support of this Application and upon hearing the arguments of Mr. Anil Kumar counsel for The Official Liquidator and of Mr. S. Ravi, Advocate for the applicant and of Mr. M. Anil Kumar, Counsel for the Official Liquidator on behalf of the respondent” H THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1109 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “ …The learned counsel also placed before me Form No.32 issued A by the Office of Registrar of Companies, Calcutta, showing that Sri Amit Ganguly, S/o late B.N.Ganguly, who is the Director of applicant company in M/s.Dankuni Steels Limited.