Thus the sum spent in trying to procure an agency agreement or a licence, may be capital expenditure though the intended agency or licence may not be ultimately secured. b) By ‘enduring’, it is meant “enduring in the way that fi xed capital endures” and it does not connote a benefi t that endures in a sense that for a good number of years it relieves the assessee of a revenue payment. However, in Van Den Berghs, Limited vs. Clark (H.M. Inspector of Taxes), (1935) 19 T.C. 390, Lord Macmillan veered round to the test of enduring benefi t and expressed reservations regarding the test of fi xed and circulating capital. That “where the character of the expenditure shows that what has resulted is something which is to be used in the way of business, the test may be useful; but in cases close to the dividing line, the test seems useless.” 16.8. A third test was propounded in Robert Addie & Sons Collieries Ltd. vs. Commissioners of Inland Revenue, (1924) 8 T.C. 671, while determining whether a given expenditure is capital or revenue in nature: “Is it part of the Company’s working expenses, is it expenditure laid out as part of the process of profi t-earning? or, on the other hand, is it a capital outlay, is it expenditure necessary for the acquisition of C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 451 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] property or of rights of a permanent character, the possession of which is a condition of carrying on its trade at all?” The said test was adopted by the Privy Council in Tata Hydro- Electric Agencies Ltd., Bombay vs. Commissioner of Income-tax, (1937) L.R. 64 IndAp 215 wherein it was stated that the expenditure which is part of the working expenses in ordinary commercial trading was not capital but revenue. It was further observed that the determinative question would be whether the expenditure is “a part of the company’s working expenses; is it expenditure laid out as part of the process of profi t earning ?” Referring to the facts of the said case, the Privy Council came to the conclusion that the obligation to make the payments was undertaken by the appellants therein in consideration of their acquisition of the right and opportunity to earn profi ts, i.e., of the right to conduct the business and not for the purpose of producing profi ts in the conduct of the business. The distinction was thus made between the acquisition of an income- earning asset and the process of the earning of the income. Expenditure in the acquisition of that asset was capital expenditure and expenditure in the process of the earning of the profi ts was revenue expenditure. It was further observed that on acquisition of a business and when a liability to pay yearly sums is taken over, those yearly sums were not deductible in computing future profi ts for tax purposes, as they form a part of the consideration for the acquisition of the business.