Thus, we do not fi nd that the President’s exercise of power under Article 370(3) was mala fi de. viii. The status of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir 466. It is necessary to determine the status and applicability of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, in view of COs 272 and 273. In the segment of the on whether the State of Jammu and Kashmir possesses sovereignty, this Court analysed the provisions of the Constitution of India and the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir and arrived at the conclusion that the latter is subordinate to the former. 467. Paragraph 2 of CO 272 stipulated that the provisions of the Constitution of India (as amended from time to time) shall apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. In the preceding segments of the , this Court has struck down the portion of paragraph 2 of CO 272 which seeks to amend Article 370 by specifying a modifi cation to Article 367. It was, however, held that the application of the entire Constitution of India to the State is a valid exercise of power. CO 273 was issued a day after CO 272 was issued. It stated that all clauses of Article 370 shall cease to be operative except the following: “370. All provisions of this Constitution, as amended from time to time, without any modifi cations or exceptions, shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir notwithstanding anything contrary contained in article 152 or article 308 or any other article of this Constitution or any other provision of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir or any law, document, judgement, ordinance, , by-law, rule, regulation, notifi cation, custom or usage having the force of law in the territory of India, or any other instrument, treaty or agreement as envisaged under article 363 or otherwise.” (emphasis supplied) 468. While the modifi ed version of Article 370 provided that all IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 269 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the provisions of the Constitution of India shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir, CO 272 had already accomplished this. The new provision reiterated CO 272 and clarifi ed that the Constitution would apply notwithstanding certain provisions which may have suggested otherwise. This Court has upheld the validity of CO 273. Signifi cantly, Article 370 (as it now stands) provides that the Constitution of India shall apply to the State: a. Without any modifi cations and exceptions; b. Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in Article 152 or Article 308 or any other article of the Indian Constitution; c. Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in any other provision of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir; and d. Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in any law, document, judgement, ordinance, , by-law, rule, regulation, notifi cation, custom or usage having the force of law in the territory of India, or any other instrument, treaty or agreement as envisaged under article 363 or otherwise. The stipulation that the Constitution of India shall apply to the State notwithstanding anything contrary contained in any other provision of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir is signifi cant because it clarifi es beyond a shadow of doubt that it is the Constitution of India which is the supreme governing document in relation to every aspect of governance in the State.