(ii) The maximum allowable limits of concentration of various environmental pollutants (including noise) for an area. F (iii) The likely emission or discharge of environmental pollutants from an industry, process or operation proposed to be prohibited or restricted. (iv) The topographic and climatic features of an area. (v) The biological diversity of the area which, in the opinion of G the Central Government needs to be preserved. (vi) Environmentally compatible land use. (vii) Net adverse environmental impact likely to be caused by an industry, process or operation proposed to be prohibited or restricted. H 6 (2014) 6 SCC 590 IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 619 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (viii) Proximity to a protected area under the Ancient A Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958 or a sanctuary, National Park, game reserve or closed area notified as such under the Wild Life (Protection) Act, 1972 or places protected under any treaty, agreement or convention with any other country or countries or in pursuance of any B decision made in any international conference, association or other body. (ix) Proximity to human settlements. (x) Any other factor as may be considered by the Central Government to be relevant to the protection of the environment C in an area. (2) While prohibiting or restricting the location of industries and carrying on of processes and operations in an area, the Central Government shall follow the procedure hereinafter laid down. (3) (a) Whenever it appears to the Central Government that it is D expedient to impose prohibition or restrictions on the location of an industry or the carrying on of processes and operations in an area, it may, by notification in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the Central Government may deem necessary from time to time, give notice of its intention to do so. E (b) Every notification under clause (a) shall give a brief description of the area, the industries, operations, processes in that area about which such notification pertains and also specify the reasons for the imposition of prohibition or restrictions on the location of the industries and carrying on of processes or F operations in that area. (c) Any person interested in filing an objection against the imposition of prohibition or restrictions on carrying on of processes or operations as notified under clause (a) may do so in writing to the Central Government within sixty days from G the date of publication in the notification in the Official Gazette. (d) The Central Government shall within a period of one hundred and twenty days from the date of publication of the notification in the Official Gazette consider all the objections received against such notification and may [within [seven H 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A hundred and twenty-five days [, and in respect of the States of Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Manipur, Nagaland, Tripura, Sikkim and Jammu and Kashmir in exceptional circumstance and for sufficient reasons within a further period of one hundred and eighty days,]] from such date of publication] impose prohibition or restrictions on location B of such industries and the carrying on of any process or operation in an area: [Provided that on account of COVID-19 pandemic, for the purpose of this clause, the period of validity of the notification expiring in the financial year 2020-2021 and 2021-2022 shall be extended up C to [30th June, 2022] or six months from the end of the month when the relevant notification would have expired without any extension, whichever is later.]