The objectives and functions of the Judiciary include the following: (a) to ensure that all persons are able to live securely under the rule of law; C (b) to promote, within the proper limits of the judicial function, the observance and the attainment of human rights; and (c) to administer the law impartially among persons and between persons and the State.” Thus, an exercise of this kind by the court is now a well-settled practice which has taken firm roots in our constitutional D jurisprudence. This exercise is essential to fill the void in the absence of suitable legislation to cover the field.” 199. It, therefore, becomes necessary for us to undertake a journey back in time to recapture the views taken by this Court, which has been referred to in paragraph-51. In Lakshmi Kant Pandey v. Union of E India68, this Court was dealing a public interest litigation lodged against malpractices in trafficking of children in connection with adoption of Indian children by foreigners living abroad. The Court noted from the legislative history that though Bills were introduced, including the Adoption of Children Bill, 1980, besides the earlier Bill in 1972, it had not attained F a legislative effect. The Court found that inter-country adoption had to be supported but great care had to be exercised in the matter of giving children in adoption to foreign parents. The Court referred to, inter alia, the draft Declaration by the Commission for Social Development at its twenty-sixth session, besides the guidelines and draft guidelines, which were approved on 04.09.1982. The Court notes, at paragraph-10, the G absence of a law providing for adoption of an Indian child by the foreign parent. Thereafter, it elaborated on the materials available and finally proceeded to lay down certain principles and norms which were to be observed in the matter of giving a child in adoption to foreign parents. 68 (1984) 2 SCC 244 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 161 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 200. In Union Carbide Corporation and others. v. Union of A India and others69, one of the questions, which fell for consideration was whether the Supreme Court had the power under Article 142 to withdraw to itself, Original Suits pending in the District Court at Bhopal and dispose of the same in accordance with the settlement. Similarly, the Court had to deal with the contention that it had no jurisdiction to B withdraw the criminal proceedings. This is what, inter alia, the Court held: “58. This Court had occasion to point out that Article 136 is worded in the widest terms possible. It vests in the Supreme Court a plenary jurisdiction in the matter of entertaining and hearing of appeals by C granting special leave against any kind of or made by a Court or Tribunal in any cause or matter and the powers can be exercised in spite of the limitations under the specific provisions for appeal contained in the Constitution or other laws. The powers given by Article 136 are, however, in the nature of special or residuary powers which are exercisable outside the purview of D the ordinary laws in cases where the needs of justice demand interference by the Supreme Court.