In the case before this Court, this Court upheld the different pay scales/pay structure based on different educational qualifications. It is observed and held that considering the educational qualifications prescribed for appointment to the post of Data Entry Operators, Grade B and the C assigning duties, the classification of Data Entry Operators in different grades, does not violate any right of equality guaranteed by Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution nor does it violate the constitutional protection against hostile or arbitrary discrimination. 4.3 In the case of Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers D Federation Limited (supra), it is observed and held by this Court that different educational qualification and experience prescribed for appointment can be a ground to have different pay scales/pay structures. 4.4 In the case of Pramod Kumar Sahoo (supra) it is observed and held that nature of work may be more or less the same but the scale E of pay may vary based on academic qualification or experience which justifies classification. It is further held and observed that inequality of men in different groups excludes applicability of the principle of ‘equal pay for equal work’ to them. In the case before this Court, this Court upheld the classification based upon the higher educational qualification for grant of higher pay scale to a trained person or a person possessing F higher qualification. 5. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions to the facts of the case on hand the view taken by the High Court that the educational qualification cannot be a ground for denial of Nursing Allowance to the Nursing Assistants is unsustainable. In the G present case the respective Nursing Assistants are being paid ‘Hospital Patient Care Allowance’. The Nursing Assistants in the BSF neither have relevant experience for appointment as Staff Nurse nor they possess any educational qualification for appointment as Staff Nurse. Therefore, the case of Nursing Assistants cannot be compared with that of the H 1014 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Staff Nurses as both carry different educational qualification. Under the circumstances, the High Court has committed a serious error in holding and directing that the Nursing Assistants serving in the Assam Rifles/ BSF are entitled to Nursing Allowance at par with the Staff Nurses. 6. In view of the above and for the reason stated above present B appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by the learned Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court holding and directing that the original writ petitioners – Nursing Assistants shall be entitled to Nursing Allowance at par with the Staff Nurse is hereby quashed and set aside. C Consequently, the original writ petition filed before the learned Single Judge claiming Nursing Allowance at par with the Staff Nurse stands dismissed. Present appeal is accordingly allowed. No costs. Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh and Aarsh Choudhary, LCRAs) D E F G H