That clear and satisfactory evidence of non- access is needed to rebut the presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act, vide Perumal Nadar (dead) by Lrs. vs. Ponnuswami, (1970) 1 SCC 605. C 6.3. That in the instant case, Master “X” was born on 17th July, 2013, during the continuance of marital relations between the parties and that the respondent does not deny access to the appellant at the relevant time. 6.4. That a direction to conduct a DNA test cannot be passed D based on vague material. That the respondent has sought to rely on the DNA test report dated 24th November, 2016. However, the authenticity of the said DNA Report has to be established during trial and any reliance placed on the same before the authenticity of the same is proved would, in future, amount to giving a license to a party (such as the respondent herein), seeking a direction to conduct a DNA test, to produce E unauthenticated reports and this would have a devastating effect on the child. 6.5. With respect to the assertion of the respondent that he came across messages on the phone of the petitioner in the month of September 2016, disclosing the appellant’s adulterous actions, it was submitted on F behalf of the appellant that no evidence or material in support of the same had been produced by the respondent and thus, no reliance can be placed on the same. 6.6. That it would be incorrect to state that simply because DNA tests are scientifically accurate, the same may be routinely conducted to G dislodge the presumption of legitimacy under Section 112 of the Evidence Act. 6.7. It was averred that the issue of legitimacy is inextricably linked to the allegations of adultery and the same cannot be lightly trifled with, merely at the request of the respondent. Therefore, the presumption H of legitimacy must be preserved by Courts. APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 701 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] With the aforesaid submissions, learned Senior Counsel, Sri A Huzefa Ahmadi has prayed that the instant appeal be allowed and the impugned of the High Court, as well as the of the Family Court dated 12th August 2021, be set aside. 7. Per contra, learned Senior Counsel Sri Kapil Sibal, appearing on behalf of the respondent-husband submitted that the impugned B of the High Court and the of the Family Court dated 12th August 2021 have been passed on an unimpeachable appreciation of the facts of the case, as well as the relevant law, and therefore, the same do not call for interference by this Court. 7.1. Sri Kapil Sibal asserted that the instant appeal is an abuse of C the process of law and is not maintainable either on law or based on the facts of the present case. That the present appeal has been filed with a view to mask the adulterous conduct of the appellant, in the guise of the child’s welfare. 7.2. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Uday D Chand Dutt vs. Saibal Sen, (1987) Supp SCC 506 to contend that in the face of two concurrent findings of the Family Court and the High Court, such findings may not be interfered with by this Court.