It is settled law that the Court can also examine the normative legitimacy and importance of the State objective,13 more so in a case such as this where sex (and thereby sexual orientation) is an ex-facie protected category under Article 15(1) of the Constitution. An objective to exclude non-heterosexual relationships would be unconstitutional, especially after this Court in Navtej has elaborately proscribed discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation.14 Therefore, the SMA is violative of Article 14. 17. However, I recognize that there are multifarious interpretive diffi culties in reading down the SMA to include marriages between non- heterosexual relationships. These have been enumerated in signifi cant detail in the opinions of both the Hon’ble Chief Justice and Hon’ble Justice Bhat. I also agree that the entitlements devolving from marriage are spread out across a proverbial ‘spider’s web’ of legislations and regulations. As rightly pointed out by the Learned Solicitor General, tinkering with the scope of marriage under the SMA can have a cascading eff ect across these disparate laws. 18. In fact, the presence of this web of statutes shows that discrimination under the SMA is but one example of a larger, more deeper form of social discrimination against non-heterosexual people that is pervasive and structural in nature. Ordinarily, such an intensive form of discrimination should require keener and more intensive judicial scrutiny. However, due to limited institutional capacity, this Court does not possess an adequate form of remedy to address such a violation. As pointed out in the 13 Deepak Sibal v. Punjab University, (1989) 2 SCC 145. 14 (supra). 142 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. of Hon’ble the Chief Justice, substantially reading into the statute is beyond the powers of judicial review and would be under the legislative domain. It would also not be prudent to suspend or strike down the SMA, given that it is a benefi cial legislation and is regularly and routinely used by heterosexual partners desirous of getting married. For this reason, this particular methodology of recognizing the right of non-heterosexual partners to enter into a civil union, as opposed to striking down provisions of the SMA, ought to be considered as necessarily exceptional in nature. It should not restrict the Courts while assessing such deep-seated forms of discrimination in the future. 19. Non-heterosexual unions and heterosexual unions/marriages ought to be considered as two sides of the same coin, both in terms of recognition and consequential benefi ts. The only defi ciency at present is the absence of a suitable regulatory framework for such unions. This Court in Navtej noted that: “history owes an apology to the members of this community and their families, for the delay in providing redressal for the ignominy and ostracism that they have suff ered through the centuries.” I believe that this moment presents an opportunity of reckoning with this historical injustice and casts a collective duty upon all constitutional institutions to take affi rmative steps to remedy the discrimination. 20. Thus, the next step in due course, would be to create an edifi ce of governance that would give meaningful realization to the right to enter into a union, whether termed as marriage or a union.