[(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (3), whenever it appears to the Central Government that it is in public interest to D do so, it may dispense with the requirement of notice under clause (a) of sub-rule (3). ]” 30. It is to be noted that Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules prescribes a detailed procedure for issuing notification prohibiting or restricting various activities in the specified areas. The said power flows from Sections E 3(v) of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 (hereinafter referred to as “1986 Act”). 31. A perusal of clause (viii) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules would reveal that one of the factors that has to be taken into consideration for declaring ESZ is the proximity to a sanctuary, National F Park, game reserve or closed area notified, as such under the 1972 Act. Sub-rule 3(a) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules requires that whenever it appears to the Central Government that it is expedient to impose prohibition or restrictions, it is required to give notice of its intention to do so by notification in the Official Gazette and in such other manner as the Central Government may deem necessary from time to time. As per G sub-rule 3(b) of Rule 5, every such notification is required to give a brief description of the area, the industries, operations processes in that area about which such notification pertains and also specify the reasons for the imposition of prohibition or restrictions on the location of the industries oncarrying out of the processes or operations in that area. Accordingly, H as per sub-rule 3(c) of Rule 5, any person interested in filing an objection IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 621 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] is entitled to file an objection to the Central Government within sixty A days from the date of publication in the notification in the Official Gazette. The Central Government thereafter within the prescribed period provided under clause (d) of sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules is required to issue a notification in the Official Gazette imposing such prohibition or restrictions in an area. This is required to be done only after considering B all the objections received under clause (c) of sub-rule (3) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules. It can thus be seen that a detailed procedure is prescribed under the 1986 Rules for notifying ESZs. 32. It is to be noted that MoEF & CC has issued the said Guidelines for declaration of ESZs around the National Parks and Wildlife C Sanctuaries. 33. The said Guidelines refer to a meeting of the Indian Board for Wildlife held on 21st January 2002, in which “Wildlife Conservation Strategy-2002” was adopted. Point No. 9 of the said Strategy envisaged that lands falling within 10 kilometres of the boundaries of National Parks D and Sanctuaries should be notified as eco-fragile zones under Section 3(v) of the 1972 Act and clause (viii) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules.