An importer may wish to warehouse the goods. It is in such C cases that it is only upon the bill for entry for home consumption is presented that the crucial date emerges. It is in this context that to regulate and control the collection of duty apart from other aspects that a license is procured under Section 57 of the Act. Section 2 sub-Section (11) of the Customs Act, defines the words‘customs area’. It reads as follows: D “2(11) “customs area” means the area of a customs station or a warehouse and includes any area in which imported goods or export goods are ordinarily kept before clearance by Customs Authorities” 50. Section 2 sub-Section (12) defines ‘customs port’, E whereas,Section 2 sub-Section (13), defines ‘customs station’: “(12) “customs port” means any port appointed under clause (a) of section 7 to be a customs port, and includes a place appointed under clause (aa) of that section to be an inland container depot” (13) “customs station” means any customs port, customs airport, F international courier terminal, foreign post office or land customs station” 51. Section 7(a), to which reference may be necessary in view of the definition of the words ‘customs port’, reads as follows: G “7. Appointment of customs ports, airports, etc.-(1) The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint- (a) The ports and airports which alone shall be customs ports or customs airports for the unloading of imported goods and the loading of export goods or any class of such goods;” H K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 279 ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 52. Thus, every port falling under the Indian Port Act and the A Major Port Act may not be on their own become a customs port. A customs port under Section 2(12) comes into being on a port being appointed as such under Section 7(a). A customs station no doubt, includes any customs port and a land customs station. The case of the appellant based on the license under Section 57 of the Customs Act may make it B a customs area as it includes a warehouse but it is inconceivable as to how it would transform it into‘in a notified port’. 53. An argument, which is raised by the learned Senior Counsel for the appellants is traceable to Clause (1) of paragraph-8 falling under CRZ-II. It reads as follows: C “CRZ-11, - (i) buildings shall be permitted only on the landward side of the existing road, or on the landward side of existing authorized structures;” D It is the contention of the appellants that even if it is found that the storage facility cannot be treated as permitted in the port, as it does not fall in the port, both having regard to the fact that CRZ-II constitutes an area where the regime is less harsh than the one contemplated in CRZ- I and also bearing in mind that edible oil is non-hazardous cargo and still, what is more important, in CRZ-II, facilities for receipt and storage of E petroleum products and liquified natural gas can be permitted, and lastly, as a storage facility would constitute a building, which, in the facts of this case, is located on the landward side of the existing road, the NGT was wrong.