Be it noted that the subject incident occurred on the night of 21.08.2008 and the depositions of the witnesses were recorded by the Trial Court in the later part of 2015. In any event, as already noted hereinbefore, this Court would not undertake a roving D inquiry on factual issues or reappreciate the evidence, unless it is brought out that there is some perversity in appreciation of evidence by the Trial Court or the High Court, leading to manifest miscarriage of justice. Trivial defects in investigation or process are not enough, in themselves, to disbelieve the prosecution’s case. To acquit solely on the ground of defective investigation would be adding insult to injury [See Karnel Singh E Vs. State of M.P. {(1995) 5 SCC 518}] 22. Similarly, identification of the gold ornaments by PW-1 during the TIP does not raise any red flags. 474 of the Andhra Pradesh Police Investigation Manual, Part I, Vol. IIA, provides that identification of properties has to be done in the Court premises, under the of F the Magistrate, either by the Magistrate or through independent witnesses, if the properties are already sent to Court, and in other cases, independent witnesses should conduct the process of identification of the property in the absence of the police, under a Panchnama. The properties to be identified should be mixed with similar articles and the witnesses should G be asked to identify them. This being the procedure that was followed in the case on hand, there is no reason to doubt PW-1’s identification of the seized gold ornaments as those taken from his shop. 23. In this regard, it may also be noted that A2 was found in possession of a bag carrying some of the stolen ornaments and, therefore, H 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A such possession itself speaks against him, in terms of Section 114 (a) of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. Being a fact especially within his knowledge, it was for A2 to explain as to how he came to be in possession of those stolen ornaments, under Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. However, no explanation was offered by him. As regards A1, it is the prosecution’s case that he confessed to commission of the B crime and upon being questioned as to the stolen gold ornaments, he himself went into the other room in his house and brought out a bag containing the gold ornaments. This part of his confession would, therefore, be admissible under Section 27 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, as it led to the recovery of the stolen gold ornaments. C 24. No doubt, recovery of this stolen property from the accused would not be sufficient in itself to convict them for murder. However, the weight of the evidence on record, taken cumulatively, unerringly points to the guilt of the accused, leaving no room for second thoughts. The inescapable fact remains that PWs 4, 6, and 10, who were witnesses D independent of each other and who had no animosity or enmity with the accused, spoke in unison about seeing them running away from the house of PW-1 of the fateful night with bags in their possession.