The above-mentioned question was referred for decision to a Constitution Bench, which disposed of the reference by the dated 15th December 20224. Broadly, the Constitution Bench held that in absence of the complaint’s testimony in a prosecution for offences D punishable under Sections 7 and 13(2) of the PC Act, the prosecution can rely upon even circumstantial evidence to prove the demand of gratification. In paragraph 74 of the said decision, the Constitution Bench has summarized its conclusions. RIVAL SUBMISSIONS E 6. Shri S. Nagamuthu, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant submitted that this is a case where there is no evidence of demand of illegal gratification by the appellant. The learned senior counsel submitted that proof of demand of gratification by a public servant is a sine qua non for the offences punishable under Sections 7 and 13(1)(d) F of the PCAct. He submitted that the findings of the Courts are based on surmises and conjectures. 7. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, the learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the prosecution supported the impugned s. She submitted that PW-5 has proved the demand. Moreover, on the basis of G the circumstantial evidence, the demand and acceptance were proved. She also submitted that once the demand and acceptance are established, 1 2014 (13) SCC 55 2 2015 (10) SCC 152 3 2001 (1) SCC 691 H 4 2022 SCCOnline SC 1724 NEERAJ DUTTA v. STATE (GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI) 1003 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] there is a presumption that the acceptance of gratification proves the A existence of motive or reward. The learned ASG submitted that no interference is called for with the impugned s. LEGAL POSITION 8. Before we analyze the evidence, we must note that we are B dealing with Sections 7 and 13 of the PC Act as they stood prior to the amendment made by the Act 16 of 2018 with effect from 26th July 2018. We are referring to Sections 7 and 13 as they stood on the date of commission of the offence. Section 7, as existed at the relevant time, reads thus: C “7. Public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act.— Whoever, being, or expecting to be a public servant, accepts or obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain from any person, for himself or for any other person, any gratification whatever, other than legal remuneration, as a motive or reward for doing or D forbearing to do any official act or for showing or forbearing to show, in the exercise of his official functions, favour or disfavour to any person or for rendering or attempting to render any service or disservice to any person, with the Central Government or any State Government or Parliament or the Legislature of any State E or with any local authority, corporation or Government company referred to in clause (c) of section 2, or with any public servant, whether named or otherwise, shall be punishable with imprisonment which shall be not less than three years but which may extend to seven years and shall also be liable to fine.