Shah and others53. C 88. Shri Chidambaram further submitted that from the perusal of the affidavit filed on behalf of the Central Government as well as the RBI, it is clear that the procedure emanated from the Central Government, which was through the advice given by the Government to the RBI in its communication dated 7th November 2016. The affidavit would clearly show that the RBI acted on the advice of the Central Government and D gave its recommendation in a mechanical manner. He reiterated that, as per sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act, the proposal has to emanate from the RBI and not from the Central Government. It is reiterated that the procedure is in total breach of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act. E 89. Shri Chidambaram submits that unless the documents, to which he had already referred in his arguments while opening the case, are placed for perusal of this Court, the Court cannot come to a satisfaction about the correctness of the decision-making process. Relying on the of this Court in the case of R.K. Jain v. Union of India54, he submits that unless the respondents plead privilege and the issue is F decided, the respondent cannot withhold the said documents, at least from this Court. 90. Relying on an excerpt from “Forks in the Road: My Days at RBI and Beyond”, a book by former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan, Shri Chidambaram submits that demonetization has nothing to do with G monetary policy. Emphasizing on the of this Court in the case of Internet and Mobile Association of India (supra), the learned Senior Counsel submits that the proportionality test will have to be satisfied in 53 (1996) 8 SCC 540 H 54 (1993) 4 SCC 119 VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 61 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the present case. It is submitted that the 2017 Act does not validate the A action taken under the impugned Notification. It only extinguishes the liabilities of the Issue Department of the RBI. The learned Senior Counsel, therefore, submits that this is a fit case wherein this Court should decide the scope of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act and declare that the exercise of power by the Central Government under sub-section B (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act was not valid in law. In this respect, he relies on the of this Court in the case of S.R. Bommai and others v. Union of India and others55. 91. Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Counsel, in rejoinder, submits that the perusal of sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the RBI Act would C reveal that, though the tendering of any series of bank notes of any denomination ceases to be a legal one under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act, the guarantee of the Central Government continues to exist. It is submitted that it would be clear from the provisions contained in the 2016 Ordinance, which became the 2017 Act, that Section 3 of the 2017 Act which provides that the SBNs which have ceased to be legal D tender in view of the impugned notification, shall cease to be liabilities of the RBI under Section 34 of the RBI Act and shall cease to have the guarantee of the Central Government under sub-section (1) of Section 26 of the said Act.