Therefore, there is no constitutional compulsion that whilst framing a new law, or policies under a new legislation – particularly F when an entirely different set of fiscal norms are created, overhauling the taxation structure, concessions hitherto granted or given should necessarily be continued in the same fashion as they were in the past. When a new set of laws are enacted, the legislature’s effort is to on the one hand, assimilate- as far as practicable, the past regime. On the other G hand, the object of the new law is creation of new rights and obligations, with new attendant conditions. Inevitably, this process is bound to lead to some disruption. In this case, the disruption is in the form of exporters 34 1984 (3) SCR 252. 35 (2003) 8 SCC 369. H 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A needing to import inputs, pay the two duties, and claim refunds. Yet, this inconvenience is insufficient to trump the legislative choice of creating an altogether new fiscal legislation, and insisting that a section of assessees their affairs, to be in accord with the new law. Therefore, the exclusion of benefit of imports in anticipation of AAs, and requiring payment of duties, under Sections 3 (7) and (9) of Customs Tariff Act, B 1975, with the ‘pre-import condition’, cannot be characterized as arbitrary or unreasonable. 68. This court had also observed in State of Madhya Pradesh v Nandlal Jaiswal36 that “in complex economic matters every decision is necessarily empiric, and it is based on experimentation” and that C the court, while considering the validity of executive action relating to economic matters grant a certain measure of freedom or ‘play in the joints’ to the executive.” The Court crucially emphasized that: “The Court cannot strike down a policy decision taken by the State Government merely because it feels that another D policy decision would have been fairer or wiser or more scientific or logical. The Court can interfere only if the policy decision is patently arbitrary, discriminatory or mala fide.” In R.K. Garg (supra) this court similarly spelt out the circumscribed role that the court has, in considering the validity or constitutionality of E fiscal laws, or economic measures, stating that “the court should feel more inclined to give judicial deference to legislative in the field of economic Regulation than in other areas where fundamental human rights are involved.” Likewise, in Ashirwad Films v. Union of India37 this court observed: F “The power of the Legislature to classify is of wide range and flexibility so that it can adjust its system of taxation in all proper and reasonable ways. Even so, large latitude is allowed to the State for classification upon a reasonable basis and what is reasonable is a question of practical details and a variety of factors which the Court will be reluctant and G perhaps ill- equipped to investigate….” 69. The object behind imposing the ‘pre-import condition’ is discernible from paragraph 4.03 of FTP and Annexure-4J of the HBP; 36 1987 (1) SCR 01.