Therefore, when the above conditions regarding time, place and absence of special circumstances stand fulfi lled, the price of 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. imported goods shall be decided under Section 14(1-A) read with the Rules framed thereunder. The said Rules are the Customs Valuation Rules, 1988. It was further held that in cases where the circumstances mentioned in Rules 4(2)(c) to (h) are not applicable, the Department is bound to assess the duty under transaction value. Therefore, unless the price actually paid for the particular transaction falls within the exceptions mentioned in Rules 4(2)(c) to (h), the Department is bound to assess the duty on the transaction value. It was further held that Rule 4 is directly relatable to Section 14(1) of the Customs Act, 1962. Section 14(1) read with Rule 4 provides that the price paid by the importer in the ordinary course of commerce shall be taken to be the value in the absence of any special circumstances indicated in Section 14(1). Therefore, what should be accepted as the value for the purpose of assessment is the price actually paid for the particular transaction, unless the price is unacceptable for the reasons set out in Rule 4(2). It was further held that the word “payable” in Rule 4(1) must be read as referring to the “particular transaction” and payability in respect of the transaction contemplates as situation where payment of price stands deferred. Therefore, Rule 4 is limited to the transaction in question. It was further held that Rule 5 allows the transaction value to be determined on the basis of identical goods imported into India about the same time; Rule 6 allows fi xation of transaction value on the basis of the value of similar goods imported into India about the same time. Where there are no contemporaneous imports into India, the value is to be decided under Rule 7 by a process of deduction in the manner provided therein. If this is not possible, then the value shall be computed under Rule 7-A. It was further held that it is only when the transaction value under Rule 4 is rejected, only then under Rule 3(ii) the value shall be determined by proceeding sequentially through Rules 5 to 8. Conversely, if the transaction value can be decided under Rule 4(1) and does not fall under any of the circumstances given in Rule 4(2), there is no question of determining the value under the subsequent rules. It was further held that discount is a recognised feature of international trade and as long as those discounts are uniformly available and as long as they are based on commercial considerations, they cannot be denied under Section 14. COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 205 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] 7. The primary base for customs valuation is the transaction value i.e. the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold for export to the country of importation, subject to adjustment.