We fi nd that the said observations rightly apply to the facts of the present case. Can it be said that the mighty Union of India and an ordinary soldier, who having fought for the country and retired from Regular Army, seeking re-employment in the Territorial Army, have an equal bargaining power. We are therefore of the considered view that the reliance placed on the said document would also be of no assistance to the case of the Respondents.” 47. Certain decisions of this court, in this regard, are illuminating. Savita Garg (Supra) dealt with this aspect, and referred to the previous ruling in Indian Medical Assn. v. V.P. Shantha (hereinafter, “V.P. Shantha”)39: “This Court has dealt with all aspects of the medical profession from every angle and has come to the conclusion that the doctors or the institutes owe a duty to the patients and they cannot get away in case of lack of care to the patients. Their Lordships have gone to the extent that even if the doctors are rendering services free of charge to the patients in government hospitals, the provisions of the Consumer Protection Act will apply since the expenses of running the said hospitals are met by appropriation from the Consolidated Fund which is raised from taxes paid by the taxpayers. Their Lordships have dealt with the defi nition of “service” given in Section 2(1)(o) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, and have observed as follows: 39 1995 Supp (5) SCR 110. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 627 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “The services rendered free of charge to patients by doctors/hospitals, whether non-government or government, who render free service to poor patients but charge fees for services rendered to other patients would, even though it is free, not be excluded from defi nition of service in Section 2(1)(o). The Act seeks to protect the interests of consumers as a class. To hold otherwise would mean that the protection of the Act would be available to only those who can aff ord to pay and such protection would be denied to those who cannot so aff ord, though they are the people who need the protection more. It is diffi cult to conceive that the legislature intended to achieve such a result. Another consequence of adopting a construction, which would restrict the protection of the Act to persons who can aff ord to pay for the services availed by them and deny such protection to those who are not in a position to pay for such services, would be that the standard and quality of services rendered at an establishment would cease to be uniform. It would be of a higher standard and of better quality for persons who are in a position to pay for such service while the standard and quality of such service would be inferior for persons who cannot aff ord to pay for such service and who avail the service without payment. Such a consequence would defeat the object of the Act.