The decisions, laying down principles, empowering this Court to lay down guidelines, are inapposite. The decisions were rendered by this Court in a situation where there clearly existed a vacuum. It is further pointed out that the Court was invited and persuaded to interfere, more importantly, when a Fundamental Right was found to exist or a right H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 35 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] vouch-saved under an International Treaty. In the present batch of cases, A there is no Fundamental Right involved, which can support any interference by this Court. This is apart from Article 324(2) laying down a procedure, signalling the absence of any vacuum. The proof of the non-existence of the vacuum is sought to be established by the fact that several Chief Election Commissioners and Election Commissioners have B been appointed according to need in the past. A perceived advancement in the method of appointment, based on the Reports, including the Law Commission of India, would scarcely furnish the foundation for doing violence to the provisions of the Constitution. We are reminded by the learned Attorney General that this Court is being invited to apply principles involved in the context of ordinary Statutes to the interpretation of the C Constitution itself. The same is impermissible. G. SUBMISSIONS OF SHRI TUSHAR MEHTA, LEARNED SOLICITOR GENERAL OF INDIA 13. Relying upon Article 53, which deals with the Executive power of the Union, it is contended that the law contemplated under Article D 324(2) is the law contemplated under Article 53(3)(b). In the absence of such a law, the President has the constitutional power. The constitutional validity of Article 324 cannot be considered as it is a part of the original Constitution. The Constitution provides for a complete machinery to deal with the appointments to the Commission. The Vineet Narain was dealing with a lack of statutory enactment and not a constitutional E provision. Any potential direction to include any non-Executive, would involve a violation of the Doctrine of Separation of Powers. Reliance is placed on the of this Court inSamsher Singh v. State of Punjab and Another9. Article 324(2) cannot lead to a constitutional duty on the part of Parliament to legislate. Reliance is placed on T.N. Seshan (supra) F to contend that the President is the appointing Authority and that the Chief Election Commissioner could not claim to be equated with Supreme Court Judges. The Doctrine of Separation of Powers is emphasised. Separation of powers, it is pointed out, is a reflection of democracy itself. The learned Solicitor General persuades the Court to exhibit judicial restraint. A causus omissus may not justify judicial interference. Matters G relating to policy rightfully must remain immune from the judicial radar. What is involved in this case is essentially a political question. H. SUBMISSIONS OF SHRI BALBIR SINGH, LEARNED ADDITIONAL SOLICITOR GENERAL 9(1974) 2 SCC 831 H 36 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 14. Shri Balbir Singh forcefully contended that there is no vacuum and no trigger.