Secondly, when the person who constructs, maintains or operates a CGP to supply electricity by exercising their right to open access for the purpose of carrying electricity from their CGP to the destination of their use. Thirdly, when the electricity generated from the CGP is supplied through the grid for any licensee or consumer. While no license is required for the supply of electricity to a licensee or consumer, the supply is subject to the regulations made under Section 42(2) of the Act. 14. Section 42(1) of the Act states that a distribution licensee has the duty to develop and maintain an effi cient, coordinated, and economical Section 9 is not restricted to a person who constructs, maintains and operates a CGP. The provision does not bar or prohibit transfer of ownership rights by the person who has constructed or had originally set up the CGP. 358 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. distribution system in the area of his supply.12 A distribution licensee also owes duty to supply electricity in accordance with the provisions of the Act. Section 42(2) states that open access shall be introduced by a State Commission in such phases, and subject to such conditions, including cross subsidies and other operational constraints.13 The sub-section permits the State Commission to specify the extent of open access in successive phases and determine charges for wheeling, which charges have to be determined having regard to all relevant factors, including cross subsidies and other operational constraints.14 The fi rst proviso states that open access shall be allowed on payment of surcharge in addition to charges for wheeling as determined by the State Commission.15 Such surcharge, in terms of the second proviso, is to be utilised to meet the requirements of current level of cross subsidy within the area of supply of the distributing licensee.16 The third proviso provides that cross subsidy and surcharge shall be progressively reduced in the manner as may be specifi ed by the State Commission.17 What is important for our consideration is the fourth proviso which states that 12 “Section 42. (Duties of distribution licensee and open access): ---(1) It shall be the duty of a distribution licensee to develop and maintain an effi cient, co-ordinated and economical distribution system in his area of supply and to supply electricity in accordance with the provisions contained in this Act.” 13 “42(2) The State Commission shall introduce open access in such phases and subject to such conditions, (including the cross subsidies, and other operational constraints) as may be specifi ed within one year of the appointed date by it and in specifying the extent of open access in successive phases and in determining the charges for wheeling, it shall have due regard to all relevant factors including such cross-subsidies, and other operational constraints:” 14 Supra note 11. 15 “Section 42. (Duties of distribution licensee and open access): --- ×× ×× ×× Provided that 12[such open access shall be allowed on payment of a surcharge] in addition to the charges for wheeling as may be determined by the State Commission:” 16 “Section 42.