The status of the appellant which has to be determined by reference to the relevant section of the Act is a mixed question of fact and law and in determining this question the principles of law deducible from the provisions of the said section will have to be applied. This position has not been disputed F before us in the present proceedings. Section 4-A(b) provides in- ter alia that “for the purpose of the Act, a firm is resident in the taxable territories unless the control and management of its af- fairs is situated wholly without the taxable territories”. This provi- sion shows that, where the partners of a firm are residents of this G country, the normal presumption would be that the firm is resident in the taxable territories. This presumption is rebuttable and it can be effectively rebutted by the assessee showing that the control and management of the affairs of the firm is situated wholly with- out the taxable territories. The onus to rebut the initial presump- tion is on the assessee. The control and management contem- H MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 485 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] plated by the section evidently refers to the controlling and direct- A ing power. Often enough, this power has been described in judicial decisions as the “head and brain”; the affairs of the firm which are subject to the said control and management refer to the affairs which are relevant for the purpose of taxation and so they must have some relation to the income of the firm. When the section B refers to the control and management being situated wholly with- out the taxable territories it implies that the control and manage- ment can be situated in more places than one. Where the control and management are situated wholly outside India the initial pre- sumption arising under the section is effectively rebutted. It is true that the control and management which must be shown to, be C situated at least partially in India is not the merely theoretical con- trol and power, not a de jure control and power but the de facto control and power actually exercised in the course of the conduct and management of the affairs of the firm. Theoretically, if the partners reside in India they would naturally have the legal right to D control the affairs of the firm which carries on its operations out- side India. The presence of this theoretical de jure right to control and manage the affairs of the firm which inevitably vests in all the partners would not by itself show that the requisite control and management is situated in India. It must be shown by evidence that control and management in the affairs of the firm is exer- E cised, may be to a small extent, in India before it can be held that the control and management is not situated wholly without the taxable territories. (Vide B.R. Naik v. CIT [(1945) 13 ITR 124 : (1946) 14 ITR 334] ).