Heavy reliance is also placed by Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel for the respondent on paragraph 79 of the decision in F Sharda vs. Dharmpal3. It reads as follows: “79. If despite an passed by the court, a person refuses to submit himself to such medical examination, a strong case for drawing an adverse inference would be made out. Section 114 of the Indian Evidence Act also enables a court to draw an adverse G inference if the party does not produce the relevant evidences in his power and possession.” 21. But we do not know how a mix up of Section 112 and Section 114 is possible. Section 112 deals with something where the existence of H 3 (2003) 4 SCC 493 APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 735 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] a fact is taken to be conclusive proof, without any possibility for the A disputing party to lead evidence for disproving the same. The only escape route or emergency exit as we may call it, available for a person to deprive another person of the benefit of Section 112, is to show that the parties to the marriage did not have access to each other at the time when the child could have been begotten. Section 114 has nothing to do B with, nor is in connection with conclusive proof of legitimacy dealt with by Section 112. Both Section 112 and Section 114 fall under different compartments. The word “presumption” itself is not used in Section 112. The expression used in Section 112 is “conclusive proof”. Therefore, by virtue of Section 4, no evidence shall be allowed to be given for the purpose of disproving it. C 22. As we have indicated elsewhere, if one of the parties to the marriage shows that he had no access to the other at the time when the child could have been begotten, then Section 112 itself does not get attracted. On the contrary, if the parties have had access to each other at the relevant point of time, the fate of the question relating to legitimacy D is sealed. 23. We are not suggesting for a moment that Section 112 acts as a shield even for the alleged adulterous conduct on the part of the wife. All that we say is that anything that would destroy the legal effect of Section 112 cannot be used by the respondent, on the ground that the E same is being done to achieve another result. 24. In the case on hand, the very pleading of the respondent in his petition for divorce before the Family Court is that the second child- Master “X” was born on 17.7.2013 and that the respondent came to know about the alleged adulterous behavior of the appellant herein, only F on 14.9.2016. In paragraph 23 of his petition for divorce, the respondent pleaded as follows: “23. The Petitioner states that he has not condoned the adultery and the cruel behavior of Respondent No.1. The Petitioner has had no physical relations with Respondent No.1 after discovering G her adulterous act.