The defences that might be available, or facts/aspects which when established during trial, might lead to acquittal, were not grounds for quashing complaint at threshold. At that stage, only question relevant was whether averments in complaint spell out ingredients of a criminal off ence or not. The Court has to consider whether complaint discloses that prima facie, off ences that were alleged against Respondents. Correctness or otherwise of said allegations had to be decided only in trial. At initial stage of issuance of process, it was not open to Courts to stifl e proceedings by entering into merits of the contentions made on behalf of Accused. Criminal complaints could not be quashed only on ground that, allegations made therein appear to be of a civil nature. If ingredients of off ence alleged against Accused were prima facie made out in complaint, criminal proceeding shall not be interdicted. ××× ××× ××× 26. In view of law laid down by the Hon'ble Apex Court and in view of the above said discussion, coming to the present crime as there are serious and specifi c allegations, this Court is not inclined to quash the proceedings against the petitioner herein, A.2 in C.C.No.17 of 2015 pending on the fi le of the Special Judge for CBI Cases at Hyderabad. 27. In the result, the Criminal Petition is dismissed. However, as the subject Calendar Case is of the year 2015, the Special Judge for CBI Cases at Hyderabad, is directed to dispose of the said case (C.C.No.17 of 2015) in accordance with law within a period of three (3) months from the date of receipt of a copy of this .” 940 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 20. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellant is here before this Court with the present appeal. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT 21. Mr. D. Ramakrishna Reddy, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant vehemently submitted that the sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC is mandatory to prosecute the appellant for the off ences under Sections 120-B, 420, 468 and 471 respectively of the IPC. He would submit that as sanction to prosecute the appellant under the provisions of the PC Act, 1988 came to be declined, the appellant cannot now be prosecuted for the off ences under IPC without valid sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC. 22. The learned counsel further submitted that the appellant was also subjected to a departmental inquiry. The departmental inquiry was by and large on the very same charges on which the appellant is now sought to be prosecuted in the Court of the Special Judge at Hyderabad. He pointed out that the appellant came to be exonerated of all the charges in the departmental inquiry as evident from the report of the inquiry offi cer dated 09.06.2014. 23. Mr. Reddy in support of his aforesaid submissions has placed reliance on three decisions of this Court (i) Parkash Singh Badal (supra), (ii) A. Srinivasulu v. The State rep. by the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal No.