The object is to inculcate a sense of its urgency and on default the Magistrate shall release the accused if he is ready and does furnish bail. Thus, it cannot be said that of release on bail under proviso to Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. is an on merits. An accused is D released on bail under proviso to Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. on the failure of the prosecuting agency. Therefore, the deeming fiction under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. cannot be interpreted to the length of converting the of bail not on merits as if passed on merits . [Para 8.1][750-H; 751-A-E] E 1.2. When special reasons/grounds are being made out from the chargesheet and the chargesheet reveals the commission of a non- bailable crime, the bail in favour of a person, who has been released on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. can be cancelled considering Section 437(5) and Section 439(2) F Cr.P.C. The law, which emerges is that mere filing of the chargesheet subsequent to a person is released on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. cannot be a ground to cancel the bail of a person, who is released on default bail. However, on filing of the chargesheet on conclusion of the investigation, if a strong case is made out and on merits, it is found that he has G committed a non-bailable offence/crime, on the special reasons/ grounds and considering Section 437(5) and Section 439(2) Cr.P.C, over and above other grounds on which the bail to a person, who is released on bail can be cancelled on merits. Therefore, there is no absolute bar as held by the High Court in H THE STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION V. T. 743 GANGI REDDY @ YERRA GANGI REDDY the impugned and that once a person is released A on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., his bail cannot be cancelled on merits and his bail can be cancelled on other general grounds like tampering with the evidence/witnesses; not cooperating with the investigating agency and/or not cooperating with the concerned trial court etc. [Para 9.7, 10, 11][761-F; 762- B G-H; 763-A-B] 1.3 The impugned and passed by the High Court dismissing the application for cancellation of the bail filed by the C.B.I. under Section 439(2) Cr.P.C. is quashed and set aside. [Para 13][763-H; 764-A] C 1.4 As the High Court has not at all considered on merits the application for cancellation of the bail, the matter is to be remitted to the High Court for considering the said application afresh in accordance with law and on merits and in light of the observations made. As pursuant to the earlier and D passed by this Court dated 29.11.2022 in Writ Petition (Criminal) No. 169 of 2022, the trial of the F.I.R. in the present case has been ed to be transferred to the C.B.I. Special Court, Hyderabad, the proceedings of the cancellation of the bail application, which was earlier filed before the High Court of Andhra Pradesh are ed to be transferred to the High Court E of Telangana at Hyderabad and now the High Court of Telangana to consider, decide and dispose of the application for cancellation of the bail on merits and in light of the observations made.