It was urged that this court ruled that any deviation from the original terms, [which are in the form of a tripartite arrangement, between the parties and the tribunal], mean that any amendments or modifi cations can only be with the consent of all the parties; it cannot be unilateral. The ASG relied upon various observations in ONGC (supra) and highlighted that the 2 2022 (10) SCR 660 3 By interim dated 25.08.2022 in A. No 3566/2022. CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1001 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] High Court by the impugned fell into error in selectively considering portions of the . It is submitted that observations made casually cannot form the basis of this court’s ratio. 7. The Learned ASG relied upon other s such as State of West Bengal vs. Shivanand Pathak4 where it was held that bias has many forms which includes judicial obstinacy. Likewise, he relied upon N.K. Bajpai vs. Union of India5, State of Punjab vs. Devenderpal Singh Bhuller6 and Supreme Court Advocates on record Association vs. Union of India7, to elaborate the various forms or heads of bias. According to the ASG, the facts of this case satisfy and attract the principle of bias. Despite resistance by Chennai Metro, the tribunal’s insistence that it would continue with the proceedings and charge the higher amount which was not agreed by both parties, led to a reasonable apprehension of bias which goes into the root of the proceedings. 8. It was submitted that Chennai Metro is justifi ed in arguing that the apprehension that the proceedings or the outcome would not be conducted and fi nalized with an impartial mind. It was argued that the impugned is in error in as much as accepted its face value of the affi davits and the statements contained in it of the members of the tribunal, [who stated that no prejudice would be caused, and that they would conduct the proceedings impartially]. It was highlighted that whether there is a reasonable apprehension of bias or circumstances exist that the conduct of the arbitrator has led to justifi able doubts as to her or his conduct of proceedings not being partial are not based on a subjective statement but rather application of an objective test which is that –‘whether the circumstances are such that a reasonable man having due regard to the facts, would conclude that bias exists’. 9. It was submitted that the tribunal also withheld and suppressed the fact that the members had received payment of the revised fee from Afcons 4 (1998) 5 SCC 513 5 (2012) 4 SCC 653 6 (2011) 14 SCC 770 7 (2016) 5 SCC 808 100 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. on 25.07.2022. This is one more aspect which ought to have been duly noted by the High Court. This conduct and the persistence of the members of the tribunal to insist that the higher fee should be paid - and for the past period too, would lead any reasonable man to conclude that there was bias or real likelihood of bias and that the tribunal would not conduct its proceedings in an impartial manner.