52. It is common knowledge that during out-patient days (OPD) in general hospitals in cities/towns, MBBS doctors are made to attend to hundreds of patients, which is not the case with Ayurved doctors. G 53. In the comparative chart extracted in paragraph 41 above, the State of Gujarat have claimed that IV injections and ART injections cannot be administered by Ayurved doctors. 8 For short “Cr.P.C“ H 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 54. Therefore, even while recognizing the importance of Ayurved doctors and the need to promote alternative/indigenous systems of medicine, we cannot be oblivious of the fact that both categories of doctors are certainly not performing equal work to be entitled to equal pay. Hence, Issue No.2 has to be answered in favour of the appellant- State and against the respondents. B Conclusion 55. In view of our answer to both the issues, the Civil Appeals are liable to be allowed and the impugned of the High Court is liable to be set aside. As a sequitur, the benefits derived by the respondents by C virtue of the interim passed by this Court on 08.09.2014, are liable to be recovered from the respondents. In the normal course, we would not have desired to allow the State to effect recovery but for the fact that a few doctors have received and a few have not. Among the Ayurved doctors, we cannot make a classification between those who have already received some benefits by virtue of the interim of this Court dated D 08.09.2014 and those who have not received such benefits. Moreover, we cannot overlook the fundamental principle that a benefit derived by an individual by virtue of an interim passed by a Court cannot be allowed to be retained, if the ultimate outcome of the case went against such a person. E 56. Therefore, all the appeals are allowed, the impugned of the High Court is set aside and the writ petitions filed by the respondents are dismissed. The contempt petitions are also dismissed along with all interlocutory applications including the impleadment application(s). No costs. F Nidhi Jain Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Mayank Batra, LCRA) G H