OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS AND OTHERS [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] liquidator or provisional liquidator. Sub-section (1B) to Section 456 of the Companies Act permits the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the District Magistrate to take such steps or use such force, as in his opinion may be necessary. Section 468 of the Companies Act permits the tribunal/court to direct any contributory, trustee, receiver, banker, agent, offi cer or other employee of the company to pay, deliver, surrender or transfer forthwith, or within such time as directed, to the liquidator, any money, property, or books and papers in his custody and control to which the company is prima facie entitled. 15. Sections 528 to 530 of the Companies Act fall under Chapter V - ‘Provisions Applicable to Every Mode of Winding Up’, under the sub-heading ‘proof and ranking of claims’. Section 528 of the Companies Act states that debts of all descriptions, including the debts payable on contingency, and claims against the company, present or future, ascertained or sounding only in damages, shall be admissible to proof against the company, on a just estimate being made of such debts as far as possible. Section 456 of the Companies Act, inter alia, provides that all the property and eff ects of the Company shall be deemed to be in the custody of the tribunal/court as from the date of the for the winding up of the Company. 16. The objective of giving jurisdiction to the Company Court/tribunal during the process of liquidation of the Company is two-fold: First, to ensure that the assets of a company in liquidation are amassed and constellated to prevent a scramble and dissipation of the assets of an insolvent company. Secondly, the Company Court/tribunal is entrusted with paying off debts from the sale proceeds of the assets so assimilated, according to the waterfall mechanism provided for and specifi ed under Sections 529, 529A and 530 of the Companies Act. Accordingly, and with this objective, Section 529A of the Companies Act refers to the doctrine of pari passu in the proviso to sub-section (1) to Section 529, with reference to the claims inter se the workmen and the secured creditors. Even otherwise, on a conspectus of these sections, the principle applicable and underlying these provisions is to stop alienation and preserve the assets on the date of the bankruptcy, which date, in some cases, can relate back to the date of fi ling of the winding up petition, as in case of execution of a decree. This preservation is with a view to ensure the division and application of the assets of the company being 1070 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. wound up, as it stood on the relevant date.20 The payment must be made in terms of the priority prescribed. 17. This Court in J.K. (Bombay) (P) Ltd. v. New Kaiser-I-Hind Spg. and Wvg. Co. Ltd.21 has held that once a winding up is passed, the assets of the company under liquidation are passed under the control of the liquidator, whose statutory duty is to realize them.