It is now recognised that the right to dissent is an essential pre-requisite of a healthy democracy and a facet of free speech. (ii) In Kedar Nath Singh vs. State of Bihar, A.I.R. 1962 SC 955 (“Kedar Nath Singh”) this Court H 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A considered a challenge to Sections 124-A and 505 of the IPC, which criminalised attempts targeted at exciting disaffection towards the Government, by words, or through writing and publications which may disturb public tranquillity. Although this Court dismissed the challenge to the vires of the B aforestated provisions, it was clarified that criticism of measures adopted by the government, would be within the limits of, and consistent with the freedom of speech and expression. (iii) Subsequently, in Directorate General of C Doordarshan vs. Anand Patwardhan, (2006) 8 SCC 433 (“Anand Patwardhan”) this Court observed that the State cannot prevent open discission, even when such discussion was highly critical of governmental policy. D (iv) The right of an individual to hold unpopular or unconventional views was once again upheld in Khushboo wherein this Court quashed First Information Reports (FIRs) registered pertaining to offences under Sections 292, 499, 500, 504, 505, E 509 of the IPC, based on complaints regarding the unpopular comments made by the appellanttherein, an actor, in a news magazine on the subject of pre-marital sex wherein she had urged women and girls to take necessary precautions to avoid the transmission of venereal diseases. In doing so, this F Court observed that criminal law could not be set into motion in a manner as would interfere with the domain of personal autonomy. The Court upheld the appellant’s freedom of speech and expression and quashed the FIRs, expressing the G need for tolerance even qua unpopular views. 15.4. Right to advertise (commercial speech): As per the dictionary meaning, the expression “advertise” means, to draw attention to, or describe goods for sale, services offered, etc., through any medium, such H as newspaper, television or other electronic media, etc., KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 741 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] in to encourage people to buy or use them. In other A words, it is to draw attention to any product or service. “Advertisement” is a public notice, announcement, picture in a newspaper or on a wall or hoarding in the street etc., which advertises something. In short, it is to advert attention to something and in the commercial B sense, to draw attention to goods for sale or services offered. In that sense, an advertisement is commercial speech. A glimpse of the following cases would be useful: (i) In Hamdard Dawakhana (Wakf) Lal Kuan vs. C Union of India, A.I.R 1960 SC 554(“Hamdard Dawakhana”) this Court held that an advertisement is a form of speech, but its true character is reflected by the object for the promotion of which it is employed. However, this Court qualified its observations with the D caveat that when advertisement takes the form of commercial advertisement which has an element of trade or commerce, it no longer falls within the concept of freedom of speech, for, the object is not propagation of ideas - social, political or economic or furtherance of literature or human thought; but the commendation of E the efficacy, value and importance of the product it seeks to advertise.