Scientific B survey began in Tripura in 1960. It is difficult to accept this reasoning in light of the fact that the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-A) refers to the measurement and demarcation of land which is vastly different from both point of view of location as well as the total measurement of land mentioned in the Survey Report (Exhibit-I). The assumption made by the trial court is fallacious and flawed, for the documents in question, i.e. C the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-A), is earlier in point of time, whereas the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-12) and Ekrarnama (Exhibit-5) were executed later on. The difference in area recorded is substantial. No corrigendum to correct the area in the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-12) and Ekrarnama (Exhibit-5) was made at any point of time. D 24. Fourthly, the power of attorney executed by Maharani Chandratara Devi dated 16.10.1985 and relied upon by Smriti Debbarma had equally identified the land in question, the land which belonged to her, as under: “ S C H E D U L E – ‘B’. E Building and land known as “Khosh Mahal” pertaining to District- West Tripura, P.S. West Agartala in the town of Agartala Dag No. 3412- Area- 2061 X 901 – land measuring 1 (one) kani 5 (five) gandas 2 (two) karas, 2 (two) krantas 10 (ten) dhurs; erstwhile Hotel Khosh Mahal now M/s. Indian Airlines F Corporation, Agartala Office, Land recorded in the name of late Bikramendra Kishore Deb Barma as Benamdar of Maharani Chandratara Debi (Principal).” No doubt, Schedule ‘B’ in the power of attorney statedly executed by Maharani Chandratara Devi refers to ‘Khosh Mahal’ but the area in G the measurement given is vastly different. The area and location mentioned in the power of attorney corresponds with the area and location mentioned in the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-12) and Ekrarnama (Exhibit- 5). Thus, the contention that the area and location were wrongly mentioned in the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-12) and the Ekrarnama (Exhibit-5) is an H 370 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A afterthought, and the said stand was taken after the discrepancies highlighted in the Survey Report (Exhibit-I) had come on record. 25. Learned counsel appearing for the appellant-plaintiff had submitted that the Deed of Patta (Exhibit-A) is a fabricated document. In support, he referred to the contents of this document and, in particular, B our attention was drawn to the fact that the lease given to M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited was for a period of twenty years from 1349 T.E. to 1369 T.E. or 1939 A.D. to 1959 A.D. It was highlighted that the Deed of Patta (Exhibit A) refers to dates 1351 T.E. or 1941 A.D. as the year when M/s. Hotel Khosh Mahal Limited was established5. We feel that the appellant-plaintiff should not be permitted and allowed to raise this C plea, as this contention was not raised before the trial court or the High Court. The Deed of Patta (Exhibit-A) is a registered document/ instrument. The document enjoys the presumption, being more than thirty years old, in terms of Section 906 of the Indian Evidence Act, 18727.