The truth is that the same was initiated by the Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister. To set the record straight, Raj Bhavan would like to place the chronology of events on the 21st, 22nd and 23rd of November, 2021. The tenure of the Vice Chancellor, Kannur University was to end on the 23rd of November. A selection committee had already been constituted vide notifi cation dated 27.10.2021 to select and appoint a new Vice Chancellor. The Additional Chief Secretary, Higher Education Department, Government of Kerala had also issued a notifi cation dated 01.11.2021 on behalf of the Selection Committee to invite the applications to the post of the Vice Chancellor. While this process was on 21st November 2021, as deputed by Chief Minister, Shri K.K. Raveendranath, Legal Adviser to Chief Minister, met Hon’ble Governor at Kerala Raj Bhavan at 11.30 am. He conveyed to Hon’ble Governor, the Government’s desire to reappoint Dr. Gopinath Ravindran as Vice Chancellor and informed that a formal request to this eff ect from the Minister for Higher Education was on the way to Raj Bhavan. Hon’ble Governor, who had a diff erent view on the matter, informed him that the proposal appeared legally untenable since the due process of selection was already in motion. On this, the Legal Advisor informed that the Government has examined the matter in detail and that the request was legally sound to withstand any legal scrutiny. He informed that Government had the legal advice and produced some typed papers. Hon’ble Governor inquired about its source, as it was unsigned. DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 407 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] The Legal Advisor to the Chief Minister said it was the opinion of the Advocate General of Kerala and repeated the plea to consider the request of the Government to reappoint Dr. Gopinath Ravindran as Vice Chancellor, Kannur University. At this juncture, Hon’ble Governor said the instant opinion said to be from Advocate General but without his signature and seal, was of no signifi cance. To this, the Legal Advisor said that he will produce the legal opinion bearing the signature and seal of Advocate General without delay. As submitted by Legal Advisor to the Chief Minister earlier, a letter written by Dr. R. Bindu, Minister for Higher Education reached Raj Bhavan at 01.30 pm on 22.11.2021. The letter had highlighted Dr. Gopinath Ravindran’s capabilities and desirability to be appointed for another term as Vice Chancellor. In this letter, she had clearly requested Hon’ble Chancellor to “be pleased to cancel the notifi cation dated 27.10.2021 appointing a Search-Cum-Selection Committee for identifying the person to be appointed as Vice Chancellor”. She also requested Hon’ble Chancellor’s “pleasure in cancelling the notifi cation dated 01.11.2021 and in re-appointing Dr Gopinath Ravindran for a continuous second term as Vice Chancellor of Kannur University”. On 22nd November by 12.10 pm, Shri R. Mohan, Offi cer on Special Duty to Chief Minister and the Legal Advisor to Chief Minister had met the Hon’ble Governor, repeated their request and in support, submitted the signed legal opinion of the Advocate General which was addressed to the Additional Chief Secretary, Higher Education Department.