In the case of Perry Kansagra (supra) this Court has observed that while exercising the review jurisdiction in an application under 47 Rule 1 read with Section 114 CPC, the Review Court does not sit in appeal over its own . It is observed that a rehearing D of the matter is impermissible in law. It is further observed that review is not appeal in disguise. It is observed that power of review can be exercised for correction of a mistake but not to substitute a view. Such powers can be exercised within the limits of the statute dealing with the exercise of power. It is further observed that it is wholly unjustified and exhibits a E tendency to rewrite a by which the controversy has been finally decided. After considering catena of decisions on exercise of review powers and principles relating to exercise of review jurisdiction under 47 Rule 1 CPC this Court had summed upon as under: “(i) Review proceedings are not by way of appeal and have to be strictly confined to the scope and ambit of 47 Rule 1 CPC. F (ii) Power of review may be exercised when some mistake or error apparent on the fact of record is found. But error on the face of record must be such an error which must strike one on mere looking at the record and would not require any long-drawn process of reasoning on the points where there may conceivably G by two opinions. (iii) Power of review may not be exercised on the ground that the decision was erroneous on merits. (iv) Power of review can also be exercised for any sufficient reason which is wide enough to include a misconception of fact H or law by a court or even an advocate. S. MURALI SUNDARAM v. JOTHIBAI KANNAN & ORS. 53 [M. R. SHAH, J.] (v) An application for review may be necessitated by way of A invoking the doctrine actus curiae neminem gravabit.” 5.2 It is further observed in the said decision that an error which is required to be detected by a process of reasoning can hardly be said to be an error on the face of the record. 5.3 In the case of Shanti Conductors (P) Ltd. (supra), it is B observed and held that scope of review under 47 Rule 1 CPC read with Section 114 CPC is limited and under the guise of review, the petitioner cannot be permitted to reagitate and reargue questions which have already been addressed and decided. It is further observed that an error which is not self-evident and has to be detected by a process of C reasoning, can hardly be said to be an error apparent on the face of record justifying the court to exercise its power of review under 47 Rule 1 CPC. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid two decisions to the facts of the case on hand, we are of the opinion that in D the present case while allowing the review application and setting aside the and dated 03.03.2017 passed in Writ Petition No.8606 of 2010 the High Court has exceeded in its jurisdiction and has exercised the jurisdiction not vested in it while exercising the review jurisdiction under 47 Rule 1 read with Section 114 CPC.