Even requiring the beneficiary company to maintain the H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 1023 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] flow of above two rivers may also affect the residents of the locality at A large. 8.18 It is also required to be noted that just across the road, there is a Wildlife Sanctuary, which is just adjacent across the road to the proposed university and the lands acquired. Therefore, the large-scale construction for the establishment of the proposed university as observed B by the High Court will also adversely affect the Wildlife Sanctuary, entire Eco system and the ecological environment in the locality. It is a duty of the State to protect the Wildlife Sanctuary and it may affect the entire Eco system and the ecological environment in the locality. It is also required to be noted that even the distance of the sea from the proposed Vedanta University is approximately 2000 meters. Merely because the Balukhand C Wildlife Sanctuary is separated from the proposed site by a highway – Puri-Konark Marine Drive, cannot be a ground to acquire the huge lands for the proposed university and as rightly observed by the High Court, the same will adversely affect the Wildlife Sanctuary and the entire Eco system and the ecological environment in the locality. The aforesaid D aspects has not at all been considered by the State Government and/or the Collector and/or the appropriate authority even while considering the proposal and/or even the objections under Section 5A of the Act, 1894. 8.19 Even otherwise, there is a non-application on the part of the E State Government on the requirement of the lands by the beneficiary company. It is required to be noted that the lands were proposed to be acquired at the instance of one foundation / company and the State Government was dealing with the lands belonging to the agricultural landowners. It is required to be noted that the Government is holding a public trust and has to deal with the lands belonging to private landowners, F more particularly, agricultural landowners in accordance with law. The State Government could not have considered the proposal from only one beneficiary/trust. There may be other public trusts / companies, who might be interested in establishing such university. Even no proper inquiry seems to have been initiated by the Government / Collector while G considering the proposal by the beneficiary company. It is required to be noted that initially, 15,000 acres of the agricultural lands was sought to be acquired for the proposed university. Ultimately, approximately, 8000 acres of the land belonging to the private landowners / agricultural landowners came to be acquired. The State Government has also handed H 1024 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A over the possession of approximately 495 acres of land belonging to the State Government including the Gochar Lands etc., which could have been used for the other public purpose and even for the Gochar Lands also. 8.20 From the material on record, it appears that undue benefits were proposed / in fact offered and given to the beneficiary company B providing undue largesse like:- (i) total autonomy to Vedanta University and its authorities with regard to administration, admission, fee structure, curriculum and faculty selection; (ii) proposed university to have complete immunity from any C reservation laws of the State Government; (iii) all assistance in getting regulatory approvals from UGC, AICTE etc.