19. Responding to the above submissions, it has been urged on behalf of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana, by Mr P S Patwalia, senior counsel, that: (i) From 2007 a consistent pattern has been followed by which recruitment has been made under the auspices of a Selection Committee consisting of three representatives of the High Court and three other members, namely, (a) the Advocate General; (b) the Chief Secretary; and (c) the Chairperson of the Haryana Public Service Commission; (ii) This process which has been consistently followed should not be deviated from, particularly, having regard to the fact that the entrustment of the process to the High Court would subserve the integrity and independence of the selection process; and (iii) A unilateral decision has been taken by the State Government to take over the process in deviation of settled practice under the rule making power which has received the imprimatur of this Court. 20. The of this Court dated 4 January 2007 specifi cally noted the importance of making timely appointments to the District Judiciary. This Court made a reference to the decision which was arrived at in the Conference of Chief Justices and Chief Ministers by which the High Courts were to be entrusted with the role of making appointments to the judicial service. Several States have already ensured the amendment of their Rules framed under Articles 234 and 309 by entrusting the selection process to 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. the High Courts. This Court also noted that in other States where the work was being conducted under the authority of the Public Service Commission, the work of selection was being supervised by a Committee appointed by the High Court. Thereafter, the of this Court of 11 May 2007 found fault with the understanding of the High Court that the entire process would be carried out exclusively by the High Court. This , however, was modifi ed on 12 February 2009 so as to allow the selection process which was then underway to be concluded by a process in which the Committee for selection composed of the Judges nominated by the Chief Justice and representatives of the State and the Public Service Commission. 21. Part C of the Rules governing the selection to the judicial service in the State of Haryana contains provisions in terms of Rules 4 and 5 to the eff ect that the examination papers shall be set and marks awarded by examiners appointed by the Public Service Commission, while the High Court will have a representative only in the Committee conducting the interviews. However, the initial part of Part C contains a provision that the rules and instructions are liable to alteration from year to year. It is undisputed that since 2007 Rule 7B has been substituted so as to allow for the selection process to be conducted under the supervision of a Committee consisting of three representatives of the High Court and three persons representing the State Government, including the Public Service Commission.