Section 20 authorized the President to, by , make provisions, including modifi cation and adoption of “any provision of the Constitution as amended by the amendment Act in case of any defect, including defect in relation to transition from the provisions of the State as they stood immediately before the commencement of the amendment Act, for a period of three years.” 22. In view of Section 19 of the Amendment, the Telangana legislature amended the existing state statute – Value Added Tax Act (hereafter “the Telangana VAT Act”)7. The amended provisions empowered the Assessing Offi cer to reassess the returns which had been assessed previously – additionally for a period of two years. In other words, originally the power to reassess was limited to four years. The lengthening of the period by two more years meant that dealers whose assessments had either escaped notice and who had mis-declared or withheld information could now be exposed to the possibility of reassessment for a further period of two years. 23. It was submitted that this amendment was made through an ordinance issued by the Governor of Telangana on 17.06.2017. The State VAT Act was to cease to have any eff ect, on 30.06.2017. However, before that, its provisions were amended through the ordinance which was later transformed into law through an Act of the State legislature and brought into force on 02.12.2017. The Telangana GST Act was enacted and came into force before 30.06.2017. It repealed the existing law, i.e. the State VAT Act, but by virtue of Section 174, the existing provisions of the State VAT Act were continued and all pending proceedings so far as they related to ongoing assessment proceedings and matters which had not become fi nal. 24. The learned counsel submitted that the impugned s of the Telangana and Gujarat High Courts are erroneous. It was submitted that the Telangana High Court’s interpretation that the expression “amend” had limited import is without basis. Learned counsel highlighted that the 7 Sections 20(4), 21(3), 21(4), 21(6), 21(7), 21(8), 31(1), 32(3), 32(6), 32(7) and 57(5). 162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. ordinance in terms of the several s of this Court, especially A.K. Roy v. UOI8 (hereafter, “AK Roy”) and the seven judge decision in Krishna Kumar Singh v. State of Bihar9 (hereafter, “Krishna Kumar Singh”) have declared that there is no diff erence between the eff ect of an ordinance and that of a law enacted by the State legislature. Being in the nature of special power to cater to unforeseen eventualities, the executive was empowered to enact laws for a limited duration as far as the conditions spelt out in Article 213. The Union executive in a like manner was authorized by Article 123 to promulgate ordinances. 25. Learned counsel also relied upon the decision of this Court in Ramkrishna Ramanath v. Janpad Sabha10 (hereafter, “Rama Krishna Ramanath”) and relied upon the principle that so long as the power to amend existed, both the Parliament and the State legislatures could not be limited in the exercise of that power which was plenary and sovereign.