stood vitiated. 35. A perusal of the record would refl ect that all the accused including the appellants were charged by a common charge framing dated 17.01.2001, which reads as under: “I, R. K. Sharma, Additional Sessions Judge, Delhi do hereby charge Babu Ram @ Fauji son of Raghuveer Dayal; Shri Krishan son of Jwala Prasad, Sunil son of Shri Krishan; Vijay son of Lala Ram and Ravinder son of Babu Ram as under: That on 11.11.1998 at 3 pm at Gali D-300 near House No. 286, Jahangir Puri, Delhi within the jurisdiction of P.S. Jahangir Puri, Delhi you all in furtherance of your common intention did commit murder of deceased Anil Kumar @ Kala and Vijay by intentionally killing them and thus committed an off ence punishable under Section 302/34 I.P.C. SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 407 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Secondly, on the said date, time and place, you all in furtherance of common intention caused injuries to 26 persons, namely, Smt. Sateshwari, Mangat Ram, Anju, Pradeep, Sunny, Ramdev, Marium, Naim, Zafar, Matluf Ali, Saleem, Zubeda, Raj Kumar, Tarun, Bundu, Darshana, Mohd. Shahid, Vasudev, Priya Sanjay, Chander Kala, Mohini Devi, Anwari, Gulsher, Hamid Mohd. and Shahid Ahmed with such intention and under such circumstances that if by the said injuries the accused appellants had caused the death of said persons, you would have been guilty of murder and thus committed an off ence punishable under Section 307/34 I.P.C. and within my cognizance. And I hereby direct that you all be tried by this court for the said off ence. Signed ASJ, Delhi Dated 17.01.2001” 36. As exemplars, some of the questions that were put to the accused appellants to elicit their response, under Section 313 CrPC, to the incriminating circumstances appearing against them in the prosecution evidence, are being extracted below: “(i) It is in evidence against you that on 11.11.98 a statement was made by one Mangat Ram, collectively contained in ruqqa Ex. PW2/A on which formal FIR was recorded, carbon copy of which is Ex.PW19/E. What have you to say? (ii) It is further in evidence against you that on 11.11.1998 at about 3 pm at Gali No.D-300 wali, near House No. 286, Jahangir Puri, you along with other co-accused in furtherance of common intention did commit the murder of Anil Kumar @ Kala and Vijay by intentionally killing them. What have you to say? (iii) It is further in evidence against you that on the said date, time and place, you along with your co-accused in furtherance of common intention caused injuries to 26 persons, namely, Smt. Sateshwari, Mangat Ram, Anju, Pradeep, Sunny, Ramdev, Marium, Naim, Zafar, Mutluf Ali, Salma, Zubeda, Raj Kumar, Tarun, Bundu, 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Darshana, Mohd. Shahid, Vasudev, Priya Sanjay, Chander Kala, Mohini Devi, Anwar, Gulshan, Hamid Mohd. and Shahid Ahmed with such intention and under such circumstances that if by the said injuries you had caused the death of said person, you would have been guilty of murder and thus committed an off ence under Section 307/34 I.P.C.