13 2014 (9) SCR 162. 14 Rendered on August 23, 2007, in Cri. M.C. No. 5392 of 2005. RELIGARE FINVEST LIMITED v. STATE OF NCT OF 205 DELHI & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] company dies a civil death and the entity which has evolved upon amalgamation cannot be prosecuted for an off ence committed by the transferor company. […] So far as clause 8 relied upon by the counsel for the State is concerned, same relates to transfer of legal proceedings. The clause does not contemplate that criminal liability for off ence committed by the earlier company would be transferable to the petitioner company.” 16. It was submitted that after the amalgamation, particularly, a non-voluntary scheme of amalgamation necessitated to safeguard the public interests, LVB ceased to exist and criminal proceedings against LVB shall abate. The transfer pertained to civil liability, with no provision concerning the continuation of criminal proceedings for the transferee company. Moreover, it was submitted that criminal proceedings cannot be transferred through a contract or statute, let alone by a scheme. Similarly, it placed reliance on M. Abbas Haji v. T. N. Channakeshava15 to submit that even in the case of a natural person where upon the demise of an accused person, criminal proceedings do not pass on to legal heirs or successors. 17. It was further submitted that the High Court was wrong to rely on foreign cases to observe that a transferee company can entail criminal liability as those s were rendered by considering legal interpretations distinct from those in India. 18. It was submitted that while one arm of the Government, namely the RBI and the Central Government, took proactive measures by formulating the Scheme under Section 45(7) of the Banking Act to safeguard the interests of LVB’s depositors, employees, and others, another arm of the Government, represented by Respondent No. 1, cannot vitiate the process by imposing criminal liability against DBS for the past actions of LVB. 19. Furthermore, DBS highlighted that RFL itself argued before the High Court that an interpretation from the RBI was necessary and that the Court should not make a determination on this matter. RFL 15 (2019) 9 SCC 606. 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. presented in its Reply dated 09.01.2022 before the High Court, the following: “21. Without prejudice to the submissions made herein, as per the Clause 13 of the Scheme of amalgamation, if any doubt arises in the interpretation of the provisions of the scheme, in that case the matter is to be raised and referred to the RBI.” Therefore, through the current appeal, RFL is blowing hot and cold by contesting the impugned , asserting that such clarification wasn’t needed and the stay of the summoning is wrong. 20. Lastly, it was submitted that subsequent to the Impugned , RBI through its letter dated 14.06.2023, provided clarification that criminal proceedings against the officials of the transferor bank do not get carried forward to the transferee. Analysis 21. Before discussing and dealing with the rival submissions, it would be useful to extract provisions of the scheme of amalgamation published by the RBI.