These offences by virtue of Section 195(1)(a)(i) of the Code can be taken cognizance of by any court only upon a proper B complaint in writing as stated in said Section. In respect of matters coming under Section 195(1)(b)(i) of the Code, in Pushpadevi M. Jatia v. M.L. Wadhawan etc., (1987) 3 SCC 367 prosecution was directed to be launched after prima facie satisfaction was recorded by this Court. C 47. It has also been laid down by this Court in Chandra Shashi v. Anil Kumar Verma (1995) 1 SCC 421 that a person who makes an attempt to deceive the court, interferes with the administration of justice and can be held guilty of contempt of court. In this case, a husband who had filed a fabricated document to oppose the prayer of his wife seeking D transfer of matrimonial proceedings was found guilty of contempt of court and was sentenced to two weeks imprisonment. It was observed as under: “1. The stream of administration of justice has to remain unpolluted so that purity of court’s atmosphere may give vitality to all the E organs of the State. Polluters of judicial firmament are, therefore, required to be well taken care of to maintain the sublimity of court’s environment; so also to enable it to administer justice fairly and to the satisfaction of all concerned. 2. Anyone who takes recourse to fraud, deflects the course of F judicial proceedings; or if anything is done with oblique motive, the same interferes with the administration of justice. Such persons are required to be properly dealt with, not only to punish them for the wrong done, but also to deter others from indulging in similar acts which shake the faith of people in the system of administration G of justice. * * * 14. The legal position thus is that if the publication be with intent to deceive the court or one made with an intention to defraud, the same would be contempt, as it would interfere with H STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. v. LAXMI NARAYAN DAS (DEAD) 1077 THR. LRS & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] administration of justice. It would, in any case, tend to interfere A with the same. This would definitely be so if a fabricated documents is filed with the aforesaid mens rea. In the case at hand the fabricated document was apparently to deceive the court; the intention to defraud is writ large. Anil Kumar is, therefore, guilty of contempt.” B 48.In K.D. Sharma Vs. Steel Authority of India Limited and others (2008) 12 SCC 481 it was observed: “39. If the primary object as highlighted in Kensington Income Tax Commrs., (1917) 1 KB 486 : 86 LJKB 257 : 116 LT 136 (CA) is kept in mind, an applicant who does not come with C candid facts and “clean breast” cannot hold a writ of the court with “soiled hands”. Suppression or concealment of material facts is not an advocacy. It is a jugglery, manipulation, manoeuvring or misrepresentation, which has no place in equitable and prerogative jurisdiction.