Manoj has been convicted under Section 411, IPC which is reproduced below: Dishonestly receiving stolen property. —Whoever dishonestly receives or retains any stolen property, knowing or having reason to believe the same to be stolen property, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fi ne, or with both. 34. The Trial Court convicted Manoj based on a presumption under Section 114(a), Evidence Act, asserting that his possession of stolen articles shortly after the theft, with knowledge of its stolen nature, was adequate enough to hold him guilty under Section 411, IPC. As a result, he was held liable for the off ence under the said provision. Illustration (a) of Section 114, Evidence Act has been noted above but the entire provision reads as follows: “114. Court may presume existence of certain facts. —The Court may presume the existence of any fact which it thinks likely to have happened, regard being had to the common course of natural events, human conduct and public and private business, in their relation to the facts of the particular case. The Court may presume— (a) That a MANOJ KUMAR SONI v. 261 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] man who is in possession of stolen goods soon after the theft is either the thief or has received the goods knowing them to be stolen, unless he can account for his possession. ***” 35. The Trial Court erred in drawing such a presumption of fact without considering other factors. What could be those factors has been explained by this Court in A Devendran vs. State of Tamil Nadu9 in the following words: 20. … Whether a presumption under Section 114, Illustration (a) of the Evidence Act should be drawn in a given situation is a matter which depends on the evidence and the circumstances of the cases. The nature of the stolen articles, the nature of its identifi cation by the owner, the place and the circumstances of its recovery, the intervening period between the date of occurrence and the date of recovery, the explanation of the persons concerned from whom the recovery is made are all factors which are to be taken into consideration in arriving at a decision. 36. A presumption of fact under Section 114(a), Evidence Act must be drawn considering other evidence on record and without corroboration from other cogent evidence, it must not be drawn in isolation. The present case serves as a perfect example of why such a presumption should have been avoided by the Trial Court. Manoj’s conviction, solely relying on the disclosure statements made by himself and the other co-accused, does not suffi ce to warrant a presumption under Section 411, IPC. It would not be unreasonable to presume that a goldsmith, who has to deal in ornaments and jewelleries on a day-to-day basis, would obviously be in possession of a signifi cant quantity of ornaments at his shop. Given the circumstances, such a presumption drawn under Section 114(a) stands vitiated.