A 8. This Court, in the case of Mah. Adiwasi Thakur Jamat Swarakshan Samiti (supra), has observed as under:- “20. It is not possible to exhaustively lay down in which cases the Scrutiny Committee must refer the case to Vigilance Cell. One of the tests is as laid down in the case of Kumari Madhuri Patil, B (1994) 6 SCC 241. It laws down that the documents of the pre- Constitution period showing the cast of the applicant and their ancestors have got the highest probative value. For example, if an applicant is able to produce authentic and genuine documents of the per-Constitution period showing that he belongs to a tribal community, there is no reason to discard his claim as prior to C 1950, there were no reservations provided to the Tribes included in the ST . In such a case, a reference to Vigilance Cell is not warranted at all.” 9. It could thus be seen that this Court has held that documents of the pre-Constitution period showing the caste of the applicant and their D ancestors have got the highest probative value. It has also been held that if an applicant is able to produce authentic and genuine documents of the per-Constitution period showing that he belongs to a tribal community, there is no reason to discard his or her claim as prior to 1950, there were no reservations provided to the Tribes included in the Constitution E (Scheduled Tribes) . 10. A perusal of the report of the Vigilance Committee itself would reveal that the appellant’s great grandfathers birth record show the caste as ‘Mana’. The said document relates to as early as 10th March 1924, while another document of 14th April 1926 shows as ‘Mani’. However, it is pertinent to note, and learned counsel for the parties also agree, that F there is no caste named ‘Mani’. It is thus possible that there could be some mistake in writing when the caste was written. It is to be noted that original record is written in Marathi and not in English. As such, such an error is quite possible. 11. We, therefore, find that there was no reason to discard the G pre-Constitutional document of the period as early as 1924. 12. Insofar as Affinity Test is concerned, this Court, in the case of Anand v. Committee for Scrutiny and Verification of Tribe Claims and Others3, has observed thus: H 3 (2012) 1 SCC 113 PRIYA PRAMOD GAJBE v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 1265 AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] “22. It is manifest from the aforeextracted paragraph that the A genuineness of a caste claim has to be considered not only on a thorough examination of the documents submitted in support of the claim but also on the affinity test, which would include the anthropological and ethnological traits, etc., of the applicant. However, it is neither feasible nor desirable to lay down an absolute B rule, which could be applied mechanically to examine a caste claim.