They report their fi ndings of facts and conclusions to the court and the parties may accept the auditor’s report as fi nal or request a trial. If the case goes to trial, the auditor’s fi ndings are prima facie evidence and may be read to the jury. 2) The imposition of interest accruing retroactively from the time of incident, rather than from time of , to remove defendant’s incentives to delay. 3) The elevation of civil cases to parity with criminal cases so that civil cases will not be usurped. 4) A requirement that judges set defi nite trial dates and honor them, so that litigation cannot be delayed by one of the attorneys. YASHPAL JAIN v. SUSHILA DEVI & OTHERS 965 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] DELAY ON ACCOUNT OF PROCEDURAL LAWS 27. At the outset, it is necessary to point out the reasons for delay in civil trial namely: (i) Absence of strict compliance with the provisions of CPC; (ii) Misuse of processes of the court; (iii) Lengthy/prolix evidence and arguments. Non-utilization of provisions of the CPC namely X (examination of parties at the fi rst hearing); (v) Non-Awarding of realistic cost for frivolous and vexatious litigation; (vi) Lack of adequate training and appropriate orientation course to judicial offi cers and lawyers; (vii) Lack of prioritization of cases; (viii) Lack of accountability and transparency. 28. Apart from the above reasons, the other vital reasons include the over-tolerant nature of the courts below while extending their olive branch to grant adjournment at the drop of the hat and thereby bringing the entire judicial process to a grinding halt. It is crucial to understand that the wheels of justice must not merely turn, they must turn without friction, without bringing it to a grinding halt due to unwarranted delay. It is for such reasons that the system itself is being ridiculed not only by the litigant public but also by the general public, thereby showing signs of constant fear of delay in the minds of public which might occur during the resolution of dispute, dissuading them from knocking at the doors of justice. All the stakeholders of the system have to be alive to this alarming situation and should thwart any attempt to pollute the stream of judicial process and same requires to be dealt with iron hands and curbed by nipping them at the bud, as otherwise the confi dence of the public in the system would slowly be eroded. Be it the litigant public or Member of the Bar or anyone connected in the process of dispensation of justice, should not be allowed to dilute the judicial processes by delaying the said process by in any manner whatsoever. As held by this Court in T. Arivandandam vs. T.V. Satyapal & Another AIR (1977) 4 SCC 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 467 the answer to an irresponsible suit or litigation would be a vigilant judge. This analogy requires to be stretched in the instant case and to all the pending matters by necessarily holding that every stakeholder in the process of dispensation of justice is required to act swiftly, diligently, without giving scope for any delay in dispensation of justice.