In any case, a specific finding has been given by the learned Arbitrator in that regard. As already informed to us, the said arbitral award is under challenge in the proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act. We do not wish to observe anything about the merits or demerits of the said award as the competent court is seized of the G same. 22. However, it would clearly reveal that the complainant/ respondent No.1 has attempted to turn a purely contractual dispute between the parties into a criminal case. Not only that, there is an inordinate delay in lodging the complaint. Though the complainant/ H 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A respondent No.1 was aware about the sale of the shares in the year 2001, it did not do anything except filing an application before the learned Arbitrator. According to the complainant/respondent No.1, it received the information from the BSE and NSE in the year 2006, which fortified its suspicion about the fraud being played. Even thereafter, for a period of 5 years, it was silent and filed the complaint only in the year 2011. As B already stated hereinabove, though an attempt was made at the time of hearing to contend that it has only filed the complaint after it came to know about the fraud in the year 2009, there is no averment to that effect in the complaint. 23.We find that the complaint, taken at its face value, does not C disclose that any of the ingredients of the offence complained of have been made out. In the totality of the circumstances, we find that the present complaint is nothing else but an abuse of process of law. We, therefore, find that the appeals deserve to be allowed. 24.In the result, we pass the following : D (i) The appeals are allowed; (ii) The impugned dated 26th April 2021 passed by the High Court and the dated 22nd March 2017 passed by the trial court are quashed and set aside; E (iii) The complaint bearing CC No. 56/SW/2011 filed before the trial court under Section 403, 406, 420 and 120B of the IPC is dismissed. 25. However, we clarify that nothing observed herein or in the impugned s would weigh with the forum seized of the arbitral award F in the proceedings under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act or in any other proceedings, if taken recourse to by the appellants, if they are entitled in law. 26.Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. G Divya Pandey Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) H