The above extract indicates that the Supreme Court or High Court at the stage of the appointment of an arbitrator shall “examine the existence of a prima facie arbitration agreement and not other issues”. These other issues not only pertain to the validity of the arbitration agreement, but also include any other issues which are a consequence of unnecessary judicial interference in the arbitration proceedings. Accordingly, the “other issues” also include examination and impounding of an unstamped instrument by the referral court at the Section 8 or Section 11 stage. The process of examination, impounding, and dealing with an unstamped instrument under the Stamp Act is not a time-bound process, and therefore does not align with the stated goal of the Arbitration Act to ensure expeditious and time-bound appointment of arbitrators. Therefore, even though the Law Commission of India Report or the Statement of Objects and Reasons of the 2015 Amendment Act do not specifi cally refer to SMS Tea Estates (supra), it nevertheless does not make any diff erence to the position of law as has been set out above. 210. Garware Wall Ropes (supra) relied on Patel Engineering (supra) to observe that “it is diffi cult to accede to the argument made by the learned counsel on behalf of the respondent that Section 16 makes it clear that an arbitration agreement has an independent existence of its own, and must be applied while deciding an application under Section 11 of the 1996 Act.” In view of this observation, it was held that the separability presumption cannot be applied in case of an unstamped instrument because the Stamp Act applies to the instrument as a whole. As discussed in the preceding segments, the separability presumption ensures the validity of an arbitration 118 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. agreement notwithstanding the invalidity, illegality, or non-existence of the underlying contract. 211. The scope of authority of an arbitral tribunal under Section 16 is wide because it can deal with issues pertaining to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement. In his dissenting opinion in NN Global 2 (supra), Justice Roy correctly observes that since “[s]ection 16 specifi cally deals with both existence and validity whereas Section 11 only deals with existence, the former should be given more weight.” This observation comports with the stated goal of the Arbitration Act to minimize the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process. Post the 2015 Amendment Act the referral courts are only required to prima facie determine the existence or validity of an arbitration agreement. The basis for such prima facie determination lies in the fact that the arbitral tribunal will later have the competence to rule on the issue of existence and validity of the arbitration agreement. Therefore, the separability presumption applies at the referral stage. 212. In Intercontinental Hotels Group (India) (P) Ltd v. Waterline Hotels (P) Ltd.,171 the issue before a Bench of three Judges of this Court in a Section 11 application was: whether the court can proceed to appoint an arbitrator when the underlying contract is incorrectly stamped.