From a resume of the above decisions the following salient principles would emerge: H 1010 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (1) The adjudication of the rights of the parties is the essential judicial function. Legislature has to lay down the norms of conduct or rules which will govern the parties and the transaction and require the court to give effect to them; (2) The Constitution has delineated delicate balance in the exercise B of the sovereign power by the Legislature, Executive and Judiciary; (3) In a democracy governed by rule of law, the Legislature exercises the power under Articles 245 and 246 and other companion Articles read with the entries in the respective Lists in C the Seventh Schedule to make the law which includes power to amend the law. (4) The Court, therefore, need to carefully scan the law to find out: (a) whether the vice pointed out by the Court and invalidity suffered by previous law is cured complying with the legal and constitutional requirements; (b) whether the Legislature has D competence to validate the law; (c) whether such validation is consistent with the rights guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution. (5) The Court does not have the power to validate an invalid law or to legalise impost of tax illegally made and collected or to remove the norm of invalidation or provide a remedy. These are not judicial E functions but the exclusive province of the Legislature. Therefore, they are not the encroachment on judicial power. (6) In exercising legislative power, the Legislature by mere declaration, without anything more, cannot directly overrule, revise or override a judicial decision. It can render judicial decision F ineffective by enacting valid law on the topic within its legislative field fundamentally altering or changing its character retrospectively. The changed or altered conditions are such that the previous decision would not have been rendered by the Court, if those conditions had existed at the time of declaring the law as G invalid. It is also empowered to give effect to retrospective legislation with a deeming date or with effect from a particular date. (7) The consistent thread that runs through all the decisions of this Court is that the legislature cannot directly overrule the decision H or make a direction as not binding on it but has power to make the BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 1011 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] decision ineffective by removing the base on which the decision A was rendered, consistent with the law of the Constitution and the Legislature must have competence to do the same.” In the aforesaid case, Section 11 of the Kerala Electricity Surcharge (Levy and Collection) Act, 1989 arose for consideration and it was held that it was a valid piece of legislation and not an incursion on B judicial power as the effect of Section 11 was to validate illegal collection of tax under an invalid law. In Hindustan Gum and Chemicals Ltd. vs. State of Haryana, (1985) 4 SCC 124, this Court held that it is permissible for a competent legislature to overcome the effect of a decision of a court, setting aside C the imposition of a tax by passing a suitable Legislation, amending the relevant provisions of the statute concerned with retrospective effect, thus taking away the basis on which the decision of the court has been rendered and by inactive and appropriate provision validating the levy and collection of tax made before the decision in question was rendered.