[Para 36][1330-A-B] 8. But the issuance of a credit note to a dealer by a manufacturer is only when the dealer replaces a spare part from his stock in the automobile to the customer or has purchased the spare part from the open market for the said purpose and returns B the defective part to the manufacturer which is pursuant to the warranty appended as a collateral agreement to the earlier sale of the automobile and the dealer acting on behalf of the manufacturer. [Para 37][1330-B-C] 9. It is also significant to note that there is transfer of C property in the spare part between the dealer and the customer on behalf of the manufacturer under a warranty. When the dealer is acting pursuant to a warranty, he is no doubt discharging his obligation not as a seller stricto sensu, but as an intermediary or an agent of the manufacturer as the case may be vis-à-vis the D purchaser of the automobile. But, there is transfer of property between the dealer and the customer/purchaser of the automobile on the one hand and receipt of a valuable consideration by the dealer for the same from the manufacturer on the other in the form of a credit note. Further, credit note is issued only when a dealer discharges his obligation under the warranty and may be E required to return the defective part to the manufacturer while seeking a recompense in the form of a credit note. [Para 38][1330-D-F] 10. The contention of the revenue is that the credit note is a valuable consideration in the account of the dealer while the F dealer is discharging his obligation pursuant to the warranty and therefore exigible to sale tax. This is based on the premise that the dealer “sells” the part while acting on behalf of the manufacturer while replacing a defective part under a warranty and discharging his warranty obligation for which the consideration G flows from the manufacturer to the dealer and therefore is amenable to sales tax. There are two aspects to be considered here: firstly, there is transfer of property in the spare part between the dealer and the customer and secondly, for the said transfer, the manufacturer issues a credit note to the dealer which is in H 1274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A substance on behalf of the customer owing to the warranty with the customer. [Para 39][1330-G-H; 1331-A] 11. When the transaction between the manufacturer and dealer is viewed in the larger canvas of a dealer discharging his obligations pursuant to a warranty appended to a sale of an B automobile, the same cannot be narrowly construed. [Para 40][1331-B-C] 12. Under Section 2(g) of the Central Sales Tax Act or the Sales Tax Act of the respective states under consideration, sale, with its grammatical variations and cognate expressions, means C any transfer of property in goods by one person to another for cash or deferred payment or for any other valuable consideration. The definition of sale under the Sales Tax legislations are in consonance with Article 366(29-A) as per the Constitution 46th Amendment Act, 1982.