It is submitted that apart from the fact that the respondents contention is premised on his having accepted the award, the corporation’s alleged refusal is admittedly a subsequent event after the award. It is submitted that it is the executing court that would determine that the F decree is inexecutable due to change in circumstances. It is submitted that the evidence can be led during execution. It is submitted that the respondents are bound to suffer the consequence of their wilful failure to participate in the arbitration proceedings before the arbitral tribunal, despite attending them after the rejection of their objection to the G jurisdiction of the Tribunal. It is submitted that therefore the respondents cannot be allowed to lead evidence by taking advantage of their own wrong. 3.9 It is further urged by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that if this Court is inclined to allow the respondents to lead evidence, in that case, (a) the appellant may be permitted to lead H M/S ALPINE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 999 PVT. LTD. v. ASHOK S. DHARIWAL [M. R. SHAH, J.] evidence including the permission for clubbing khatas where there are A nalas and the corporation’s later endorsement dated 28.6.2004 agreeing to consider clubbing of khatas concealed by the respondents, and (b) the questions of law regarding whether the corporation’s refusal falls under section 34(2)(b) may kindly be left open. 4. The present appeal is vehemently opposed by Shri Balaji B Srinivasan, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondents. It is submitted that in the present case initially the respondents challenged the arbitration proceedings/constitution of the arbitral tribunal and therefore did not participate in the arbitration proceedings. It is submitted that thereafter the arbitral tribunal proceeded with the hearing ex-parte. C It is submitted that therefore as such no evidence was adduced or led by the respondents before the arbitral tribunal. 4.1 It is submitted that in the present case the arbitration proceedings begun on 7.2.1997 under old Arbitration Act, 1940 and on 25.03.1997 arbitrators arbitrarily decided to proceed with the arbitration D proceedings under the Arbitration Act, 1996. It is submitted that the respondents withdrew from the arbitration. That thereafter the respondents filed an application challenging the bias and higher fees before the arbitral tribunal. However, ex-parte award dated 12.03.1998 came to be passed for specific performance of the agreement reserving liberty to apply for amalgamation of khatas. It is submitted that in fact E though it was for the appellant to apply for amalgamation of khatas but it did not and it was the respondents who applied for the same twice. It is submitted that applications for amalgamation of khatas made by respondents twice have been rejected due to presence of RzajaKaluve or rain water drain. It is submitted that therefore the respondents made F an application to produce the evidence in section 34 application to produce the final endorsement dated 17.03.2003 by which the prayer for amalgamation of khatas to plots were rejected and thereafter it is required to examine the concerned officer.