It was observed:— “12. Law is well settled that if any party gives an undertaking to the court to vacate the premises from which he is liable to be evicted under the s of the court and there is a clear and deliberate breach thereof it amounts to civil contempt but since, in the present case, the respondent did not fi le any undertaking as envisaged in the of this Court the question of his being punished for breach thereof does not arise. However, in our considered view even in a case where no such undertaking is given, a party to a litigation may be held liable for such contempt if the court is induced to sanction a particular course of action or inaction on the basis of the representation of such a party and the court ultimately fi nds that the party never intended to act on such representation or such representation was false. In other words, if on the representation of the respondent herein the Court was persuaded to pass the dated 5-10-1995 extending the time for vacation of the suit premises, he may be held guilty of contempt of court, notwithstanding non-furnishing of the undertaking, if it is found that the representation was false and the respondent never intended to act upon it. …" (Emphasis supplied) 66. Thus, even if we were to assume that the learned counsel had not given any “undertaking” to the court upon instructions from his clients, BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1109 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the observations made in Rita Markandey (supra), are signifi cant and refer to another facet when contempt jurisdiction can be invoked, diff erent and distinct from cases where parties have given undertaking to the court and have thereafter wilfully refused to abide and comply with the same. 67. In Govind Kaur v. Hardev reported in 1982 (1) RCR 323 (13), a question arose before a Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court whether the tenant was guilty of the contempt of Court. On March 13, 1980 when the was pronounced the counsel for the tenant made a request to Court for grant of time to vacate shop No. 6. She was granted time of two months. She undertook to deliver vacant possession of shop No. 6 to the landlord on or before the expiry of two months from that day. It was held:— “…This cannot be said to be an arrangement by way of agreement between the parties for vacating shop No. 6. It is an undertaking to the Court. An undertaking is a promise, given to the Court by a party to a proceeding, to do or not to do particular thing, which is enforceable as an injunction because when the Court accepts an undertaking given by a party, its amounts in substance to an injunction. An undertaking given to the court by a person or a Corporation in pending proceedings on the faith of which the court sanctions a particular course of action or inaction, has the same force as an injunction made by the Court and breach of the undertaking is misconduct amounting to contempt.