The decisions of this Court in Dhulabhai (supra) and Firm Seth Radha Kishan (supra) reiterate the settled legal position that if the act impugned is not under the statute but in violation of its provisions, the 564 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. jurisdiction of a civil court is not completely ousted even though the statute may have created the liability and provided for a specifi c remedy to the person aggrieved. 42. In the light of aforesaid legal principle, the argument on behalf of the plaintiff -respondent is that, as notice contemplated under sub-section (2) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act was not given to the owner of the land prior to the acquisition notifi cation, the notifi cation would be void and, therefore, the Civil Court would have jurisdiction to grant appropriate relief by treating the same as void notwithstanding that there is no specifi c challenge to it. 43. In my view, the aforesaid submission is not acceptable for the following reasons: (a) there is no challenge to the jurisdictional power of the acquiring body to issue notifi cation under Section 52(1) of the 1959 Act, therefore the notifi cation is under the 1959 Act and not beyond the scope of the 1959 Act; (b) it is not the case of the plaintiff that pursuant to the sale-deeds qua the land in dispute, prior to the date of acquisition notifi cation, plaintiff ’s name was entered in the record of rights, yet no notice under Section 52(2) was served on him prior to the acquisition; (c) it is also not the case of the plaintiff that landowners/ Khatedars already recorded in the record of rights qua the land in dispute, were not served with notice as contemplated by sub-section (2) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act; and (d) there is a presumption that offi cial acts have been regularly performed (see: Section 114 Illustration (e) of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872), therefore, once a notifi cation under sub-section (1) of Section 52 was issued, by virtue of sub-section (4) of Section 52, in my view, a legal fi ction with regard to the vesting of land in the State free from all encumbrances from the date of publication of the notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette would come into play and it cannot be treated as void. 44. Elaborating upon the above reasons, it may be noted that assuming the plaintiff and defendant nos. 2 to 4 had purchased a portion of the disputed URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 565 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] land, but if they do not get their names mutated in the record of rights, how would the State come to know of their ownership. Therefore, if the land is acquired after serving notice on the recorded owners, as is the case of the appellant, the State’s action in issuing notifi cation under Section 52 (1), in my view, cannot be treated as void. More so, because the State had the power to acquire the land.