106 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 4E PSO.CR.RT.S 106 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A VEENA VADINI TEACHERS TRAINING INSTITUTE (RUN BY VEENA VADINI SAMAJ KALYAN VIKASH SAMITI) v. STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH AND ORS. B (Civil Appeal No. 3177 of 2023) APRIL 28, 2023 [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND SUDHANSHU DHULIA, JJ.] Constitution of India – Art. 14, 15 and 19(1)(g) – Reservation C – Appellant-Institute trained teachers for B.Ed. and M.Ed. courses – Appellant challenged a government policy (called “Admission Process and Guiding Principles 2022-2023”) before the High Court – Appellant’s challenge was mainly based on clause 1.5(a) of the policy, which allocates the B.Ed seats in the institute – As per which D 75% of seats this Course reserved for “residents of Madhya Pradesh” and remaining 25% seats for candidates outside the State – Appellant alleged that that Institute is facing difficulties in making admissions to this course, as although the entire 25 percent seats allocated to the “outside” candidates have been filled, but almost all of the 75 percent of seats, reserved for the residents, have E remained unfilled – The High Court dismissed the writ filed by the appellant – On appeal, the main issue was, whether the State Government could reserve seats for ‘residents’ of the State and, in case if it is permissible; whether 75% of the total seats, can be reserved for the residents – Held: As per Pradeep Jain case F reservation in favour of residents is permissible, yet reservation to the extent of 75% of the total seats makes it a wholesale reservation, which has been held in Pradeep Jain case to be unconstitutional and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India – Large percentage of seats reserved for the residents of State which remains unfilled is G not serving any purpose, rather it frustrates the very purpose of the reservation – Directed State to consider the observations laid down in the present case and to fix number of seats again for residents and non-residents, from the next academic year. H 106 VEENA VADINI TEACHERS TRAINING INSTITUTE v. STATE 107 OF MADHYA PRADESH Disposing of the appeal, the Court A HELD: 1. There are two questions here; first is whether the State Government can reserve seats for “residents” of Madhya Pradesh and, then, in case if it is permissible; the second question would be whether as large as 75% of the total seats, can be reserved for the residents. [Para 7][111-E] B 2. As far as the first question is concerned, the same is no more res integra, as this Court in the case of Dr. Pradeep Jain and Others v. Union of India and Others (1984) 3 SCC 654, had upheld such reservation. In the case at hand, this Court is not dealing with medical education, but with the validity of reservation C based on residence requirement in a professional education course i.e. B.Ed. In our considered opinion, the ratio as laid down by this Court in Pradeep Jain would be applicable in this case as this Courtll but only to an extent, not fully.