The submission of the learned Senior Counsel Mr. Singhvi for the Appellant that the said was required to be given eff ect retrospectively cannot be accepted when the itself states that it would be necessary “henceforth” that a copy of such written grounds of arrest is furnished to the arrested person as a matter of course and without exception. Hence non furnishing of grounds of arrest in writing till the date of pronouncement of in Pankaj Bansal case could neither be held to be illegal nor the action of the concerned offi cer in not furnishing the same in writing could be faulted with. As such, the action of informing the person arrested about the grounds of his arrest is a suffi cient compliance of Section 19 of PMLA as also Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India, as held in Vijay Madanlal (supra). 24. In so far as the facts of the present case are concerned, it is not disputed that the appellant was handed over the document containing grounds of arrest when he was arrested, and he also put his signature below the said grounds of arrest, after making an endorsement that “I have been informed and have also read the above-mentioned grounds of arrest.” The appellant in the rejoinder fi led by him has neither disputed the said endorsement nor his signature below the said endorsement. The only contention raised by the 764 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Singhvi is that he was not furnished a copy of the document containing the grounds of arrest at the time of arrest. Since the appellant was indisputably informed about the grounds of arrest and he having also put his signature and the endorsement on the said document of having been informed, we hold that there was due compliance of the provisions contained in Section 19 of PMLA and his arrest could neither be said to be violative of the said provision nor of Article 22(1) of the Constitution of India. 25. In that view of the matter, the Appeal being devoid of merits is dismissed. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Ankit Gyan