The novel idea, which permeates the Act, would stand frustrated, in fact, if State monopolies, Government Companies and Public Sector Units are left free to contravene the Act. H Now that the Nation was more than 50 years old after it became a COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 877 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Republic and it no longer was the infant it was, Parliament which best A knows the needs of its people, felt that the time was ripe for ushering in the wholesome idea of fair competition. Can it be said that free competition as envisaged under the Act which involves avoidance of anti-competitive agreements, abuse of dominant position and regulation of combinations are against the common good? As to how common good is best served B is best understood by the representatives of the people in the democratic form of Government. We must bear in mind the wholesome principle that when Parliament enacts laws, it is deemed to be aware of all the existing laws. Properly construed and operated fairly, the ‘Act’ would, in other words,harmonise with common good. being its goal as well. C 97. Therefore, we proceed on the basis that Parliament was aware of the Nationalisation Act. We must also take into consideration the fact that coal stood removed from the list of essential commodities under the Essential Commodities Act in February, 2007. The express reference in Section 19(4)(g) of the Act to monopolies created under Statutes as also Government Companies and Public Sector Units for determining existence D of dominant position, undoubtedly, indicates the intention of Parliament to bring State Monopolies, Government Companies and Public Sector units within the purview of the Act. The Raghavan Committee Report provides an invaluable input. 98. We may bear in mind that Government Departments are also E expressly covered within the expression ‘enterprise’ under the Act. No doubt, Departments discharging sovereign functions are excluded but save those Government departments which are excluded,the Government Departments being State, are equally obliged to bear in mind the Directive Principles. The radical nature of the law contained in the Act has made F a perceptible departure from the erstwhile law contained in the MRTP Act. We have noticed Section 3 of the MRTP Act, which sought to protect Government entities, as provided therein, from the reach of the MRTP Act. The fact that Government Departments, which follow policies of the Government, are expected to comply with the Act, has a deep impact on the contentions of the appellant that they are outside of the G purview of the Act. It would involve elevating the appellants to a status above that of a Government Department to approve of the argument that Article 39(b), would allow the appellantsto resist action under the Act,when it does not allow the Government Department, under which, in fact, the appellants operate to do so. H 878 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 99. What actually Article 31B and Article 31C purport to provide for is constitutional immunity for the laws covered by the same from challenge on the ground that they fall foul of the Fundamental Rights as provided therein.