“26. These rules to prevail :- (a) In the application of these rules if there is conflict between the requirements under these F rules and the requirements under any other Act or rules or by laws in force the requirements under these rules and the provisions of Chennai City Municipal Corporation Act, Tamil Nadu Distrit Municipal Act or Panchayat Act or any other law relating to the local authority for the time being in force or any G rule, by law or regulation made under the said act or laws, such provisions which are contrary to these rules shall stand suspended. (b) The notifications made under the Municipal and Panchayat Acts and the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939 (Tamil Nadu Act III of 1939) as regards setting of the H 1064 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Industrial and Residential area in the Chennai Metropolitan Area will cease to operate from the date of commencement of these rules. 27.” Rule 27 dealt with identification of boundaries. Rule 28 provided for delegation of power. Rule 29 made contravention of the rules punishable with fine. B 39. Section 9(c) must be read along with Section 17 of the Act. Section 9 (c)(ii) declares that subject to the provisions of the Act and the rules made under the Act, the functions of the Authority is to inter alia prepare a Master Plan referred to under sub-Section (2) of Section 17. Section 17 deals with Master Plans. Section 17 contemplates that the C Local Planning Authority (which is mentioned under Section 4(b) of the Act) shall within such time as may be prescribed and after consulting the Regional Planning Authority (see Section 4(a) of the Act) and the Local Authority, prepare and submit to the Government, a Plan called the Master Plan. Section 17(2) reads as follows: D “(2) The master plan may purpose or provide for all or any of the following matters, namely: - (a) the manner in which the land in the planning area shall be used; (b) the allotment or reservation of land for residential, commercial, E industrial and agricultural purposes and for parks, play-fields and open spaces; (c) the allotment and reservation of land for public buildings, institutions and for civic amenities; (d) the making of provision for national highways, arterial roads, F ring roads, major streets, lines of communication including railways, airports and canals; (e) the traffic and transportation pattern and traffic circulation pattern; (f) the major road and street improvements; G (g) the areas reserved for future development, expansion and for new housing; (h) the provision for the improvement of areas of bad layout or obsolete development and slum areas and for relocation of population; H (i) the amenities, services and utilities; ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1065 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (j) the provision for detailed development of specific areas for A housing, shopping, industries and civic amenities and educational and cultural facilities; (k) the control of architectural features, elevation and frontage of buildings and structures; (l) the provision for regulating the zone, the location, height, number B of storeyes and size of buildings and other structures, the size of the yards and other open spaces and the use of buildings, structures and land; (m) the stages by which the master plan shall be carried out; and (n) such other matters as may be prescribed.” C 40.