C 23. It is submitted that all these changes have taken place on account of the Notifications/s/Circulars issued by the instrumentalities of the State and as such, the learned APTEL ought to have allowed the claim for compensation on account of ‘Change in Law’ on the aforesaid items also. 24. It is submitted that the compensation on account of the ‘Change D in Law’ is based on the principle of restitution so as to put back the party to the same economic position it was in, had the ‘Change in Law’ event not taken place. However, this has not been considered in the correct perspective by the learned APTEL. 25. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the DNH-DISCOM E and MSEDCL, on the contrary, submit that the learned APTEL has erred in considering the Busy Season Surcharge and Development Surcharge, MoEF Notification on coal quality, Change in NCDP and Carrying Cost as ‘Change in Law’ events. He submits that when the Generator had submitted its bid, it was aware that there was a likelihood of variations on certain payments to be made and the same were factored F in while submitting the bid. It is, therefore, submitted that the learned APTEL erred in granting ‘Change in Law’ benefits on the said issues. Civil Appeal Nos. 4628-4629 of 2021 26. These appeals have been filed by Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited and Dakshin Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited G (hereinafter referred to as “Haryana Discoms”) challenging the common and dated 7th June 2021 passed by the learned APTEL in Appeal No.158 of 2017 & I.A. No.575 of 2018 and Appeal No. 316 of 2017. Appeal No.158 of 2017 & I.A. No.575 of 2018 were filed by Adani Power (Mundra) Limited (hereinafter referred to as “AP(M)L”), H 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A being aggrieved by the passed by the CERC dated 6th February 2017, whereby the CERC had denied certain claims for compensation on certain components on account of ‘Change in Law’, whereas Appeal No.316 of 2017 was filed by Haryana Discoms challenging grant of claim of compensation on certain components on the ground of ‘Change in Law’. B 27. The Chart of claims which were allowed and disallowed by the CERC is as under: “107. Based on the above analysis and decisions, the summary of our decision under the Change in Law during the operating period of the project is as under: C D E F G H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 205 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 28. Being aggrieved by the of the CERC, cross-appeals A were filed by AP(M)L so also by Haryana Discoms before the learned APTEL. The Haryana Discoms challenged that part of the of the CERC which allowed claim on components on the ground of ‘Change in Law’, whereas AP(M)L challenged that part of the of the CERC which disallowed its claim on various components. B 29. Though AP(M)L had sought ‘Change in Law’ compensation on various components, the same was allowed by the learned APTEL by the impugned only on the ground of: (i) ‘Busy Season Surcharge and Developmental Surcharge on transportation of coal’, and C (ii) ‘Carrying Cost’.