9. From the discussions which have taken place before the Court, it is evident that there is a considerable variation between High Courts in the level of adoption of technology. Some High Courts have made considerable progress and hearings are being provided through the hybrid mode or video conferencing. Other High Courts have stated that facilities are available. However, when the statistics in regard to the actual number of hearings through video conferencing/hybrid mode have been disclosed, it appears that the performances are abysmal. For instance, in one High Court, as few as 3 hearings have been conducted in the virtual mode in the last three months. SARVESH MATHUR v. THE REGISTRAR GENERAL 1123 HIGH COURT OFPUNJAB AND HARYANA 10. In most High Courts, the problem is compounded by the absence of a uniform SOP which brings clarity to the manner in which access to the electronic mode of hearing can be obtained. An application for electronic access has to be submitted well in advance, in certain cases, three days before the date of commencement of the hearing. The arbitrariness of the existing SOPs is also borne out by rules such as hearing being allowed in hybrid mode for advocates/parties-in-person who are 65 years of age or above. The age restriction would unfairly disadvantage younger lawyers and restrict access to technology only in the hands of the seniors at the Bar. Such criteria do not bear any nexus to the aim of using technology to increase access to courtrooms. 11. Further, most High Courts do not provide Wi-Fi or internet connectivity to the members of the Bar and litigants within the precincts of the High Court. In the absence of adequate connectivity, it is not possible for the members of the Bar and litigants to access the internet within the precincts of the High Courts. Links for video conferencing hearings are not provided in the cause-list. Many High Courts have not yet adopted online fi lings which would complement the hearings through video conferencing or in the hybrid mode. We are also concerned about the absence of adequate internet activity in the North-East States. 12. During the course of the hearing, it has also emerged that whereas several High Courts do have facilities for video conferencing, very few High Courts are operating through the hybrid mode of hearing. The infrastructure which is required for conducting hybrid hearings may be of a diff erent as compared to the infrastructure for video conferencing. 13. Bearing in mind the above situation as it has emerged across the country in the High Courts, we nominate Mr Gaurav Agrawal and Mr K Parameshwar, counsel, as amici curiae. The amici curiae are requested to collate all the information which has been provided in the affi davits which have been fi led before this Court in a tabulated chart so that further eff ective s can be passed by this Court. The amici curiae may also distribute the work in connection with the High Courts between them and individually contact the Registrars General/Registrars (IT) of the High Courts so that necessary information can be placed 112 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.