It is treated as the most extensive statutory reform of the English arbitration law. Commenting upon the structure of this Act, Mustill and Boyd in their Commercial Arbitration, 2001 companion volume to the 2nd Edn., have commented that this Act is founded on four pillars. These pillars are described as: (a) The fi rst pillar: Three general principles. (b) The second pillar: The general duty of the Tribunal. (c) The third pillar: The general duty of the parties. (d) The fourth pillar: Mandatory and semi-mandatory provisions. Insofar as the fi rst pillar is concerned, it contains three general principles on which the entire edifi ce of the said Act is structured. These principles are mentioned by an English Court in its in Deptt. of Economics, Policy and Development of the City of Moscow v. Bankers Trust Co. [2005 QB 207 : (2004) 3 WLR 533 : (2004) 4 All ER 746 : 2004 EWCA Civ 314]. In that case, Mance, L.J. LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 1003 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] succinctly summed up the objective of this Act in the following words: (QB p. 228, para 31) “31. … Parliament has set out, in the Arbitration Act, 1996, to encourage and facilitate a reformed and more independent, as well as private and confi dential, system of consensual dispute resolution, with only limited possibilities of court involvement where necessary in the interests of the public and of basic fairness.” Section 1 of the Act sets forth the three main principles of arbitration law viz. (i) speedy, inexpensive and fair trial by an impartial tribunal; (ii) party autonomy; and (iii) minimum court intervention. This provision has to be applied purposively. In case of doubt as to the meaning of any provision of this Act, regard should be had to these principles. 15. In the book O.P. Malhotra on the Law and Practice of Arbitration and Conciliation (3rd Edn. revised by Ms Indu Malhotra), it is rightly observed that the Indian Arbitration Act is also based on the aforesaid four foundational pillars. 16. First and paramount principle of the fi rst pillar is “fair, speedy and inexpensive trial by an Arbitral Tribunal”. Unnecessary delay or expense would frustrate the very purpose of arbitration. Interestingly, the second principle which is recognised in the Act is the party autonomy in the choice of procedure. This means that if a particular procedure is prescribed in the arbitration agreement which the parties have agreed to, that has to be generally resorted to. It is because of this reason, as a normal practice, the court will insist the parties to adhere to the procedure to which they have agreed upon. This would apply even while making the appointment of substitute arbitrator and the general rule is that such an appointment of a substitute arbitrator should also be done in accordance with the provisions of the original agreement applicable to the appointment of the arbitrator at the initial stage. [See Yashwith Constructions (P) Ltd. v. Simplex Concrete Piles India Ltd. [ (2006) 6 SCC 204].