Section 149 of the Code deals with a common object. To attract this provision there must be evidence of an assembly with the common object becoming an unlawful one. The concept of constructive or vicarious liability is brought into this provision by making the offense committed by one member of the unlawful assembly to the others having the common object. It is the sharing H RANVIR SINGH ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 861 PRADESH [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] of the common object which attracts the offense committed by A one to the other members. Therefore, the mere presence in an assembly per se would not constitute an offense, it does become one when the assembly is unlawful. It is the common object to commit an offense which results in the said offense being committed. Therefore, though it is committed by one, a deeming B fiction is created by making it applicable to the others as well due to the commonality in their objective to commit an offense. Thus, it is for the prosecution to prove the factors such as the existence of the assembly with a requisite number, the common object for everyone, the object being unlawful, and an offense committed by one such member. Courts will have to be more circumspect C and cautious while dealing with a case of accused charged under Section 149 IPC, as it involves a deeming fiction. Therefore, a higher degree of onus is required to be put on the prosecution to prove that a person charged with an offense is liable to be punished for the offence committed by the others under section 149 IPC. D The principle governing the aforesaid aspect is taken note of by this court in Ranjit Singh v. State of Punjab, (2013) 16 SCC 752: “35. Baladin v. State of U.P. [AIR 1956 SC 181 : 1956 Cri LJ 345] was one of the early cases in which this Court dealt with E Section 149 IPC. This Court held that mere presence in an assembly does not make a person a member of the unlawful assembly, unless it is shown that he had done or omitted to do something which would show that he was a member of the unlawful assembly or unless the case fell under Section 142 IPC. Resultantly, if all the members of a family and other F residents of the village assembled at the place of occurrence, all such persons could not be condemned ipso facto as members of the unlawful assembly. The prosecution in all such cases shall have to lead evidence to show that a particular accused had done some overt act to establish that he was a member of G the unlawful assembly. This would require the case of each individual to be examined so that mere spectators who had just joined the assembly and who were unaware of its motive may not be branded as members of the unlawful assembly. 36. The observations made in Baladin case [AIR 1956 SC 181 : 1956 Cri LJ 345] were considered in Masalti v. State of U.P.