6 . A copy of the CBI Report alongwith its enclosures has also been forwarded to the Joint Secretary, Banking Division, Department of Economic Aff airs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India, Jeevandeep Building, Sansad Marg, New Delhi and to the Director, Central Vigilance Commission, Satarkta Bhavan, GPO Complex, Block-A, INA, New Delhi, for information and necessary action. 7. The sanctioning authority, if required, may call for the Investigating Offi cer to explain the evidence, as that would help the sanctioning authority in appreciating the evidence properly and also to give evidence before the jurisdictional court during the trial, at a later stage. 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 8. In to prove the sanction for prosecution, it is requested that the name of the offi cer working under the sanctioning authority who is conversant with the case and can prove the signatures and application of mind by the sanctioning authority may be intimated to this offi ce, to cite him as a witness. You are requested to provide certifi ed copies of relevant extract of the delegation of powers to establish the competence of the issuing authority to accord sanction for prosecution. 9 . The receipt of the CBI Report may kindly be acknowledged. Yours faithfully, (Dr. Surya Thankappan Head of Branch CBI, BS&FC, Bangalore)” 29. The aforesaid letter has been incorporated by us in our only to indicate that there is no reference of Section 197 of the CrPC in it. 30.. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned ASG prayed that there being no merit in this appeal, the same may be dismissed. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE BANK (RESPONDENT NO. 1) 31. Mr. Sidharth Sangal, the learned counsel appearing for the Bank vehemently submitted that the application of the appellant, seeking discharge from the off ences under the PC Act, 1988 has already been allowed, however, his application, seeking discharge from the off ences under the IPC has been dismissed by dated 26.07.2022 of the Ld. CBI Court and the said is not under challenge before this Court. 32. He further submitted that the High Court in its impugned dated 20.06.2022 clearly records that by proceedings dated 13.02.2015, the sanction to prosecute was refused under the provisions of PC Act, 1988 and vide proceedings dated 11.04.2015 the sanction to prosecute was accorded under the provisions PC Act, 1988, thus, it is clear that no sanction was sought for or accorded or refused, specifi cally, under Section 197 of the CrPC with regard to the off ences punishable under the IPC. A. SREENIVASA REDDY v. RAKESH SHARMA AND ANR. 945 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 33. The learned counsel further submitted that the consistent stand of the CBI before the CBI Court and the High Court has been that no prior sanction under Section 197 of the CrPC is required to prosecute the appellant for off ences punishable under the IPC, as there is no legal obligation for seeking such a sanction. 34. It was submitted that it is incorrect on the part of the appellant to state that he has been exonerated in the departmental proceedings.