This means that the executive power flows from the legislative power, that is, if NCTD has executive power on a subject in List II, it is because it has legislative B power under the entries of that List. The of the majority held that the Union shall have exclusive executive power with respect to NCTD only for “the three matters in the State List in respect of which the power of the Delhi Legislative Assembly has been excluded”. It was further held that in respect of “all other matters,” executive power C is to be exercised by GNCTD. This would mean that NCTD has executive power on “all other matters”. This indicates that the of the majority interpreted Article 239AA(3)(a) and the phrase “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union Territory” to give legislative power to NCTD on “all other matters” except the three matters in the State List in respect of which the power of the Legislative Assembly of NCTD D has been excluded. 28. The above discussion implies that all the five Judges in the 2018 Constitution Bench did not construe the phrase “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories” in Article 239AA to be exclusionary. E 29. However, in his opinion in the 2019 split verdict, Justice Bhushan was of the contrary view. He held that the majority opinion in the 2018 Constitution bench did not interpret the phrase “insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories”: F “187. As noticed above, the Constitution Bench in para 39 extracted above has noticed the submissions of the counsel for the respondent that words “insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories…” in Article 239-AA(3)(a) restrict the legislative power of the Legislative Assembly of Delhi to only those entries which are only applicable to Union Territories and G not all. The elaborate discussion on its answer is not found in the majority opinion expressed by Justice Dipak Misra, C.J. (as he then was). The submission having been made before the Constitution Bench which submission was considered in other two opinions expressed by Dr Justice D.Y. Chandrachud and H 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A myself, it is useful to notice as to what has been said in other two opinions in the Constitution Bench… 191. Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, J., thus, held that the expression “State” is by itself not conclusive of whether a particular provision of the Constitution would apply to Union Territories. His Lordship B opined that the expression “insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories” is not one of exclusion nor can it be considered to be so irrespective of subject or context. 192. I had also dealt with the above submission in paras 500, 551 and 552 in the following words: C […] 193. In the above paragraphs, the opinion is expressed that all matters including those relatable to the State List and Concurrent List are available to the Legislative Assembly of Delhi except where an entry indicates that its applicability to the Union D Territory is excluded by implication or by any express constitutional provision.