On 19 June 2019, the Single Judge of the High Court allowed the Writ Petition and directed the grant of an electricity connection to the respondent. The Division Bench by a dated 24 April 2020 dismissed the writ appeal and upheld the decision of the Single Judge. 319. In the impugned dated 24 April 2020, the High F Court’s interpretation largely focused on the phrase “any consumer” contained in Regulation 4.6.4. Under Regulation 4.6.4, a new consumer can be given service connection only if the outstanding dues against the same premises are cleared along with a late payment surcharge. The Court referred to Isha Marbles (supra) to hold that the definition of G “consumer” contained in Section 2(15) does not include an auction- purchaser. However, the Court held that it is possible to bring an auction- purchaser within the ambit of Regulation 4.6.4 if: (i) the distribution licensee establishes the fact that the premises concerned were connected to the works of the distribution licensee; (ii) for the purpose of receiving electricity; and (iii) in such a manner that the supply of electricity can be H resumed by ‘simply putting on a switch’. K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 779 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 320. The appellant has drawn attention to the fact that the supply A of electricity to the premises was disconnected on 21 September 2016. Therefore, the appellant submits that on the date of the sale of the premises to the respondent, that is 31 August 2018, the supply of electricity was disconnected for more than 180 days. Hence, it is the appellant’s contention that Regulation 4.6.1 is applicable and there is a deemed B termination of agreement. It has been further contended that Regulation 4.6.4 has an overriding effect as it begins with a non-obstante clause. The respondent, on the contrary, has argued that Regulation 3.4.2 would be applicable in the present case. It has been argued that Regulation 4.6.4, despite having a non-obstante clause, has no bearing on the operation of Regulation 3.4.2. C 321. The supply of electricity was disconnected on 21 September 2016. The supply stood disconnected for more than 180 days on 14 August 2018 which was the date of auction notice and on 31 August 2018 which was the date on which the premises were sold to the respondent. In terms of Regulation 4.6.1, there was deemed termination D of the agreement since the supply was disconnected for more than 180 days. However, Regulation 4.6.4 requires “any consumer” to clear the outstanding dues of the premises to be eligible for grant of service connection. In the present case, the respondent cannot be considered a “consumer” unless an agreement was entered into with the distribution E licensee. This has also been reiterated in Isha Marbles (supra) in the following words: “62. No doubt, from the tabulated statement above set out, the auction-purchasers came to purchase the property after disconnection but they cannot be “consumer or occupier” within F the meaning of the above provisions till a contract is entered into.” An auction-purchaser, such as the respondent, cannot be termed as a “consumer” unless an agreement was entered into with the distribution licensee.