It also encompasses inter alia, advancing causes of environmental rights, granting compensation to victims of calamities, creating schemes for giving effect to the environmental E principles and even hauling up authorities for inaction, when need be. 16.5 Moreover, unlike the civil courts which cannot travel beyond the relief sought by the parties, the NGT is conferred with power of moulding any relief. The provisions show that the NGT is vested with the widest power to appropriate relief as may be justified in F the facts and circumstances of the case, even though such relief may not be specifically prayed for by the parties. 21.6 … The above would show that from the very inception, the role of the NGT was not simply adjudicatory in the nature of a lis but to perform equally vital roles which are preventative, G ameliorative or remedial in 17 (1999) 2 SCC 718 nature. The functional capacity of the NGT was intended to leverage wide powers to do full justice in its environmental mandate. H 232 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A IX. AUTHORITY WITH SELF-ACTIVATING CAPABILITY 25.1 Given the multifarious role envisaged for the NGT and the purposive interpretation which ought to be given to the statutory provisions, it would be fitting to regard the NGT as having the mechanism to set in motion all necessary functions within its B domain and this, as would follow from the discussion below, should necessarily clothe it with the authority to take suo motu cognizance of matters, for effective discharge of its mandate. 25.7 The duty to safeguard Article 21 rights cannot stand on a narrow compass of interpretation. Procedural provisions must be C allowed to fall in step with the substantive rights that are invoked in the environmental domain, in larger public interest. The specialized forum is bestowed with the responsibility to ensure protection of the environment. To be effective in its domain, we need to ascribe to the NGT a public responsibility to initiate action when required, to protect the substantive right of a clean D environment and the procedural law should not be obstructive in its application. 26.3 As earlier seen, S.20 of the NGT Act which includes the term “decision”, in addition to “” and “award”, also require the Tribunal to apply the ‘Precautionary Principle’ and the statutory E mandate being relevant is extracted:- “20. Tribunal to apply certain principles. - The Tribunal shall, while passing any or decisions or award, apply the principles of sustainable development, the precautionary principle and the polluter pays principle.” F 26.4 The principle set out above must apply in the widest amplitude to ensure that it is not only resorted to for adjudicatory purposes but also for other ‘decisions’ or ‘s’ to governmental authorities or polluters, when they fail to “to anticipate, prevent and attack the causes of environmental degradation”. Two aspects must G therefore be emphasized i.e. that the Tribunal is itself required to carry out preventive and protective measures, as well as hold governmental and private authorities accountable for failing to uphold environmental interests.