N Venkataraman, A.S.G., Arijit Prasad, Kavin Gulati, Prateesh G Kapoor, Arvind P. Datar, Salil Aggarwal, Sr. Advs., S A Haseeb, Zoheb Hussain, Ms. Gargi Khanna, Ms. Niranjana Singh, Prahlad Singh, Rajan Kumar Choursia, Prashant Singh II, Ms. Alka Agarwal, Raghvendra Shukla, Ms. Shruti Shivkumar, V. Chandrashekhar Balaji, Ms. Amritha Chandra Mouli, Rahul Vijaya Kumar, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Amrish Kumar, Mrs. Anil Katiyar, Pawanshree Agrawal, Ms. Soumya Dhankani, H PRINCIPAL COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, CENTRAL-3 905 v. ABHISAR BUILDWELL P. LTD. Ms. Shubhangi Negi, Praveen Swarup, Salil Kapoor, Sumit Lalchandani, A Ms. Ananya Kapoor, Sanat Kapoor, Rahul Tomar, Chandr Pratap Singh, Ajay Kumar Giri, Ms. Sheena Taqui, Ms. Akansha Saini, Dhvanit Chopra, Shiv Vinayak Gupta, Mrs. Bina Gupta, Ved Jain, Nischay Kantoor, Ms. Richa Mishra, Subodh S. Patil, Sameer Rohatgi, Kartikey Singh, Sourabh Tandon, Ms. Ranjeeta Rohatgi, M/s. Khaitan & Co., Atul B Shankar Mathur, Mrs. Priya Singh, Shubhankar, Ms. Apoorva Jha, Pratap Venugopal, Ms. Surekha Raman, Sandeep Bagmar, Akhil Abraham Roy, Nishith Patel, Abhishek Anand, Ms. Unnimaya S., M/s. K J John and Co, Ms. Kavita Jha, Rohit Jain, Aniket D Agrawal, Vaibhav Kulkarni, Rupesh Kumar, Ms. Pankhuri Shrivastava, Ms. Neelam Sharma, Bhargava V. Desai, Rahul Gupta, Siddhartha Chowdhury, Mahir C Aggarwal, Deepanshu, Praveen Swarup, Siddharth Ranka, A. Karthik, Arsh Khan, Vikas Mehta, Tarun Gupta, Prakul Khurana, Rajat Sharma, Abhishek Sharma, Atul Kumar, Yatinder Chaudhary, Davinder Singh Khurana, Manoj Rajpoot, Vikrant, Dr. Rakesh Gupta, Ambhoj Kumar Sinha, Somil Agarwal, Anshul Mittal, Subas Chandra Acharya, Akash D Agarwala, Harsh Raj Singh, Advs. for the appearing parties. The of the Court was delivered by M. R. SHAH, J. 1. As common question of law and facts arise in this group of E appeals, they are being disposed of by this common and . Civil Appeal No. 6580 of 2021 and other connected appeals as mentioned above have been preferred by the Revenue. However Civil Appeal No. 15617 of 2017 and other allied appeals as mentioned above have been preferred by the respective assessees challenging the passed by the respective High Courts taking the view that in case any F incriminating material is found during search then even completed assessments can be assessed or reassessed taking into consideration the incriminating material and other material in possession of the Assessing Officer. 1.1 For the sake of convenience, Civil Appeal No. 6580 of 2021 G filed by the Revenue be treated and considered as the lead matter. 2. The core issue involved in the present batch of appeals is the scope of assessment under section 153A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act, 1961’). According to the Revenue, the Assessing Officer (hereinafter referred to as the ‘AO’) is competent H 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A to consider all the material that is available on record, including that found during the search, and make an assessment of ‘total income’. Some of the High Courts have agreed with the said proposition. However, according to the respective assessees and as per some of the High Courts’ decisions, if no assessment proceeding is pending on the date of initiation of the search, the AO may consider only the incriminating material found B during the search and is precluded from considering any other material derived from any other source.