(ii) Learned counsel, Sri Goel, also underlined that in the B accounting entries, the assessee was not accounting for the sale occasioned by a warranty to be a sales return. The concept of sale and purchase return applies to the same good, whereas the present facts pertain to a defective good. Furthermore, the transactions of sale occasioned by warranty C are separate from the sale of a car by the manufacturer. Both transactions ought to be tested independently. Therefore, the discharge of a larger obligation by the dealer to sell motor vehicles on which tax is already paid, does not render the separate transaction of return of defective parts to the manufacturer against a credit note, as not a sale. D Submissions of Sri Aniruddha Joshi, learned counsel for State of Maharashtra in Civil Appeal Nos. 2756/2012, 10924/2018 and 9979/2018: (i) Sri Joshi submitted that the elements of sale for the imposition E of sales tax were satisfied in the present transaction. It was urged that the real nature of the transaction and the substance thereof had to be deciphered to distinguish between a contract of sale between the dealer and manufacturer with that of an agency. It was submitted that the Dealership Agreement between the dealer-assessee and F the manufacturer is a composite document that includes multiple contracts of sale, as understood from Section 4(1) of the Act. These include: a. Agreement to sell the car to the dealer; b. Agreement to sell spare parts by manufacturer to G the dealer; c. Conditional Agreement to sell the spare parts by the dealer to the manufacturer if such a condition is fulfilled. The condition is a warranty claim being raised by a purchaser. H 1308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A d. Agreement to purchase wherein the dealer undertakes to purchase spare parts from the manufacturer. (ii) The counsel further submitted that all elements of sale are complete because there is a seller and a buyer, i.e. dealer and manufacturer; valuable consideration was paid by the B manufacturer in the form of credit notes and the transfer of the property of goods is taking place to the nominee of the manufacturer, i.e. car purchaser. It was also contended that there is no question of the delivery of spare parts and the consequent payment by way C of credit note being an instance of sales return. The sale of the car is separate from the sale of spare parts, the sales in question would be specifically applicable to the latter. Submissions of Ms. Deepanwita Priyanka, Counsel for the State of Gujarat in SLP (Civil) Nos. 12806-12808/ 2016: D (i) Learned counsel submitted that the assessee’s claim for exemption from payment of sales tax is not covered by the exemption notification issued under Section 8(4) of Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 on 13.05.2002. It was submitted that the burden of proving exemption was on the assessee and that the benefit of any ambiguity ought to go to the State. E 11.