As in the case of the Union, the States also continue to enact and impose taxes on the legislative fi elds they hitherto possessed (such as taxes on sale and purchase, taxes on betting and gambling, and taxes on advertisements), albeit as a partof GST which subsumes these legislative fi elds. 11. Article 279-A provides for the Goods and Services Tax Council (hereafter “GST Council”). This provision also changes the underlying constitutional philosophy to a certain extent. Sub-clause (1) of Article 279- A creates a new constitutional institution; (2) confers upon it the power to make recommendations to the Union and the States; (3) provides that certain functions of other constitutional institutions shall be carried out on the basis of the recommendations of the GST Council5; (4) has overarching jurisdiction and carries extensive functions in relation to the design and structure of the goods and services tax; (5) has substantial role in resolution of disputes amongst the executive governments relating to GST, etc.6 In fact, the GST Council is empowered to even recommend on the model legislations and rates of tax on supply of goods and services. 12. The relevant parts of the Amending Act, read as follows: In terms of Section 2 of the aforesaid Constitution Amendment Act, after Article 246, a new Article 246-A came to be inserted which reads as under: 5 For illustration, see Art. 246-A Explanation, Art. 269-A(1), Constitution of India. 6 Article 279-A, infra, for a detailed discussion. THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 153 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “246A. Special Provision with respect to goods and services tax--- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in articles 246 and 254, Parliament, and, subject to clause (2), the Legislature of every State, have power to make laws with respect to goods and services tax imposed by the Union or by such State. (2) Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to goods and services tax where the supply of goods, or of services, or both takes place in the course of inter-State trade or commerce. Explanation.---The provisions of this article, in respect of goods and services tax referred to in clause (5) of the article 279A, take eff ect from the date recommended by the Goods and Services Tax Council.” By Section 7, Article 268-A was omitted. After Article 269, Article 269-A has been inserted, which reads as under: “269A. Levy and collection of goods and services tax in course of inter-state trade or commerce--- (1) Goods and Services tax on supplies in the course of inter-State trade or commerce shall be levied and collected by the Government of India and such tax shall be apportioned between the Union and the States in the manner as may be provided by Parliament by law on the recommendations of the Goods and Services Tax Council. Explanation---For the purposes of this clause, supply of goods, or of services, or both in the course of import into the territory of India shall be deemed to be supply of goods, or of services, or both in the course of inter-State trade or commerce.