Without such determination of liability, no red entry marks could have been inserted in the revenue records and the High Court was right in holding that the State ought not to have refused mutation. 50. The fourth issue need not detain us for too long.As it is, the E civil appeals against PNB do not survive.Qua the other appeals, we are once again of the opinion that the High Court was justified in not entertaining the application for recall. It was not maintainable in law, since the writ petition was decided on merits in the presence of the State. A recall application under section 151 of the CPC,therefore, was not the proper remedy in the circumstances. When the law provides a F specific remedy, it is not open to a party to take recourse to section 151.It preserves the inherent powers of the court to do justice in a case where the party has no other remedy under the CPC.Besides, even if the application for recall could have been regarded as one for review of the and dated 7th September, 2007, the same did not G warrant to be entertained for the reasons assigned by the High Court.No error apparent on the face of the record was pointed out, which is the firstground for seeking a review. Documents were annexed to the application, which were in existence when the reply to CWP 306 of 2007 was filed by the State and no case had been set up that despite discharge of due diligence, such documentary evidence, which were in H STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. M/S A.J. 797 INFRASTRUCTURES PVT. LTD [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] existence, could not be annexed to the said reply. Much indulgence is A shown to the State Governmentswhen they carrys/s in time-barred appeals/revisions, having regard to the impersonal machinery being involved. However, undueindulgence cannot be shown to the State Governments either when they do not file a proper reply or when, despite there being a provision for review, such remedy is not pursued and a B different one pursued presumably to overcome the restrictions the provision for review imposes. We, therefore, answer this issue by holding that High Court was justified in rejecting the application for recall. 51. The fifth issue stands disposed of by holding that the appellants (State and its officers) are not entitled to any relief except the declaration C that section 16-B of the HPGST Act is not ultra vires any provision of law.In view of section 16-B having been outlawed by the High Court on 2nd January, 2008, this declaration shall not enure to the benefit of the State in respect of cases that are old and have been closed but would be effective once again from this day. D 52. Consequently, all the civil appeals stand disposed of on the aforesaid terms.Parties shall bear their own costs. Divya Pandey Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) E F G H