In other words, ex facie Article 243ZF of the Constitution can be said to be at a pedestal higher than that of CAA. It is argued that this court had interpreted Article 243ZF in Sundergarh Zilla Adivasi Advocates Association and Ors v State of Odisha and Ors24 (hereafter, Sundergarh Zilla”)., wherein this court, at para held as follows: “....Clearly, the purpose of continuing an existing law (even though it may be inconsistent with Part IX-A) was to enable necessary amendments to be made to the existing law to make it in consonance with Part IX-A.” 37. It is submitted that considering that the language of Article 243ZF of the Constitution and Section 19 are near pari materia, placing reliance on 23 (2017) 13 SCR25. 24 (2013) 6 SCR420 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Sundergarh Zilla (supra), it is clear that the amending power under Section 19 is limited to making the existing inconsistent legislations consistent with the Amendment. In other words, the purpose is to cure the inconsistencies and iron out the creases. Further, in view of the fact that, unlike Article 243ZF which is a part of the Constitution and also overrides part IXA of the Constitution, Section 19 is not part of the Constitution and also not overriding any provision of the Constitution, the power to amend under Section 19 of the CAA would be even narrower as compared to the power to amend available under Article 243ZF as interpreted in Sundergarh Zilla (Supra). 38. Counsel urged that a similar transitional provision was introduced in the form of Section 143(2) of the Government of India Act 1935, with the introduction of Part III introducing the concept of ‘provisional legislation’ in Rama Krishna Ramanath (supra). 39. It is submitted that even where express power to continue the levy was granted through incorporation into the Government of India Act, 1935, the Constitution Bench of this Court proceeded to hold that even in such cases, the power of the Provincial Legislature is extremely limited and certainly cannot be used to ‘alter the incidence’. In the present case, such powers to continue the levy are wholly absent and accordingly powers under Section 19 of the CAA would be construed in an extremely narrow framework, i.e. limited to bring the legislation in consonance with the Constitution. 40. It was submitted that the term ‘amend’ ought not to be interpreted textually, instead contextual interpretation ought to be adopted. By applying contextual interpretation, it would appear that Section 19 of the Amendment Act is couched in a manner which contemplates ultimate repeal and obliteration from the statute books. This suggests that the legislature contemplated a diminishing life of the legislation concerned and the state could not have used the power to amend to breathe any more life into the statute concerned. Further, the usage of the word ‘inconsistent’ followed later with the word ‘until amended’, clearly suggests that the intention was to let the inconsistent provisions survive for a limited time, until it is amended to make it consistent.