10. It was further submitted that the High Court fell into error in holding that the issue of non-payment of fees was a mere temporary phenomenon. The ASG further urged that the reversal of its earlier position by the tribunal did not remove Chennai Metro’s apprehensions that the proceedings would not be conducted in an impartial manner, or the outcome may not be based on objective consideration of the merits of the dispute only. It was submitted that permitting the tribunal to continue the proceedings despite these facts would set a wrong precedent. 11. Learned counsel submitted that the decisions relied upon by respondent Afcons which are HRD Corporations v. Gas Authority of India Ltd.8 (hereafter “HRD”) and Bharat Broadband Network Limited v. United Telecoms Ltd9 (hereafter “Bharat Broad Band”) to the extent that the application under Section 14 is not maintainable unless the party applies to the Tribunal in the fi rst instance, are inapplicable. It is submitted that this was a clear case where both de facto and de jure, the conduct of the tribunal’s members had terminated their mandate. Contentions of Afcons 12. Mr. Darius J. Kambhatta, urged the court not to interfere with the impugned . It was submitted that the application under Section 14 was not maintainable; counsel joined issue with the ASG on the applicability of Section 14. 13. It was highlighted that Section 12(5) read with Seventh Schedule [to the Act] provides a comprehensive framework for addressing specifi c instances of ineligibility and if an arbitrator, is challenged only on those grounds, the parties can directly approach the court under Section 14. The 8 2017 (11) SCR 857 9 (2019) 6 SCR 97 CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1003 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] contents of Fifth Schedule [read with Explanation to Section 12 (1)] on the other hand provide a list of relationships which can lead to justifi able grounds that need disclosure at the time of appointment and further, by Section 12 (2) during the course of proceedings, whenever they occur. It is contended that this list includes the “orange” and “red” lists from the IBA10 guidelines. There is no doubt about an overlap of about 19 items which are of the most serious types. If the circumstances fall within those enumerated 19 items [in the seventh schedule] the party aggrieved can directly approach the court under Section 14; whereas this is not so in other cases. Learned counsel submitted that all other circumstances of justifi able reason to doubt the tribunal’s impartiality fall within the ambit of Section 12(3). The remedy in such cases is to approach the tribunal under Section 13(2) and in the eventuality of no success, challenge the award if it is adverse, under Section 34 of the Act. 14. Learned Senior Counsel relied upon the observations of this court in HRD (supra), which he said categorically held that Section 12(5) read with the Seventh Schedule, render the arbitrator ineligible and that in such event it is de jure unable to perform its functions under Section 14(1)(a).