It would not be enough E for the Government just to say that public interest requires that the Government should not be compelled to carry out the promise or that the public interest would suffer if the Government were required to honour it…” 96. Hence, supervening public interest, as we have already F elaborated upon above, acts as a veto against the invocation of promissory estoppel. On these grounds as well, Respondent No. 1 cannot claim any right to the continuation of the supplementary lease deeds. 97. Our conclusion, incontrovertibly, is that Respondent No. 1 cannot lay claim to any legitimate expectation or promissory estoppel. G The supplementary lease deeds and corresponding permissions were executed with/by RIICO which had no authority and power to do so. This, combined with the overriding public interest in having the land in LIA, Kota utilized for industrial purposes for the economic progression of the state or any revised purpose, as may be permitted by the State Government in public interest, leaves us in no doubt that Respondent H 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A No. 1 has no further valid defences against the cancellation of the supplementary lease deeds. C.7 Whether the Appellant Unions are entitled to relief? 98. The one issue that remains for our consideration is with regard to the Appellant Unions. We are receptive and sensitive to the interests B of the workers in this regard, especially given that a significant part of the AAIFR scheme remains unimplemented. We have been informed by learned counsels appearing for the Appellant Unions that an earlier petition challenging the transfer lease deeds of 2007, whereby the land was handed over to Respondent No. 1, is still pending before the Rajasthan C High Court. This proceeding would, naturally, have a knock-on effect with regard to everything that happens subsequently, if the High Court were to ascertain that the transfer leases were invalid. 99. Regardless, we do not have the requisite material before us to comment on this point, and it would be inappropriate for us to do so in any case, especially when the matter is sub-judice before the High Court. D Thus, the High Court will consider the workers’ petition on its own merits, uninfluenced by anything that we have held in this in the context of the dispute between the State Government, RIICO and Respondent No. 1. In the same breath, we also abstain from commenting on the other petitions filed by individual workers before various forums. These E proceedings may continue and be decided eventually in accordance with law. 100. We note that despite the passage of 21 years since the tripartite agreements were signed between JKSL, Respondent No. 1 and the workers unions in 2002, and 16 years since the transfer lease F deeds were signed in 2007, the LIA, Kota has remained dormant. The objective of restarting industrial production in the area, as envisaged by the AAIFR rehabilitation plan and required by virtue of the settlements of 2002, remains out of reach.