7,000/- from an iron box and one ice pick (SUA) and handed over to Inspt. Ram Chander and told that this sum of Rs. 7,000/- is remaining amount out of looted amount of Rs. 14,800/-. He also informed that the ice pick was the same with which he had infl icted injury to the victim. Rs. 7,000/- consists of seven currency notes of Rs.1000 denomination. The same were put into an envelope and sealed with the seal of RCS and seized vide memo Ex. PW10/V bearing my signatures at point A. IO prepared the sketch of the ‘Sua’ and measured the same. It was found to be having length of 22.5 cm, the length of the prick was 12 cm and the length of the handle was 10.5 cm. The sketch is Ex. PW10/W bearing my signatures at point A. The same was put into pullanda and sealed with the seal of RCS and seized vide memo Ex.PW10/X bearing my signatures at point A. Seal after use was handed over to Ct. Baljit and after completing the investigation accused was brought to PS and accused were sent to lockup and case property was deposited in the malkhana.” [Emphasis supplied] 77. Thus the aforesaid is one additional circumstance pointing towards the guilt of the appellant and at the same time lending credence to the substantive evidence of his identifi cation by PW 1 before the Trial Court. 78. Even if we have to discard the evidence of discovery on the ground that no independent witnesses were present at the time of discovery, still the fact that the appellant herein led the police party to his house and handed over the ice pick used at the time of the assault, would be refl ective of his 936 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. conduct. By virtue of Section 8 of the Evidence Act, the conduct of an accused is relevant, if such conduct infl uences or infl uenced by any fact in issue or relevant fact. The evidence of the circumstance, simpliciter, that the accused pointed out to the police offi cer, the place where he had concealed the weapon of off ence i.e. ice pick, would be admissible as conduct under Section 8 irrespective of the fact whether the statement made by the appellant convict contemporaneously with or antecedent to such conduct falls within the purview of Section 27 of the Evidence Act or not. Even if we hold that the discovery statement made by the appellant convict referred to above is not admissible under Section 27 of the Evidence Act, still it is relevant under Section 8 of the Evidence Act. 79. In the overall view of the matter, we have reached to the conclusion that it is diffi cult for us to say that the prosecution has not been able to establish its case against the appellant convict beyond a reasonable doubt. We are convinced with the line of reasoning adopted by the Trial Court as well as by the High Court in holding the appellant convict guilty of the alleged crime.