He would submit that the entire case put up by the prosecution is highly doubtful and politically motivated. The prosecution has suppressed the true origin of the occurrence. He would submit that his clients have been falsely implicated in the alleged crime. C 16. The learned Senior Counsel further submitted that this Court should be slow in exercise of its power under Article 136 of the Constitution while looking into a discretionary , passed by the High Court under Section 389 of the CrPC. The impugned passed by the High Court cannot be termed as absolutely vague or perverse and, in D such circumstances, this Court may not disturb the impugned . 17. In the last, the learned Senior Counsel submitted that it will take years by the time, the appeals come up for final hearing and for all that period of time his clients would be languishing in jail. He would submit that there are very fair chances of his clients getting acquitted in E the criminal appeals and in such circumstances, there is nothing wrong if they are allowed to remain on bail, pending the final disposal of their respective criminal appeals. 18. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned Senior Counsel prayed that there being no merit in the appeals, those may be F dismissed. ANALYSIS 19. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any G error in passing the impugned ? SECTION 389 OF THE CRPC AND THE LAW ON THE SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE: 20. Section 389 of the CrPC reads thus: H OMPRAKASH SAHNI v. JAI SHANKAR CHAUDHARY & 155 ANR. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “389. Suspension of sentence pending the appeal; release of A appellant on bail.—(1) Pending any appeal by a convicted person, the Appellate Court may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, that the execution of the sentence or appealed against be suspended and, also, if he is in confinement, that he be released on bail, or on his own bond. B Provided that the Appellate Court shall, before releasing on bail or on his own bond a convicted person who is convicted of an offence punishable with death or imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years, shall give opportunity to the Public Prosecutor for showing C cause in writing against such release: Provided further that in cases where a convicted person is released on bail it shall be open to the Public Prosecutor to file an application for the cancellation of the bail. (2) The power conferred by this section on an Appellate D Court may be exercised also by the High Court in the case of an appeal by a convicted person to a Court subordinate thereto. (3) Where the convicted person satisfies the Court by which he is convicted that he intends to present an appeal, E the Court shall,— (i) where such person, being on bail, is sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or (ii) where the offence of which such person has been convicted is a bailable one, and he is on bail, F that the convicted person be released on bail, unless there are special reasons for refusing bail, for such period as will afford sufficient time to present the appeal and obtain the s of the Appellate Court under sub-section (1), and the sentence of imprisonment shall, so long as he is G so released on bail, be deemed to be suspended.