The fi nancing plan itself envisaged CCDs as part of the equity portion of the funding. The aforesaid submissions have to be appreciated in context of the said Code where section 3 is the defi nition Clause, and as per Clause 11, debt as been defi ned as under:- Section 3 (11) “debt” means a liability or obligation in respect of a claim which is due from any person and includes a fi nancial debt and operational debt; 14. The defi nition of debt under Section 3(11) of the Code would be the liability or obligation in respect of a claim which is due from any person. 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. ICTL does not have a liability or obligation qua the appellant because the appellant is actually an equity participant and does not have a debt to be repaid. The success of a commercial venture pays benefi t to the equity participants but with income, which would not inhere in case of the the failure of the venture. 15. Thus, if it was a simpliciter debenture, it would have fallen under the category of a fi nancial debt along with bonds etc. However, we are not concerned with a debenture per se. 16. The debenture subscription agreement clearly defi nes ICTL as the special purpose vehicle while IVRCL is the sponsor company and IFCI is the lender. In terms of Clause 2.4, the rate of interest/coupon rate of 11 per cent per annum, payable quarterly, is applicable till either the buy back of all the CCDs (an option available to the borrowers) or conversion of CCDs into equity. The liability is of the sponsor company for making coupon payments and not of the SPV/ICTL. Further, under Clause 2.8, the buy back is also an arrangement inter se the Sponsor company and IFCI. The conversion into equity takes place as per Clause 2.9 and the put option as per Clause 2.11. It would suffi ce to reproduce Clause 2.9 which reads as under:- “2.9 Conversion into equity In the event of default of payment of return or buy back of 12.50 Crore CCDs in two tranches anytime between the end of the 3rd year and 6th year from the date of issue of CCDs giving an eff ective transaction IRR (including processing charges payable by the sponsor company) of 15,50 % p.a. If it is exercised anytime between 3rd and 5th year, else, a rate of 15% p.a., would be applicable between the 5th and 6th year from the date of subscription/fi rst disbursement (including upfront interest payable by the Sponsor Company), the outstanding CCDs, along with the diff erential interest, defaulted amount, etc. would automatically get converted into equity shares of the ICTL at a price on par with the promoters of ICTL i.e. at a premium of Rs.90/- per share at the end of 6 years from the date of issue (i.e. in case both the Call and the Pul Options are not exercised by the Sponsor and the IFCI respectively or, at an earlier date as per other terms of this Agreement.