The APTEL had, by those s, rejected the appeals preferred by the present appellant, and the review petition, as well. Resultantly, 1 Civil Appeals Nos. 3480 and 3481 of 2020 2 in Appeal No 209/2015 H 3 in Review Petition No 03/2019 GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 679 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the of the Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (hereafter A “the State Commission”), dated 01.07.20154 was affirmed. 2. The first appellant – Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (hereafter “Gujarat Urja”) had approached this court previously challenging the of APTEL, which was disposed of by this court5 granting liberty to it, to seek review/rectification. Gujarat Urja then B preferred a review petition, which was rejected by APTEL, by the second impugned . When this appeal was taken up for hearing, on 14.10.2020, this court had issued notice and stayed the impugned of APTEL. Background C 3. Gujarat Urja procures power in bulk on behalf of distribution licensees in the state of Gujarat; it is an authorized licensee within the meaning of the term under the Act. The second, third, fourth and fifth appellants are distribution licensees in the State of Gujarat. The first respondent, Renew Wind Energy (Rajkot) Pvt Ltd (hereafter “RWE”) D is a wind generator which had set up 25.2 MW Wind Turbine Generators at District Rajkot, Gujarat under the Renewable Energy Certification scheme notified by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission (hereafter, “Central Commission”). The second respondent is the Wind Independent Power Producers Association (hereafter “Association”). E The Respondent No 3, Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission (hereinafter “the State Commission”) is the regulatory commission under the Act, for the State of Gujarat. The fourth respondent, Wish Wind Infrastructure LLP (“Wish Wind” hereafter) is a wind generator. 4. By Section 86 of the Act6 , State Commissions discharge several functions- which include the determination of tariff “for generation, F 4 in petition No 1363/2013 5 Civil Appeal No 1253/2019 by dated 15.02.2019 6 The relevant extract of Section 86 is as follows: “86. Functions of State Commission.-(1) The State Commission shall discharge the following functions, namely:- (a) determine the tariff for generation, supply, transmission and wheeling of G electricity, wholesale, bulk or retail, as the case may be, within the State: …… (b) regulate electricity purchase and procurement process of distribution licensees including the price at which electricity shall be procured from the generating companies or licensees or from other sources through agreements for purchase of power for distribution and supply within the State; H 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A supply, transmission and wheeling of electricity, wholesale, bulk or retail, as the case may be, within the State”. The tariff determination process should accord with Sections 62 and 64 of the Act. Section 62, requires “the Appropriate Commission” (in this case, the State Commission) to determine tariffs in accordance with the provisions of the Act for – among other purposes, retail supply of electricity. The B State Commissions are also empowered to frame regulations, under Section 181 of the Act.