It is proposed to provide that any person before filing of the return under section 158BC shall also be liable to pay tax E and interest in accordance with the provisions contained in sub-section (1) of section 140A. It is further proposed to provide that after a block assessment under section 158BC has been made, any amount paid under sub-section (1) of section 140A shall be deemed to have been F paid towards the block assessment under section 158BC. These amendments will take effect from 01.06.1999.” Further, the Memorandum Explaining the Provisions reads as follows, G “Under section 140A of the Income Tax Act, the assessee is required to pay tax on the basis of income declared in the return and such tax is required to be paid before the return is furnished and the return is accompanied by the proof of such payment. The existing provisions of section 140A are not H K.L. SWAMY v. THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX & 715 ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] applicable to Chapter XIV-B relating to the assessment of the A income of the block period in search and seizure cases. There is also no corresponding provision in Chapter XIV-B for payment of self-assessment tax at the time of filing the return. Therefore, the tax on the admitted income declared in the return cannot be collected till the assessment is completed. In view B of the above, it is proposed to amend section 140A of Income Tax Act to provide for the requirement of payment of self- assessment tax at the time of filing the return under section 158BC relating to block assessment of search cases.” 10.3 Thus, on conjoint reading of the above Notes on Clauses and C Memorandum, it is very clear that the Legislature originally intended to make the assessee liable to pay taxes and interest when the return was filed under Section 139 or under Section 142 or Section 148. By virtue of the amendment, the Legislature thus proposed to make those assessees who are filing the return under Section 158BC also liable to pay tax and D interest under Section 140A. The memorandum explaining the provisions of the Finance Bill further makes it clear that the existing provisions of Section 140A were not applicable to Chapter XIV-B relating to assessment of income of the block period in search and seizure cases. It further recognizes that the admitted tax declared in the return cannot be collected till the assessment is completed. Therefore, the Legislature E intended to amend Section 140A by incorporating Section 158BC so as to make liable those persons who are filing return under Section 158BC also. Thus, by virtue of the amendment, a new class of assessee was brought onto the statute-book whose income are subject to be assessed under Chapter XIV-B, in section 140A compelling them to pay self- F assessment tax. Thus, the interest under Section 158BFA is leviable on standalone basis for late or non-filing of return, which ceases on the day return is filed.