The question whether they are in fact performing the same duties and functions will be dealt with by us while answering the C second issue arising for consideration before us. 33. In Shyam Babu Verma vs. Union of India5, this Court clarified that though “…the nature of work may be more or less the same, but scale of pay may vary based on academic qualifications or experience which justifies the classification. …”. This view has D been the consistent view of this court. 34. In the impugned , the High Court placed reliance on the decision in State of Haryana vs. Ram Chander6. It was a case where language teachers in Haryana Government Vocational Education Institute sought parity in pay scale with teachers in higher secondary schools. E There was a finding of fact in that case that the teachers in higher secondary schools were designated as lecturers and only those with a Master’s Degree were appointed. However, language teachers in Vocational Education Institutes possessed only an undergraduate degree in Arts and an undergraduate degree in Education with Hindi/English as one of the teaching subjects. Despite finding that the teachers in higher F secondary schools had a higher educational qualification than those in Vocational Education Institutes, the High Court granted relief to language teachers working in those Institutes and the same was upheld by this Court. Therefore, the High Court, in the impugned , placed strong reliance upon this decision. G 35. But a careful perusal of the decision in Ram Chander (supra) will show that this Court was convinced to uphold the of the High Court mainly for the reason that the State itself had ignored the 5 (1994) 2 SCC 521 6 (1997) 5 SCC 253 H 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A difference in the educational qualifications. In paragraph 13 of the decision, this Court held as follows: “13. In the light of these salient features which are well established on record there would be no escape from the conclusion that but for the difference in educational qualifications both these sets of B employees are similarly circumscribed. So far as the educational qualifications’ difference is concerned that would have, as noted above, made some vital difference but for the fact that the appellants themselves in their own wisdom thought it fit to ignore this difference in the educational qualifications by offering a uniform time scale of Rs 1640-2900 to all postgraduate C lecturers in higher secondary schools. ….” 36. In Director of Elementary Education, Odisha vs. Pramod Kumar Sahoo7, this Court held that the classification based upon educational qualification for the grant of higher pay scale, is a valid classification. This Court relied upon the decision in Shyam Babu Verma D (supra). 37. Therefore, it is clear that the classification based upon educational qualification is not violative of Articles 14 and 16 of the Constitution. Hence, our answer to Issue No.1 will be in favour of the State and against the respondents. E Question No.2: Whether Allopathy doctors and the respondents practicing alternative systems of medicine can be said to be performing “equal work” so as to be entitled to “equal pay”?