13. On the other hand, it has been urged on behalf of the Secretary to the Governor that: (i) After the business of the Budget Session had been transacted, the House was required to be prorogued and it was not open to the Speaker to adjourn the proceeding sine die to be reconvened initially on 19 and 20 June 2023 and thereafter on 19 and 20 October 2023; 786 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (ii) Rule 14A of the Rules of Procedure requires that three sessions should be held in the Vidhan Sabha, namely, the Budget Session, the Monsoon Session and the Winter Session and hence, it was not open to the Speaker to continue the Budget Session in the month of June 2023; (iii) The Governor has, as a matter of fact, assented to as many as 185 Bills which were presented to him for assent, which would clearly indicate that there has been no delay on the part of the Governor and it is only in view of the objection to the manner in which the House was adjourned sine die that assent to the four Bills was withheld; (iv) Subsequently, the Governor has even granted his recommendation for the introduction of two of the three Money Bills in the Vidhan Sabha; (v) In the reliefs which have been claimed in the petition under Article 32 of the Constitution, the petitioners themselves seek a declaration that the sessions which were held on 19 and 20 June 2023 and the business which was transacted was legal, which is an indication of the fact that the State of Punjab itself is unsure about the validity of the session; and (vi) The Governor would have no objection whatsoever to deal with the Bills in respect of which assent has been sought if this Court were to clarify that the Budget Session was lawfully adjourned sine die so as to be reconvened in the month of June 2023. 14. Two issues arise for consideration: fi rst, whether the Governor can withhold action on Bills which have been passed by the State Legislature; and second, whether it is permissible in law for the Speaker to reconvene a sitting of a Vidhan Sabha session which has been adjourned but has not been prorogued. III. Analysis A. The Governor is a symbolic head and cannot withhold action on Bills passed by the State Legislature STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 787 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 15. In a Parliamentary form of democracy real power vests in the elected representatives of the people. The governments, both in the States and at the Centre consist of members of the State Legislature, and, as the case may be, Parliament. Members of the government in a Cabinet form of government are accountable to and subject to scrutiny by the legislature. The Governor as an appointee of the President is the titular head of State. The fundamental principle of constitutional law which has been consistently followed since the Constitution was adopted is that the Governor acts on the ‘aid and advise’ of the Council of Ministers, save and except in those areas where the Constitution has entrusted the exercise of discretionary power to the Governor.