Hence, the right to enter into a union is also grounded in Article 19(1) (e). c. Facets of the right to life and liberty under Article 21 I. The atypical family 227. One’s natal family usually consists of one’s immediate relatives. The people who constitute one’s ‘immediate relatives’ vary from society to society. For instance, many Indians grow up in a Hindu Undivided Family which is commonly known as a ‘joint family’ and which is recognised by the law. The family is typically thought of as comprising a mother and a father, to which a life partner is added (usually in a heterosexual relationship). Later, children join this family, and so the cycle continues. While this conception of a family dominates our collective understanding, it is not the only valid mode by which a family can be formed. Myriad persons do not follow this blueprint for the creation of a family. They instead have their own, atypical blueprint. In Deepika Singh (supra), this Court rightly acknowledged the existence of atypical families: “26. The predominant understanding of the concept of a “family” both in the law and in society is that it consists of a single, unchanging unit with a mother and a father (who remain constant over time) and their children. This assumption ignores both, the many circumstances which 202 Purayil (n 96) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1361 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] may lead to a change in one’s familial structure, and the fact that many families do not conform to this expectation to begin with. Familial relationships may take the form of domestic, unmarried partnerships or queer relationships. A household may be a single parent household for any number of reasons, including the death of a spouse, separation, or divorce. Similarly, the guardians and caretakers (who traditionally occupy the roles of the “mother” and the “father”) of children may change with remarriage, adoption, or fostering. These manifestations of love and of families may not be typical but they are as real as their traditional counterparts. Such atypical manifestations of the family unit are equally deserving not only of protection under law but also of the benefi ts available under social welfare legislation. The black letter of the law must not be relied upon to disadvantage families which are diff erent from traditional ones.” 229. Queer relationships may constitute one’s family. Persons in such relationships are fulfi lling their innate and human need to be a part of a family and to create their family. This conception of a family may be atypical but its atypical nature does not detract from the fact that it is a family. Further, queer persons are often rejected by their natal families and have only their partner or their chosen community to fall back on. In addition to the diff erent forms of kinship recognized in Deepika Singh (supra), the guru-chela bond of transgender persons (discussed in the previous section of this ) may also be a familial bond.