Any future application of the 1939 Act in respect of the Suit Land was supposed to be through a separate notification, but the same has again not been produced in these B proceedings or before any forum, which further dissuades from rendering any final opinion at this stage. The same aspect has been highlighted by the appellants who contend that the area in which the Suit Land is situated was governed by the Kumaon Tenancy Rules of 1918. On the other hand, the respondents have produced on record a G.O. No. 5678/ 1-B-1212~B-19 dated the C 30.04.1948 which indicates the possibility of hereditary rights being accrued on predecessor of Respondents under the 1939 Act but again, this Court constrained to give any finding on the same because of the lack of proper documents on record to ascertain the tenancy status of the Respondents. Hence, on this D ground also the instant appeals are liable to be remanded back so that the relevant statutory notifications, original records can be placed before the High Court to enable it to determine the applicable tenancy law and their impact on the alleged rights of the respondents. [Paras 55 and 56][974-F-H; 975-B-D] E 1.11 These appeals have been pending before this Court for more than 15 years. In normal circumstances, this Court would have ventured to decide the issues but in light of the abovementioned observations and dearth of appropriate records, ownership rights in respect of an immovable property cannot be decided casually. The hands are further tied because of the fact F that the ownership of certain portions of the Suit Land has apparently changed hands on account of subsequent sale by the respondents. Furthermore, the value of the Suit Land has increased exponentially during the entire period of litigation and the relevant parties have also done certain valuable G developments. Any decision now cannot be based on conjectures and surmises or on the basis of mere guesswork. Hence, the Court is reluctant to give a final opinion on the matter until the Court is satisfied on the basis of the entirety of documents which H 942 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A showcase how the ownership or possessory rights were created on the Suit Land. [Paras 57 and 58][975-D-G] 1.12 There are indeed compelling circumstances which have been left unanswered by the courts below, because of which determination of several factual issues have been left in limbo. B Therefore, in light of the peculiar situation, it is expedient to remand the appeals back to the High Court for fresh adjudication on the issues formulated. In light of the long-drawn pendency of these disputes, the High Court is requested to take up these matters at the earliest and dispose of the same as early as possible. The impugned s of the High Court are set C aside, and the matters are remanded to the High Court for a fresh adjudication. It is made clear that casual findings/ observations made by Revenue Authorities or the Civil Court shall not be accepted at their face value unless the High Court is satisfied on a thorough inspection of the original or certified copies D of the relevant record.