However, before these standing s are notifi ed under Section 7, it may go through a quasi-judicial process, as any party aggrieved by any provisions of the standing s has a right to appeal under Section 6 of the 1946 Act before the Appellate Authority. The standing s which are fi nally notifi ed are then prominently posted by the employer in English as well as in the language understood by the majority of the workmen. Section 10 of the 1946 Act provides that the standing s shall not be modifi ed except by agreement between the parties within six months of the certifi cation or the last modifi cation of the Standing s. The Standing which the workman/respondent claims in the present case have gone UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. K. SURI BABU 1055 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] through the above process and there is no under Section 10 of the 1946 Act which modifi es the Standing applicable herein. 11. A standing is hence no ordinary . It has a statutory mandate. The 1946 Act mandates all owners of industrial establishments which are employing 100 or more workmen to prepare standing s which should cover all matters relating to employment of a workman which have been given in the schedule of the 1946 Act and then these standing s further need to be certifi ed by the authority under the 1946 Act. The objective and purpose of the 1946 Act was to have a certainty in service conditions of workmen and a responsibility was placed upon the employer to formulate fair conditions of industrial employment, including in its disciplinary proceedings against a workman. In other words, standing s are a set of Rules which have to be strictly followed and cannot be ignored, modifi ed or changed, except in accordance with law. 12. The CCA Rules, 1965 on the other hand were framed under the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution of India which are applicable to employees of Central Government. The CCA Rules, 1965 are not specifi c to workmen as these are general service rules applicable to all employees who work under the Central Government. These are not workman specifi c Rules, unlike the standing s. Rule 3 of the CCA Rules, 1965 provides for the applicability of the Rules, which reads as under: “3. Application.– (1) These rules shall apply to every government servant including every civilian Government servant in the Defence Services, but shall not apply to– (a) any railway servant, as defi ned in rule 102 of Volume I of the Indian Railway Establishment Code, (b) any member of the All India Services. (c) any person in casual employment, (d) any person subject to discharge from service on less than one month’s notice, (e) any person for whom special provision is made, in respect of matters covered by these rules, by or under any law for the time being in force or by or under any agreement entered into by or with the previous 105 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.