38. The second question arising for consideration is as to whether the holders of degrees and post-graduate degrees in indigenous and other F non-Allopathic Systems of Medicine can be said to be performing equal work as the holders of degrees and postgraduate degrees in Allopathic Systems of Medicine, so as to be entitled to equal pay? 39. In the writ petition filed by them, it was claimed by the respondents herein that they were doing the same work as was done by G other medical officers holding MBBS degrees and that they were also serving in various Primary Health Centres/ Community Health Centres. They also claimed that even as per the job-chart of the General Duty Medical Officers, the duties performed by both categories of doctors H 7 (2019) 10 SCC 674 STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. ETC. v. DR. P. A. BHATT & ORS. 315 ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] are the same. The respondents further claimed that they held posts A interchangeable with those having MBBS degrees. 40. The Government filed an affidavit before the High Court contending inter alia :- (i) that while General Hospitals and Government Hospitals come under the Medical Services Department, PHCs, B CHCs and Government dispensaries come under the Public Health Department; (ii) that in respect of medical services, doctors with MD/MS or postgraduate degree/diploma are appointed to Class-I specialist cadre; C (iii) that Homoeopathy doctors are appointed to Class-III posts; (iv) that Ayurved doctors are appointed to Class-II posts; and (v) that there are lot of differences between the duties and responsibilities discharged by both these categories of doctors. D 41. In paragraph 9 of the affidavit filed on 23.07.2013, on behalf of the Government before the Division Bench of the High Court, a comparative chart was provided. It reads as follows:- Sr. no. Allopathy Doctors Ayurved Doctors 1. MBBS/MD/P.G.Degree/P.G Diploma / BAMS/BHMS/MD E Specialization 2. Required to perform emergency duties and No emergency duty, cannot trauma cases, surgery cases and post perform surgery and post mortem cases. mortem. 3. Have to work in OPD and operation No operation work theater. 4. Give IV injections and ART injections Not applicable F themselves. 5. Medicines given are allopathic. For eg: The medicine is based on pain killers ayurved. For eg: Powder to be taken with boiled water 6. Main duty is with respect to emergencies, Main duty is to advertise/make casualty and OPD patients. people aware about ayurvedic treatment and organizing camps where different vanaspati are G displayed. 7. Nature of treatment thus different from Nature of treatment is totally ayurved. different from allopathy. 8. Such doctors not easily available. Available in plenty. 9. Therefore bond system applicable for No such bond system. getting service of atleast 5 years in village. 10. Night Duty No Night Duty H 316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 42. Apart from the above comparative chart, the learned Government Pleader also placed before the High Court, another comparative chart showing the various characteristics of Ayurvedic medicine and Allopathic medicine.