That to put an end to the uncertainty, the legislature by way of F inserting clauses (iiia), (iiib), (iiic), (iiid) and (iiie) in Section 28 has made the said incentives taxable under the head of profits and gains of business and profession. 4.3 It is further submitted that Section 80-IB provides for deductions in respect of profits and gains from certain ‘industrial G undertakings’ other than infrastructure development undertakings. That this Section applies to the following “industrial undertakings” which are eligible for deduction under the said Section:- a) Small scale industries into manufacturing and production b) Undertaking in industrially backward state and North-Eastern H Region M/S. SARAF EXPORTS v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 345 JAIPUR-III [M. R. SHAH, J.] c) Ship A d) Hotels e) Cold storage plants and cold chains f) Mineral oil and natural gas g) Housing projects B h) Scientific research and development i) Processing, preservation and packaging of food items j) Multiplex theatre C k) Convention centre l) Hospitals in rural and specified areas 4.4 It is next submitted that as per the language used in Section 80-IB with regard to calculating the deduction, the deduction would be applicable on “any profits and gains ‘derived from’ any business referred D to in…” included in the gross total income of the assessee. That the most important thing to be considered while interpreting the said section is that the words used are “derived from” and not “attributable to”. That the words “attributable to” in the given clause have been given a wider connotation as opposed to the words “derived from” which have been E interpreted to be confined to “first degree sources”. It is submitted that the words “derived from” have been given a restrictive interpretation. 4.5 It is contended that the connotation “derived from” used in Section 80-IB has to be read to be unit specific and cannot be read as “standalone” since the words used in the clauses of Section 80-IB are “industrial undertaking”. That the core issue therefore, pertains to the F interpretation of the words “derived from” in Section 80-IB of the Act. It is submitted that on a fair reading of Section 80-IB read with Section 28 and on true interpretation of Section 80-IB, the DEPB and Duty Drawback Schemes cannot be said to be deriving the income from the business undertaking and, therefore, deduction under Section 80-IB on G such receipt of the Duty Drawback shall not be allowable as a deduction. 4.6 It is submitted that in the case of Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra),while adjudicating the issue of whether on earning of import entitlements under an export promotion scheme of the Central Government, deduction under Section 80HH would be allowable or not, H 346 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A this Court gave the words “derived from” used in Section 80HH a restricted interpretation and it was observed that since the words “derived from” have been used, it shall suggest to go to the source of such profits and gains.