Viewed through the prism of gravity of allegations, a first information report based on “probability” of a crime having been committed would obviously be of a higher degree as compared to a first information report lodged on a “mere suspicion” that a crime has been G committed. The High Court failed to bear in mind these principles and precisely did what it was not supposed to do at this stage. We are, thus, unhesitatingly of the view that the High Court was not justified in its interference on the ground it did. H 9 (1996) 1 SCC 542 THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 159 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 62. Mr. Hegde is also right in relying on the decisions in R.P. A Kapur (supra) and Bhajan Lal (supra) that the FIR in this case did not fit into any of the categories for being quashed on the ground of not disclosing a cognizable offence. 63. Borrowing the words of K.T. Thomas, J. (as His Lordship then was), it can safely be concluded that in the present case the High B Court “sieved the complaint through a cullender of finest gauzes for testing” the veracity of the alleged crime. This approach being clearly impermissible at the stage of considering a challenge to a first information report, we are of the considered opinion that the and under challenge is indefensible. C 64. We now move on to consider Circular No. 29/2020 dated 12th November, 2020 issued by the CBI on the subject of investigation of cases of Illicit Enrichment (possession of pecuniary resources or property disproportionate to known sources of income) (hereafter ‘CBI Circular’, for short). Having perused the CBI Circular, what we find is that the D same provides the methodology to guide registration of a first information report in relation to disproportionate assets cases. To the written notes of arguments is annexed a circular dated 12th April, 2021, by which the State has clarified that the CBI’s methodology would apply to the State’s ACB/EOW as well (because the manual of the State’s ACB/EOW has not been notified) and also that the CBI’s methodology will apply in E respect of All India and Central Govt. Service Officers. However, the contention on behalf of AS and YS that the methodology provided in the CBI Circular has been observed in the breach has failed to impress us. Evidently, the FIR in the present case was registered on 25th February, 2020 whereas the CBI Circular was issued on 12th November, 2020, F almost 9 (nine) months after the FIR was registered, and adopted by the State almost a year later. Since the CBI Circular was not in existence on 25th February, 2020, the FIR in the present case cannot be invalidated by reference to the CBI Circular. It is only just and appropriate that the CBI Circular, having been adopted by the State, would be required to be followed only in respect of registration of first information reports G pertaining to cases of acquisition of disproportionate assets, post 12th April, 2021.