Thereafter, the amended Rules earmarked 50% for H T. VALSAN (D) THR. LRS. & ORS. v. K. KANAGARAJ & ORS. 459 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] those Junior Engineers who possess Degree in Engineering with A regular service of 3 years. The other 50% was earmarked for those Junior Engineers who possess Diploma with regular service of 7 years. B C D E F 5. Significance of the aforesaid is that in to earn their promotion to the post of Assistant Engineer, a Junior Engineer, possessing an Engineering Degree, has to have fewer years of service while in the G case of a Diploma holder, the requisite period for service, to be eligible for promotion, was more. We may notice that while working as a Junior Engineer, there is no difference between a Degree holder and a Diploma holder. The moot point, thus, which arises, is whether, for a Diploma holder, who acquires a degree during the course of employment, the period of service as a Junior Engineer prior to acquiring the degree is to H 460 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A be excluded for computing the eligible period of service for promotion to the post of an Assistant Engineer. 6. The Puducherry administration construed the Rules to mean that as long as the Diploma holder acquires a degree, the period spent in service as a Junior Engineer, before the acquisition of an engineering B degree, would be counted. The Appellants, thus, approached the Central Administrative Tribunal, Madras Bench (hereinafter referred to as ‘the CAT’) in O.A. No. 355/2008, challenging the decision of the Puducherry administration to promote the Junior Engineers, who were originally Diploma holders and acquired degree during service, as Assistant Engineers under the Degree quota, immediately after they acquired their C degree without insisting on a three-years of continuous service from the date of acquisition of the degree. This was alleged to have resulted in denying promotion to the Junior Engineers, who joined the service as Degree holders. Procedural History: D Before the Central Administrative Tribunal 7.The CAT, vide an dated 20.11.2009, partly found in favour of the Appellants and opined that the qualifying service for Junior Engineers, who obtained their degree during their service for the purposes of promotion to Assistant Engineer under the Degree quota, would have E to be considered from the date when they obtained the degree. This view of the CAT was based on Shailendra Dania & Ors. v. S.P. Dubey & Ors.1. The CAT opined that the Rule in question in the present case is almost identical to the Rule in the aforesaid case and, thus, concluded that the Degree and Diploma holders are distinct, and both are entitled F to promotion in their respective quota. The CAT, in its wisdom, did not consider the case of D. Stephen Joseph v. Union of India & Ors.2 on the ground that the issue requires fresh consideration in view of the subsequent of this Court in Shailendra Dania & Ors.3 8. The aforesaid view resulted in multiple writ petitions4 being G filed before the High Court by several employees of the Puducherry 1 (2007) 5 SCC 535 2 (1997) 4 SCC 753 3 (supra) H 4 W.P.