23. PW-10 is Seepat Bai, wife of Firtu. She only states that in the night, she heard people shouting run-run. When she came out, her husband H SHATRUGHAN v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 769 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] was already outside and then she was told that the appellant had assaulted A the deceased. 24. PW-11 is Khemraj Singh. He is Sarpanch of the village. He states that he had accompanied PW-1 to the outpost and then to the Police Station. He then denies the suggestion that the appellant had made a complaint against him and others regarding mis-appropriation B of funds. He further denied the suggestion that Jagat, the deceased had supported Shatrughan and Rajendra in the complaint. However, he admits that on the complaint the Project Officer and others had come for inquiry. Other suggestions relating to the complaint and inquiry are denied by him. C 25. PW-12 is one Akshay Kumar. He states that on the date of the incident in the night, he heard lot of noise and commotion and people shouting run-run, upon which he came out of the house. He saw PW-1, his wife and his daughter. At that time, PW-1 told him that the appellant had assaulted the deceased with the Tabbal. He further states in the D cross-examination that when he came out, Firtu Ram, Sarpanch & others had not come there and that he had not seen the appellant at that place. He states that he knows that there was no enmity between the appellant and the deceased. He is the next-door neighbour of informant PW-1. E 26. PW-13 is Chandu. He states that the murder of Jagat had taken place in front of his house in the lane and that he had heard that the appellant had assaulted him. 27. PW-14 is Karan Singh who states that about 07.00 PM in the evening on 19.07.2008, he was changing clothes as he got wet while returning from work. Vijay Kumar came to his house and told him that F Jagat had fallen down and that Jagat was taken for treatment. It was after that Lakhan and Laxman told him that it was the appellant who had assaulted the deceased. He is witness to the memo (Ex-P18) prepared for handing over the dead body to the family of the deceased. In the cross-examination he states that he had heard that Sarpanch Khemraj G had accompanied the injured to the hospital. Further he had also gone to the Police Station along with Vijay Kumar (PW-1) and Sarpanch Khemraj. He further states that they reached the Police Station at 06.00 AM although police had arrived in the village at 04.00 AM. FIR was registered at 07.00 AM and they returned to the village in the evening at 04.00 PM. H 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 28. PW-15 is one Abhiram Sahu. He had prepared the site plan and proved it, which was marked as Ex.-P19. 29. PW-16, Dinu Ram Mandavi, Inspector is the Investigating Officer.