[Paras 4, 5, 12, 14] – Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI): There is no universal conception of the institution of marriage, nor is it static – Marriage has attained signifi cance as a legal institution largely because of regulation by the State – By recognizing a relationship in the form of marriage, the State grants material benefi ts exclusive to marriage – The State has an interest in regulating the ‘intimate zone’ to democratize personal relationships – The Constitution does not expressly recognize a fundamental right to marry – An institution cannot be elevated to the realm of a fundamental right based on the content accorded to it by law – However, several facets of the marital relationship are refl ections of constitutional values including the right to human dignity and the right to life and personal liberty [Para 340] – Held (per Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J. ): Marriage as an institution developed historically and served various social functions – It was only later in its long history that it came to be legally recognized and codifi ed – However, these laws regulated only one type of socio-historical union, i.e., the heterosexual union. [Para 8] LGBTQ community / Queer persons – Is queerness ‘un-Indian’ – Is it urban or elite – Historical prevalence of non-heterosexual unions: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y. Chandrachud, CJI): Queerness is a natural phenomenon known to India since ancient times – It is not urban or elite. [Para 340] – Held (per S. Ravindra Bhat, J.) (for himself and 121 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Hima Kohli, J.) (Concurring): Queerness is a natural phenomenon that is neither urban or elite [Para 2] – Held (per Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J.) (also concurring): Non-heterosexual unions were well-known to ancient Indian civilisation as attested by various texts, practices, and depictions of art – Same-sex unions were recognised in antiquity, not simply as unions that facilitate sexual activity, but as relationships that foster love, emotional support, and mutual care – It would be misconceived to claim that non- heterosexual unions are only a facet of the modern social milieu – There was existence of non-heterosexual unions, despite continued eff orts towards their erasure by the heteronormative majority. [Paras 5, 6, 9] LGBTQ community / Queer persons – Rights of – Right to union or relationship – Discriminatory impacts on queer couples – Restrictions – Discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation – Issue whether legal recognition in the form of marriage can be given to non-heterosexual relationships – Judicial review and separation of powers – Court, if vested with the authority to decide the issue –Words and Phrases – “Sex” and “Sexual orientation” – Constitution of India – Arts. 15, 21 and 245 and 246 r/w Entry 5 of List III to Seventh Schedule: Held [per S. Ravindra Bhat, J. (for himself and Hima Kohli, J. )]: The court may feel the wisdom of a measure or norm that is lacking; nevertheless, its role is not to venture into functions which the Constitution has authorised other departments and organs to discharge – It is one thing for this Court, to commend to the State, to eliminate the discriminatory impact of the intersections with laws and publicly administered policies and institutions, upon non-heterosexual couples, and entirely another, to indirectly hold that through a confl ation of positive obligations cast on the State, that such individuals’ right to choice to cohabit and form abiding relationships, extends to the right (or some entitlement) to a legally recognised union that must be actualized by State policy/legislation – Queer persons are not precluded from celebrating their commitment to each other, or relationship, in whichever way they wish, within the social realm – Queer and LGBTQ+ couples too have the right to union or relationship (under Article 21) – “be it mental, emotional or sexual” fl owing from the right to privacy, right to choice, and autonomy – This, however, does not extend to a right to claim entitlement to any legal status for the said union or relationship – There are almost intractable diffi culties in creating, through judicial diktat, a civil right to marry or a civil union, no less, of the kind that is sought by the petitioners (members of LGBTQIA+ community) – “ing a social institution” or SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.