This report inter alia alleges that the Adani Group of companies has manipulated its share prices; failed to disclose transactions with related parties and other relevant information concerning related parties in contravention of the regulations F framed by SEBI; and violated other provisions of securities laws. The report also states that Hindenburg Research has taken a short position in the Adani Group companies through US traded bonds and non-Indian traded derivative instruments. It is in this background that the present batch of petitions came to be filed. G 3. A brief overview of the petitions follows: a. WP(C) No. 162 of 2023 states that public money amounting to thousands of crores is at risk because public institutions like the State Bank of India1 and the Life Insurance H 1 “SBI” VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 953 Corporation of India2 are exposed to the Adani Group. It A inter alia seeks the issuance of directions to the Union of India and the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to constitute a committee headed by a retired judge of the Supreme Court to investigate the contents of the report published by Hindenburg Research; B b. WP(Crl) No. 39 of 2023 is for the issuance of directions to the Union Ministry of Home Affairs to register an FIR against Mr. Nathan Anderson (founder of Hindenburg Research) and his associates for short selling, and for directions to recover the profits yielded by the short selling C to compensate investors; c. WP(C) No. 201 of 2023 inter alia states that “the Adani Group has been in flagrant violation of ... Rule 19A of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules by surreptitiously controlling more than 75% of the shares D of public listed Adani group companies, thereby manipulating the price of its shares in the market.” It inter alia seeks a court monitored investigation by a Special Investigation Team or by the Central Bureau of Investigation into the allegations of fraud and the role played by top officials of leading public sector banks and other lender E institutions; and d. WP(Crl) 57 of 2023 is for directions to any investigative authority to: (i) investigate the Adani Group companies under the supervision of a sitting judge of this Court; and (ii) investigate the role of LIC and SBI in these transactions. F 4. In its dated 10 February 2023, this Court noted that there was a need to review existing regulatory mechanisms in the financial sector to ensure that they are strengthened with a view to protect Indian investors from volatilities in the market. Accordingly, it was suggested to the Solicitor General that he may seek instructions from the Union of G India on the constitution and remit of an expert committee. 5. We have heard Mr. Prashant Bhushan, learned senior counsel appearing for the petitioners and Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing for the Union of India. Both of them have also placed 2 “LIC” H 954 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A on record brief notes indicating their suggestions for the remit of the expert committee to be constituted.