In elaboration of the contention, it is submitted that the NCLT and NCLAT had failed to appreciate that the respondent was admitted as a ‘sick company’ by G the BIFR as per its dated 31.08.2010 and hence, by virtue of sub- section (5) of Section 22, SICA the period of suspension under SICA viz., from 31.08.2010 to 01.12.2016, ought to have been excluded while calculating the period of limitation. According to the appellant, since the application under Section 9, IBC was filed on 20.08.2018 granting the benefit of such exclusion would have, certainly, put the application well H SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 195 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] within the limitation period of 3 years as provided under Article 137 of A the Limitation Act. The learned counsel for the appellant placed reliance on the decision in Paramjeet Singh Patheja v. ICDS Ltd.1, particularly paragraph 43 (vii) therein, to support the contention that there was a statutory bar for laying or continuing with any legal proceeding for realisation of a right vested by law on the appellant. B 7. Resisting the contentions of the appellant and supporting the impugned the respondent would contend that both NCLT and NCLAT had rightly appreciated the factual positions thereon obtained in the case on hand and appliedthe provisions correctly, to arrive at the finding that the application filed by the appellant under Section 9, IBC C was barred by limitation. According to the respondent there is discrepancy between the stand of the appellant in the Section 9 application and the Demand Notice under Section 8, of the IBC as relates the quantum of alleged outstanding dues. It is also contended that such a discrepancy also exists with respect to the date of cause of action inasmuch as going by Section 9 application the alleged debt fell due on and from November, D 2011 and as per the Demand Notice the so-called debt fell due on and from 9th July, 2012 and in either case, Section 9 application was barred by limitation as it was filed only in the year 2018. To wit, beyond 3 years from the alleged default. The benefit of exclusion of period under Section 22(5) of the SICA is not available to the appellant for computing the E period of limitation in respect of an application under Section 9, IBC, it is further contended. According to the respondent, Section 22 (1), SICA did not accord a blanket protection against running of cause of action and it is intended to suspend legal proceedings of coercive nature so as to secure assets of an enterprise. In other words, the contention is that filing application for recovery was permissible and Section 22 (1), SICA F did not forbid the same and it interdicted only execution or distress or the like against the properties of the industrial company concerned in the contingencies contemplated thereof. 8. When Sections 8 and 9, IBC came into force only with effect from 01.12.2016, the question of initiation of the CIRP by filing an G application under Section 9 was possible only from 01.12.2016.