They did not have so much money and could not give a car and ₹ 2,00,000/- and her in-laws said that if you cannot bring the money then live in your parental house. She further stated that her mother-in-law’s house at Indore was like a paying guest accommodation, where one or the other student was always living, and there was no room for her to stay. She alleged that they treated her also like a paying guest and harassed her physically, mentally, socially and emotionally with their demands for dowry. She then spoke of how she found her husband’s diary at Mumbai in which he had mentioned details of his physical relations with several other women and when she narrated the same to her mother-in-law and brother-in-law at the time of Deepavali in 2008, they said that she had spoilt the festival by telling such things and that she should never come on Deepavali day. She stated that she was thrown out of the house by her husband on 25.02.2009. She further stated that upon her many requests, Nimish came to the marriage of her brother on 17.06.2012, but again asked her about the arrangement for money. Upon being told of their inability to arrange money, he told her relatives either to fulfi l the demand for money or get him freed from her. She said that her father, mother and brother developed health problems owing to these issues and requested that strict legal action be taken against Nimish, Kusum Lata, Sourabh and Abhishek, for harassing her mentally and physically for dowry and to do her justice. 7. In her statement dated 08.09.2013 made before P.S. Heera Nagar, Bhawna stated that her marriage with Nimish was performed on 02.07.2007 at Nandan Garden in Indore and her parents had given gold and silver jewellery, clothes, cash etc., exceeding their status and spent about ₹ 5 lakhs for the marriage. She said that her husband and she went to Mumbai on 512 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 07.07.2007. She made various allegations against her husband which are of no signifi cance presently, as he is not before us. As regards her in-laws, she said that her mother-in-law, Kusum Lata, and brothers-in-law, Abhishek and Sourabh, used to harass her mentally and physically to bring ₹ 2 lakhs in cash, a car and jewellery in dowry from her parents and due to this, her parents fell ill and were being treated. She alleged that all her in-laws wanted a divorce from her forcibly and nobody wanted to talk to her after she came away from her matrimonial home. She alleged that Abhishek, who was a judge, was misusing his offi cial position and he was the reason for obstructions in legal proceedings. 8. Om Prakash, Bhawna’s father, also made a statement before the police on 08.09.2013 on the same lines. He said that her marriage was performed at Indore on 02.07.2007 and as per his stat0us, he had given cash, gold, jewellery, clothes etc., totalling to ₹ 5 lakhs, in dowry.