The observations in Firm Seth Radha Kishan v. Administrator, Municipal Committee20 would therefore be applicable in this context: “7. Under Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure the court shall have jurisdiction to try all suits of civil nature excepting suits of which cognizance is either expressly or impliedly barred. A statute, therefore, expressly or by necessary implication, can bar the jurisdiction of civil courts in respect of a particular matter. The mere conferment of special jurisdiction on a tribunal in respect of the said matter does not in itself exclude the jurisdiction of civil courts. The statute may specifi cally provide for ousting the jurisdiction of civil courts; even if there was no such specifi c exclusion, if it creates a liability not existing before and gives a special and particular remedy for the aggrieved party, the remedy provided by it must be followed. The same principle would apply if the statute had provided for the particular forum in which the remedy could be had. Even in such cases, the civil court’s jurisdiction is not completely ousted. A suit in a civil court will always lie to question the of a tribunal created by a statute, even if its is, expressly or by necessary implication, made fi nal, if the said tribunal abuses its power or does not act under the Act but in violation of its provisions.” 29. Applying the principles laid down in Dhulabai (supra) and Firm Seth Radha Krishnan(supra) to the facts of the present case, there can be no diffi culty in holding that a suit of this nature would be maintainable before the civil Court particularly considering the nature of relief prayed in the suit. 19 Dewaji v. Ganpatlal, AIR 1969 SC 560; Sree Kandregula Srinivasa Jagannath Rao Pantulu Bahadur Garu v. State of A.P., (1969) 3 SCC 71 20 (1964) 2 SCR 273 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 543 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] ii) Plaintiff ’s title is not under a cloud 30. The next issue is whether a civil suit for permanent injunction can be fi led without declaration. On this, it is settled that where the plaintiff ’s title is not in dispute or under a cloud, a suit for injunction could be decided with reference to the fi nding on possession. The relevant tests were laid down in Anathula Sudhakar v P. Buchi Reddy21: “13.1. Where a plaintiff is in lawful or peaceful possession of a property and such possession is interfered or threatened by the defendant, a suit for an injunction simpliciter will lie. A person has a right to protect his possession against any person who does not prove a better title by seeking a prohibitory injunction. But a person in wrongful possession is not entitled to an injunction against the rightful owner. 13.2. Where the title of the plaintiff is not disputed, but he is not in possession, his remedy is to fi le a suit for possession and seek in addition, if necessary, an injunction.