The negative aspect of the doctrine has been expressly recognized by Indian courts. Considering both the positive and negative facets, the principle can be defi ned as a rule whereby arbitrators must have the fi rst opportunity to hear challenges relating to their jurisdiction, which is subject to subsequent review by courts.130 130. In Chloro Controls India (P) Ltd. v. Severn Trent Water Purifi cation Inc.,131 one of the issues before this Court was whether the court at the referral stage under Section 45 is required to determine the validity of an arbitration agreement. This Court recognized that the doctrine of competence-competence has both the positive and the negative aspects. It was observed that while the positive aspect enables the arbitrator to rule on its own jurisdiction, the negative aspect deprives the courts of their jurisdiction. However, this Court noted the absence of a provision similar to Section 16 in Part II to conclude that the referral court is required to test for the ingredients of Section 45 at the threshold stage itself. 131. Thereafter, this Court in Vidya Drolia (supra) held that the doctrine of competence-competence has both negative and positive connotations. The relevant extract from the decision is set out below: 129 George A Bermann, ‘The “Gateway” Problem in International Commercial Arbitration’ (2012) 37 Yale Journal of International Law 1, 16. 130 Fouchard (n 116) 401 131 (2013) 1 SCC 641 115 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. “129. Principles of competence-competence have positive and negative connotations. As a positive implication, the Arbitral Tribunals are declared competent and authorised by law to rule as to their jurisdiction and decide non-arbitrability questions. In case of expressed negative eff ect, the statute would govern and should be followed. Implied negative eff ect curtails and constrains interference by the court at the referral stage by necessary implication in to allow the Arbitral Tribunal to rule as to their jurisdiction and decide non-arbitrability questions. As per the negative eff ect, courts at the referral stage are not to decide on merits, except when permitted by the legislation either expressly or by necessary implication, such questions of non- arbitrability. Such prioritisation of the Arbitral Tribunal over the courts can be partial and limited when the legislation provides for some or restricted scrutiny at the “fi rst look” referral stage. We would, therefore, examine the principles of competence-competence with reference to the legislation, that is, the Arbitration Act.” 132. In Arcelormittal Nippon Steel (India) Ltd. v. Essar Bulk Terminal Ltd.,132 this Court held that negative competence-competence prohibits courts from hearing disputes which the parties have mutually intended to submit to the jurisdiction of arbitral tribunal. As held in the preceding sections, the issue of stamping is a jurisdictional issue. The principle of negative competence-competence requires the courts to leave the issue of stamping to be decided by the arbitral tribunal in the fi rst instance. H*. Judicial interference under the Arbitration Act 133. When parties enter into an arbitration agreement, it is their mutual and unequivocal intention to submit their disputes to an arbitral tribunal.