1 was appointed as a researcher under the Research Council and his service conditions were governed by diff erent laws. Of course, the High Court also took support of Clauses 34 and 35 respectively of the Bye-Laws while granting relief to the respondent No. 1. 17. In such circumstances referred to above, the appellants are here before this Court with the present appeal. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS 18. Mr. Aman Lekhi, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants made the following submissions: a. The issue involved in the present case is the entitlement to seek extension in superannuation age as per FR 56(bb) and its applicability to the appellant Council which is an autonomous body. The said FR has been amended from time to time and the rule applicable in the present case i.e. at the time of the retirement of the respondent No. 1 is of 05.01.2018. b. The respondent No. 1 was an employee of CCRAS having joined as Research Assistant and his terms of service were governed under the Rules of CCRAS. Subsequently, he was promoted to the post of Research Offi cer and at the time of superannuation he was holding the post of an Assistant Director. CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 749 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] c. The relevant clauses of CCRAS which are applicable to the facts of the present case are Clauses 25(b), 34, 35 and 47 of CCRAS Bye- Laws which are extracted herein for the sake of convenience: “Appointments 25.(a)... (b) Recruitments, appointments and promotions to all posts shall be made according to the recruitment rules laid down by the Governing Body or designated competent authority for the posts. Selection shall be made through the Selection Committees/Departmental Promotion Committees duly constituted with the approval of the respective appointing authority. Superannuation 34. The rules governing the retirement of employees of Government of India as amended from time to time or as desired by the Governing Body shall apply to the employees of the Central Council. Provided that an employee can be retained in service after the prescribed age of superannuation if he continues to be physically fi t and effi cient and it is in the interest of the Central Council to retain him in service. 35. The Fundamental and Supplementary Rules and General Financial Rules of Government of India as amended from time to time shall apply mutatis mutandis to employees of the Central Council. Xxx xxx xxx Other Conditions of Service 47. In respect of matters not provided for in these regulations the rules as applicable to Central Government servants regarding the general conditions of service, pay, allowances T.A. and daily allowances, foreign service terms, deputation in India and abroad, etc. and s and decisions issued in this regard by the Central Government from time to time shall apply mutatis mutandis to the employees of the Central Council.” (Emphasis supplied) 750 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. d. A bare perusal of the aforesaid rules indicates that the employees are recruited through a selection committee of the Council and the FRs will not directly apply where the Governing Body fi nalises the rules of superannuation.