[Para 29][1129- C-D] 7. The decision in the case of Anand in paragraphs 4 and 5 specifically refers to Rule 11 and 12(2) of the ST Rules. This Court recorded similar reasons earlier as held in paragraph 22 of E Anand for coming to the conclusion that affinity test will not always be mandatory and/or conclusive. [Para 30][1129-D; 1130-F-G] 8. Now, coming to the impugned in Shilpa Vishnu Thakur’s case. The Full Bench does not lay down that in every case where the Scrutiny Committee is dealing with a Scheduled Tribe claim, a reference must be made to the Vigilance Cell. In F clause (ii) (a) of paragraph 40, the Full Bench records that the Scrutiny Committee must have regard to the entire body of evidence, including on the question as to whether the applicant has satisfied the affinity test. As held earlier, the question of taking recourse to the affinity test will arise only if the case is referred G to Vigilance Cell. In fact, in clause (b) of paragraph 40, the Full Bench holds that even if an applicant does not have any documentary evidence it will not ipso facto result into invalidation of the caste claim. The reason is that in such a case, sub-rule (2) of Rule 12 will apply and the Vigilance Cell will have to hold an H 1106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A enquiry including affinity test. Even in such a case, affinity test will not be conclusive either way as held in clause (2) of paragraph 20 in Anand’s case. In clause (c) of the same paragraph, the Full Bench of the High Court also holds that even if the applicant partially satisfies the affinity test, depending upon the nature of the evidence on record, the Scrutiny Committee has power to B validate the claim. Thus, even clause (c) proceeds on the footing that the affinity test is not conclusive. [Para 34][1132-D-H; 1133- A] CONCLUSIONS 9. Thus, to conclude, this Court holds that: C (a) Only when the Scrutiny Committee after holding an enquiry is not satisfied with the material produced by the applicant, the case can be referred to Vigilance Cell. While referring the case to Vigilance Cell, the Scrutiny Committee must record brief reasons for coming to the conclusion that it is not satisfied with D the material produced by the applicant. Only after a case is referred to the Vigilance Cell for making enquiry, an occasion for the conduct of affinity test will arise. (b) For the reasons recorded, affinity test cannot be conclusive either way. When an affinity test is conducted by the E Vigilance Cell, the result of the test along with all other material on record having probative value will have to be taken into consideration by the Scrutiny Committee for deciding the caste validity claim; (c) In short, affinity test is not a litmus test to decide a caste claim and is not an essential part in the process of the F determination of correctness of a caste or tribe claim in every case.