D Considering the overall scheme of the 2003 Act, the supply of electricity is to the consumer and not the premises. 51. Section 43 of the 2003 Act obligates a distribution licensee to supply electricity “on an application by the owner or occupier of any premises”. Under the provision, the right to obtain a supply of electricity E is vested with the owner or occupier of the premises. Invariably, such owner or occupier means the consumer under Section 2(15). As held in Brihanmumbai Electric Supply & Transport Undertaking (supra), the duty to supply electricity comes into play only on an application made by the owner or occupier of the premises. Hence, the term “premises” has to be contextualised and understood with respect to the preceding F portion, that is, the owner or occupier of the premises. 52. The duty to supply electricity under Section 43 is only with respect to the owner or occupier of the premises, and not the premises, as it is the owner or occupier who has the statutory right to “demand” electricity for the premises under their use or occupation. Further, it is G the applicant who has to fulfil all the statutory conditions laid down under the 2003 Act to become entitled to get supply of electricity to their premises. The applicant has to pay the necessary charges and comply with all terms and conditions as determined by the appropriate commission for the supply of electricity. H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 677 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 53. It is true that Sections 43 and 44 of the 2003 Act talk about A supply of electricity to premises. However, the use of such phrases is borne out of the practical consideration of supply of electricity. Unlike other goods, a distribution licensee cannot insist that the consumer come to their factory or warehouse to receive the supply of electricity. The distribution licensee necessarily has to lay down special infrastructure B such as electricity lines and transformers to transmit electricity and supply it directly to the consumer, at their premises. On an application, the distribution licensee is statutorily obliged to supply electricity to the consumer. Consequently, the place where the supply of electricity is to be made has to be necessarily identified. Thus, Section 43 and 44 refer to the consumer’s premises to fix the situs for the purpose of supplying C electricity. 54. Section 56 provides that it is the liability of the consumer to pay the charge for electricity in respect of the supply of electricity. Under Section 56 the duty of effecting the payment of charges for electricity is on a person, that is, the consumer. Further, Section 56(2) specifically D contains the expression “no sum due from any consumer”. Section 126 also uses the words “the electricity charges payable by such person or any other person benefited by such use.” Thus, the overall scheme of the 2003 Act makes it evident that only a consumer can be held liable for default in payment of electricity dues or charges.