In the F mean while the Appellant has been faced with the threat of disconnection, and has had to pay, due to such inaction, large amounts of money for electricity which it has not utilized. 28. It is true that the agreement states that the consumer, (Appellant herein) is bound to pay such maximum demand amount irrespective of G utilization and also that such an agreement will be in effect for a period of five years but in the considered view of this Court, the Board cannot be allowed to take refuge of these clauses while the company on the other side is saddled with heavy cost in the interregnum of such decision. More so in view of the communication dated 11th August 1994. H 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 29. The Writ Court had observed that in the other instances cited by the Appellant herein, the reduction sought was a small amount of KVA as opposed to the 13000 KVA reduction sought vide the instant application. While that may be true, it does not supply reason to the act of keeping an application pending for such a long period of time. B 30. The above discussion gives way to the question whether such an action of the application remaining pending for an unreasonable period could in itself be classified as an arbitrary and unreasonable act. 31. A Constitution Bench of this Court in Natural Resources Allocation, IN Re, Special Reference No.1 of 20126speaking through C J.S. Khehar, J. (as His Lordship then was) observed in regards to contracts having the State as a party, as hereinunder reproduced:- “183. The parameters laid down by this Court on the scope of applicability of Article 14 of the Constitution of India, in matters where the State, its instrumentalities, and their functionaries, are engaged in contractual obligations (as they emerge from the D s extracted in paras 159 to 182, above) are being briefly paraphrased. For an action to be able to withstand the test of Article 14 of the Constitution of India, it has already been expressed in the main opinion that it has to be fair, reasonable, non- discriminatory, transparent, non-capricious, unbiased, without E favouritism or nepotism, in pursuit of promotion of healthy competition and equitable treatment. The s referred to, endorse all those requirements where the State, its instrumentalities, and their functionaries, are engaged in contractual transactions. Therefore, all “governmental policy” drawn with reference to contractual matters, it has been held, must conform F to the aforesaid parameters. While Article 14 of the Constitution of India permits a reasonable classification having a rational nexus to the object sought to be achieved, it does not permit the power of pick and choose arbitrarily out of several persons falling in the same category. Therefore, criteria or procedure have to be adopted G so that the choice among those falling in the same category is based on reason, fair play and non-arbitrariness. Even if there are only two contenders falling in the zone of consideration, there should be a clear, transparent and objective criteria or procedure H 6 (2012) 10 SCC 1 THE MADRAS ALUMINIUM CO. LTD. v. THE TAMIL NADU 755 ELECTRICITY BOARD AND ANR.