[2023] 3 S.C.R. 697 697 MOHD MUSLIM @ HUSSAIN A v. STATE (NCT OF DELHI) (Criminal Appeal No(s). 943 of 2023) MARCH 28, 2023 B [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – s.37 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.436A – Appellant accused of committing offences punishable under NDPS Act has been in C custody since 2015, if entitled to bail – Held: Recovery of ganja was made from the four co-accused – Appellant was arrested at the behest, and on the statement of one of the co-accused – Prosecution relied on that statement, as well as the confessional statement of the appellant – In addition, it also relied on the bank statements of one of the co-accused who allegedly disclosed that money used to be D transferred to the appellant – As against this, the prosecution has not recovered anything else from the appellant – The allegation that he is a mastermind is not backed by any evidence of extensive dealing with narcotics, which would reasonably have surfaced – Further, two co-accused persons have been enlarged on bail – E Appellant has been in custody for over 7 years and 4 months – Progress of the trial has been at a snail’s pace wherein 30 witnesses have been examined, and 34 more have to be examined – Grant of bail on ground of undue delay in trial, cannot be said to be fettered by s.37, given the imperative of s.436A which is applicable to offences under the NDPS Act too – Thus, on facts, appellant enlarged F on bail subject to such conditions as the trial court may impose – Bail. Bail – Offences under Special Acts – Duty of Courts – Discussed. G Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985 – s.37 – Special conditions under – Interpretation of. Words and Phrases – ‘Not guilty’ – Discussed – Bail. H 697 698 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The recovery of ganja was made on 28.09.2015, from the four co-accused, including ‘NE’. The present appellant was arrested at the behest, and on the statement of this ‘NE’. The prosecution has relied on that statement, as well as the B confessional statement of the present appellant; in addition, it has relied on the bank statements of ‘VS’ @ ‘B’, who allegedly disclosed that money used to be transferred to the appellant. As against this, the prosecution has not recovered anything else from the appellant; its allegation that he is a mastermind, is not backed by any evidence of extensive dealing with narcotics, which would C reasonably have surfaced. The prosecution has not shown involvement of the appellant, in any other case. Furthermore, he was apparently 23 years of age, at the time of his arrest. It is an undisputed fact that two co-accused persons (who also, were not present at the time of raid and from whom no contraband was D recovered) - the accused (‘VS’ @ ‘B’) who allegedly transferred money to the appellant’s account as payment for the ganja, and the accused (‘NY’ @ ‘TP’) from whom the original insurance papers and registration certificate of the car from which contraband was seized, was recovered - have both been enlarged on bail.