Discussion on the subject at the tripartite Indian Labour Conferences revealed a consensus of opinion in favour of legislation. The Bill accordingly seeks to provide for the framing of ‘Standing s’ in all industrial establishments employing one hundred and more workers.” It was, therefore, considered, as stated in the preamble “expedient to require employers in industrial establishments to defi ne with suffi cient precision the conditions of employment under them and to make the said conditions known to workmen employed by them”. The scheme of the Act, as amended in 1956 and as it now stands, requires every employer of an industrial establishment as defi ned in the Act to submit to the Certifying Offi cer draft Standing s, that is, “Rules relating to matters set out in the Schedule”, proposed by him for adoption in his industrial establishment. This is mandatory. It has to be done within six months after the commencement of the Act. Failure to do so is punishable and is further made a continuing off ence. The draft 105 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Standing s are required to cover every matter set out in the schedule. The Schedule enumerates the matters to be provided in the Standing s and they include classifi cation of workmen, shift working, attendance and late coming, leave and holidays, termination of employment, suspension or dismissal for misconduct, means of redress for wronged workmen etc. Item 11 of the Schedule is “Any other matter which may be prescribed”. By a notifi cation dated November 17, 1959 the Government of Uttar Pradesh has prescribed “Age of superannuation or retirement, rate of pension or any other facility which the employer may like to extend or may be agreed upon between the parties” as a matter requiring to be provided in the Standing s. On receipt of the draft Standing s from the employee, the Certifying Offi cer is required to forward a copy of the same to the trade union concerned or the workmen inviting them to prefer objections, if any. Thereafter the Certifying Offi cer is required to give a hearing to the employer and the trade union or workmen as the case may be and to decide “whether or not any modifi cation of or addition to the draft submitted by the employer is necessary to render the draft Standing s certifi able under the Act”. Standing s are certifi able under the Act only if provision is made therein for every matter set out in the schedule, if they are in conformity with the provisions of the Act and if the Certifying Offi cer adjudicates them as fair and reasonable. The Certifying Offi cer is invested with the powers of a civil court for the purposes of receiving evidence, administering oaths, enforcing the attendance of witnesses etc. etc. The of the Certifying Offi cer is subject to an appeal to the prescribed Appellate Authority. The Standing s as fi nally certifi ed are required to be entered in a register maintained by the Certifying Offi cer.