He did not fire more bullets though available. He did not run away and he helped others to B take the deceased to a hospital. If we assign a meaning to the word ‘cruel’ used in exception 4 which is used in common parlance, in no case exception 4 can be applied. Therefore, in our view, exception 4 to Section 300 was applicable in this case. Therefore, the appellant is guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The appellant snatched the C rifle from the hands of the deceased and fired one bullet at the deceased. This act was done with the intention of causing such bodily injury to the deceased as was likely to cause death. Therefore, the first part of Section 304 of IPC will apply in this case. Under the first part of Section 304 of IPC, an accused can be punished with imprisonment for life or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 10 years. D 12. Prosecution examined PW-5 Naik Parwinder Singh. In the cross-examination, he stated that he knew the appellant since June 2003 and was good in terms of discipline. He stated that the appellant did not misbehave with the deceased earlier. PW-10 Lt.Col Purty admitted that the accused had a ‘nice reputation’. The conduct of the appellant will be E a mitigating factor for determining the sentence. It is not in dispute that the appellant has undergone incarceration for a period of 9 years and approximately 3 months. Taking an overall view of the evidence on record, the sentence already undergone by the appellant will be an appropriate sentence in the facts of the case. F 13. Therefore, the appeal is partly allowed. The conviction of the appellant for the offence punishable under Section 302 of IPC is altered to the one under Part 1 of Section 304 of IPC. The appellant is sentenced to undergo imprisonment for the term which he has already undergone. The appellant was enlarged on bail by this Court on 8th April 2020. The G bail bonds of the appellant shall stand cancelled. Nidhi Jain Appeal partly allowed. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) H