He submits that the impugned Amendments now permit for three extensions of one year at a time. It is, therefore, submitted that the Government can use the ‘carrot and stick’ policy so as to ensure C that the said Directors work according to the wishes of the Government. He submits that a Director would always succumb to the pressure of the Government so as to ensure that he gets further extension as provided for in the statute by amendment. Learned Amicus, therefore, submits that these provisions being inconsistent with the spirit of the earlier s of this Court that the post of the Director of Enforcement as D well as the Director of CBI should be kept insulated stand defeated. Learned Amicus, therefore, submits that such a provision which permits piecemeal extension of tenure of one year each subject to a maximum cumulative tenure of five years undermines the independence and integrity of the office. Learned Amicus submits that the impugned Amendments E would also result in stagnation and inefficiency of service/administration and cause frustration amongst other eligible officers in the cadre. 27. Learned Amicus, relying on the of this Court in the case of Madras Bar Association v. Union of India and another8 submits that this Court has struck down the provision for re-appointment of the Chairperson/Members for another term of 5 years by holding that F such a provision itself has the effect of undermining the independence of the Chairperson/Members of National Tax Tribunal (NTT). He submits that this Court has held that every Chairperson/Member appointed to NTT would be constrained to decide matters in a manner that would ensure his reappointment in terms of Section 8 of the National Tax G Tribunals Act, 2005. His decisions may or may not be based on his independent understanding. 28. Learned Amicus further relying on the of this Court in the case of Rojer Mathew v. South Indian Bank Limited 8 (2014) 10 SCC 1 H 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A represented by its Chief Manager and others9 submits that when the above provision was sought to be introduced by way of Rules, the same was struck down by this Court as being in disregard of the binding principles enunciated by this Court and being destructive of judicial independence. B 29. Learned Amicus, relying on the of the Madras High Court in the case of V. Sasitharan & Ors. v. The Government of Tamil Nadu & Ors.10, submits that the extensions granted to the officers beyond the date of retirement generate disgruntlement and dis- appointment amongst the other officers, lower down in the ladder whose only aspiration in their official career would be to reach to the top most C post in the administrative set up. Learned Amicus submits that the Madras High Court has held that if such extensions are granted as a matter of bounty, then there is every possibility of the officer in service playing to the tunes of those in power totally acting against public interest.