The letter dated 23.05.2013 stated that all the terms and conditions of the PPA were to remain unaffected and the non-production of FSCs and detailed invoices took the opportunity G to object to the same away from the Government. In light of the terms of the PPA, the submission of the claimant that the Government could not have frozen dollar rate and RLNG rate, would be unsustainable. Moreover, it would be wrong to assert that if fuel facilitation charges had not been given to the claimant by the Arbitral Tribunal, the requirement of providing FSCs would be waived off. H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 407 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 10.5. As regards downrating amounting to Rs. 18.53 crore, learned A Attorney General has submitted that the Arbitral Tribunal wrongly held that the issue of downrating was resolved between parties on 05.04.2007 and failed to appreciate the relevant contractual provisions concerning downrating. The definition of ‘contractual capacity’ as defined under the PPA required that downrating be taken into account, and this definition B was not amended by the Supplementary PPAs. Therefore, it was not open for the Tribunal to hold that downrating had been given a go-by. Given that the claimant did not produce the OEM recommendations, the State had to rely upon a draft notification issued by the Ministry of Power to calculate downrating. It has been submitted that this failure to produce the OEM recommendations would necessitate an adverse inference being C drawn against the claimant and the claimant could not have subsequently relied on the certificate dated 08.11.2005 to argue that no degradation had taken place, vitiating the applicability of downrating. It has been submitted that the certificate dated 08.11.2005 cannot be held to be conclusive as to the degradation of the plant beyond the date of issuance D of the aforesaid certificate and, therefore, the contractual stipulation could not have been ignored. Downrating would have to be applied in terms of the contract irrespective of changes in contracted capacity because, if the concept of downrating had become redundant, the claimant would have pointed it out in the year 2007 itself. E 10.6. Insofar as the award of Rs. 3.94 crore towards variable charges on 4 MW power is concerned, learned Attorney General has submitted that variable charges were only to be paid in respect of power actually purchased, whereas fixed charges were payable regardless of actual purchase since there was no connection with infrastructure costs. The contention on this score has been that they are not liable to pay F variable charges for electricity which had not been supplied to them, particularly when the parties had also agreed to waive fixed charges in that respect. Therefore, the Arbitral Tribunal erred in directing payment towards variable charges for 4 MW electricity, which was never supplied to the Government of Goa. The contracted capacity for the duration G when the claimant was permitted to sell to third parties was reduced by 4 MW and; hence, while billing the variable charges for that period, contracted capacity also had to be reduced.