It is contended that CIL does not operate in the commercial sphere. Great emphasis is laid on the fact that out of 462 mines operated by CIL, 345 have suffered losses amounting to Rs.9,878 Crores in the year 2012- C 2013. As part of its constitutional responsibility, it engages 51 per cent of its manpower which is about 1,80,726 persons in such mines. Despite the fact that these underground mines only contribute 9 per cent to its total coal production, it is emphasized that the appellants are not free as a private player to lay off its employees. D 9. Section 4(2)(a) of the Act prohibits unfair and discriminatory price fixation or conditions for the sale or purchase of goods or services. It is submitted that the Court may bear in mind that price fixation of coal,as far as the appellants and the coal companies under it is concerned, it is based on the Constitutional mandate under Article 39(b) which may be inconsistent with market principles. E 10. Under the Nationalisation Act as much as under Article 39(b), the appellants may have to follow differential pricing mechanism to encourage captive coal production. Applying the Act would adversely affect pursing such a differential pricing mechanism. This again would defeat the object underlying the Nationalization Act. F 11. Next, the point of contrast consists of Section 4(2)(b) declaring it to be an abuse of the dominant position where an enterprise limits or restricts production of goods, provision of services or market. The impact ofthe provisions would have on policy decisions taken by the Ministry of Coal to encourage certain industries through a coal supply and pricing G mechanism is emphasized. As an illustration, it is pointed out that the Ministry of Coal takes action to encourage growth in backward areas by allocating more coal supply. If such policy or actions thereunder are to be tested on the anvil of Section 4(2)(b) of the Act, it may not pass muster. This again would undermine the object of the Nationalisation Act and what is more, the wholesome principle enshrined in Article 39(b). H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 839 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Section 3 of the Nationalisation Act, it is next pointed out, vests the A ownership of the coal mines in the Central Government. However, under Section 19 the CCI is obliged to take into consideration the monopoly position whether controlled by the Government or not, as a factor to determine the dominant position. 12. Next, it is contended that Section 27(a) of the Act, clothes the B CCI with the power to the cessation of abuse. This would be inconsistent with the appellants pursuing welfare policy in relation to pricing and distribution of coal.Under Section 32 of the Nationalisation Act, the mining companies cannot be wound up. This stands in contrast to Section 28 of the Act which empowers the CCI to divide enterprises C abusing dominant position including adjustment of contracts, formation of winding up of enterprises among other things.