[Source: Anson’s law of contract]. (iv) Thus, a contract between two persons may be accompanied by a collateral contract between one of them and a third D person relating to the same subject matter. When a person buys goods from a dealer and is given a guarantee issued by the manufacturer, the main contract of sale is between dealer and the purchaser or customer but the guarantee from the manufacturer is a collateral contract between the E manufacturer and the customer. To be enforceable as a collateral contract, a promise must be supported by consideration. (i) In the case of purchase of goods by the customer from the dealer for consideration, the guarantee from the manufacturer is collateral contract between the manufacturer and the customer. (ii) When a customer buys F goods from a shop and the payment involves use of cheque, cards or credit cards issued by the bank, the main contract is between the customer and the shopkeeper but there is also a contract between the shop keeper and the issuer of the credit card, by which the latter undertakes that the shop G keeper will be paid. (iii) In the case of a hire-purchase agreement, the primary contract is the customer entering into a hire-purchase agreement with the finance company. In such a case, the main contract is between the customer and the finance company. A representation by the dealer as to the quality of the goods used does not bind the finance H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1317 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] company but it would be enforced against the dealer as a A collateral contract by a customer. [Source: Benjamin’s Sale of Goods, Eighth Edition] (v) According to Halsbury’s Laws of England, Fifth Edition- 2012, Volume 91, meaning of warranty is as under: B “64. Meaning of ‘warranty’. ‘Warranty’ means an agreement with reference to goods which are the subject of a contract of sale, but collateral to the main purpose of such a contract, the breach of which gives rise to a claim for damages, but not to a right to reject the goods and tret the contract as repudiated. In to satisfy C the definition, therefore, a warranty must, first, be an agreement, a promise that the representation is or will be true; and, secondly, the agreement must be collateral to the main purpose of the contract, such purpose being the transfer of the property in, and the possession of, D goods of the description contracted for. A warranty may be given in consideration of an agreement to enter into a contract of sale of the goods to which the warranty relates with a party other than the person giving the warranty.” E 13.6. In Rotork Controls India Pvt. Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Chennai, (2009) 13 SCC 283, a provision within the meaning of Section 40-A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 which deals with expenses or payment not deductible in certain circumstances came up for consideration.