A.4. Section 11(4A) must be interpreted harmoniously with Section 2(15), with which there is no conflict. Carrying out H 870 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A activity in the nature of trade, commerce or business, or service in relation to such activities, should be conducted in the course of achieving the GPU object, and the income, profit or surplus or gains must, therefore, be incidental. The requirement in Section 11(4A) of maintaining separate books B of account is also in line with the necessity of demonstrating that the quantitative limit prescribed in the proviso to Section 2(15), has not been breached. Similarly, the insertion of Section 13(8), seventeenth proviso to Section 10(23C) and third proviso to Section 143(3) (all w.r.e.f. 01.04.2009), C reaffirm this interpretation and bring uniformity across the statutory provisions. 10. This court had also considered the nature of income derived by a trust, which was managing a newspaper. The observations pertaining D to that assessee, i.e. the Tribune Trust, are relevant: “257. It is noticed from the impugned that the High Court concedes to the fact that the trust’s activities were held by the Privy Council to constitute financing of objects of E ‘general public utility’; further that merely because thousands of newspapers were being published made no difference. It still continues to be a GPU charity. 258. The question then is whether the nature of receipts and income garnered by the Trust, in the course of actually F carrying out its activity of publishing newspaper, can be characterized as “in the nature of trade, commerce or business” or “service in relation to trade, commerce or business”, for any consideration. During the course of submissions, it was urged that advertisement revenue should G not be treated as business or commercial receipts since that virtually is the lifeblood which sustains the activity of publication of newspapers. It was highlighted that the object of maintaining the activity of publishing and distribution of newspaper remains the advancement of general public utility, H PR. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX (EXEMPTIONS) DELHI V. 871 SERVANTS OF PEOPLE SOCIETY [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] as it has the effect of both notifying and educating the general A public about the current affairs and developments. The inclusion of advertisements also serves as information to the general public, especially in areas of employment, availability of resources, etc. Therefore, publication of advertisement is B intrinsically connected with the activity of printing and publishing of newspapers. 259. The publication of advertisements for consideration, in the opinion of the court, by the newspaper, cannot but be termed as an activity in the nature of carrying on business, C trade or commerce for a fee or consideration. That the newspaper published by the trust (“the Tribune”) in this case is funded mainly through advertisement is no basis for holding that publishing such advertisements by the Trust does not constitute business. The object of the trust to involve or engage D in publication of newspapers. Publishing advertisements is obviously to garner receipts which are in the nature of profit.