We are of the view that the High Court in its and has rightly held that Respondent 1 G State and Respondent 2 NIT are bound to stick to the development plan and scheme. It has placed reliance upon the decision of this Court in Indore Vikas Pradhikaran v. Pure Industrial Coke & Chemicals Ltd. [Indore Vikas Pradhikaran v. Pure Industrial Coke & Chemicals Ltd., (2007) 8 SCC 705] , wherein this Court, H 55 (2016) 4 SCC 443 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1115 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] while dealing with the aspect of town planning and Articles 300-A A and 14 of the Constitution of India, has observed as under: (SCC p. 730, paras 46-47) “46. … The courts must make an endeavour to strike a balance between public interest on the one hand and protection of a constitutional right to hold property, on the other. B 47. For the aforementioned purpose, an endeavour should be made to find out as to whether the statute takes care of public interest in the matter vis-à-vis the private interest, on the one hand, and the effect of lapse and/or positive inaction on the part of the State and other planning authorities, on the other.” C xxx xxx xxx 36. The High Court has, further, rightly held that the impugned clause contained in the said development agreement is neither void nor illegal for want of consideration. It has also been rightly D held by it that after consideration of the whole scheme of the NIT Act, particularly, the provisions under Sections 29 to 70 and 121 of the said Act read with the terms and conditions of the said development agreement entered into between the parties, it is clear that the said development agreement creates reciprocal rights and obligations between the parties with some objects. E xxx xxx xxx 38. Thus, seeking abandonment of acquisition of the land as provided under Section 68 of the NIT Act is a huge benefit which the appellant Trust has gained from the agreement. Further, it is F not open for the appellant Trust to avail only the beneficial part of the said development agreement to form a layout plan and allow the sites to be allotted in favour of the allottees, when it itself is not willing to discharge the obligation of transferring the reserved land for public utility purpose, as agreed upon in the development agreement. G 39. Further, the High Court has rightly observed that another benefit derived by the appellant Trust from the said development agreement is immediate and reciprocal sanction for the development of the said land with permission for the commercial usage of the same, presuming that there would be no acquisition.” H 1116 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A YOGENDRA PAL AND OTHERS V. MUNICIPALITY, BATHINDA AND ANOTHER56 104. The case arose under the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911. The State Government, acting under Section 192(3) of the Municipal Law, sanctioned a Town Planning Scheme, under which, an area of 22.23 B acres was transferred to the Municipal Committee.