The Court observed that, “to give a mandatory preference to members of either sex over members of the other, G merely to accomplish the elimination of hearings on the merits, is to make the very kind of arbitrary legislative choice forbidden by the Equal Protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment…The choice in this context may not lawfully be mandated solely on the basis of sex.” H 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (b) InWeinberger vs. Wiesenfeld, 420 U.S. 636, 95 S. Ct. 1225 (1975), the issue was with regard to the Social Security Act which provided survivor’s benefits based on the earnings of a deceased husband and father both to his widow and the couple’s minor children in her care. However, the benefits based on the earnings of a covered deceased wife and mother were granted only to the B minor children and not to the widower. In the said case, the question before the Supreme Court of the United States was whether the gender-based distinction in Social Security Benefits violated the Due Process Clause of the Fifth Amendment. In a unanimous decision, the Court held that the purpose of C the social security benefits for the surviving spouse and children is to enable the surviving spouse to properly care for the children, regardless of the gender of the parent. The Court observed that, gender-based discrimination regarding these benefits was illogical and counter-productive by excluding a widower. D It was further observed that the Constitution of United States forbade a gender-based differentiation that resulted in less protection for the families of female workers who were required to pay Social Security taxes than was accorded to the families of male workers. The statute’s gender-based distinction was based E on an archaic and overbroad generalization about the contributions to family support made by male and female workers. The Court therefore held that such an irrational classification violated the right to equal protection secured by the Fifth Amendment, which prohibited discrimination that was so unjustifiable as to be violative of due process. Thus, in the aforesaid case, the right of a widower F was established while at the same time emphasising that discrimination on the basis of gender violated the equality clause which provides a guarantee against such discrimination. (c) The question in Duren vs. Missouri, 439 U.S. 357, 99 S. Ct. 664 (1979)was whether the Jackson County’s practice of G automatically exempting women from jury service upon request violated the rights as guaranteed by the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments. The Court held that the State statute’s exemption of women from jury service on request violated the defendant’s rights as guaranteed by the Sixth and Fourteenth Amendments in failing to ensure that jurors in criminal cases be drawn from a fair H ASSOCIATION OF OLD SETTLERS OF SIKKIM AND ORS. v. 351 UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] cross section of the community, since it was sufficiently established A by the defendant that women, as a group, were distinct from men.