The market value as alleged would be more than Rs.3 Lakhs at the relevant time. The guideline value was estimated to be Rs.22,500/- whereas the transfer was aff ected for a consideration shown as Rs.12,000/-. The defendant failed to explain this conduct of his of being in such a haste to transfer the property on the same day to his own father and brother. The defi ciency in stamp duty due to under valuation was also not cleared as the document had been impounded by the Registering Authority and it was after nine to eleven years that the deeds were got released after paying the stamp duty, as per the value determined by the Assessing Authority. Apparently, the defendants were waiting for the outcome of the suit and in case if they were to lose, they would not like to invest or spend any further amount on stamp duty so they chose not to pay till almost the Trial Court dismissed the suit. 28. The Power of Attorney did not confer possession on the defendant No.2. The plaintiff s continued to assert that they were in possession whereas the defendants claimed to be in possession pursuant to the sale deed. A RAMATHAL AND ORS. v. K. RAJAMANI (DEAD) 365 THROUGH LRS. AND ANR. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] fi nding has also come to the eff ect that the consideration of Rs.12,000/- was paid to the plaintiff s, which the plaintiff s have denied. The question would be as to whether the consideration was just and adequate for the property which was transferred by the Attorney holder. 29. The consideration has not been paid either in the bank account or by Cheque or Demand Draft but in cash, so, therefore, whether it was actually paid or not would be dependent upon the acceptance of either of the oral statements by the plaintiff s or the defendants. The statement of the defendants considering their conduct, would be placed at a lesser pedestal in terms of its genuineness as compared to that of the plaintiff s. There is no documentary evidence as such (receipt or any such thing) signed by the plaintiff s of having received any consideration. Thus, possession cannot be said to have been validly transferred to the defendant and the lawful possession would still remain with the plaintiff . The First Appellate Court had appreciated and analyzed the evidence on record, both oral and documentary, to record a fi nding that plea of non est factum was proved. 30. The case law relied upon by the defendant-respondents are basically for the proposition that a registered document be presumed to be correct not only of its execution but also of its contents. As already discussed above, once the First Appellate Court, after appreciating and analysing the evidence on record came to the conclusion that the plea of non est factum was proved, the said fi nding, being a fi nding of fact, ought not to have been interfered by the High Court in Second Appeal.