The APTEL, vide and dated 3rdNovember 2020, dismissed the said appeal. Challenging the same, Civil Appeal No. 4143 of 2020 came to be filed before this Court. By an of even date, this Court dismissed the said appeal. B 6. In the meantime, the Ministry of Coal, Government of India (for short, “MoC”), on 22ndMay 2017, brought into effect a new regime for allocation of coal under SHAKTI Policy. Under SHAKTI Policy, the projects, which were approved under the old regime, were entitled to continue to get supply of 75% of the Assured Coal Quantity (for st short, “ACQ”) even beyond 31 March 2017. C 7. Contending that there was a shortfall from 75% ACQ, AP(M)L filed a petition being Petition No. 251/MP/2018 claiming relief for shortfall th on account of Change in Law. The CERC, vide dated 13 June 2019 allowed the said claim. Being aggrieved thereby, an appeal, being Appeal No. 358 of 2019, was filed before the APTEL. D 8. Three basic grounds, along with other grounds, were raised before the APTEL. The first ground was that the SHAKTI Policy could not be considered to be Change in Law. The second ground was that the AP(M)L had not given a Notice of Change in Law and, as such, was not entitled to the benefit on the ground of Change in Law. The third ground E was with regard to award of Carrying Cost. The APTEL, vide impugned th and dated 30 June 2021, dismissed the said appeal. 9. Being aggrieved thereby, the Haryana Utilities have preferred the present appeal. 10. By an of even date, we have decided the appeals filed F by Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), wherein all these grounds were raised and considered, and held against DISCOMs. The findings given by the APTEL in the present appeal are identical with the findings given in the and th dated 28 September 2020, which has been upheld by us in Civil Appeal G Nos. 677-678 of 2021. 11. It will further be relevant to note that the present appeal arises out of concurrent findings of fact arrived at by both the authorities. 12. This Court, in the case of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) v. Adani Power H UTTAR HARYANA BIJLI VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. ADANI 643 POWER (MUNDRA) LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Maharashtra Limited (APML) and Others2, after considering the A relevant provisions under the Electricity Act, 2003 with regard to appointment, qualifications and Members of the CEA, CERC and the learned APTEL, held that these bodies are bodies consisting of experts in the field. After considering various s on the issue, this Court observed thus: B “123. Recently, the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Vivek Narayan Sharma v. Union of India has held that the Courts should be slow in interfering with the decisions taken by the experts in the field and unless it is found that the expert bodies have failed to take into consideration the mandatory statutory C provisions or the decisions taken are based on extraneous considerations or they are ex facie arbitrary and illegal, it will not be appropriate for this Court to substitute its views with that of the expert bodies.” 13.