(3) The jurisdiction conferred by this Act on a Special Court shall, until a Special Court is designated by the State Government under sub-section (1) in the case of any offence punishable under this Act, notwithstanding anything E contained in the Code, be exercised by the Court of Session of the division in which such offence has been committed and it shall have all the powers and follow the procedure provided under this Chapter. (4) On and from the date when the Special Court is designated F by the State Government the trial of any offence investigated by the State Government under the provisions of this Act, which would have been required to be held before the Special Court, shall stand transferred to that Court on the date on which it is designated.” G 42. We shall now look into the 1908 Act. Section 7 of the 1908 Act imposes restriction on trial of offences under the 1908 Act except with the consent of the District Magistrate. Section 7 reads thus: “7. Restriction on trial of offences.— H 32 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A No court shall proceed to the trial of any person for an offence against this Act except with the consent of the District Magistrate.” FINAL ANALYSIS Issue No. 1 B 43. We find no merit in the principal argument canvassed on behalf of the appellants that a chargesheet filed without sanction is an incomplete chargesheet which could be termed as not in consonance with sub section (5) of Section 173 of the CrPC. It was conceded by the learned counsel appearing for the appellants that the chargesheet was C filed well within the statutory time period i.e., 180 days, however, the court concerned could not have taken cognizance of such chargesheet in the absence of the s of sanction not being a part of such chargesheet. Whether the sanction is required or not under a statute, is a question that has to be considered at the time of taking cognizance of the offence and not during inquiry or investigation. There is a marked D distinction in the stage of investigation and prosecution. The prosecution starts when the cognizance of offence is taken. It is also to be kept in mind that cognizance is taken of the offence and not of the offender. It cannot be said that obtaining sanction from the competent authorities or the authorities concerned is part of investigation. Sanction is required E only to enable the court to take cognizance of the offence. The court may take cognizance of the offence after the sanction was produced before the court, but the moment, the final report is filed along with the documents that may be relied on by the prosecution, then the investigation will be deemed to have been completed. Taking cognizance is entirely different from completing the investigation. To complete the investigation F and file a final report is a duty of the investigating agency, but taking cognizance of the offence is the power of the court.