The interpretation suggested by learned Attorney General would lead to vesting of unguided power in the Central Board of the Bank whereas giving a wider power to the Central Government to initiate such a demonetisation wherein all series of a denomination could be demonetised is appropriate as it is expected to consider F all pros and cons from various angles and then to initiate demonetisation on a large scale through a legislative process. Such a power is vested only in the Central Government by virtue of Entry 36 of List I of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution which of course has to be exercised by means G of a plenary legislation and not by issuance of a gazette notification under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. Hence, the word “any” cannot be interpreted to mean “all” having regard to the context in which it is used in the said provision. H 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 15.28 Secondly, any recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank under sub-section (2) of Section 26 is not binding on the Central Government. If the Central Government does not accept the recommendation of the Bank then no notification would be published in the Gazette of India by it. In fact, the Central Government is not bound by the B recommendation made by the Central Board of the Bank to demonetise any bank note, although, the Central Board of the Bank may comprise of experts in matters relating to finance, having knowledge and experience of economic affairs of the country and such knowledge may be reflected C in the recommendation made to the Central Government. As already noted, the Central Government has the option to accept the said recommendation and accordingly issue a gazette notification or elect not to act on the same. However, the Central Government should consider the recommendation with all seriousness and in its wisdom take D an appropriate decision in the matter. 16. In the instant case,on perusal of the records submitted by Union of India and the Bank, it is noted that the proposal for demonetisation had been initiated by the Central Government by writing a letter to the Bank on 7th November, 2016and not by the Central Board of the Bank. E On the very next evening i.e., on 8th November, 2016 at 05:30 p.m., there was a meeting of the Central Board of the Bank at New Delhi and a Resolution was passed and a little while thereafter on the same evening, the notification was issued invoking sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act by the Central Government. Such a procedure is not contemplated F under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act when the proposal for demonetisation is initiated by the Central Government. 16.1 Hence, it is held that in the instant case the Central Government could not have exercisedpower undersub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Act in the issuance of G theimpugned gazette Notification dated 8th November, 2016.