Note: PART G 116 Fouchard, Gaillard, Goldman on International Commercial Arbitration (edited by Emmanuel Gaillard and John Savage, 1999) 396 117 Gary Born (n 62) 1143 118 Interpretation of Greco-Turkish Agreement of December 1st, 1926, Advisory Opinion, Series B – No. 16 (August 28, 1928). IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1149 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] tribunal is properly constituted; and third, what matters have been submitted to arbitration in accordance with the arbitration agreement. The basis for the jurisdictional competence of an arbitral tribunal can be evinced from the following observation of Lord Hoff man in Fili Shipping Company Limited (supra): “In my opinion the construction of an arbitration clause should start from the assumption that the parties, as rational businessmen, are likely to have intended any dispute rising out of the relationship into which they have entered or purported to enter to be decided by the same tribunal.” In Dallah Real Estate and Tourism Holding Company v. The Ministry of Religious Aff airs, Government of Pakistan,119 the United Kingdom Supreme Court held that the tribunal’s own view of its jurisdiction has no legal or evidential value when the issue pertains to the exercise of legitimate authority by the tribunal. Thus, the UK position is that although the arbitral tribunal is empowered to consider whether it has jurisdiction, its determination is subject to the examination of the courts. 118. The courts in the United States have considered the principle of competence-competence to be intertwined with the separability presumption. In Prima Paint (supra), the United States Supreme Court held that if a claim is made to the eff ect that the underlying contract was induced fraudulently, then the issue should be determined by the courts. The Supreme Court concluded that all the other issues should be left for the determination of the arbitral tribunal to “not only honor the plain meaning of the statute, but also the unmistakably clear congressional purpose that the arbitration procedure, when selected by the parties to a contract, be speedy, and not subject to delay and obstruction in the courts.” In Buckeye Check Cashing (supra), the United States Supreme Court reiterated Prima Paint (supra) by holding that the arbitral tribunal should consider the issue of the validity of underlying contract in the fi rst instance. Thus, the position in the US is that the courts should only check if any invalidity is directed at the arbitration agreement, leaving all the other issues, including that of the validity of the underlying contract, to the arbitral tribunal. 119. Under Singaporean law, Article 21(1) of the Arbitration Act, 2001 incorporates the doctrine of competence-competence in so far as domestic 119 [2010] UKSC 46 115 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. arbitration is concerned. It provides that an arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including a plea that it has no jurisdiction and any objections to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement at any stage of the arbitral proceedings.