The court had emphasized on the applicability of the cumulative eff ect upon the patient, of the medical negligence, in the decision reported as Malay Kumar Ganguly v Dr. Sukumar Mukherjee (hereafter “Malay Kumar Ganguly”)63 and held that negligence of each treating contributory fact resulting in the patient’s condition, has to be seen: “in a case of this nature, the court must deal with the consequences the patient faced, keeping in view the cumulative eff ect.” Malay Kumar Ganguly (supra) is also an authority for the reasoning that while awarding compensation, the court should consider “loss of earning or profi t up to the date of trial” including any loss “already suff ered or is likely to be suff ered in future”. Recently, in Sidram v Divisional Manager64, this court underlined the rationale for just compensation: “32. This Court has emphasised time and again that “just compensation” should include all elements that would go to place the victim in as near a position as she or he was in, before the occurrence of the accident. Whilst no amount of money or other material 63 (2009) 13 SCR 1. 64 [2022] 8 S.C.R 403. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 649 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] compensation can erase the trauma, pain and suff ering that a victim undergoes after a serious accident, (or replace the loss of a loved one), monetary compensation is the manner known to law, whereby society assures some measure of restitution to those who survive, and the victims who have to face their lives.” In K. Suresh v. New India Assurance Co. Ltd.65, this court observed that: “10. It is noteworthy to state that an adjudicating authority, while determining the quantum of compensation, has to keep in view the suff erings of the injured person which would include his inability to lead a full life, his incapacity to enjoy the normal amenities which he would have enjoyed but for the injuries and his ability to earn as much as he used to earn or could have earned. Hence, while computing compensation the approach of the Tribunal or a court has to be broad-based. Needless to say, it would involve some guesswork as there cannot be any mathematical exactitude or a precise formula to determine the quantum of compensation. In determination of compensation the fundamental criterion of “just compensation” should be inhered.” 79. Recently, in Abhimanyu Partap Singh v. Namita Sekhon & Anr.,66 this court held that: “compensation can be assessed in pecuniary heads i.e. the loss of future earning, medical expenses including future medical expenses, attendant charges and also in the head of transportation including future transportation. In the non-pecuniary heads, the compensation can be computed for the mental and physical pain and suff erings in the present and in future, loss of amenities of life including loss of marital bliss, loss of expectancy in life, inconvenience, hardship, discomfort, disappointment, frustration, mental agony in life, etc.” 80. The appellant has claimed a total sum of ₹ 95,03,00,000/- (Rupees ninety-fi ve crores, three lakhs only), under various heads: 65 (2012) 11 SCR 414.