Further, SEBI has placed on record a brief note on the factual and legal aspects describing the existing statutory regime, regulatory mechanisms and frameworks in place for the protection of investors. It has also laid out the regulatory framework governing short selling. Mr Vishal Tiwari and Mr Manohar Lal Sharma B have appeared in person. 6. SEBI has submitted in its note that: a. It has adopted a disclosure based regulatory regime for both issuance of and trading in securities. This is in line with the C discontinuation of pricing control for capital issues in favour of the principle of free discovery by the markets based on demand and supply from informed investors; and b. It is “strongly and adequately empowered to put in place regulatory frameworks for effecting stable operations and development of the securities markets including protection D of investors.” It has also detailed the extant framework governing investor protection in the context of the subject matter at hand. It has stated that the key pillars of investor protection are: “11.1 Mandatory disclosures by listed companies to facilitate E free and fair price discovery and to ensure that all investors have equal access to material information for them to be able to take informed investment decisions; 11.2 Market systems to ensure seamless trading and settlement including volatility management; F 11.3 Enforcement action in the event of misconduct in the market including fraud or violations of SEBI regulations.” 7. In Prakash Gupta v. SEBI,3a two Judge Bench of this Court, of which one of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J) was a part discussed the G specialized regulatory role of SEBI and noted that: “99. The provisions of the SEBI Act, as analyzed earlier in this , would indicate the importance of the role which has been ascribed to it as a regulatory, adjudicatory and prosecuting H 3 2021 SCC OnLine SC 485 VISHAL TIWARI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 955 agency. SEBI has vital functions to discharge in the context of A maintaining an ly and stable securities’ market so as to protect the interests of investors.” 8. On the subject matter of these petitions, SEBI has stated that: “21.1 SEBI is already enquiring into both, the allegations made in B the Hindenburg report as well as the market activity immediately preceding and post the publication of the report, to identify violations of SEBI Regulations including but not limited to SEBI (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices I relating to Securities Market) Regulations 2003, SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading) Regulations 2015, SEBI (Foreign Portfolio C Investors) Regulations 2019, Offshore Derivative Instruments (ODI) norms, short selling norms, if any. As the matter is in early stages of examination, it may not be appropriate to list details about the ongoing proceedings at this stage.” 9. In view of the above statement, it appears that SEBI is seized D of the investigation into the allegations made against the Adani Group companies. SEBI has not expressly referred to an investigation into the alleged violation of the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Rules 1957 which provide for the maintenance of minimum public shareholding in a public limited company.