The party who has lost in the arbitration proceedings will be entitled to forfeit nine-tenths of the deposit made despite the fact that the aforesaid party has an award against it. This would render the entire clause wholly arbitrary, being not only excessive or disproportionate but leading to the wholly unjust result of a party who has lost an arbitration being entitled to forfeit such part of the deposit as falls proportionately short of the amount awarded as compared to what is claimed. xxx xxx xxx 27. Deterring a party to an arbitration from invoking this alternative dispute resolution process by a pre-deposit of 10 per cent would discourage arbitration, contrary to the object of de-clogging the court system, and would render the arbitral process ineff ective and expensive. 28. For all these reasons, we strike down Clause 25(viii) of the notice inviting tender...” (Emphasis supplied) 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 42. The principles of law discernible from the aforesaid observations made by this Court in ICOMM Tele Limited (supra) are as under: (a) That the pre-deposit condition in an arbitration clause is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India being arbitrary. (b) Unless it is fi rst found or prima facie established that the litigation that has been embarked upon is frivolous, the exemplary costs or punitive damages cannot follow. (c) Deterring a party to an arbitration from invoking the Alternative Dispute Resolution Process by pre-deposit of certain percentage would discourage arbitration. This would run contrary to the object of de-clogging the court system and would render the arbitral process ineff ective and expensive. FEW DECISIONS OF THE HIGH COURTS ON THE SUBJECT 43. Lite Bite Foods Pvt. Ltd. v. Airports Authority of India reported in 2020 SCC OnLine Ker 4736, Nature of the Clause: “5.15. Dispute Resolution ….The Concessionaire by means of a written application can seek appointment of an Arbitrator and Authority would appoint such an Arbitrator within 30 days of receipt of the application, subject to fulfi lling, the pre-requisites for appointment of the Arbitrator as laid hereunder:— i. The case shall be referred to the Sole Arbitrator as per AA1 delegation of powers in vogue subject to the condition that the Concessionaire shall have to deposit the disputed amount with AA1 as condition precedent and the consent shall have to be obtained from the concessionaire for acceptance of the recommendations of Arbitrator before making reference to the Arbitrator for adjudication of dispute.” (Emphasis supplied) 44. The relevant extract from the reads thus: LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 969 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “11…the conditions in clause 5.15 of the RFP, that require the petitioner to choose an Arbitrator from among a panel suggested by the respondent, as also the condition that requires the petitioner to make a pre-deposit of amounts as a condition for invoking the arbitration, would fall foul of the law declared by the Supreme court in the decisions reported as Perkins Eastman Architects DPC v. HSCC (India) Ltd. - [2019 SCC OnLine SC 1517] and ICOMM Tele Ltd. v. Punjab State Water Supply and Sewerage Board - [(2019) 4 SCC 401] respectively.