This Court in Nasir Ahmad v. Custodian General, Evacuee Property, (1980) 3 SCC 1 has held that it is essential for the notice to specify the particular grounds on the basis of which an action is proposed G to be taken so as to enable the noticee to answer the case against him. If these conditions are not satisfied, the person cannot be said to have been granted any reasonable opportunity of being heard. 14. Specifically, in the context of blacklisting of a person or H an entity by the State or a State Corporation, the requirement of a ISOLATORS AND ISOLATORS THR. ITS PROP. MRS. SANDHYA MISHRA 467 v. MPMKVVCL [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] valid, particularised and unambiguous show-cause notice is A particularly crucial due to the severe consequences of blacklisting and the stigmatisation that accrues to the person/entity being blacklisted. Here, it may be gainful to describe the concept of blacklisting and the graveness of the consequences occasioned by it. Blacklisting has the effect of denying a person or an entity B the privileged opportunity of entering into government contracts. This privilege arises because it is the State who is the counterparty in government contracts and as such, every eligible person is to be afforded an equal opportunity to participate in such contracts, without arbitrariness and discrimination. Not only does blacklisting take away this privilege, it also tarnishes the blacklisted person’s C reputation and brings the person’s character into question. Blacklisting also has long-lasting civil consequences for the future business prospects of the blacklisted person. *** *** *** D 16. The severity of the effects of blacklisting and the resultant need for strict observance of the principles of natural justice before passing an of blacklisting were highlighted by this Court in Erusian Equipment & Chemicals Ltd. v. State of W.B., (1975) 1 SCC 70 in the following terms: (SCC pp. 74-75, paras 12, 15 & 20) E “12. … The of blacklisting has the effect of depriving a person of equality of opportunity in the matter of public contract. A person who is on the approved list is unable to enter into advantageous relations with the Government because of the of blacklisting. A person who has been dealing with the F Government in the matter of sale and purchase of materials has a legitimate interest or expectation. When the State acts to the prejudice of a person it has to be supported by legality. *** 15.…The blacklisting involves civil consequences. It casts G a slur. It creates a barrier between the persons blacklisted and the Government in the matter of transactions. The blacklists are “instruments of coercion”. *** H 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 20. Blacklisting has the effect of preventing a person from the privilege and advantage of entering into lawful relationship with the Government for purposes of gains. The fact that a disability is created by the of blacklisting indicates that the relevant authority is to have an objective satisfaction. Fundamentals of fair play require that the person concerned should be given an B opportunity to represent his case before he is put on the blacklist.” 17.