[M. R. SHAH, J.] 14 SCC 298] and Bikash Ranjan Rout [Bikash Ranjan Rout v. A State (NCT of Delhi), (2019) 5 SCC 542] have held to the contrary, they stand overruled. Needless to add, Randhir Singh Rana v. State (Delhi Admn.) [(1997) 1 SCC 361] and Reeta Nag v. State of W.B. [(2009) 9 SCC 129] also stand overruled.” 10. Now, so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this B Court in the case of Rama Chaudhary (supra) relied upon on behalf of the respondent – accused is concerned, it is required to be noted that in the said decision, this Court was considering the scope of Sections 173(8) and 173(8)(2) Cr.P.C. and the right of the police to “further investigation”. It is observed that the police has no right for “fresh investigation” or “re- C investigation”. However, this Court had no occasion to consider the powers of the constitutional courts , which are dealt with and considered in the case of Bharati Tamang (supra) and Dharam Pal (supra). 11. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the case of Dharam Pal (supra) and Bharati Tamang (supra) and to do the complete justice D and in furtherance of fair investigation and fair trial, the constitutional courts may further investigation / re-investigation / de novo investigation even after the charge sheet is filed and the charges are framed. If the submission on behalf of the accused and even as observed by the High Court that once the chargesheet is filed and the charges are framed, there may not be any for further investigation / re- E investigation / de novo investigation is accepted, in that case, the accused may see to it that the charges are framed to avoid any fair investigation / fair trial. It would lead to travesty of justice. 12. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions and the principle of law laid down hereinabove, it is required to F be considered whether a case is made out for further investigation / fresh investigation /re-investigation / de novo investigation or not. 12.1 It is required to be noted that in the present case, the allegations in the FIR, right from very beginning, were against the accused No. 13, who at the relevant time was the sitting Cabinet Minister G occupying the high position. Even at the relevant time, when the State Police investigated the FIR bearing No. 120 of 2020, in the first chargesheet and the second chargesheet did not name the accused No. 13. Even the investigation was also conducted in a perfunctory manner. The real investigation started only after the intervention of the High H 76 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Court and after passing various s in the present proceedings by the High Court. The allegations in the FIR were very serious including the misuse of powers by the sitting Cabinet Minister and of abducting, kidnapping and beating the complainant. The appellant – original writ petitioner filed the Criminal Writ Petition before the Bombay High Court on 17.04.2020 praying the investigation in FIR Nos.