Upon committal, charges for the above-said offences were framed to which the appellant pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 5. The prosecution examined 8 (eight) witnesses to support of its C case. None was examined on behalf of the defence. However, the appellant filed a written statement, which we propose to refer to at a later part of this . The Additional Sessions Judge largely relied on the statements of P.W.2, P.W.3, and P.W.4 to convict the appellant. The Court concluded that the appellant committed the murder of the D victim with the knife (Art.1) and also attempted to commit the murder of P.W.2, P.W.3 and P.W.4. The defence of the appellant appeared to the Court to be false and the prosecution was held to have proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. This was followed by the convictions and sentences, noted above. E 6. The aforesaid having been challenged before the High Court, the relevant Division Bench was of the view that the findings did not warrant any interference and that the appeal was devoid of any merit; hence, it was dismissed. 7. The first limb of the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the appellant is that the courts below clearly erred in convicting the F appellant. According to him, the following points deserve consideration: a. Firstly, the courts below failed to appreciate that none of the other persons present at the site of the occurrence, namely Shankarrao Fartode, Umrao Charde, and Ramesh Korde (as per the version of P.W.2) were examined as G prosecution witnesses. The courts ought to have inferred that had they been produced they would not have supported the prosecution case and, thus, were deliberately withheld. Non-examination of such independent witnesses, therefore, should be held to be fatal to the prosecution case. H 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A b. Secondly, having regard to the age of the appellant (he was 58 years old on the date of the incident), it is quite improbable that he could freely inflict stab injuries on the victim and the others without anyone of the injured as well as the others present at the site (Shankarrao Fartode, Umrao Charde, and Ramesh Korde) even making an attempt to resist the B appellant from inflicting injuries as also to save anyone of the others. c. Thirdly, it was necessary to establish, by examining these independent witnesses, that it was the appellant who came with the knife and holding it was on a stabbing spree resulting C in the death of the victim and injury to the others. d. Fourthly, all eyewitnesses (P.W.2, P.W.3 and P.W.4) who deposed against the appellant were interested witnesses and, therefore, not credible and their testimony ought not to have been relied upon. D e. Fifthly, the courts below failed to take note that P.W.2 and P.W.3 were both interested witnesses and it was a clear case of false implication by suppressing the original story of the actual incident. f. Sixthly, it is surprising that although P.W.4 claimed to have E snatched the knife from the appellant, there is no injury on his hand; on the contrary, there is no explanation from the side of the prosecution with regard to the six injuries suffered by the appellant.