It is now well settled: (i) The Constitution prohibits the establishment of a theocratic F State. (ii) The State is not only prohibited to establish any religion of its own but is also prohibited to identify itself with or favouring any particular religion. (iii) The secularism under the Indian Constitution does not mean G constitution of an atheist society but it merely means equal status of all religions without any preference in favour of or discrimination against any one of them.” 8. We are of the view that the questions of law raised by petitioner do not arise. H 4 (2005) 11 SCC 45 ASHWINI KUMAR UPADHYAY v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 193 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 9. The present and future of a country cannot remain a prisoner A of the past. The governance of Bharat must conform to Rule of law, secularism, constitutionalism of which Article 14 stands out as the guarantee of both equality and fairness in the State’s action. 10. The founding fathers contemplated India to be a republic which is not merely to be conflated to a body polity having an elected President B which is the conventional understanding. But it also involves ensuring rights to all sections of people based on it being a democracy. It is important that the country must move forward. For achieving the sublime goals which are enshrined in Part IV – that is the Directive Principles, but bearing in mind the fundamental rights also guaranteed in Part III of the Constitution, which have been described as the two wheels of the C chariot of the State, both of which are indispensable, for the smooth progress of the nation, actions must be taken which bond all sections of the society together. 11. The history of any nation cannot haunt the future generations of a nation to the point that succeeding generations become prisoners of D the past. The golden principle of fraternity which again is enshrined in the preamble is of the greatest importance and rightfully finds its place in the preamble as a constant reminder to all stakeholders that maintenance of harmony between different sections alone will lead to the imbibing of a true notion of nationhood bonding sections together for the greater E good of the nation and finally, establish a sovereign democratic republic.We must constantly remind ourselves that courts of law, as indeed every part of the ‘State’, must be guided by the sublime realisation, that Bharat is a secular nation committed to securing fundamental rights to all sections as contemplated in the Constitution. 12. We are, therefore, of the view that the reliefs which have F been sought for should not be granted by this Court acting as the guardian of fundamental rights of all under Article 32 of the Constitution of India and bearing in mind the values which a Court must keep uppermost in its mind - the preamble gives us clear light in this direction. 13. The writ petition is dismissed. G Divya Pandey Writ petition dismissed.