102 Stavros Brekoulakis, ‘Rethinking Consent in International Commercial Arbitration: A General Theory for Non-signatories’ (2017) 8 Journal of International Dispute Settlement 610, 621. 103 Stavros Brekoulakis, ‘Parties in International Arbitration: Consent v. Commercial Reality’ in Stavros Brekoulakis, Julian DM Lew, et al (eds) ‘The Evolution and Future of International Arbitration’ (2016) 119, 148. 698 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. whether the arbitral tribunal has jurisdiction over the parties (and non-signatory parties) to resolve the disputes?104 126. The involvement of a non-signatory in the negotiation, performance, or termination of the underlying contract could be an important indicator of the fact that such non-signatory accepted to be bound by the contract. However, transposition of such consent to an arbitration agreement is a legal fi ction to accommodate commercial reality. The contemporary commercial reality suggests that diff erent companies within a group often become involved in diff erent stages of execution and performance of a contractual transaction. For instance, a non-signatory may merely participate in the performance of a contract to carry out a specifi c task or assist the parent company. Such incidental involvement in the contractual performance is insuffi cient to constitute consent to the underlying contract, let alone the arbitration agreement. Rather, it has been suggested that it should also be considered whether the commercial dispute suffi ciently implicates the non-signatory party for the arbitral tribunal to exercise its jurisdiction.105 The emphasis on the scope of the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal with respect to the subject matter of the dispute between the signatory parties would ensure eff ective arbitration and prevent unnecessary fragmentation of disputes. It also adequately accounts for the lack of formal consent on behalf of the non-signatory to the arbitration agreement (and the ensuing procedural aspects such as the constitution of arbitral tribunal) by considering facts and circumstances, such as close relationship and composite transactions, which indicates that there was a mutual understanding or convergence among all the parties to treat non-signatory as parties to the arbitration agreement.106 127. We are of the opinion that there is a need to seek a balance between the consensual nature of arbitration and the modern commercial reality where a non-signatory becomes implicated in a commercial transaction in a number of diff erent ways. Such a balance can be adequately achieved if the factors laid down under Discovery Enterprises (supra) are applied 104 Ibid, at 121. 105 Brekoulakis (n 102) 629. 106 Karim Youssef, ‘The Limits of Consent: The Right or Obligation to Arbitrate of Non- Signatories in Group of Companies’ in Multiparty Arbitration: Dossiers of the ICC Institute of Worlds Business Law, Volume 7 (2010) 71, 79. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 699 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] holistically. For instance, the involvement of the non-signatory in the performance of the underlying contract in a manner that suggests that it intended to be bound by the contract containing the arbitration agreement is an important aspect. Other factors such as the composite nature of transaction and commonality of subject matter would suggest that the claims against the non-signatory were strongly inter-linked with the subject matter of the tribunal’s jurisdiction.