… we fi nd that ‘suppression of facts’ can have only one meaning that the correct information was not disclosed deliberately to evade payment of duty. When facts were known to both the parties, the omission by one to do what he might have done and not that he must have done, would not render it suppression. It is settled law that mere failure to declare does not amount to wilful suppression. There must be some positive act from the side of the assessee to fi nd wilful suppression.” (emphasis supplied) 27. It is clear from the material available on record that the Excise Authorities had inspected the manufacture process, collected the necessary information and details from the respondent assessee and even collected the samples and sent for chemical analysis. The authorities were aware of the tests and analysis reports of the products manufactured by the respondent assessee. The relevant facts were very much within the knowledge of the Department authorities. The Department did not make any attempt to lead any evidence that there was any wilful misstatement or suppression of facts with intent to evade payment of duty.” 70. Classifi cation is a question relating to “chargeability”. It is well settled law that insofar as chargeability is concerned, the burden of proof lies on the Revenue and not on the assessee. In the facts obtained in the present case, no evidence of whatsoever nature has been placed by the Revenue to raise any presumption. In fact, the entire proceedings are based upon “audit objection” and the Revenue attempts to rely upon the additives to the ‘chewing tobacco’ as the basis for arriving at a conclusion, that assessee had cleared the ‘jarda/zarda scented tobacco’ which is not even supported by the samples drawn or inquiry made from the traders or consumers or stockist, suppliers and buyers. In the absence of iota of material, the fi nding of the tribunal cannot be displaced. It would be of benefi t to extract the fi nding recorded by the third member of the tribunal, who upheld the fi nding of the judicial member and it reads: COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 619 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] “9 In the tariff the expression xxxx practice. In the present case, as the product is fl avour chewing tobacco and it is bought and sold in the market as chewing tobacco. Further the appellant from the beginning classifying the same as chewing tobacco and after the period in dispute also classifi ed the same as chewing tobacco. Hence I fi nd merit in the contention of the appellant that the product in question is chewing tobacco and classifi able under Heading 24039910 of the Tariff .” 71. Upon anxious consideration of the aforestated facts, coupled with lack of cogent evidence for the purpose of determination of the classifi cation entry with respect to the product manufactured by the assessee, we deem it necessary to not interfere with the fi ndings of the tribunal in light of the settled judicial fi ndings of this Court which directly have a bearing on the facts of the present case.