A (8) On 21.08.2006, a Request for Proposal, for short RFP, came to be issued. We deem it appropriate to refer to the following provisions of the RFP. “4. While this RFP has been prepared in good faith, neither the Procurers, Authorised Representative and Power Finance B Corporation Limited (PFC) nor their directors or employees or advisors/consultants make any representation or warranty, express or implied, or accept any responsibility or liability, whatsoever, in respect of any statements or omissions herein, or the accuracy, completeness or reliability of information contained herein, and shall incur no liability under any law, statute, rules or regualations C as to the accuracy, reliability or completeness of this RFP, even if any loss or damage is caused to the Bidder by any act or omission on their part. 1.3 The objective of the bidding process is to select a SuccessfulBidder for development of the Project as per the terms D of the RFP. The Project will have a Contracted Capactiy of minimum of 3500 MW and maximum of 3800 MW in accordance witht he terms of the PPA. The Selected Bidder shall purchase the entire shareholding of the Authorised Representative from PFC and its nominees in accordance with Share Purchase E Agreement and cause the Seller to enter into the RFP Project Documents. The Selected Bidder shall be responsible for ensuring that the Seller undertakes development, finance, ownership, design, engineering procurement, construction, commissioning, operation and maintenance of the Project as per the terms of the RFP Project Documents. The Selected Bidder shall also ensure: F (i) All equipment and auxiliaries shall be suitable for continuous operation in the frequency range of 47.5 to 51.5 Hz (-5% to +3% of rated frequency of 50.0 Hz). (ii)The plant shall be capable of delivering contracted capacity continously at 47.5 Hz grid frequency. G 1.4 The Procurers through the Authorised Representative, have initiated development of the Project at Sasan, District Sidhi, Madhya Pradesh and shall complete the following tasks in this regard by such time as specified hereunder: H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 9 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] iv. Allocation of main Captive Coal Mine(s) and providing A geological report (GR) for the same; at least ninety (90) days prior to Bid Deadline. Allocation of other Captive Coal Mine(s) and available information regarding quality and quantity of coal (GR related information) would be made available at least thirty (30) days prior to Bid Deadline. The Seller shall pay the final cost B of geological reports (Grs). The Indicative Cost of geological reports (Grs), would be made available at least thirty (30) days prior to bid Deadline; v. Tying up water linkage for the Project requirement along with approval of Central Water Commission, at least thirty (30) days C prior to Bid Deadline; Water intake study report and Project Report including geo- technical study, topographical survey, area drainage study, socio- economic study and EIA study (rapid) would be made available at least ninety (90) days prior to Bid Deadline; D vi.