However, Entry 97 was not extended to the State of Jammu and Kashmir by any Constitution issued under Article 370(1)(b). Thus, unlike other states, the State of Jammu and Kashmir had residuary legislative powers in view of Section 5 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir. At this juncture, it is important to refer to the Delhi agreement where it was decided that the State of Jammu and Kashmir shall have the residuary legislative powers because of the “consistent stand taken by the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir” that sovereignty with respect to all matters other than those stipulated in the IoA continues to reside in the State. This is not indicative of the sovereignty of Jammu and Kashmir. Residual legislative powers cannot be equated to residual sovereignty. It instead refl ects the value of federalism and the federal underpinnings of the Constitution of India. Neither Parliament nor any of the States have the unrestricted power to make laws. Each has its own sphere of legislation, as demarcated by the three lists in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution. Each is supreme in its own sphere. The States have the plenary power to enact laws but this alone cannot be taken as a sign of sovereignty of individual States. 164. It is true that many commentators refer to these aspects of federalism as ‘internal sovereignty.’ By whatever name so called, it is clear that all States in the country have legislative and executive power albeit to diff ering degrees. The Constitution accommodates concerns specifi c to a particular State by providing for arrangements which are specifi c to that State. Articles 371A to 371J are examples of special arrangements for diff erent States. This is nothing but a feature of asymmetric federalism,170 which Jammu and Kashmir too benefi ts from by virtue of Article 370. The State of Jammu and Kashmir does not have ‘internal sovereignty’ which is distinguishable from the powers and privileges enjoyed by other States in the country. In asymmetric federalism, a particular State may enjoy a degree of autonomy which another State does not. The diff erence, however, remains one of degree and not of kind. Diff erent states may enjoy diff erent benefi ts under the federal setup but the common thread is federalism. 170 State (NCT of Delhi) v. Union of India, (2023) 9 SCC 1 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 99 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 165. If the position that Jammu and Kashmir has sovereignty by virtue of Article 370 were to be accepted, it would follow that other States which had special arrangements with the Union also possessed sovereignty. This is clearly not the case. As noticed by this Court in other segments of this , the special circumstances in Jammu and Kashmir necessitated a special provision, that is, Article 370. Article 370 is an instance of asymmetric federalism. The people of Jammu and Kashmir, therefore, do not exercise sovereignty in a manner which is distinct from the way in which the people of other States exercise their sovereignty.