The argument loses sight of a clear distinction between ignorance of the law and ignorance of the right to a “reasonable, fair and just procedure”. x x x x 28. This Court cannot overlook the context in which the NDPS Act operates and particularly the factor of widespread illiteracy among persons subject to investigation for drug off ences. It must be borne in mind that severer the punishment, greater has to be the care taken to see that all the safeguards provided in a statute are scrupulously followed. We are not able to fi nd any reason as to why the empowered offi cer should shirk from aff ording a real opportunity to the suspect, by intimating to him that he has a right “that if he requires” to be searched in the presence of a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate, he shall be searched only in that manner. As already observed the compliance with the procedural safeguards contained in Section 50 are intended to serve a dual purpose — to protect a person against false accusation 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. and frivolous charges as also to lend creditability to the search and seizure conducted by the empowered offi cer. The argument that keeping in view the growing drug menace, an insistence on compliance with all the safeguards contained in Section 50 may result in more acquittals does not appeal to us. If the empowered offi cer fails to comply with the requirements of Section 50 and an or acquittal is recorded on that ground, the prosecution must thank itself for its lapses. Indeed in every case the end result is important but the means to achieve it must remain above board. The remedy cannot be worse than the disease itself. The legitimacy of the judicial process may come under a cloud if the court is seen to condone acts of lawlessness conducted by the investigating agency during search operations and may also undermine respect for the law and may have the eff ect of unconscionably compromising the administration of justice. That cannot be permitted.” (Emphasis supplied) 47. As to what would be the consequences of a recovery made in violation of Section 50, it was observed in Baldev Singh (supra) that it would have the eff ect of rendering such incriminating material inadmissible in evidence and hence, cannot be relied upon to hold the accused guilty for being found to be in unlawful possession of any contraband. The Court further held that it would not impede the prosecution from relying upon recovery of any other incriminating article in any other independent proceedings. It was further held that the burden of proving that the conditions of Section 50 were complied with, would lie upon the prosecution to establish. The relevant observations are being reproduced hereunder:- “32. However, the question whether the provisions of Section 50 are mandatory or directory and, if mandatory, to what extent and the consequences of non-compliance with it does not strictly speaking arise in the context in which the protection has been incorporated in Section 50 for the benefi t of the person intended to be searched.