However, the Magistrate also has the power to take cognizance and take recourse to procedure under Section 202 of the Code and postpone the issue of process where the Magistrate is yet to determine existence of sufficient ground to proceed. In a third category of cases, the Court may not take F cognizance or direct registration of an FIR, but direct preliminary inquiry in terms of the dictum in Lalita Kumari’s case (supra). 28. In Priyanka Srivastava(supra), this Court highlighted abuse of the criminal process by the unprincipled and deviant litigants who do knock at the door of the criminal court for malevolent reasons. In the G said case criminal action wasinitiated by those against whom the financial institutions had proceeded under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. This was notwithstanding the protection given to the officers under Section 32 of the aforesaid Act against action taken in good faith. Reiterating Lalita Kumari(supra), it was observed that an action under Section H 168 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 156(3) should not be entertained without the complainant taking recourse to sub-section (1) and (3) of Section 154 and compliances of these two Sections should be clearly spelt out in the application and necessary documents filed. To check malevolence and false assertions, the Court directed that every petition/application under Section 156(3) should be supported by an affidavit so that the person making an application should B be conscious of it and to see that no false allegation is made. If the affidavit is found to be false, the complainant will be liable for prosecution in accordance with the law. Vigilance is specially required in cases pertaining to fiscal sphere, matrimonial/family disputes, commercial offences, medical negligence cases, corruption cases, or cases where C there is abnormal delay/laches. Thus, the Magistrate must be attentive and proceed with perspicacity to examine the allegation made and the nature of those allegations. He should not issue directions without proper application of mind which would be contrary to the object and purpose of the statute. D 29. As to the scope of power of the Magistrate to direct an FIR under Section 156(3), this court in Mohd. Yusuf v. Afaq Jahan (Smt) and another, (2006) 1 SCC 627 opined that: “11. The clear position therefore is that any Judicial Magistrate, before taking cognizance of the offence, can investigation E under Section 156(3) of the Code. If he does so, he is not to examine the complainant on oath because he was not taking cognizance of any offence therein. For the purpose of enabling the Police to start investigation it is open to the Magistrate to direct the Police to register an FIR. There is nothing illegal in doing so. After all registration of an FIR involves only the process F of entering the substance of the information relating to the commission of the cognizable offence in a book kept by the officer in charge of the Police station as indicated in Section 154 of the Code.