As laid down very clearly under Rule 11A, the allotment to RIICO is done purely on a leasehold basis, and ownership and title remain unequivocally with the State Government. RIICO acts as nothing but an agent of the State in its efforts to increase industrial production G and further economic progress. The State remains the overarching power in this dynamic and RIICO remains subservient to it. 53. As regard to Rule 12 (reproduced in para 11 of this ), it may be seen that the same is compartmentalised in two parts. The first part is a consequence of Rule 11A, namely, if the State Government has H 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A allotted land to RIICO on lease hold basis under Rule 11A, in that case, this segment of Rule 12 empowers RIICO “to make allotment” in accordance with its 1979 rules of “vacant plots” to entrepreneurs in the industrial areas notified by the State Government and transferred to the said Corporation. B 54. To be more specific, the first part of Rule 12 authorises RIICO to execute sub-leases in respect of land which has been leased out to it by the State Government under Rule 11A of the 1959 Rules. 55. The second part of Rule 12 says that RIICO “shall also be authorised” to execute lease deeds, realize development charges, lease C rent and other dues from the entrepreneurs to whom plots had already been allotted under the 1959 Rules. In our considered opinion, the second part is an enabling provision whereunder RIICO has been authorised to execute lease deeds or realize development charges/lease rents and other dues from pre-1982 group of allottees. A plain reading of this provision makes it abundantly clear that RIICO would execute lease deeds only in D a case where land had been principally allotted but a formal agreement between a lessor and lessee or lessee and sub-lessee is yet to be executed. If a piece of land had already been allotted and a formal lease deed stood executed between the State and such an allottee, there arises no occasion to execute a second lease deed in respect of the same E leased out land. In that case, only development charges and lease rent etc. are to be recovered by RIICO for the reasons which we have already explained, and which is merely a cost factor towards the development activities to be undertaken by RIICO as per the Government dated 18.09.1979. The second part of Rule 12 also does not fortify the claim of Respondent No. 1 for the reasons that:- F (a) lease deeds in favour of JKSL had been already executed in the year 1967 before Rule 12 came into force; (b) no part of the land in dispute was ever allotted to RIICO under Rule 11A of the 1959 Rules; G (c) Respondent No. 1 is a substitute of JKSL and that is why fresh lease deeds were executed in favour of Respondent No. 1 only for the remainder of the period of the already subsisting lease; (d) There was no independent lessor – lessee relationship between the State Government and Respondent No.