Once wisdom and a value are beyond B the pale of judicial review and scrutiny, and further, it is found that the project developer and also the beneficiaries of the group development are duty-bound for maintaining an OSR area, then the matter goes to the legitimacy of the public or State interest. The consequences of executing the gift deed and the underlying purpose have been adverted to by us C already. In fact, apart from it being a legitimate public purpose, even the rough proportionality concept in Nollan (supra) would appear to be satisfied. 171. In the case of M/s. Keyaram Hotels Pvt. Ltd., the terms of the gift deed provide that the gift is made so that the donee may at all D times, peacefully and quietly, possess and enjoy the said portion only as open space, free from all encumbrances, without any lawful eviction, interruption, claim whatsoever from the donor. A perusal of Rule 19 (b)(II)(vi) in relation to the extent of size between 3,000 and 10,000 square metres contemplates that the reserved area is to maintained as a park. E 172. We notice that under Rule 61 of the Andhra Pradesh Group Development Scheme, sub-Rule (7) reads as follows: “61(7) Minimum of 10% of site area shall be earmarked for organised pen space and be utilised as greenery and shall be F provided over and above the mandatory setbacks at suitable location accessible to entire community to the satisfaction of the competent authority. Such open space shall be open to sky and shall not be over cellar floors. (Emphasis supplied) G 173. We may also notice sub-Rule 61(14): “(14) All roads and open spaces mentioned in this Rule shall be handed over to local body at free of cost through a registered gift deed before issue of occupancy certificate. The society / H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1161 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] association may in turn enter into agreement with the local authority A for utilizing, managing and maintaining the roads and open spaces. In case of any violation of encroachment, the local authority shall summarily demolish the encroachments and resume back the roads and open spaces and keep it under its custody.” 174. Under Regulation 23 of the DCR for Greater Bombay, 1991, B open space is to be provided, in fact, for any layout, starting from 1001 square meters to 2500 square meters, wherein 15 per cent is to be kept as open space. For an area of 2501 square meters to 10000 square meters, 20 per cent has to be kept as open space. In the case of residential and commercial layout for area above 10000 square meters, ‘25’ per C cent has to be maintained as open space. There are certain exceptions. The ownership, no doubt, is to vest by a deed of conveyance in all the property owners on account of whose holdings, the recreational space is assigned. It also appears to provide that the remaining area of recreational open space or playground (that is after excluding structures providing for pavilions, gymnasium, clubhouses, etc.