That is the distinction between a “disqualification” and “not being qualified”. It is, however, relevant to notice that the case arose from a challenge to the result of an election held to a legislative council and F Section 27 referred to dealt with legislative councils and not legislative assemblies. 103. In Union of India v. Assn. for Democratic Reforms35, the High Court gave certain directions to the Election Commission on the basis that the right of the voter to make the right choice depended upon G the availability of information about the past of the candidates and it must be disclosed to the voters. This Court found that for the health of democracy and fair elections and for ensuring the purity of elections and having regard to the width of the jurisdiction of the Election Commission under Article 324 (1) of the Constitution, the directions given by the 35(2002) 5 SCC 294 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 105 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] High court was justified. This Court however issued certain directions A which modified the directions of the High Court. It is in the context of these facts, the Court,inter alia, held as follows: “46 (7). Under our Constitution, Article 19(1)(a) provides for freedom of speech and expression. Voter’s speech or expression in case of election would include casting of votes, that is to B say, voter speaks out or expresses by casting vote. For this purpose, information about the candidate to be selected is a must. Voter’s (little man — citizen’s) right to know antecedents including criminal past of his candidate contesting election for MP or MLA is much more fundamental and basic for survival of C democracy. The little man may think over before making his choice of electing law-breakers as law-makers.” 104. The directions led to the insertion of Sections 33A and 33B. Under Section 33B, it was inter alia provided thatnotwithstanding any , no candidate was liable to disclose or furnish any such D information in respect of his election which is not required to be disclosed or furnished under the Representation of the People Act, 1951 or the rules made thereunder. In People’s Union for civil Liberties (PUCL) and Another vs. Union of India and Another36 Justice M.B. Shah while dealing with the nature of the right to vote, inter alia held that “the right of the voter to know the bio data of the candidate was the foundation E of democracy”. It was concluded by the learned judge that Section 33B of the amended Act was illegal and invalid. Justice P. Venkatarama Reddi in the same case went on hold as follows: “With great reverence to the eminent Judges, I would like to clarify that the right to vote, if not a fundamental right, is certainly a F constitutional right. The right originates from the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional mandate contained in Article 326, the right has been shaped by the statute, namely the RP Act. That, in my understanding, is the correct legal position as regards the nature of the right to vote in elections to the House of the G People and Legislative Assemblies.