The Court unquestionably has the power to determine in the exercise of judicial review as to whether a provision made by Parliament is contrary to constitutional principle. But equally, this Court would be going beyond the line that separates the legislative from judicial domains by directing that reservation for the Scheduled Tribes over and above what has been prescribed in Section 7(1A) should be made by Parliament in a particular manner. This Court has held- “Having due regard to the provisions of Articles 245 and 246 of the Constitution, no such mandamus can be issued by this Court. Nor can a direction be issued by this Court to the legislature of a State to enact a law.”24 101. No mandamus can be issued to Parliament as a legislating body to enact a legislation or to legislate in a particular manner. These are matters 23 Vivek Krishna vs Union of India, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1040. 24 John Paily vs State of Kerala 2021 SCC OnLine SC 3405. 111 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. which have to be factored in by Parliament, at its discretion. The of the Constitution Bench in RC Poudyal clearly lays down the road map for the manner in which the Court must approach such a vexed issue. 102. Mr K M Nataraj, Additional Solicitor General has sought to rely on the provisions of Article 170 to contend that the Article would stand in the way of any fresh exercise of delimitation being carried out. 103. The provisions of Article 170 indicate that until the census takes place after 2026, the total number of seats in the Legislative Assembly would be governed by the readjustment made on the basis of the 1971 census and the division of territorial constituencies would be governed by the readjustment on the basis of the 2001 census. This has no bearing on the exercise which is required to be conducted on the issue which is raised in the present proceedings which essentially relates to the implementation of the principle of representation for the Scheduled Tribes on the basis of the population as indicated in the 2001 census. 104. The Additional Solicitor General sought to argue that the 2001 census may not give accurate fi gures since many of the communities that were subsequently designated as Scheduled Tribes were part of the general communities prior to the census. This is a matter for the Delimitation Commission to determine. How the fi gures of population for a particular Scheduled Tribes should be ascertained within the purview of the 2001 census is a matter for determination which the statutory body would be empowered to carry out at the appropriate stage. Conclusion 105. The delimitation of Parliamentary and Assembly Constituencies 2008 forms the basis of the First and Second Schedules to the RP Act. The Delimitation Commission completed its exercise almost fi fteen years ago. Mr K M Nataraj, Additional Solicitor General submitted that nearly fi fty-one communities were added after 2001 to the list of Scheduled Tribes until the last census took place in 2011.