Hence, it was urged that they had to be treated at par with the other Scheduled Tribes in the state and given only proportionate representation in accordance with the formula prescribed under Article 332(3). To the extent that Section 7(1A) gave them greater representation than their proportion in the total population of the state, it was argued, that it violated Article 14 and Articles 332 of the Constitution. 88. Rejecting the submission, the Court observed: • First, Article 371F(f) is a “merely enabling” provision. Consequently, as the Court noted, “if reservation is made by Parliament for only one section, it must, by implication, be construed to have exercised the power respecting the other sections in a negational sense”. Hence, in the view of the Court, the provision “enables the reservation confi ned only to a particular section”. The Court held thereby that Parliament could not be directed to treat all sections of the state with parity; and • Second, on whether Section 7(1A) violated the mandate of Article 332 (3) it was held that, the operational eff ect of the non-obstante clause of Article 371F(f) was that it allowed a departure from Articles 330 and 332. This departure, it was held, was permissible in view of the special considerations operating in the state of Sikki m. 89. Thus, the following position emerges in view of the in RC Poudyal (supra) (i) Article 371F which make special provisions with respect to the State of Sikkim is a measure which was adopted bearing in mind the historical circumstances pertaining to the admission of the State as an integral part of the Union of India; 111 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (ii) The antecedent historical circumstances leading to Article 371Fcould legitimately be borne in mind by Parliament in designing a special measure for a certain section of the population of Sikkim and while doing so, Parliament was not bound to treat all the sections of the population alike; (iii) Article 371F makes a departure from the principle embodied in Article 332(3) which is evident from the non-obstante clause in the former; and (iv) The principle of proportionality itself is a broad and general guiding principle that is adopted in Articles 330 and Article 332 but as a concept, it is not capable of application with arithmetic precision or exactitude. 90. The petitioners argue that RC Poudyal (supra) upheld Article 371F and thereby permitted a departure from the principle of proportionality under Article 332(3) but not a departure from the principle of reservations per se, under that provision. They argue that the principle of reservations under Article 332(3) continues to apply and to the extent it is not applied to Limboo Tamang Scheduled Tribes under Section 7(1A), the Section is ultra vires Article 332. 91. The in RC Poudyal (supra) contains the following observations: “133. Sri Jain contended that Bhutias and Lepchas had been declared as Scheduled Tribes under the Constitution [Sikkim Scheduled Tribes] , 1978 and that the extent of the reservation in their favour would necessarily be governed by the provisions of Article 332(3) of the Constitution which requires that the number of seats to be reserved shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number of seats in the Assembly as the population of the Schedule Tribes in the State bears to the total population of the State.