A to indicate that the goods in question were being treated as exempt before the cut off date. In other words, it was incumbent upon the first respondent to produce incontestable material establishing that the goods were exempt and were being treated so before the cut off date. The best material would have been examples of similar cases where goods were being treated as exempt. Even though, it is pointed out that the first respondent B was the only ultra mega power plant, even then power plants including mega power plants were operational. It is difficult to conceive that there would not be a single case where similar inputs by way of examples of other power projects even if it is not ultra mega power projects would not have operated for the first respondent to draw from. C (117) The word law has been defined as we have noticed. While the expression ‘Indian Governmental Instrumentality’ is used in the definition of the word law in Article 13.1.1, the change in interpretation of any law by an Indian governmental authority must be the final authority under the law for such interpretation. It may be difficult to attribute to D the Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Power the position of an Indian Governmental Authority who has the final authority under the law. But as we have indicated this must not be treated as the basis on which we disagree with the Tribunal. (118) The perusal of the OM does not advance the case of the E first respondent for yet another good reason. He does not in the OM indicate that the goods in question had been exempted before the cut off date and that the goods becoming exigible to duty on the date after the cut off date. The Authority for Advance Ruling has categorically affirmed that the goods of the type with which we are concerned may not qualify for exemption. The appellants have a case that, in fact, the Joint Secretary F was essentially following the Advance Ruling. While it is true that the Advance Ruling may not bind the first respondent as it is not a party, and the respondent could not have sought a ruling under the law, it is undoubtedly an aspect which otherwise adds strength to the case of the appellants. There may be cases where placing the notification holding G the field before the cut off date side by side to the subsequent notification or an interpretation issued after the said cut off date, the Commission or a Tribunal could find that there is change in law, which added to the cost to the seller. On the other hand, when the case of the first respondent involves interpretation of the terms of the notification then particularly when two views are fairly competing for acceptance before the body, at H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 75 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] best, we would think that the Tribunal has hazarded taking a perilous A route in venturing to find that the OM issued by the Joint Secretary constituted the change in law.