In the result, this application is disposed of as follows:- i. We made it clear that all the Retail Petroleum Outlets which are located in cities having more than 10 Lakh population should have installed the VRS mechanism which are having turnover of more than 300 KL/Month and above, as insisted by the Central Pollution G Control Board in consultation with the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas as per circular dated 12.12.2016. If any of the Retail Petroleum Outlets had not installed the same within the time frame fixed by the CPCB or extended by the Hon’ble Apex Court in this regard, then CPCB is directed to take appropriate action against those petroleum outlets/storage depot which have not complied H M/S INDIAN OIL CORPORATION LIMITED v. V. B. R. MENON 221 & OTHERS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] with the same by imposing environmental compensation as directed A by the Principal Bench of National Green Tribunal, New Delhi in O.A. No.147 of 2016 (Aditya N. Prasad & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors.). ii. As regards the new petroleum outlets of Stage 1 and Stage 2 (having 100 KL/Month to 300 KL/Month) and for Stage 1A B (Storage depots) are concerned, the same will have to be installed within the extended time fixed by the CPCB both by public sector undertaking and private sector undertaking and if there is any violation found, then they are directed to take appropriate action for such violation as directed by the Principal Bench of National C Green Tribunal, New Delhi in O.A. No.147 of 2016 (Aditya N. Prasad & Ors. Vs. Union of India & Ors.). iii. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) as well as the State Pollution Control Boards are directed to issue direction under Section 5 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986 and Section D 18 of the Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 and Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981 to make it mandatory to obtain Consent to Establish and Consent to Operate for new petroleum outlets to be established in future and even to those which are under the preparation of establishment, but not started construction as has been done by the State Pollution Control E Board, Kerala and such a direction should be issued within a period of 3 (Three) months and till then, all the new Retail Petroleum Outlets are directed to apply for Consent to Establish and Consent to Operate before its establishment. iv. We also direct all the existing Retail Petroleum Outlets F irrespective of its turnover to obtain Consent to Operate for the existing outlets within a period of 6 (Six) Months. If it is not obtained, then the concerned State Pollution Control Board is directed to take appropriate action against such petrol pumps in accordance with law. G v. Considering the circumstances, parties are directed to bear their respective cost in the application. vi. The Registry is directed to communicate this to the Ministry of Environment, Forests & Climate Change (MoEF&CC), Central Pollution Control Board, New Delhi, Integrated Regional H 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.