If no permanent construction is to be permitted for any purpose, a D villager who is desirous to reconstruct his house would not be permitted. Similarly, if there is an extension in their family and some additional construction is required for accommodating the enlarged family, the same would also not be permitted. Similarly, if the Government decides to construct schools, dispensaries, E anganwadis, village stores, water tanks and other basic structures for improvement of the life of the villagers, the same would also not be permitted. The effect of the would be to prevent the State or the Central Government from constructing roads and provide other facilities to the villagers. [Para 48][629-C-E] 1.2 If the dated 3rd June 2022 is not modified, it F would also be impossible for the Forest Departments to conduct eco-development activities around National Parks and Sanctuaries. The said activities are required with the dual objectives of protection of wildlife and provision of benefits for the local communities. MoEF & CC provides financial assistance G to the States under the Centrally Sponsored Scheme-Integrated Development of Wildlife Habitats, which includes assistance for eco-development activities. These activities often involve construction of small structures which are permanent in nature in areas including ESZs. [Para 49][629-E-G] H IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 603 INDIA AND OTHERS 1.3 There are various regulated and permissible activities. A There are also certain projects of national and strategic importance such as construction of National Highways, Railways, Defence related infrastructure etc. The effect of the direction in 56.5 of the dated 3rd June 2022 is that all such activities would be permanently prohibited. In this respect, it is to be noted B that MoEF & CC has issued an Office Memorandum dated 17th May 2022 which required that any activity listed in Schedule of the EIA Notification 2006, when conducted in a notified ESZs, or in the case of National Parks and Sanctuaries for which no ESZ has been finally notified, when conducted within 10 kilometres of such National Park or Sanctuary, requires the consideration and C recommendation of the NBWL or its Standing Committee in addition to the Environment Clearance under the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. Additionally, activities which are regulated as per the specific ESZ notification, require approval as per that notification. As such, there are inbuilt safeguards for preventing D rampant construction and abuse of process which may be detrimental to the development and maintenance of wildlife habitats. If the direction as contained in paragraph 56.5 of the dated 3rd June 2022 that even for continuation of existing activities, the permission of the PCCF of each State or Union Territory would be necessary, remains unmodified, taking into E consideration that in each State or Union Territory there would be hundreds of villages wherein millions of people would be residing, the PCCF would be left with no other job except to consider such applications for permission to continue such activities. Even a farmer desirous to continue farming activities F would be required to seek such permission.