However, such is not the design of the second condition. Therefore, it stands violated. 31. The facts at hand also fail to satisfy the third condition of the mutuality principle i.e. the impossibility that contributors should derive profi ts from contributions made by themselves to a fund which could only be expended or returned to themselves. This principle requires that the funds must be returned to the contributors as well as expended solely on the contributors. True, that in the present case, the funds do return to the Club. However, before that, they are expended on non- members i.e. the clients of the bank. The banks generate revenue by paying a lower rate of interest to assessee Club, that makes deposits with them, and then loan out the deposited amounts at a higher rate of interest to third parties. This loaning out of funds of the Club by the banks to the outsiders for commercial reasons, in our opinion, snaps the link of mutuality and thus, breaches the third condition. 32. There is nothing on record which shows that the banks made separate and special provisions for the funds that came from the Club, or that they did not loan them out. Therefore, clearly, the Club did not give, or get, the treatment a club gets from its members; the interaction between them clearly refl ected one between a bank and its client. This directly contravenes the third condition as elucidated in Styles and Kumbakonam Mutual Benefi t Fund Ltd. cases.” XXX 34. In the present case, the interest accrues on the surplus deposited by the Club like in the case of any other deposit made by an account-holder with the bank. XXX 37. We may add that the assessee is already availing the benefi t of the doctrine of mutuality in respect of the surplus amount received as contributions or price for some of the facilities availed of by its members, before it is deposited with the bank. This surplus amount was not treated as income; since it was the residue of the collections left behind with the Club. A façade of a club cannot be constructed SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 995 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] over commercial transactions to avoid liability to tax. Such set-ups cannot be permitted to claim double benefi t of mutuality. We feel that the present case is a clear instance of what this Court had cautioned against in Bankipur Club, when it said: (SCC p. 22, para 22) “22. … if the object of the assessee Company claiming to be a ‘mutual concern’ or ‘club’, is to carry on a particular business and money is realised both from the members and from non-members, for the same consideration by giving the same or similar facilities to all alike in respect of the one and the same business carried on by it, the dealings as a whole disclose the same profi t-earning motive and are alike tainted with commerciality. In other words, the activity carried on by the assessee in such cases, claiming to be a ‘mutual concern’ or ‘members’ club’ is a trade or an adventure in the nature of trade and the transactions entered into with the members or non- members alike is a trade/business/transaction and the resultant surplus is certainly profi t—income liable to tax.