LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] for applying for shares, it is noted that they are dated 04.02.2010 and A they show that the applications were not in the ratio of 1:1 but much beyond that. For example, it is stated that the wife of the first appellant was having just 20 equity shares. She applied for 98000 equity shares. The contention of the V.P. Patel Group that the members of the appellant Group calculated in advance and applied so as to consume the whole of B the increased share capital, anticipating in advance that they can get it, is noted. A reference was made to the Articles of Association and therein the following Article referring to General Authority is referred to as follows: “General Authority C Wherever in the Companies Act, 1956 it has been provided that the Company shall have any right, privilege or authority or that Company can not carry out any transaction unless the Company is so authorised by its Articles then in that case, Articles hereby authorise and empower the Company to have such rights, privilege D or authority and to carry out such transaction as have been permitted by the Companies Act, 1956.” 21. The argument that in view of the Article, Section 81 of the Act would apply, is noted. It is further noted that even if the appellants had issued Notice in anticipation of the members to apply on increase of E share capital, which was, till that point of time, not decided, the offer could not have been of more than 1:1 and the right procedure would have been that after the share capital was increased, claims of 1:1 should have been considered and only, thereafter, the unsubscribed portion, could be offered. The argument based on Dale & Carrington Invt. (P) Ltd. and another v. P.K. Prathapan and others2, was noted. F 22. It was next found that the act of increase in the share capital could be upheld. The distribution of shares was ‘defective’. Even if in anticipation of increase in share capital, if applications in proportion to share already held could be made, but unsubscribed shares could be disposed only after the shareholder declined to accept the shares offered. G For this, it is found that there could not have been applications in anticipation. It is next found that the proper and legal procedure has not been followed. The Board Resolution dated 09.02.2010 could not be upheld. 2 (2005) 1 SCC 212 H 264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 23. The direction of the NCLT was upheld. 24. We can find that the case of the V.P. Patel Group and the Sheth Group based on there being mismanagement and oppression by the appellants, has otherwise been rejected. The complaint that the appellants acted in an oppressive manner or mismanaged the Company, B when it decided to increase the authorised capital, has also been rejected. The NCLT has not given any reasoning, as such, as found by the NCLAT for the direction to allot shares to the V.P.