the Magistrate cannot dismiss the complaint merely because he finds A the resort to Section 156(3) not advisable. It is submitted that the Magistrate must still continue under Sections 200/202 Cr.P.C. and pass s dismissing the complaint under Section 203 Cr.P.C. or issue a process under Section 204 Cr.P.C. 5. While opposing the present appeals, Shri Bikash Ranjan B Bhattacharya, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original complainant has vehemently submitted that in the present case the complaint filed by the complainant discloses commission of a cognizable offence. It is submitted that therefore it was the duty of the concerned police officer to register an FIR and investigate into the matter. It is C submitted that however as the concerned police officer failed to register an FIR and investigate into the matter, the Magistrate in exercise of powers under Section 156(3) has to direct registration of an FIR and direct the concerned police officer to investigate into the allegations made in the FIR. D 5.1 It is submitted that at the stage of registering an FIR, neither the police officer nor even the Magistrate at the stage of 156(3) have any jurisdiction and/or authority to hold a detailed enquiry/preliminary enquiry. It is submitted that the failure of the police to comply with Sections 156(1) and 156(2) Cr.P.C. requires the Magistrate to pass an directing such an investigation. It is submitted that the purpose and object E is to prima facie ensure that the ingredients of any cognizable offence are satisfied. 5.2 It is submitted that as mandated by the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), the moment a complaint discloses the ingredients of any cognizable offence, the F registration of an FIR becomes mandatory and any investigation consequent thereto is to prima facie satisfy that an offence so alleged is apparently cognizable. It is submitted that at that stage, the only requirement is to satisfy whether the allegations made in the FIR disclose commission of a cognizable offence or not and not beyond that. G 5.3 It is further submitted by the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the original complainant that as held by this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), reasonableness or credibility of information is not a condition precedent for registration of an FIR. It is further observed and held that use of word “shall” in Section 154 Cr.P.C. H 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A is a mandate to register the FIR and the rule of literal construction would apply. It is submitted that as per the decision of this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), only in exceptional cases, before registering the FIR, the preliminary enquiry by the concerned police officer is held to be permissible. It is submitted that, however, when the offence alleged is against the woman and when there are serious allegations of rape B made, there is no question of holding any further preliminary enquiry at the stage of Section 156(3) application.