It is not very accurate to describe it as a statutory right, pure and simple. Even with this clarification, the argument of the learned Solicitor-General that the right to vote not being a fundamental right, the information 36(2003) 4 SCC 399 H 106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A which at best facilitates meaningful exercise of that right cannot be read as an integral part of any fundamental right, remains to be squarely met. Here, a distinction has to be drawn between the conferment of the right to vote on fulfilment of requisite criteria and the culmination of that right in the final act of expressing choice towards a particular candidate by means of ballot. Though B the initial right cannot be placed on the pedestal of a fundamental right, but, at the stage when the voter goes to the polling booth and casts his vote, his freedom to express arises. The casting of vote in favour of one or the other candidate tantamounts to expression of his opinion and preference and that final stage in C the exercise of voting right marks the accomplishment of freedom of expression of the voter. That is where Article 19(1)(a) is attracted. Freedom of voting as distinct from right to vote is thus a species of freedom of expression and therefore carries with it the auxiliary and complementary rights such as right to secure information about the candidate which are conducive to the D freedom. None of the decisions of this Court wherein the proposition that the right to vote is a pure and simple statutory right was declared and reiterated, considered the question whether the citizen’s freedom of expression is or is not involved when a citizen entitled to vote casts his vote in favour of one or the other E candidate.” (Emphasis supplied) Justice D.M. Dharmadhikari also agreed with the following conclusion No.2 at para 123 which contains the of Justice P. Venkatarama Reddi: F “(2) The right to vote at the elections to the House of the People or Legislatives Assembly is a constitutional right but not merely a statutory right; freedom of voting as distinct from right to vote is a facet of the fundamental right enshrined in Article 19(1)(a). the casting of vote in favour of one or the other candidate marks the G accomplishment of freedom of expression of the voter.” 105. In Kuldip Nayar and Others v. Union of India and Others37, the question which actually fell for consideration was the validity of a certain amendment which came into force on 28.08.2003. By the 37(2006) 7 SCC 1 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 107 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Amendment, the requirement of domicile in the State concerned for A being elected to the Council of States was deleted. The Constitution Bench in the course of its referred to PUCL (supra) and the court observed as follows: “361. The argument of the petitioners is that the majority view in People’s Union for Civil Liberties [(2003) 4 SCC 399] , B therefore, was that a right to vote is a constitutional right besides that it is also a facet of fundamental right under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution.