Thus, it is difficult to decipher that all the members of the unlawful assembly were aware of the common object. [Para 25][631-E-H] 1.6 PW-2 and PW-3 have stated that the police along with the accused had come to arrest the deceased and the injured. If that was the object and the police were taking help of the accused F persons then also the factum of common object of committing the crime of murdering the deceased is not borne out. It could be that the common object known to the accused was of apprehending the deceased and the injured PW-2 as there was some criminal case registered against them lodged by PP, one of G the accused. In view thereof it cannot be held that there was an unlawful assembly and further to uphold the conviction under Section 149 IPC. [Para 26][632-A-C] 1.7 In the FIR, K and PP have not been assigned any role of assault. The role assigned is to MP, DP and HS. PW-1 has H PULEN PHUKAN & ORS. v. THE STATE OF ASSAM 619 taken the name of K assaulting on the leg with an iron rod and PP A assaulting on the neck. In the cross–examination, she has stated that DP assaulted on the neck. PW-2 has stated that K hit the deceased with a dao then he says that he did not see who assaulted PRP and later on says that it was PP who dealt a blow on the neck. PW-3 has stated that K assaulted with an iron rod and DP B assaulted on the neck with an axe. PW-4 has stated that K dealt a blow on the leg with an iron rod and then DP dealt a blow on the neck of the deceased with an axe. There is no recovery at the instance of any accused under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. The axe, according to the evidence, was left on the dead–body of the deceased. What is evident is that K’s name was not included C in the FIR but his name has been consistently taken by the eyewitnesses of first assaulting the deceased with an iron rod. In so far as PP is concerned, his name has been taken by PW-1 and PW-2 for assaulting on the neck and whereas PW-3 and PW-4 have taken the name of DP striking on the neck. Thus, there is D material inconsistency in the statement of the eye-witnesses. [Para 27][632-C-G] 1.8 Another important aspect to be noted from the evidence of PW-1, PW-2, PW-3 and PW-4 is that after being hit by K with an iron rod, PRP, the deceased struggled to enter the room and E there he was assaulted on the neck. When according to the prosecution story itself PRP, the deceased had entered the neighbour’s house it would be very difficult for the eye- witnesses to also have entered the house of PW-4 and PW- 5 and to witness the assault. PW-1 and PW-3 have not stated that they also entered the room where the assault took place.