In view of the submission so made and in the given set of circumstances, this Court, while observing that there was no reason to entertain the prayer for cancellation of bail, issued directions to the Secretary of the Department concerned to take decision expeditiously on the pending proposal and to F submit appropriate report in that behalf. The relevant part of the so passed by this Court on 20.10.2021 reads as under: “This application (I.A. No.124952/2021), is filed for cancellation of bail granted by this Court vide dated 06.11.2019. G The grievance of the applicant(s) is that the builder (Satinder Singh Bhasin) is not facilitating execution of tripartite agreement between the builder, unit buyers and UPSIDA. In our opinion, that cannot be the basis to entertain the prayer for cancellation of bail. H 1076 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Mr. Shyam Divan, learned counsel appearing for the Builder (Satinder Singh Bhasin), on the other hand submits that the apprehension entertained by the applicant(s) that the property (Grand Venice) in which the applicants have invested and portion of which is likely to be demolished by the Commissioner, Meerut Division, Uttar Pradesh can be redressed by calling upon the State B to consider the proposal submitted by the builder for converting the user of land in question as freehold. That proposal has been favourably recommended by the concerned Committees and the State Government needs to now quantify the amount payable by the Builder for availing of the Scheme of conversion as freehold C land. In light of this submission, we direct the Secretary of the concerned Department of the State of Uttar Pradesh to take expeditious decision on the proposal already submitted for converting the land in question as freehold land and submit D appropriate report in this Court in that behalf before the next date of hearing. If there is any further formality to be complied with by the builder, the builder can be called upon to do so and if the proposal cannot be accepted in law, that position be made amply clear in the decision to be taken by the authority concerned by recording reasons in that regard. To enable the State to submit E the report, we defer the hearing of these matters till 23.11.2021, when appropriate s will be passed on the proposal submitted by the builder and the submissions made on his behalf. **** **** ****” 5.4. On 13.12.2021, this Court once again impressed upon the F Secretary of the Department concerned to take expeditious decision on the proposal regarding conversion of the subject land as freehold, as observed in the dated 20.10.2021. 6. Pursuant to the direction so issued in the above-referred s of this Court, respondent No. 1 considered the matter relating to the G prayer of the petitioner for conversion of the subject land as freehold; and, by way of the impugned dated 24.01.2022, declined to accede to the proposal and prayer of the petitioner for conversion of the subject land from leasehold to freehold under the said policy and the stipulations therein.