[2023] 14 S.C.R. 374 : 2023 INSC 790 CASE DETAILS FULMATI DHRAMDEV YADAV & ANR. v. NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. & ANR. (Civil Appeal No. 4713 of 2023) SEPTEMBER 04, 2023 [ABHAY S. OKA AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The of the High Court setting aside the of the Commissioner awarding compensation in favour of legal representatives of the deceased employee. Employee's Compensation Act, 1923 – Victim died as he was tying up logs on trailer – The Commissioner directed insurer to pay compensation of ₹3,94,120/- and the employer was directed to pay ₹1,97,060/-, i.e., 50% of the compensation amount as penalty – High Court set aside the of the Commissioner – Propriety: Held: A bare perusal of the impugned shows that the High Court did not frame any substantial question of law – The wording of the Act indicates that the existence of such a question is a prerequisite to the appeal being entertained – The diff erence, between the two s, i.e., the of the Commissioner and the in First Appeal, was on the point of the employer-employee relationship having been established – The Commissioner held such relationship to have been established however, the appeal Court observed that “claimants have clearly failed to prove this aspect” – The Commissioner had not returned any fi ndings in respect of the validity of non-availability of the license of the deceased nor was it one of the questions framed by the Commissioner for consideration – In such a situation, while exercising powers within the limited purview allowed by section 30 of the Act, the Court below erred in making observations – It is settled that Commissioner is the last authority on facts involved in a case – The circumstances, i.e., the presence of the deceased at the spot; the ownership of the trolley and the goods loaded therein; the presence 374 FULMATI DHRAMDEV YADAV & ANR. v. NEW INDIA 375 ASSURANCE CO. LTD. & ANR. of this supervisor of the employer company; and details mentioned in the inquest panchnama form, when considered together, point to the aspect of the deceased person being on the roll of the employer – Keeping with the principles of the legislation being intended for social welfare and protection of employees; the Commissioner being the last authority on facts; the scope of an appeal under the said Act being limited only to substantial questions of law; and no perversity could be demonstrated from the of the Commissioner. [Paras 18, 19, 21, 22, 29, 32] Employee's Compensation Act, 1923 – s.30 – An appeal from an Commissioner – To be entertained if there exists a substantial question of law: Held: The Act is unequivocal in stating that an appeal from an of Commissioner can be entertained only if there exists a substantial question of law to be considered – It has been observed by the Supreme Court that the phrase “substantial question of law” within this Act shall be understood by its general meaning – When considering the general meaning of this phrase, naturally, the reference is to the Code of Civil Procedure – The rule therein is that framing of a substantial question of law is of cardinal importance.