The selection of a candidate for appointment as the President G or member in the State Commission or the District Commission may be based on the marks secured by him, out of a total of 100 marks. The total marks (100) may be the sum of; (i) 60 marks for an interview; and, (ii) 40 marks for certain special achievements of a candidate. H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 305 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] b. The aforesaid formulation, if found in by this Hon’ble A Court, can be treated as an instruction under the above said proviso. c. The rationale behind the proposed distribution of marks in such a way where the interview component would outweigh the other, is to ensure the selection of the most suitable B candidate, given the level of the posts and duties attached thereto. d. The distribution of 40 marks for special achievements may be considered as under: C D E F 3.3 It is submitted that on an overall consideration of the deliberations, it appears that the conduct of a written test which has G several handicaps will not be feasible and shall not be most suitable measure for the purpose of selection. 4. While opposing the present appeals Dr. Uday Prakash Warnjikar and Dr. Tushar Mandalekar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective respondents have vehemently submitted that in the facts and H 306 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A circumstances of the case the High Court has not committed any error in declaring Rule 3(2)(b) and Rule 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) of Rules, 2020 as arbitrary, unreasonable, and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. 4.1 It is submitted that the bone of contention of the present B respondent is to have the highest standards and strict scrutiny before the candidates are being appointed in the Consumer State Commission and District Commissions. It is submitted that the selection method under the Rules, 2020 and the process adopted by the appellant will lead to the appointment of incompetent candidates to adjudicate the consumer disputes. It is submitted that under Rule 6(9), the selection committee is C empowered with uncontrolled discretionary powers to determine its procedure in the appointment of the President and Members of the State and District Commission. It is submitted that such delegation of uncontrolled powers will cause undesirable results. 4.2 In support of their submissions that Rule 3(2)(b) and Rule D 4(2)(c) and Rule 6(9) of Rules, 2020 are arbitrary, unreasonable, and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India, it is submitted as under: - (a) That the selection method under Rules, 2020 confers uncontrolled discretion and excessive power to the selection E committee to determine its procedure to recommend candidates to be appointed is arbitrary, unreasonable and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India; (b) Considering the nature of work, the candidate’s competency needs to be tested before being recommended for the F appointment to discharge judicial functions; (c) In the absence of the appointment of competent candidates, the object of the Consumer Protection Act is likely to be frustrated; (d) The president and members of the State and District G Commission are empowered with the powers of the Court.