Secondly, all that Section 110 of the Evidence Act does is that it embodies a salutary principle of common law jurisprudence E which could be attracted to a set of circumstances that satisfy its condition.” 31. The said view has been followed by this Court in Commissoiner of Income Tax, Salem v. K. Chinnathamban7. Therein the Court inter alia held: F “8. … The High Court has rightly held that the expression “income” as used in Section 69-A of the Act, has wide meaning which meant anything which came in or resulted in gain.” 32. It may be noticed that Section 15 of the Carriage by Road Act, 2007, which repealed the Carriers Act, 1865, provides as follows: G “15 Right of common carrier in case of consignee’s default. (1) If the consignee fails to take delivery of any consignment of goods within a period of thirty days from the date of notice given 6 (1974) 94 ITR 616 (Bom HC) H 7 (2007) 7 SCC 390 M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 553 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] by the common carrier, such consignment may be deemed as A unclaimed: Provided that in case of perishable consignment, the period of thirty days shall not apply and the consignment shall be deemed unclaimed after a period of twenty-four hours of service of notice or any lesser period as may be mutually agreed to by and between the common carrier and the consignor. B (2) In the case of an unclaimed consignment under sub-section (1), the common carrier may, (a) if such consignment is perishable in nature, have the right to sell the consignment; or C (b) if such consignment is not perishable in nature, cause a notice to be served upon the consignee or upon the consignor if the consignee is not available, requiring him to remove the goods within a period of fifteen days from the date of receipt of the notice and in case of failure to comply with the notice, the common carrier shall have the right to sell such consignment D without any further notice to the consignee or the consignor, as the case may be. (3) The common carrier shall, out of the sale proceeds received under sub-section (2), retain a sum equal to the freight, storage and other charges due including expenses incurred for the sale, E and the surplus, if any, from such sale proceeds shall be returned to the consignee or the consignor, as the case may be. (4) Unless otherwise agreed upon between the common carrier and consignor, the common carrier shall be entitled to detain or dispose off the consignment in part or full to recover his dues in F the event of the consignee failing to make payment of the freight and other charges payable to the common carrier at the time of taking delivery.” 33. Therefore, under Section 15, if the consignee fails to take delivery of any consignment of goods within thirty days, the consignment G is to be treated as unclaimed.