Service Law – Persons in the civil services of the Union/State, persons holding civil posts under the Union/State – Service matter dispute including claim for allowances raised before Administrative Tribunal – Duty of the Tribunal – Discussed – Constitution of India D –Article 309, proviso to Art.309 – Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 – ss.3(q), 28. Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 – s.2(s) – Factories Act 1948 – s.2(l)– Held: Definition of “workman” in s.2(s) of the 1947 Act specifically excludes persons employed in a supervisory capacity – E But, such an exclusion is not there in the definition of the very same word “worker” in s.2(l) of the 1948 Act. Tribunals/Courts – Adjudicating dispute relating to conditions of service of an employee – Three different categories of employment enumerated – Held: Court/Tribunal should keep in mind the different parameters applicable to the three different categories of F employment. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The claim of the respondents for payment of Double Over Time Allowance arose entirely during the period G from 1988 to 2005. Since the ‘Corporation’ was incorporated only on 13.1.2006 and all the nine production units coming under the control of the Currency and Coinage Division of the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Government of India were transferred to the Corporation only with effect from 10.2.2006, the claim of the respondents obviously arose at the H 248 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A time when they were Central Government servants. In other words, their claim should be considered to have arisen only in relation to “service matters” of persons appointed to “a service in connection with the affairs of the Union” or in relation to “holders of civil post.” The definition of the expression “service matters”, is provided in Section 3(q) of the Administrative Tribunals Act, B 1985. It is seen from sub-clause (i) of clause (q) of Section 3 extracted above that any issue relating to remuneration including allowances, is a service matter. The respondents herein, at least during the period from 1988 till the year 2006, were either holders of civil posts under the Union or appointed to the civil C services of the Union. This is why the respondents approached the Central Administrative Tribunal, for the adjudication of their service matter. [Paras 16-19][257-C-E; 258-C-D] 1.2 Primarily, the terms and conditions of service of persons in the civil services of the Union or the State and persons holding D civil posts under the Union or the State, are regulated either by the Acts of the appropriate Legislature passed in terms of Article 309 or by the Rules framed in exercise of the power conferred by the proviso to Article 309 of the Constitution. Therefore, whenever a dispute relating to a service matter, which includes a claim for allowances, is raised before the Administrative Tribunal, E the primary duty of the Tribunal is to see what is provided by the relevant Act issued under the main part of Article 309 or the Rules issued under the Proviso to Article 309.