This is for the simple reason that imposition of penalty against the appellant cannot be approved because of the want G of specific show-cause notice. Moreover, no specific quantum of loss has been specified by the respondents so as to justify the imposition of maximum of penalty. Viewed from any angle, the impugned dated 17.08.2020 is required to be set aside. 24. Even the debarring the appellant for a period of 3 years for default in making the requisite supplies carries its own shortcomings. H ISOLATORS AND ISOLATORS THR. ITS PROP. MRS. SANDHYA MISHRA 471 v. MPMKVVCL [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] As noticed, the appellant had indeed made substantial supplies against A the purchase s in question. Fact of the matter further remains that on 18.09.2019, the respondent No. 2 dealing with the procurement specifically informed the appellant that the supply under the purchase in question is to be deferred. It has rightly been argued on behalf of the appellant that after such an of deferment, there had not B been any other communication or even indication from the respondents which would have informed the appellant to resume supplies. We have reproduced hereinabove all the relevant passages in the additional written submissions on behalf of the respondents, made in an effort to meet with the arguments concerning the effect and impact of the said communication dated 18.09.2019. It is at once apparent that the respondents have not C been able to rebut the contention urged in this regard on behalf of the appellant. The written submissions on behalf of the respondents do not answer the root question in the matter as to how the appellant could have been made solely responsible for delay or default in supply after the communication dated 18.09.2019 when the respondents themselves D informed the appellant that taking of balance delivery was being deferred (until further instructions). In the length and breadth of the arguments on behalf of the respondents, it has nowhere been pointed out if such “further instructions” were ever issued to the appellant before issuance of the cancellation s dated 19.11.2019and 21.11.2019 as also before issuance of show-cause notice dated 26.11.2019. That being the position, E we are clearly of the view that the debarment had been issued against the appellant without due regard to the undeniable factual situation where the entire blame could not have been foisted upon or shifted towards the appellant. Hence, the impugned dated 30.07.2020 debarring the appellant is also required to be set aside. F 25. Before concluding, we are impelled to observe that, in fact, the High Court had had the opportunity to correct the obvious errors in its dated 23.04.2021, particularly when the review petition was placed before it for consideration because one part of the matter (concerning penalty) was not even considered and as regards other part G too, the pertinent contentions of the appellant did not acquire the requisite attention of the High Court. Unfortunately, the High Court chose to dismiss the review petition without even looking into the relevant factors, including the oneconcerning the impact of the communication dated 18.09.2019.