The authorities had also accepted them as eligible, expressly informing the selection committee that for eligible candidates even if proof came later and before the fi nal selection, it should be considered as valid. This was also equally the situation in Dolly Chhanda (supra), Alok Kumar Singh (supra) and Dheerender Singh Paliwal(supra) where the factual position about the eligibility was not in dispute. Those cases and the cases of that ilk cannot support the petitioners in this case for the purpose of claiming eligibility in CSE-2022 as an EWS candidate. 44. The meaning of the word “eligible” as defi ned in P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Advanced Law Lexicon is set out hereunder:- “Applied to the selection of persons, the word has two meanings i.e. “legally qualifi ed,” or “fi t to be chosen.” Applied to our context, a person can be found eligible as an economically weaker section candidate and he can be considered as a fi t person to be chosen under that category only if the requirement of the OM of 31.01.2019 and Rule 27(3) read with Rule 28 are fulfi lled. In Gaurav Singh’s case (supra), it has been categorically held that assets for the particular Financial Year, prior to the year of submission, goes to the root of eligibility of the candidate in the EWS category. It has been further held therein that the candidates whose I&ACs are not in did not have any legal right to be considered. It has also been held that no candidate can claim any legal right for reconsideration of the candidature by submitting a fresh certifi cate and/or a rectifi ed certifi cate. 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 45. That is the fundamental distinction between the Charles J. Skaria (supra) line of cases and the cases at hand. As pointed out earlier, the eligibility for being categorized as EWS candidate crystallizes only when the I&AC is issued and, in this case, as required under the rules, it was to be issued and possessed by the candidate before 22.02.2022. 46. It is also very well settled that if there are relevant rules which prescribe the date on which the eligibility should be possessed, those rules will prevail. In the absence of rules or any other date prescribed in the prospectus/advertisement for determining the eligibility, there is a judicial chorus holding that it would be the last date for submission of the application. (See Rekha Chaturvedi v. University of Rajasthan [1993 Supp (3) SCC 168]; Bhupinderpal Singh v. State of Punjab [(2000) 5 SCC 262]; Ashok Kumar Sonkar v. Union of India [(2007) 4 SCC 54]. Legal Status of CSE-2022 Rules: 47. The contention of Ms. Preetika Dwivedi, learned counsel for the petitioner, that CSE-2022 Rules has no statutory force and hence it cannot be considered as a mandatorily enforceable rule need not detain the Court very long. 48. The Union of India has explained the Source of Power for the CSE Rules. Section 3 of the All India Services Act, 1951 states that the Central Government, after consultation with the Governments of the States may make rules for the regulation of recruitment and the conditions of service of persons appointed to an All India Service.