Federal railways; the regulation of all railways other than minor railways in respect of safety, maximum and minimum rates and fares, station and services terminal charges, interchange of traffi c and the responsibility of railway administrations as carriers of goods and passengers; the regulation of minor railways in respect of safety and the responsibility of the administrations of such railways as carriers of goods and passengers. Maritime shipping and navigation, including shipping and navigation on tidal waters; Admiralty jurisdiction. Port quarantine. 160 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Major ports, that is to say, the declaration and delimitation of such ports, and the constitution and powers of Port Authorities therein. Aircraft and air navigation; the provision of aerodromes; regulation and organisation of air traffi c and of aerodromes. Lighthouses, including lightships, beacons and other provisions for the safety of shipping and aircraft. Carriage of passengers and goods by sea or by air. Extension of the powers and jurisdiction of members of the police force belonging to any unit to railway area outside that unit. D. Ancillary Election to the Dominion Legislature, subject to the provisions of the Act and of any made thereunder. Off ences against laws with respect to any of the aforesaid matters. Inquiries and statistics for the purposes of any of the aforesaid matters. Jurisdiction and powers of all courts with respect to any of the aforesaid matters but, except with the consent of the Ruler of the acceding State, not so as to confer any jurisdiction or powers upon any courts other than courts ordinarily exercising jurisdiction in or in relation to that State.” 253. A separate Part was included in the Draft Constitution, numbered as Part VI-A, which provided for an “internal Constitution” for the States in Part III, except Jammu and Kashmir. A brief overview of the provisions in Part VI-A is necessary to understand the nature of the Constitution of States. Article 211A of the Draft Constitution216 stipulated that the provisions of Part VI of the Constitution shall apply to states in Part III as they apply to the States in Part I subject to certain 216 Article 238 of the Constitution before it was repealed by the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act 1956 dealt with the “internal Constitution” of the Part B States. The Article stipulated that the provisions of Part VI was applicable to States in Part B subject to the modifi cations listed in the provision. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 161 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] modifi cations and omissions. The modifi cations, inter alia, included: (a) the word “Governor’ shall be substituted with the phrase “Rajpramukh”; and (b) provisions for the Rajpramukh to be entitled to use their residence without the payment of rent and that the Rajpramukh shall be paid such allowances as the President may by general or a special determine. While introducing the amendment, Dr. BR Ambedkar explained that the provisions which apply to Part I States shall be applied to Part III States.