… Common object of the unlawful assembly can be gathered from the nature of the assembly, arms used by them and the behaviour of the assembly at or before scene of occurrence. It is an inference to be deduced from the facts and circumstances of each case.” 23. The Court elaborated the above proposition in Dharam Pal v. State of U.P. [(1975) 2 SCC 596 : 1975 SCC (Cri) 704] as: (SCC p. 603, para 11) “11. Even if the number of assailants could have been less than fi ve in the instant case (which, we think, on the facts stated above, was really not possible), we think that the fact that the attacking party was clearly shown to have waited for the buggi to reach near the fi eld of Daryao in the early hours of 7-6-1967, shows pre-planning. Some of the assailants had sharp-edged weapons. They were obviously lying in wait for the buggi to arrive. They surrounded and attacked the occupants shouting that the occupants will be killed. We do not think that more convincing evidence of a preconcert was necessary. Therefore, if we had thought it necessary, we would not have hesitated to apply Section 34 IPC also to this case. The principle of vicarious liability does not depend upon the necessity to convict a required number of persons. It depends upon proof of facts, beyond reasonable doubt, which makes such a principle applicable. (See Yeshwant v. State of Maharashtra [(1972) 3 SCC 639 : 1972 SCC (Cri) 684] and Sukh 786 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Ram v. State of U.P. [(1974) 3 SCC 656 : 1974 SCC (Cri) 186] ) The most general and basic rule, on a question such as the one we are considering, is that there is no uniform, infl exible, or invariable rule applicable for arriving at what is really an inference from the totality of facts and circumstances which varies from case to case. We have to examine the eff ect of fi ndings given in each case on this totality. It is rarely exactly identical with that in another case. Other rules are really subsidiary to this basic verity and depend for their correct application on the peculiar facts and circumstances in the context of which they are enunciated.” In the instant case by the impugned , the High Court has held that every member had inhibited the common intention to accomplish the unlawful object. The facts on hand would disclose that the motive alleged was a quarrel that ensued between Ravi and Nabbu with Ajay and Suraj on the day of Dulhandi and Ravi is said to have threatened to kill Ajay. This factor would clearly disclose that the appellants herein were not involved in the fi ght that occurred on the day of Dulhandi and as such no motive could be attributed to the appellants. The prosecution had failed to prove that the appellants herein had shared a common object with other members of the alleged unlawful assembly.