Therefore, there cannot be any absolute proposition of law that in all cases where the Tribunal has determined the arm’s length price the same is final and cannot be the subject matter of scrutiny by the High Court in an appeal under Section 260A of the IT Act. When the determination of the arm’s length price is E challenged before the High Court, it is always open for the High Court to consider and examine whether the arm’s length price has been determined while taking into consideration the relevant guidelines under the Act and the Rules. Even the High Court can also examine the question of comparability of two companies or selection of filters and examine F whether the same is done judiciously and on the basis of the relevant material/evidence on record. The High Court can also examine whether the comparable transactions have been taken into consideration properly or not, i.e., to the extent non-comparable transactions are considered as comparable transactions or not. Therefore, the view taken by the Karnataka High Court in the case of Softbrands India (P) Ltd. that in G the transfer pricing matters, the determination of the arm’s length price by the Tribunal is final and cannot be subject matter of scrutiny under Section 260A of the IT Act cannot be accepted. 8. Thus, in each case, the High Court should examine whether the guidelines laid down in the Act and the Rules are followed while H SAP LABS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED v. INCOME TAX 443 OFFICER, CIRCLE 6, BANGALORE [M. R. SHAH, J.] determining the arm’s length price. Therefore, we are of the opinion that A the absolute proposition of law laid down by the Karnataka High Court in the case of Softbrands India (P) ltd. (supra) that in the matter of transfer pricing, determination of the arm’s length price by the Tribunal shall be final and cannot be subject matter of scrutiny and the High Court is precluded from examining the correctness of the determination B of the arm’s length price by the Tribunal in an appeal under Section 260A of the IT Act on the ground that it cannot be said to be raising a substantial question of law cannot be accepted. As observed hereinabove, within the parameters of Section 260A of the IT Act in an appeal challenging the determination of the arm’s length price, it is always open for the High Court to examine in each case whether while determining C the arm’s length price, the guidelines laid down under the Act and the Rules, referred to hereinabove, are followed or not and whether the determination of the arm’s length price and the findings recorded by the Tribunal while determining the arm’s length price are perverse or not. 9. In view of the above, the impugned s and s passed D by the High Court dismissing the Revenue’s appeals and even the appeals preferred by the assessees are required to be quashed and set aside and the matters are required to be remitted back to the concerned High Courts to decide and dispose of the respective appeals afresh in light of the observations made hereinabove and examine in each and every case E whether the guidelines laid down under the Act and the Rules, referred to hereinabove, are followed while determining the arm’s length price by the Tribunal or not and to that extent whether the findings recorded by the Tribunal while determining the arm’s length price are perverse or not.