In this case he acts with full knowledge that he is taking the chance that this secondary result will follow. Here, again, if this secondary result is one forbidden by law, then he will be E criminally responsible for it if it occurs. His precise mental attitude will be one of two kinds-(a) he would prefer that the harmful result should not occur, or (b) he is indifferent as to whether it does or does not occur.” (Emphasis supplied) 30. The phraseology of Sections 299 and 300 respectively of the IPC leaves no manner of doubt that under these Sections when it is said F that a particular act in to be punishable be done with such intention, the requisite intention must be proved by the prosecution. It must be proved that the accused aimed or desired that his act should lead to such and such consequences. For example, when under Section 299 it is said “whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing G death” it must be proved that the accused by doing the act, intended to bring about the particular consequence, that is, causing of death. Similarly, when it is said that “whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death” it must be proved that the accused had the aim of causing such bodily injury as was likely to cause death. H 1110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 31. Thus, in that the requirements of law with regard to intention may be satisfied for holding an offence of culpable homicide proved, it is necessary that any of the two specific intentions must be proved. But, even when such intention is not proved, the offence will be culpable homicide if the doer of the act causes the death with the knowledge that he is likely by his such act to cause death, that is, with B the knowledge that the result of his doing his act may be such as may result in death. 32. The important question which has engaged our careful attention in this case is, whether on the facts and in the circumstances of the case we should maintain the conviction of the appellant herein for the offence C under Section 304 Part I or we should further alter it to Section 304 Part II of the IPC? SECTIONS 299 AND 300 OF THE IPC:- 33. Sections 299 and 300 of the IPC deal with the definition of ‘culpable homicide’ and ‘murder’, respectively. In terms of Section 299, D ‘culpable homicide’ is described as an act of causing death (i) with the intention of causing death or (ii) with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death, or (iii) with the knowledge that such an act is likely to cause death. As is clear from a reading of this provision, the former part of it emphasises on the expression ‘intention’ while the E latter upon ‘knowledge’.