The court can go behind the form and see the B substance of the devise for which it has to pierce the veil and examine whether the guidelines or the regulations are framed so as to achieve some other purpose than the welfare of the animals. Regulations or guidelines, whether statutory or otherwise, if they purport to dilute or defeat the welfare C legislation and the constitutional principles, the court should not hesitate to strike them down so as to achieve the ultimate object and purpose of the welfare legislation. The court has also a duty under the doctrine of parens patriae to take care of the rights of animals, since they are unable to take care of themselves as against human beings.” D Xxx “37. Section 11 generally deals with the cruelty to animals. Section 11 confers no right on the organisers to conduct Jallikattu/bullock cart race. Section 11 is a beneficial E provision enacted for the welfare and protection of the animals and it is penal in nature. Being penal in nature, it confers rights on the animals and obligations on all persons, including those who are in charge or care of the animals, AWBI, etc. to look after their well-being and welfare.” xxx F “41. Section 11(3) carves out exceptions in five categories of cases mentioned in Sections 11(3)(a) to (e), which are as follows: “11. (3) Nothing in this section shall apply to— G (a) the dehorning of cattle, or the castration or branding or nose-roping of any animal, in the prescribed manner; or (b) the destruction of stray dogs in lethal chambers or by such other methods as may be prescribed; or H THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 447 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] (c) the extermination or destruction of any animal under A the authority of any law for the time being in force; or (d) any matter dealt with in Chapter IV; or (e) the commission or omission of any act in the course of the destruction or the preparation for destruction of any B animal as food for mankind unless such destruction or preparation was accompanied by the infliction of unnecessary pain or suffering.” Exceptions are incorporated based on the “doctrine of necessity”. Clause (b) to Section 11(3) deals with the C destruction of stray dogs, out of necessity, otherwise, it would be harmful to human beings. Clause (d) to Section 11(3) deals with matters dealt with in Chapter IV, incorporated out of necessity, which deals with the experimentation on animals, which is for the purpose of advancement by new discovery of physiological D knowledge or of knowledge which would be useful for saving or for prolonging life or alleviating suffering or for combating any disease, whether of human beings, animals or plants, which is not prohibited and is lawful. Clause (e) to Section 11(3) permits killing of animals E as food for mankind, of course, without inflicting unnecessary pain or suffering, which clause is also incorporated “out of necessity”.