[..] As to the tests of the likelihood of bias what is relevant is the reasonableness of the apprehension in that regard in the mind of the party. The proper approach for the Indian Judge is not to look at his own mind and ask himself, however, honestly, “Am I biased?”; but to look at the mind of the party before him.” (emphasis supplied) 20. One of the most signifi cant rulings on the issue of bias, was rendered in R. v. Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate, ex p Pinochet Ugarte (No. 2)18. The court reviewed the jurisprudence, and several previous precedents, and in Kumaon Vikas Mandal (supra) observed that: “The test, therefore, is as to whether a mere apprehension of bias or there being a real danger of bias and it is on this score that the surrounding circumstances must and ought to be collated and necessary conclusion drawn therefrom--in the event however the conclusion is otherwise inescapable that there is existing a real danger of bias…” 17 1988 (1) SCR 512 18 [2000] 1 AC 119 CHENNAI METRO RAIL LTD. ADMIN. BUILDING v. 1009 M/S TRANSTONNELSTROY AFCONS (JV) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 21. Returning to the present case, Section 12 (1) of the Act applies at the stage of appointment – which mandates disclosure requirements applicable to arbitrators; (a) sets out the kinds of infl uence which may lead to ‘justifi able doubts’ about ‘independence and impartibility’; Section 12 (1) (b) sets out the disclosure requirement with respect to the arbitrator’s ability to “devote suffi cient time”. Explanation (1) refers to the grounds of possible confl icts, which need disclosure: they are enumerated under separate heads under Section 34 of the Act, and grouped in seven broad categories in the Fifth Schedule to the Act. The second explanation to Section 12(1) requires disclosure in the form set out in the Sixth Schedule. 22. Section 12(2) requires disclosure of any event or circumstance which is mandatorily to be shared with the parties – if such circumstances arise after the appointment. Section 12(3) lays out the grounds of challenge to an arbitrator if “justifi able doubts” exist in relation to his “independence or impartiality”. Section 12(4) restricts challenge by parties – after appointment “only for reasons which he becomes aware after appointment is made”. 23. Section 12(5) was inserted w.e.f. 23.10.2016; it begins with a non-obstante clause overriding any “prior agreement to the contrary” and stipulates that any person with any kind of relationship set out in the Seventh Schedule (which outlines 19 specifi c heads and types of relationships - professional, familiar or associational) would be ineligible for appointment as arbitrator. The proviso to Section 12(5) enables the parties to waive the ineligibility conditions under Section 12(5) (read with Seventh Schedule) by express agreement in writing. 24. Section 13 (1) deals with the challenge procedure and enables parties to agree on a procedure to challenge the arbitrator. By Section 13(2), if there is no agreement, the party who intends to challenge the arbitrator has to within 15 days after becoming aware of the tribunal’s constitution or within fi fteen days after becoming aware of any circumstances referred to in Section 12(3) apply in writing to the reasons for challenge to a tribunal.