However, in such cases action cannot be taken on basis of suppression or submitting false information as to a fact which was not even asked for. 38.11. Before a person is held guilty of suppressio veri or suggestio falsi, knowledge of the fact must be attributable to him.” (emphasis added) 10. As can be discerned from the above decision, an employer has the discretion to terminate or condone an omission in the disclosure made by a candidate. While doing so, the employer must act with prudence, keep in mind the nature of the post and the duties required to be discharged. Higher the post, more stringent ought to be the standards to be applied. Even if a truthful disclosure has been made, the employer is well within its right to examine the fi tness of a candidate and in a concluded criminal case, keep in mind the nature of the off ence and verify whether the acquittal is honourable or benefi t has been extended on technical reasons. If the employer arrives at a conclusion that the incumbent is of a suspect character or unfi t for the post, he may not be appointed or continued in service. 450 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 11. In Daya Shankar Yadav. v. Union of India and Others14, where this Court was called upon to examine the purpose of seeking information with respect to the antecedents of a candidate, it was observed that the same were essential so as to ascertain the suitability for the post and the disclosures made in the verifi cation form relating to the character and antecedents of the candidate can result in the following consequences: “15. When an employee or a prospective employee declares in a verifi cation form, answers to the queries relating to character and antecedents, the verifi cation thereof can therefore lead to any of the following consequences: (a) If the declarant has answered the questions in the affi rmative and furnished the details of any criminal case (wherein he was convicted or acquitted by giving benefi t of doubt for want of evidence), the employer may refuse to off er him employment (or if already employed on probation, discharge him from service), if he is found to be unfi t having regard to the nature and gravity of the off ence/crime in which he was involved. (b) On the other hand, if the employer fi nds that the criminal case disclosed by the declarant related to off ences which were technical, or of a nature that would not aff ect the declarant’s fi tness for employment, or where the declarant had been honourably acquitted and exonerated, the employer may ignore the fact that the declarant had been prosecuted in a criminal case and proceed to appoint him or continue him in employment. (c) Where the declarant has answered the questions in the negative and on verifi cation it is found that the answers were false, the employer may refuse to employ the declarant (or discharge him, if already employed), even if the declarant had been cleared of the charges or is acquitted.