What we have, very clearly, is a company incorporated “under” the Companies Act, 1956. RIICO does not owe its existence to a statute, but is rather created under the Companies Act and is subject to its provisions. It is only governed by the provisions of the Companies Act E and not created by it. The 1979 Rules, which learned Senior Counsel Mr. Rohatgi had argued contained a “statutory flavour” were issued pursuant to Article 93 of RIICO’s AoA. It is difficult to see how the status of “statutory rules” may be accorded to regulations that are brought into existence under the Articles of a non-statutory company. 65. Respondents have cited M.G. Pandke & Ors. v. Municipal F Council, Hinganghat, Dist. Wardha & Ors.19 to make their case regarding the 1979 Rules being statutory in nature. In that case, the State of Maharashtra had come out with the “Secondary School Code” via executive directions. The State then promulgated the Maharashtra Secondary Education Boards Act, 1965, and the associated Maharashtra G Secondary Education Boards Regulations, 1966. Within the latter, a reference had been made to the Secondary School Code and it was mandated that schools comply with the Code under Regulation 19(7)(xvi). When a conflict between the Secondary School Code and the bylaws of 18 1976 (2) SCC 58. H 19 1993 Supp (1) SCC 708. 290 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A the Respondent Municipal Council arose, this Court had to determine the legal status of the Code and proceeded to conclude as follows: “12. Learned Counsel for the appellants has raised the following contentions in support of his case: 1. Regulation 19(7)(xvi) of Maharashtra Regulations which B is a statutory regulation makes it obligatory for the Municipal Council to follow the provisions of the Code. The Code itself may be non-statutory but the mandate to follow the Code flows from Regulations 19(7)(xvi) of the Maharashtra Regulations which is mandatory. The field having been occupied by the C Code under the statutory-mandate, no bye-law to the contrary could be framed by the Municipal Council. … 13. When the Code was enforced in the year 1963, the Act and Regulations were holding the field in Vidarbha Division. D Under the Act and the Regulations the age of superannuation being 60 years, the Code, while fixing 58 years as the age of superannuation for rest of Maharashtra, permitted the Vidarbha teachers to superannuate on attaining the age of 60 years. The Maharashtra Act which came into force on January 1, 1966 repealed the Act and the regulations. In E Baboolal’s case (AIR 1974 Bom 219) the High Court referred to the repealing and saving section of the Maharashtra Act and came to the conclusion that there was no provision thereunder to save the regulations. Assuming that the Regulations under the Act stood repealed, the Code which F was framed by the Maharashtra Government continued to hold the field. It is not disputed by the learned Counsel for the appellants that the Code by itself is not statutory and is in the nature of executive instructions.