[2023] 2 S.C.R. 1037 1037 R SUNDARAM A v. THE TAMIL NADU STATE LEVEL SCRUTINY COMMITTEE & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 1770-1771 of 2023) B MARCH 17, 2023 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE AND KRISHNA MURARI, JJ.] Service Law – Scheduled Tribe – Community Certificate – Validity – Post Retirement Benefit – Effect – Appellant was appointed C as clerk-cum-shroff in the respondent bank on the basis of the community certificate – The appellant served in service for 38 years and was to set to retire but just before 2 days of his superannuation, he received a cessation on the ground that his caste certificate being false and all his retirement benefits except PF were withheld from him – Aggrieved by this, the appellant approached High Court D – High Court remanded the matter back to the scrutiny committee – The scrutiny committee held that the caste certificate of the appellant was not correct based on vigilance and experts reports – Aggrieved by this, the appellant again approached the High Court, but the writ petition and the contempt petition were dismissed on the ground E that despite fair opportunity being granted to the appellant, he did not abided by the same – On appeal, held: Appellant before applying for the said post had supplied all documents supporting his claim as a ST candidate – However, re-evaluation of the authenticity of the documents were kept pending for 19 years – In the present case the clear pattern of harassment is visible as the cessation was F received by the appellant just two days before his superannuation after completing a service of 38 years and that on the date of passing of cessation , no case was pending against the appellant – Also, it is evident that the appellant was not given an opportunity of being heard in the fresh scrutiny which was being conducted as the G notice issued to the appellant was not actually served upon him as admitted by the postal department since the same was served to someone else – Further, the respondents’ claim that appellant’s community certificate was fake, was not proved – Two reports declaring the community certificate of the appellant as fake were H 1037 1038 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A submitted after inordinate delay and both reports have not allowed participation of appellant – Thus, impugned s set aside – Appellant entitled to post-retirements benefits. Allowing the appeal, the Court B HELD: 1. After serving the Respondent bank for 38 years, the Appellant, two days before his superannuation received his cessation without there being any proper enquiry. Further, on communication made to the respondent no.1, it was found that on the date of passing the cessation , no case was pending against the Appellant. It is a very clear pattern of harassment is C visible, and there appears to be a sinister motive against the Appellant and his right to pensionary benefits. Even after 38 years of service, irrespective of the merits of the case, the fact that the Appellant has not been treated with any respect is sad to see, and the use of delayed procedure as a dangling sword can only be interpreted as harassment.