[2023] 1 S.C.R. 949 949 GAJANAND SHARMA A v. AADARSH SIKSHA PARISHAD SAMITI & ORS. Civil Appeal Nos.. 100-101 of 2023 JANUARY 19, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Rajasthan Non-Governmental Educational Institutions Act, 1989 – s.18 – For termination from service, the approval of Director of Education required or not – Appellant-employee was terminated C after a departmental enquiry – Tribunal set aside the of termination by observing and holding that the prior approval of the Director of Education as mandatory u/s. 18 of the Act, 1989 was not obtained – Single Judge confirmed the passed by the Tribunal – Division Bench of the High Court allowed the writ appeal and has set aside the s passed by the Tribunal as well as the D Single Judge and has upheld the of termination – Division Bench observed that in case of a termination after the disciplinary enquiry/proceedings prior approval of the Director of Education is not required – On appeal, held: On true interpretation of Section 18 of the Act, 1989, it is specifically observed and held that even in E case of termination/removal of an employee of a recognized institution after holding departmental enquiry/proceedings prior approval of the Director of Education has to be obtained as per first proviso to s.18 of the Act, 1989 – The impugned and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court restoring the of termination which as such was without obtaining the prior F approval of the Director of Education is set aside – The of Tribunal setting aside the of termination confirmed by the Single Judge of the High Court is restored. Allowing the appeals, the Court G HELD: 1. The decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar was binding upon the High Court. Therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court has seriously erred in not following the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar. [Para 5.1][957- B] H 949 950 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 2. Even on fair reading of Section 18 of the Act, 1989, this Court is of the opinion that in case of termination of an employee of a recognized institution prior approval of the Director of Education or an officer authorised by him in this behalf has to be obtained. In Section 18, there is no distinction between the termination, removal, or reduction in rank after the disciplinary B proceedings/enquiry or even without disciplinary proceedings/ enquiry. As per the settled position of law the provisions of the statute are to be read as they are. Nothing to be added and or taken away. The words used are “no employee of a recognized institution shall be removed without holding any enquiry and it C further provides that no final in this regard shall be passed unless prior approval of the Director of Education has been obtained.” The first part of Section 18 is to be read along with first proviso. Under the circumstances, taking a contrary view that in case of dismissal/removal of an employee of a recognized institution which is after holding the departmental enquiry the D prior approval of the Director of Education is not required is unsustainable and to that extent the of the Larger Bench of the Rajasthan High Court in the case of Central Academy Society is not a good law.