It is submitted that the High Court has rightly observed and held that the public interest at large is affected and there is violation of rule of law. G 5.9 Insofar as the submission on behalf of the appellant that only 7 people filed section 5A objections out of approximately 6000 people, who were losing their lands is concerned, it is submitted that the fact that only 7 people filed their objections itself shows that the landowners were either unaware of the land acquisition proceedings and/or were too weak, poor and disadvantaged and not in a position to even file H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 991 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] objections with the Collector. Relying upon the decisions of this Court in A the case of S.P. Gupta Vs. Union of India, 1981 Supp SCC 87; Bandhua Mukti Morcha Vs. Union of India, (1984) 3 SCC 161 and Public Union for Civil Liberties Vs. State of T.N., (2013) 1 SCC 585, it is submitted that the High Court has rightly entertained the Public Interest Litigation petitions and has rightly quashed the entire B acquisition proceedings. It is submitted that the High Court has rightly entertained and allowed the Public Interest Litigation petitions as by the acquisition of such a huge tract of land to the extent of 6000 acres, affecting 30,000 people, who were too weak, poor and disadvantaged, who could not approach the court for legal redress. C 5.10 It is submitted that apart from Public Interest Litigations, the land losers had also challenged the acquisition. It is submitted that in the present case, the High Court has rightly quashed the entire acquisition proceedings. It has been found that the Hon’ble Courts in various cases have repeatedly quashed entire acquisitions where illegalities go to the root of the matter. It is further submitted that even as rightly observed D and held by the High Court, the entire acquisition proceedings were suffering from arbitrariness and in Violation of the Act, 1894 and the statutory Rules in the land acquisition process. 5.11 It is submitted that the appellant is a private company, and not a public company. It is submitted that admittedly, the appellant claims E that it was a private company registered under Section 25 limited by guarantee with a license issued by Central Government. However, according to the said license itself, any change to Articles of Association is required to be approved by the Central Government. It is submitted that herein, the resolution, dated 23.11.2006, altering the Articles of F Association by the appellant to convert it into a public company and increasing the members to 7 was not approved by the Central Government as per the License issued to it under Section 25 and hence, the company never became a public company. It is submitted that the aforesaid is evident even from the affidavit filed on behalf of the Registrar of Companies filed before the High Court. He has taken us to the relevant G paragraphs namely paragraph Nos.