It further provides the procedure for dealing with such an application. Regulation 30A of IBBI E Regulations,as it stands today, is reproduced hereunder: “30A. Withdrawal of application. (1) An application for withdrawal under section 12A may be made to the Adjudicating Authority – (a) before the constitution of the committee, by the applicant F through the interim resolution professional; (b) after the constitution of the committee, by the applicant through the interim resolution professional or the resolution professional, as the case may be: Provided that where the application is made under clause (b) after G the issue of invitation for expression of interest under regulation 36A, the applicant shall state the reasons justifying withdrawal after issue of such invitation. (2) The application under sub-regulation (1) shall be made in Form- FA of the Schedule accompanied by a bank guarantee- H ABHISHEK SINGH v. HUHTAMAKI PPL LTD. & ANR. 605 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] (a) towards estimated expenses incurred on or by the interim A resolution professional for purposes of regulation 33, till the date of filing of the application under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1); or (b) towards estimated expenses incurred for purposes of clauses (aa), (ab), (c) and (d) of regulation 31, till the date of filing of the B application under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1). (3) Where an application for withdrawal is under clause (a) of sub-regulation (1), the interim resolution professional shall submit the application to the Adjudicating Authority on behalf of the applicant, within three days of its receipt. C (4) Where an application for withdrawal is under clause (b) of sub-regulation (1), the committee shall consider the application, within seven days of its receipt. (5) Where the application referred to in sub-regulation (4) is approved by the committee with ninety percent voting share, the D resolution professional shall submit such application along with the approval of the committee, to the Adjudicating Authority on behalf of the applicant, within three days of such approval. (6) The Adjudicating Authority may, by , approve the application submitted under sub-regulation (3) or (5). E (7) Where the application is approved under sub-regulation (6), the applicant shall deposit an amount, towards the actual expenses incurred for the purposes referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-regulation (2) till the date of approval by the Adjudicating Authority, as determined by the interim resolution professional or F resolution professional, as the case may be, within three days of such approval, in the bank account of the corporate debtor, failing which the bank guarantee received under sub-regulation (2) shall be invoked, without prejudice to any other action permissible against the applicant under the Code. “ G 15. NCLT, in the impugned while rejecting I.A.No.196 of 2021 filed by the OCs, recorded the following findings: i. The facts relating to the settlement and the fulfilment of the terms of the settlement are not disputed; H 606 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A ii. The suspended directors of the CD despite the moratorium having commenced with effect from 01.03.2021 have not only made transactions of deposit but also withdrawal from the account of the CD.