“The principle is well-established that if the transaction is contained in more than one document between the same parties they must be read and interpreted together and they have the same legal eff ect for all purposes as if they are one document. In Manks v. Whiteley, [1912] 1 Ch. 735 Moulton, L.J. stated : “Where several deeds form part of one transaction and are contemporaneously executed they have the same eff ect for all purposes such as are relevant to this case as if they were one deed. Each is executed on the faith of all the others being executed also and is intended to speak only as part of the one transaction, and if one is seeking to make equities apply to the parties they must be equities arising out of the transaction as a whole.” 28. Undoubtedly as argued on behalf of IL&FS, there are certain conditions in the MFA – [clauses 2 (cc) and 2 (dd)] which defi ne “security” and “security interest”. Read along with clause 8.1 and Schedule III, these would lead one to infer those receivables or rents that which IL&FS is entitled to, form the security for the advance extended to it by the lender. Nevertheless, as discussed earlier, these conditions cannot be read in isolation because the MFA itself adverts to other documents - all of which were executed by the parties contemporaneously. The condition in the Assignment and Administration agreement which [was also executed on the same day, i.e. 25.06.2018], clearly indicates that rents payable to IL&FS stood unconditionally assigned to HDFC. The use of the expression “pledge” in this context cannot be made much of. This is because the assignment is not hedged with any condition; it entitles HDFC to appropriate the proceeds, to the extent of liability of IL&FS. 29. The Lease Rental Discounting (LRD) arrangement - a new kind of fi nancial agreement by which a banker allows credit facilities to a commercial property owner, has the fl exibility of ensuring that the asset owner is given access to credit. The dominant condition is that a substantial portion or the entire rent or receivables which the owner would be entitled to are made- sold or assigned, absolutely to the creditor bank. This is with the intention that the borrower’s liabilities are discharged automatically from the proceeds payable in respect of the property. Such amounts virtually are by way of unsecured debts. In other words, future rent payable is actually an INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1051 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] unsecured debt that the owner/borrower would have been otherwise entitled to claim, but for the assignment or transfer, to the lender/creditor. Because the owner is a debtor of the bank, the latter becomes the creditor of the tenant or the lessee as the case may be. This arrangement has the advantage of virtually ring fencing the creditor from the eventuality of bankruptcy or an insolvency event, which the borrower might be exposed to.