332 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 3E PSO.CR.RT.S 332 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A THE DIRECTOR (ADMN. AND HR) KPTCL & ORS. v. C.P. MUNDINAMANI & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 2471 of 2023) B APRIL 11, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Karnataka Electricity Board Employees Service Regulations, 1997 – Regulation 40(1) – As per Regulation 40(1) an increment accrues from the day following that on which it is earned – C Appellant-KTCL denied the annual increment to the respondents- respective employees on the ground that the day on which the increment accrued, the respondents were not in service – Whether an employee who has earned the annual increment is entitled to the same despite the fact that he has retired on the very next day of D earning the increment – Held: Merely because, the government servant has retired on the very next day, he cannot be denied the annual increment which he has earned – In the instant case, the word “accrue” should be understood liberally and would mean payable on the succeeding day – Any contrary view would lead to E arbitrariness and unreasonableness and denying a government servant legitimate one annual increment though he is entitled to for rendering the services over a year with good behaviour and efficiently and therefore, such a narrow interpretation should be avoided. F Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. The submission on behalf of the appellants that as the increment has accrued on the next day on which it is earned and therefore, even in a case where an employee has earned the increment one day prior to his retirement but he is not in service G the day on which the increment is accrued is concerned, while considering the aforesaid issue, the object and purpose of grant of annual increment is required to be considered. A government servant is granted the annual increment on the basis of his good conduct while rendering one year service. Increments are given annually to officers with good conduct unless such increments H 332 THE DIRECTOR (ADMN. AND HR) KPTCL & ORS. v. C.P. 333 MUNDINAMANI & ORS. are withheld as a measure of punishment or linked with efficiency. A Therefore, the increment is earned for rendering service with good conduct in a year/specified period. Therefore, the moment a government servant has rendered service for a specified period with good conduct, in a time scale, he is entitled to the annual increment and it can be said that he has earned the annual B increment or rendering the specified period of service with good conduct. Therefore, as such, he is entitled to the benefit of the annual increment on the eventuality of having served for a specified period (one year) with good conduct efficiently. Merely because, the government servant has retired on the very next day, how can he be denied the annual increment which he has C earned and/or is entitled to for rendering the service with good conduct and efficiently in the preceding one year.