By clever drafting and not asking any relief with respect to partition deed dated 11.03.1953, the plaintiffs have tried to circumvent the provision D of limitation act and have tried to maintain the suit which is nothing but abuse of process of court and the law. 7. Now, so far as the reliance placed on the decision of the Privy Council referred to hereinabove and on the decision of this Court in the case of Subhaga (supra) are concerned, there cannot be any dispute E with respect to the proposition of law laid down in the aforesaid two decisions. However, the question is the suit being barred by limitation and the illusory cause of action. 7.1 Now so far as the reliance placed upon the decision of this Court in the case of Nusli Neville Wadia (supra) is concerned, again F there cannot be any dispute with respect to the proposition of law laid down by this Court that while deciding the application under VII Rule XI, mainly the averments in the plaint only are required to be considered and not the averments in the written statement. However, on considering the averments in the plaint as they are, we are of the opinion that the plaint is ought to have been rejected being vexatious, illusory G cause of action and barred by limitation and it is a clear case of clever drafting. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated, the impugned and passed by the High Court and that of the learned H 600 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Trial Court rejecting the application under VII Rule XI are unsustainable and the same deserve to be quashed and set aside and are accordingly, quashed and set aside. Consequently, the application submitted by the appellants – original defendant Nos. 9 and 10 to reject the plaint in exercise of powers under VII Rule XI(a) and (d) of the CPC is hereby allowed and consequently, the plaint of Civil Suit B (O.S.) No. 35/2014 is ed to be rejected. Present appeal is accordingly allowed. No costs. Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Aarsh Choudhary, LCRAs) C D E F G H