Except in cases in which the possession, or concealment, of an object constitutes the gist of the off ence charged, it can seldom happen that information relating to the discovery of a fact forms the foundation of the prosecution case. It is only one link in the chain of proof, and the other links must be forged in manner allowed by law. 23. The law on the evidentiary value of disclosure statements of co- accused too is settled; the courts have hesitated to place reliance solely on 4 1946 SCC OnLine PC 47; AIR 1947 PC 67 MANOJ KUMAR SONI v. 257 THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] disclosure statements of co-accused and used them merely to support the conviction or, as Sir Lawrence Jenkins observed in Emperor vs. Lalit Mohan Chuckerburty5, to “lend assurance to other evidence against a co-accused”. In Haricharan Kurmi vs. State of Bihar6,this Court, speaking through the Constitution Bench, elaborated upon the approach to be adopted by courts when dealing with disclosure statements: 13. …In dealing with a criminal case where the prosecution relies upon the confession of one accused person against another accused person, the proper approach to adopt is to consider the other evidence against such an accused person, and if the said evidence appears to be satisfactory and the court is inclined to hold that the said evidence may sustain the charge framed against the said accused person, the court turns to the confession with a view to assure itself that the conclusion which it is inclined to draw from the other evidence is right. 24. In yet another case of discrediting a fl awed conviction under Section 411, IPC, this Court, in Shiv Kumar vs. State of Madhya Pradesh7 overturned the conviction under Section 411, declined to place undue reliance solely on the disclosure statements of the co-accused, and held: 24. …, the disclosure statement of one accused cannot be accepted as a proof of the appellant having knowledge of utensils being stolen goods. The prosecution has also failed to establish any basis for the appellant to believe that the utensils seized from him were stolen articles. The factum of selling utensils at a lower price cannot, by itself, lead to the conclusion that the appellant was aware of the theft of those articles. The essential ingredient of mens rea is clearly not established for the charge under Section 411 IPC. The prosecution’s evidence on this aspect, as they would speak of the character Gratiano in Merchant of Venice, can be appropriately described as, “you speak an infi nite deal of nothing.” [William Shakespeare, Merchant of Venice, Act 1 Scene 1.] 25. Coming to the case at hand, there is not a single iota of evidence except the disclosure statements of Manoj and the co-accused, which 5 (1911) ILR 38 Cal 559, page 588 6 AIR 1964 SC 1184 7 (2022) 9 SCC 676 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. supposedly led the I.O. to the recovery of the stolen articles from Manoj and Rs.3,000.00 from Kallu.