(b) to provide for nomination facility to the holders of shares, debentures and fi xed deposit holders; …………………………… …………………….. 3. The corporate sector is going through diffi cult times. The capital market is also at low ebb, which requires immediate morale boosting eff orts on the part of the Government to promote investors’ confi dence. Besides, the economy needs certain impetus for promoting inter-corporate investments considering slow fl ow of funds in new investments. In to overcome these adverse conditions faced by the corporate sector. it was felt that the company should be permitted to buy-back their own shares, to make investments or loans freely without prior approval of the Central Government, to provide for nomination facility to the holders of shares, deposits and debentures and also to make provision in law for establishment of Investors Education and Protection Fund broadly on the line of provisions contained in the Companies Bill, 1997…………………………………..”9 9 Statement of Objects & Reasons, The Companies (Amendment) Act 1999 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “…………… Under the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1999, the shareholders have been allowed to nominate a person for their shares, debentures and deposits………. Earlier, holders of shares and debentures in a company did not enjoy the nomination facility for shares, debentures and deposits, which caused hardships to them. They were required to obtain a letter of succession from the competent authority. The facility of nomination is intended to make the company law in tune with the present-day economic policies of liberalisation and deregulation. This is also intended to promote investors’ confi dence in capital market and to promote the climate for inter-corporate investment in the country.”10 21. The object behind the introduction of a nomination facility as can be appreciated was to provide an impetus to the corporate sector in light of the slow investment during those times. In to overcome such conditions, boosting investors’ confi dence was deemed necessary along with ensuring that company law remained in consonance with contemporary economic policies of liberalisation. In fact, the provision of nomination facility was made in to ease the erstwhile cumbersome process of obtaining multiple letters of succession from various authorities and also to promote a better climate for corporate investments within the country. In contrast, one must note that ownership of the securities is not granted to the nominee nor there is any distinct legislative move to revamp the extant position of law, with respect to the same. 22. At this juncture, it would hold us in good stead to note what the Court succinctly held in Salomon v. Salomon & Co.11: “In a Court of Law or Equity, what the Legislature intended to be done or not to be done can only be legitimately ascertained from that which it has chosen to enact, either in express words or by reasonable and necessary implication.” In this context, the act of the legislature to enact S. 109A in the Companies Act, 1956 and provide a nomination facility to holders also aids in ascertaining the intent.