10. Next, our attention was drawn by Mr. Taneja to the letters of complaint issued by Aggarwal before the various public authorities. It was contended that while acting on behalf of the appellant and also under its instructions, Aggarwal had made reckless and frivolous allegations against the complainant amounting to defamation and, in the process, lowered his reputation and fame in the eyes of the public. He further contended that the appellant cannot feign ignorance of the letters of complaint issued by Aggarwal. Referring to the writ petition of the appellant presented before the High Court of Delhi, he pointed out that the self-same letters of complaint issued by Aggarwal were made part of such petition while challenging the appellant’s disqualifi cation in course of the tender process; and, if indeed, such letters were issued without knowledge and consent of the appellant, it defi es logic as to why they were made part of the writ petition in the fi rst place where the appellant was arrayed as the writ petitioner. 11. Relying on the decision of this Court in Supriya Jain v. State of Haryana9, it was argued by Mr. Taneja that it is not open to the Courts to quash a complaint based on additional material placed by the accused which is not part of the record of proceedings before the court below. According to him, the Power of Attorney is not a piece of evidence that has been admitted or accepted by the complainant and, thus, it requires 9 (2023) SCC OnLine SC 765 230 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. proof by the appellant. Since the same is yet not proved by the appellant according to law, therefore, the same cannot be considered at this stage by this Court. Also, it is for the appellant to respond to the summons and to raise whatever defence is available to it by appearing before the Trial Court. 12. Reliance was also placed on several decisions by Mr. Taneja, some of which we propose to refer to a little later, to buttress his contention that the petition of the appellant was rightly dismissed and that the appeal deserves dismissal with costs. THE QUESTIONS 13. Having heard learned counsel appearing for the appellant and the complainant and on consideration of the materials on record, we are of the view that the following questions of law emerge for an answer: i. Whether, while considering a private complaint alleging defamation, the Magistrate before summoning the accused ought to confi ne himself to the allegations forming part of the petition only or he may, applying his judicial mind to the exceptions to section 499, IPC, dismiss the complaint holding that the facts alleged do not make out a case of defamation? AND ii. Whether and, if at all, to what extent, is it open to the High Courts to exercise inherent power saved by section 482, Cr. PC to quash proceedings for defamation by setting aside the summoning upon extending the benefi t of any of the Exceptions to section 499, IPC?