The passed by the learned Single Judge was the subject matter of the present writ appeal F before the Division Bench of the High Court. 2.4 By the impugned and the Division Bench of the High Court has allowed the said appeal by observing that the time limit prescribed under Rule 4(2) of the Rules, 2003 cannot be relaxed and/or the period cannot be extended. Consequently, the Division Bench G of the High Court has set aside the passed by the learned Single Judge which has given rise to the present appeal. 3. Shri Lakshmeesh S. Kamath, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has vehemently submitted that the time prescribed under Rule 4(2) of the Rules, 2003 is not mandatory and can be relaxed H VISHALAKSHI AMMA v. STATE OF KERALA & ORS. 1087 [M. R. SHAH, J.] in a given case. It is submitted that in the present case, the deer horn A was found from the first floor of the house which is an old house and the appellant came to know about that in the year 2011. 3.1 It is submitted that even after the application is made for ownership certificate/declaration, the appropriate authority/Chief Wild Life Warden is required to hold an enquiry and only thereafter, the B ownership certificate can be issued. It is submitted that therefore, no prejudice shall be caused if the application for ownership certificate/ declaration is made beyond the prescribed period provided under Rule 4(2) of the Rules, 2003. 3.2 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has C vehemently relied upon the decision of the Madras High Court in the case of C.D. Gopinath Vs. State of Tamil Nadu and Ors. (2010 SCC Online Mad 2851). 4. Shri Abraham C. Mathew, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent(s) while taking us to the relevant provisions of the D Act, 1972 and Rules, 2003 has vehemently submitted that the time limit prescribed under Rule 4(2) is mandatory. It is submitted that as per Section 40A under which the Rules are framed under which a person in control, custody or possession of the wildlife animal or wildlife article etc., can apply for ownership certificate by making a declaration. It is E submitted that looking to the object and purpose of Section 40 and 40A and the Rules, 2003 and when the specific time limit has been prescribed to submit an application for ownership certification/declaration, the same has to be adhered to as observed and held by the High Court by the impugned and . It is submitted that any other view shall frustrate the object and purpose of Section 40 and 40A and the Rules F framed in exercise of powers under Section 40A of the Act, 1972. 5. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length and have gone through the relevant provisions of the Act, 1972 and Rules, 2003. On and after coming into force of the Act, 1972, there is bar/restriction on keeping in custody or in possession G of the captive animal specified in Schedule I or Part II of Schedule II or animal article etc., including the musk of a musk deer or the horn of a rhinoceros.