[Paras 23, 26][752-H; 753-A, E] 1.2 No reason whatsoever is forthcoming as to why this D particular application required such a vast length of time to be acted upon. In the mean while the Appellant has been faced with the threat of disconnection, and has had to pay, due to such inaction, large amounts of money for electricity which it has not utilized. It is true that the agreement states that the consumer, (Appellant herein) is bound to pay such maximum demand amount E irrespective of utilization and also that such an agreement will be in effect for a period of five years but in the considered view of this Court, the Board cannot be allowed to take refuge of these clauses while the company on the other side is saddled with heavy cost in the interregnum of such decision. More so in view of the F communication dated 11th August 1994. [Paras 27 and 28][753- F-H] 1.3 The Writ Court had observed that in the other instances cited by the Appellant herein, the reduction sought was a small amount of KVA as opposed to the 13000 KVA reduction sought vide the instant application. While that may be true, it does not G supply reason to the act of keeping an application pending for such a long period of time. [Para 29][754-A-B] 1.4 State action irrespective of being in the contractual realm must abide by Article 14, and that a) after passage of a considerable H 744 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A period of time, in July, 2004 the reduction to 10000 KVA was agreed to and a new agreement to that effect was entered into; b) irrespective of the amount of reduction in KVA sought other applications were considered within a reasonable period of time; c) no reason has been put forth for keeping such application pending; d) that the Appellant duly and repeatedly followed up B with the authorities to effectuate such reduction; and e) the Appellant has been unjustifiably asked to furnish costs for unutilized electricity which, in any case should not have extended beyond the period of six months (considering ‘reasonable period’ to consider an application, to be so), for a period much larger C thereto, rendering such action unquestionably unreasonable and arbitrary. In view of the factual narrative, it would not be open for the Respondents to contend that the petitioner is not liable for the refund of the amount deposited under protest towards the bills so generated taking the maximum load to be 23000 KVA. Particularly, when at no point in time, the Appellant neither sought D for nor consumed the electricity more than the maximum demand of 10000 KVA. Acknowledging the financial health of the Appellant, in the 1999 agreement, the Respondent ought to have taken a decision on the Appellant request with a reasonable dispatch and terms which ought to have been within a period E latest by six months and not two and a half years as was so eventually done.