A (c) a Corporation shall pay a Gaon Sabha- (i) an amount equal to the proceeds of the tax on profession, trades, callings and employments, as and when that tax is levied in the Gaon Sabha area, and (ii) an amount equal to such portion of the proceeds of the B property taxes on lands and buildings in that area as may from time to time be determined by a Corporation, after deducting the cost of collection from such proceeds. 29. The Act, 1957 has been primarily enacted to have a uniform body to administer the Delhi Municipal Corporation to consolidate various C bodies, local authorities, looking after the municipal affairs and to centralise for better administration and to overcome the problems being faced by various authorities as well as by the public. 30. Section 2(52) defines the ‘rural areas’ which demonstrates that the area of Delhi which immediately before the establishment of a D Corporation, falls within the local limits of the District Board of Delhi, be considered to be the rural area but that shall not include such portion thereof which by virtue of notification under Section 507 declared to be urbanized and it ceases to be included under the term ‘rural areas’ and Section 2(61) defines ‘urban areas’ as the areas of Delhi which are not rural areas. E 31. To simplify it further, once there is a notification issued by the competent authority in exercise of power under Section 507(a) which is a special provision in reference to rural areas, such of the rural areas cease to be included therein upon issuance of the notification and shall thereafter include in and form part of the urban areas in terms of the F notification. Sub-clause (b) and (c ) of Section 507 deals with the nature of grant of exemption or levy of taxes for such of the areas falling within the scope and ambit of the Act, 1957. 32. At the same time, Section 502 on which the learned counsel for the appellants has given more emphasis, it only provides that this G Act(Act 1957) shall not be construed authorizing disregard to any law for the time being in force and rightly so for the reason, that scope and ambit of the Act, 1954, in no manner, has to be disregarded by the provisions of the Act, 1957. H MOHINDER SINGH(DEAD) THROUGH LRS AND ANOTHER 271 v. NARAIN SINGH AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 33. At this stage, if we look into the Delhi Development Act, A 1957(hereinafter being referred to as the “DDA Act”), it nowhere makes a distinction in the nature of land whether it is rural or urban, as the case may be. The DDA Act, 1957 is enacted with an object of development of Delhi according to sanctioned plan and for matters ancillary thereto. If we consider the term ‘development’ as defined under Section 2(e) of B the DDA Act, it clearly notifies that such of the area which has been declared to be a development area under Section 12, after publication in the official gazette, shall be considered a development area within the purport of the Act and it is a complete code in itself for the purpose of disposal of land.