Sub-section (6) thereof provides that the High Court may determine any issue which (a) has not been determined by the Appellate Tribunal; or (b) has been wrongly determined E by the Appellate Tribunal, by reason of a decision on such question of law as is referred to in sub-section(1). 3.2 It is submitted that the said provision came up for consideration in a catena of decisions. It is a settled position that jurisdiction under section 260A of the IT Act cannot be invoked unless there arises a substantial question of law. This is precisely what is held by the High F Court of Karnataka in the in Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra), by relying on a series of s of this Court. 3.3 It is submitted that a substantial question of law can arise in a case only when a question of law is fairly arguable, where there is room for difference of opinion on it. G 3.4 It is submitted that a finding of fact may give rise to a substantial question of law, inter alia, in the event the findings are based on (i) no evidence; and/or (ii) while arriving at the said finding, relevant admissible evidence has not been taken into consideration or inadmissible evidence has been taken into consideration; or (iii) legal principles have not been H 436 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A applied in appreciating the evidence; or (iv) when the evidence has been misread. The High Courts as well as this Court have consistently held that the Tribunal being a final fact finding authority, in the absence of demonstrated perversity in its finding, interference therewith by the High Court is not warranted. In support of his submission, learned senior counsel/counsel have relied upon the decisions of this Court in the cases B of Vijay Kumar Talwar v. CIT, (2011) 1 SCC 673 and Sir Chunilal V. Mehta and Sons Ltd. v. Century Spinning and Manufacturing Co. Ltd., reported in AIR 1962 SC 1314. 3.5 It is further submitted that perversity, if any, not only should be specifically alleged in the appeal before the High Court but also, as held C by the High Court in the case of Softbrands India (P) Ltd. (supra), the same ought to have been demonstrated. 3.6 It is further submitted that some instances where a substantial question of law can arise in Transfer Pricing matter is where the issue relates to whether at all a transaction falls within the definition of D ‘international transaction’, or if two enterprises are ‘associated enterprises’ as per the definition under the IT Act. The question of comparability of two companies or selection of filters are usually question of fact, which primarily depend on the functions performed, assets employed and risks assumed by the tested party as well as comparable E transactions. Unless perversity in the findings of the Tribunal is pleaded and demonstrated, by placing material on record, no substantial question of law can arise and, therefore, there can be no interference by the High Court.