On 1-8-1990, the Master Plan, 2001 was approved wherein it D was specifically mentioned that the bungalow character of LBZ needs to be preserved. The Master Plan even without specifically mentioning LBZ guidelines visualised similar treatment of LBZ so as to maintain the low density area without in any manner adversely affecting the green cover in the area. On 27-7-1993 E objections were invited to the Zonal Development Plan whereas on 25-5-1994 the New Delhi Municipal Council Act, 1994 came into force.” 130. In the said case, this Court was considering an appeal challenging the of the Division Bench of the High Court vide which it was held that the rejecting building plans submitted by the F respondents for the construction of a 15 storeyed building in the Lutyens Bungalow Zone (LBZ) was illegal. Vide the said of the High Court, the New Delhi Municipal Council was directed to return the building plans submitted by the respondents with an endorsement “sanctioned” within the time specified in the . This Court, however, vide G dated 28th August 2008, set aside the of the High Court and allowed the appeal in the following terms: “47. On the facts and in the circumstances of the case, this Court is of the opinion that the respondents would be entitled to construct H 17(2008) 8 SCC 765 RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 665 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] bungalow on their plot of land, in terms of guidelines dated 8-2-1988 A and that they would not be entitled to construct fifteen dwelling units which is quite contrary to those guidelines. The record does not indicate that the building plans of the respondents are fully compliant with the requirements of the Delhi Master Plan, 2001 and the Delhi Bye-Laws, 1983 and, therefore, the impugned B deserves to be set aside.” 131. Though, it may not be strictly possible to adhere to the practices that are followed in LBZ, when the report of the said Board as well as the CMP-2031 emphasizes on the approval of the Heritage Committee before permitting any redensification in the Le Corbusier C zone, the Chandigarh Administration could not have made the provisions in the CMP-2031 permitting redensification without the approval of the Heritage Committee. 132. A perusal of the CMP-2031 itself would reveal that the Expert Committee observes that Chandigarh’s inscription on UNESCO’s World D Heritage list would bring many benefits as the city would join a select list of other modern cities/urban areas currently inscribed on it. In our view, in this background, providing something which would adversely affect the heritage status of the Le Corbusier Zone, without the approval of the Heritage Committee, would not be permissible. E 133. The material placed on record would clearly reveal that Phase-I was designed for a low-rise plotted development with a greenbelt at the Centre running north east to south east. Wide roads planned in a systematic hierarchy provide structure to the city which has well planned facilities.