35. Thus, it was contended that the substance of Union of India’s Claim-I, i.e. on account of error in computation of deaths, injuries etc. had actually been addressed by this Court in its review . This H 11 (2006) 13 SCC 321. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. UNION CARBIDE 895 CORPORATION & ORS. Court had dealt with the risk of asymptomatic individuals later becoming A ill and had directed the Union of India to obtain insurance cover for eight years and to provide free medical monitoring and treatment of victims. In case of any deficit in the settlement fund, the responsibility was placed on the Union of India as a welfare State to fulfil such deficiency. Mr. Salve emphasised that it would be hazardous to belittle the advantages B of a settlement by questioning it on the anvil of adequacy or fairness, considering the complexity of the matter and the need to protect victims from the prospects of a protracted, exhausting, and uncertain litigation. 36. It was further contended that the settlement decree passed by this Court was not an adjudication upon either UCC’s liability or the C quantum of compensation payable, as the suit never went to trial. A consensual settlement cannot be unilaterally enhanced without the consent of both the parties. The Union of India has not brought forth any allegation against the settlement or any ground to set it aside. The Union was fully aware of the consequences of setting aside the settlement and thus, restricted their petitions to a prayer for ‘topping up’ the settlement amount. D 37. It was also emphasised that there was no basic assumption that could be considered to have gone wrong. In the table reproduced above, it would appear that the only head in which there was any major change was with respect to ‘minor injuries’. This however resulted from the Union’s own categorisation of injuries suffered in the aftermath of E the tragedy, and their decision to expand the coverage of relief to a larger number of individuals. This was possible only because of the large amount of funds available with the Union, as is evident from the fact that this Court had in its dated 19.05.2004 noted the availability of more than Rs. 1,500 crores available with the RBI and consequently F awarded disbursal of the same on a pro rata basis. The Welfare Commissioner had recorded that after paying Rs.1,548.95 crores in the first round, a further Rs.1,509.14 crores had been disbursed on pro rata basis. Thus, a total of over Rs.3,000 crore had been paid to the victims. 38. In fact, it is admitted before us by the learned Attorney General that a sum of Rs. 50 crore was still lying with the Reserve Bank of India G to take care of victims. 39. We may note that the intervenors, who are organisations representing victims, have also raised a similar line of arguments and their prayer is also to enhance the settlement amount. Mr. Sanjay Parekh, H 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R.