9. Where, by reason of a special relationship between the payer and the benefi cial owner or between both of them and some other person, the amount of royalties or fees for technical services, having regard to the royalties or fees for technical services for which they are paid, exceeds the amount which would have been agreed upon by the payer and the benefi cial owner in the absence of such relationship, the provisions of this article shall apply only to the last-mentioned amount. In such case, the excess part of the payment shall remain taxable according to the laws of each State, due regard being had to the other provisions of this Convention.” IV. With eff ect from April 1, 1995, for paragraph 6 of article 12 relating to royalties and fees for technical services referred to in paragraph III above the following paragraph shall be read: “6. Notwithstanding paragraph 5, ‘fees for technical services’ does not include amounts paid : (a) for services that are ancillary and subsidiary, as well as inextricably and essentially linked, to the sale of property ; (b) for services that are ancillary and subsidiary to the rental of ships, aircraft, containers or other equipment used in connection with the operation of ships or aircraft in international traffi c; (c) for teaching in or by educational institutions; (d) for services for the personal use of the individual or individuals, making the payment; or (e) to an employee of the person making the payments or to any individual or partnership for professional services as defi ned in article 118 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 14 (independent personal services) of this Convention.” V. With eff ect from April 1, 1997, for paragraph 2 of article 12, relating to royalties and fees for technical services referred to in paragraph III above the following paragraph shall be read : “2. However, such royalties and fees for technical services may also be taxed in the Contracting State in which they arise and according to the laws of that State, but if the recipient is the benefi cial owner of the royalties, or fees for technical services, the tax so charged shall not exceed 10 per cent. of the gross amount of the royalties or the fees for technical services.” VI. With eff ect from April 1, 1998, for paragraph 4 of article 12 relating to royalties and fees for technical services referred to in paragraph III above the following paragraph shall be read : “4. The term “royalties” as used in this article means payments of any kind received as a consideration for the use of, or the right to use, any copyright of literary, artistic or scientifi c work including cinematograph fi lms, any patent, trade mark, design or model, plan, secret formula or process, for information concerning industrial, commercial or scientifi c experience.” VII. The memorandum of understanding and the confi rmation of understanding, dated September 12, 1989, with reference to paragraph 4 of article 12 of the Indo-USA Double Taxation Avoidance Convention (DTAC), will apply mutatis mutandis for the purpose of paragraphs III, IV, V and VI above.” 54.