On the arrangements for preserving security, the Chief Secretary of the State of Manipur fi led an affi davit indicating the steps taken. This Court directed the Union Government and the State of Manipur to make suffi cient arrangements to ensure the protection of lives and properties of all the citizens and residents of the State of Manipur. 8. On 20 July 2023, the proceedings were taken on board by this Court in response to visuals which had appeared in the media on the previous day depicting the perpetration of sexual assault and violence on women in Manipur. While noting that it was ‘deeply disturbed by the visuals,’ this Court noted that what was portrayed in the media indicated gross constitutional violations and infractions of human rights. This Court observed that “using women as instruments for perpetrating violence is simply unacceptable in a constitutional democracy.” The Court called for reports indicating the steps taken by the Government (i) to hold the perpetrators accountable; and (ii) ensure that such incidents are not repeated. Both the Union Government and the State Government were directed to take immediate steps – remedial, rehabilitative and preventive - and to apprise this Court of the action which was taken by the next date. 9. On 1 August 2023, this Court was apprised by the State of Manipur that 6,523 FIRs had been registered as on 25 July 2023. According to its status report, 150 deaths had taken place between 3 May 2023 and 9 June 2023 and 502 persons were reported to have been injured. The State reported that there were 5,101 cases of arson; 252 persons were arrested DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1095 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] in connection with the FIRs and 12,740 preventive arrests were made. The State informed the Court that 11 FIRs involved cases of violence against women and children, though this was subject to further verifi cation. Seven arrests were reportedly made in connection with these 11 FIRs. 10. At that point, the Court was apprised by one of the counsel that there was one more FIR of the same genre. The Union Government apprised this Court through the Solicitor General that while two FIRs which had been registered in the context of the horrifi c visuals that depicted sexual violence against women, the State of Manipur was willing to refer all the 11 FIRs to the CBI. Noting that the material which was disclosed before the Court was inadequate, this Court observed that there was no disaggregation of the 6,523 FIRs on the basis of the off ences to which they pertained. The State was directed to carry out this exercise and inform the Court how many of the FIRs pertain to cases involving: (i) murder and/or rape and outraging of modesty; (ii) arson and looting; (iii) destruction of house property and places of religious worship; and (v) grievous hurt. This Court expressed its dissatisfaction with the tardy pace of investigation. The Court highlighted that there was an unexplained delay between the occurrence of the crimes in early May 2023 and the registration of the FIRs and the recording of witness statements and making arrests have been few and far between.