The first respondent has merely stated that the contents of representations may be read as a part of the petition. This does not satisfy the requirement of incorporating a concise statement of material facts. Moreover, when the allegation is of corrupt practice, the proceedings virtually become quasi-criminal. Therefore, the elected candidate must get adequate notice of what is E alleged against him. That is why material facts concerning the ground of corrupt practice must be pleaded. The outcome of such a petition is very serious. It can oust a popularly elected representative of the people. Therefore, non-compliance with the requirement of stating material facts must result in the rejection of the petition at the threshold. F 14.At this stage, we may make useful reference to a well-known decision of this Court of a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges in the case of V.S. Achuthanandan4which is in fact relied upon by the first respondent. Paragraph 15 of the said decision reads thus: “15. It would thus appear that the election petition was rejected G mainly on the ground that it did not disclose the cause of action as according to the learned trial Judge the allegations regarding corrupt practice were vague and did not disclose “material facts and full particulars” of the corrupt practice alleged. It is evident that the learned trial Judge did not distinguish between the “material facts” and the “material particulars” of allegations regarding H SENTHIBALAJI V. v. A.P. GEETHA AND ORS. 557 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] corrupt practices as defined under Section 123 of the Act. The A law on the point is well settled which appears to have not been taken note of or appreciated by the learned trial Judge. After referring to various pronouncements of this Court including cases in Balwan Singh v. Lakshmi Narain [AIR 1960 SC 770 : (1960) 3 SCR 91], Samant N. Balkrishna v. George Fernandez [(1969) B 3 SCC 238] , Virendra Kumar Saklecha v. Jagjiwan [(1972) 1 SCC 826], Udhav Singh v. Madhav Rao Scindia [(1977) 1 SCC 511], F.A. Sapa v. Singora [(1991) 3 SCC 375] and Gajanan Krishnaji Bapat v. Dattaji Raghobaji Meghe [(1995) 5 SCC 347] and a host of other authorities, this Court in L.R. Shivaramagowda v. T.M. Chandrashekar [(1999) 1 SCC 666 C : (1998) 6 Scale 361] held that while failure to plead “material facts” is fatal to the election petition and no amendment of the pleading is permissible to introduce such material facts after the time-limit prescribed for filing the election petition, the absence of “material particulars” can be cured at a later D stage by an appropriate amendment. An election petition was not liable to be dismissed in limine merely because full particulars of corrupt practice alleged were not set out. It is, therefore, evident that material facts are such primary facts which must be proved at the trial by a party to establish existence of a cause of action. Whether in an election petition a particular fact is a material fact E or not, and as such, required to be pleaded is a question which depends on the nature of the charge levelled, the ground relied upon, and in the light of the special circumstances of the case.