H 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 9. Since much reliance has been placed by the learned counsel appearing for the respondent on Rule 19(1) and 19(3) of the SBIOSR Rules, the same are reproduced for the sake of convenience. “19. (1) An officer shall retire from the service of the Bank on attaining the age of fifty-eight years or upon the completion of thirty years’ service or thirty years’ pensionable service if he is a B member of the Pension Fund, whichever occurs first. Provided that the competent authority may, at its discretion, extend the period of service of an officer who has attained the age of fifty-eight years or bas completed thirty years’ service or thirty years’ pensionable service as the case may be, should such extension be deemed desirable in the interest of the Bank, so C however, that the service rendered by the concerned officer beyond 58 years of age except to the extent of the period of leave due at that time will not count for purpose of pension. Provided further that an officer who had joined the service of the Bank either as an officer or otherwise on or after July, 19, D 1969 and attained the age of 58 years shall not be granted any further extension in service. Provided further that an officer may, at the discretion of the Executive Committee, be retired from the Bank’s service after he has attained 50 years of age or has completed 25 years’ service or 25 years’ pensionable service as the case may be, by giving E him three months’ notice in writing or pay in lieu thereof. Provided further that an officer who has completed 20 years’ service or 20 years’ pensionable service, as the case may be, may be permitted by the competent authority to retire from the Bank’s service, subject to his giving three months’ notice or pay in lieu thereof unless this requirement is wholly or partly waived F by it. 19. (2) .......... …… ….. ....... 19. (3) In case disciplinary proceedings under the relevant rules of service have been initiated against an officer before he ceases to be in the Bank’s service by I the operation of, or by G virtue of, any of the said rules or the provisions of these rules, the disciplinary proceedings m’ay, at the discretion of the Managing Director, be continued and concluded by the authority by which the proceedings were initiated in the manner provided for in the said rules as if the officer continues to be in service, so however, that he shall be deemed to be in service only for the purpose of H the continuance and conclusion of such proceedings. STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. KAMAL KISHORE 899 PRASAD [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] Explanation: An officer will retire on the last day. of the A month in which he completes the stipulated service or age of retirement.” 10. On the bare perusal of the said Rules it clearly transpires that as per Rule 19(1) of the Rules, an officer could retire from the service of the bank on attaining the age of 58 years or upon the completion of 30 B years’ service or 30 years’ of pensionable service if he is a member of the Pension Fund whichever occurs first, subject to the provisos mentioned therein.