H 236 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A ARGUMENTS OF THE STATE 26. Per contra, Mr. Tyagi, learned counsel for the common respondent, contended that the trial court as well as the High Court meticulously scanned the evidence on record and returned findings that Munna Lal and Sheo Lal along with Babu Ram were guilty of the offence B of murder. Mere flaws in the process of investigation, according to him, would not be sufficient for dislodging the findings so returned. The versions of PW-2 and PW-3, the eye- witnesses, were found to be reliable and trustworthy by the courts below and there being nothing on record to impeach such versions, no interference is called for. He also contended that omission to seize the weapons of offence and/or mere non-production C of ballistic report cannot by itself be fatal for the prosecution case where credible ocular evidence is available on record unmistakably pointing to the guilt of the accused. He concluded by submitting that the appeals being devoid of any merit, deserve dismissal. THE QUESTION D 27. The question that this Court is tasked to decide on these criminal appeals is, whether the trial court, on the basis of the materials before it, was justified in recording conviction and consequently, sentencing the appellants to spend the rest of their lives in prison. Since the High Court has upheld the and of the trial court, the E answer to this question would guide this Court to decide the appeals one way or the other. DECISION 28. Before embarking on the exercise of deciding the fate of these appellants, it would be apt to take note of certain principles relevant for F a decision on these two appeals. Needless to observe, such principles have evolved over the years and crystallized into ‘settled principles of law’. These are: (a). Section 134 of Indian Evidence Act, 1872, enshrines the well- recognized maxim that evidence has to be weighed and not counted. In G other words, it is the quality of evidence that matters and not the quantity. As a sequitur, even in a case of murder, it is not necessary to insist upon a plurality of witnesses and the oral evidence of a single witness, if found to be reliable and trustworthy, could lead to a conviction. (b). Generally speaking, oral testimony may be classified into three categories, viz. : H MUNNA LAL v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 237 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J. ] (i) Wholly reliable; A (ii) Wholly unreliable; (iii) Neither wholly reliable nor wholly unreliable. The first two category of cases may not pose serious difficulty for the court in arriving at its conclusion(s). However, in the third category B of cases, the court has to be circumspect and look for corroboration of any material particulars by reliable testimony, direct or circumstantial, as a requirement of the rule of prudence. (c). A defective investigation is not always fatal to the prosecution where ocular testimony is found credible and cogent. While in such a C case the court has to be circumspect in evaluating the evidence, a faulty investigation cannot in all cases be a determinative factor to throw out a credible prosecution version.