The Tribunal has erroneously relied on the in Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. State of Orissa [(1969) 2 SCC 627 : AIR 1970 SC 253] which pertained to criminal/quasi-criminal proceedings. That Section 25 of the Orissa Sales Tax Act which H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR. v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 497 [M. R. SHAH, J.] was in question in the said case imposed a punishment of A imprisonment up to six months and fine for the offences under the Act. The said case has no application in the present case which relates to imposition of civil liabilities under the SEBI Act and the Regulations and is not a criminal/quasi-criminal proceeding. 35. In our considered opinion, penalty is attracted as soon as the B contravention of the statutory obligation as contemplated by the Act and the Regulations is established and hence the intention of the parties committing such violation becomes wholly irrelevant. A breach of civil obligation which attracts penalty in the nature of fine under the provisions of the Act and the Regulations would C immediately attract the levy of penalty irrespective of the fact whether contravention must be made by the defaulter with guilty intention or not. We also further held that unless the language of the statute indicates the need to establish the presence of mens rea, it is wholly unnecessary to ascertain whether such a violation was intentional or not. On a careful perusal of Section 15-D(b) D and Section 15-E of the Act, there is nothing which requires that mens rea must be proved before penalty can be imposed under these provisions. Hence once the contravention is established then the penalty is to follow.” 6.7 In the case of Guljag Industries (supra)while considering E Sections 78(2) and 78(5) of the Rajasthan Sales Tax Act, 1994 which provided for penalty equal to thirty percent of the value of goods for possession or movement of goods, whether seized or not, in violation of the provisions of Clause (a) of sub-section (2) or for submission of false or forged documents or declaration, this Court in paragraph 9 observed F as under: - “9. Existence of mens rea is an essential ingredient of an offence. However, it is a rule of construction. If there is a conflict between the common law and the statute law, one has to construe a statute in conformity with the common law. However, if it is plain from the statute that it intends to alter the course of the common law, G then that plain meaning should be accepted. Existence of mens rea is an essential ingredient in every offence; but that presumption is liable to be displaced either by the words of the statute creating the offence or by the subject-matter with which it deals. A penalty imposed for a tax delinquency is a civil obligation, remedial and H coercive in its nature, and is different from the penalty for a crime.’’ 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A That thereafter, after following the decision in the case of Shriram Mutual Fund (supra), this Court observed and held that mens rea is not an essential ingredient for contravention of the provisions of a civil act.