v) The lessee shall set up, construct, erect and build on the said plot of land, only such buildings, sheds, and structures as are E required by him for setting up the industry aforesaid and also such other residential quarters e.g. watch & ward quarters as are required for those engaged or to be engaged in the said factor. vi) The lessee agrees not to construct or build any structures or building on the said plot of land or on a portion of it which may F have the object of using it as a commercial undertaking other than for the industries aforesaid for which the said plot has been leased to the lessee. …” As is evident from the lease, the object behind the allocation of G the land was for a specific purpose and no other usage was permissible. Subsequent leases executed between JKSL and the District Collector contained pari materia clauses. 8. While the above stated leases were subsisting, the Rajasthan State Industrial and Mineral Development Corporation Ltd. (“RSIMDC”) H 248 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A was incorporated for carrying out development projects across the State. The Corporation was subsequently split into two entities, with RIICO acting as its direct successor. To regulate RIICO’s activities in respect of the lands over which it would have control, the RIICO Disposal of Land Rules, 1979 (“1979 Rules”), were issued under Article 93(xv) of the Articles of Association (“AoA”) of the Company. The Rules provided B a mechanism by which RIICO could grant different types of approvals and permissions in relation to industrial lands and their utilization. On 18.09.1979, an was passed by the State Government to allot all industrial lands within its territory to RIICO. Thus, the Corporation would, from that point onwards, step into the shoes of the state government in C overseeing further development of the areas under its supervision. Whether or not this included the LIA, Kota, is a point of contention among the parties. The Joint Director of the Department of Industries at Kota, also issued an on 28.09.1979, according to which a number of industrial areas would be transferred to RSIMDC in compliance with the Government decision of 18.09.1979. LIA, Kota, was listed among D the areas to be entrusted to RSIMDC in the said communication. 9. The Government dated 18.09.1979 and Joint Director’s dated 28.09.1979, warrant reproduction: “Government of Rajasthan E Industry Group-2 Department No.P-4 56/Industry/1/79Jaipur, Dated: 18.9.79 It has been decided in the meeting dated 18.09.1979 of Rajasthan State Level Planning andDevelopment Coordination F Committee that all the industrial areas of Rajasthan shall only be developed through Rajasthan State Industrial and Mining Development Corporation. Further, it has also been decided that the industrial areas operated by the Department of Industry shall be handed over to Rajasthan State Industrial and Mining G Development Corporation Ltd., Jaipur w.e.f. 01.10.1979. Therefore, the State Government hereby issues to transfer the handing over of industrial areas operated by the Department of Industry to Rajasthan State Industrial and Mining Development Corporation Ltd., Jaipur w.e.f.