The fi rst pillar is unswerving loyalty by each and every citizen to the Constitution and to the fl ag of the Indian Union, the Constitution to be changed only by constitutional means eschewing any form of violence. The second pillar we may describe as honesty, character and integrity in the component organs of the Constitution, viz., the Legislature, and the Executive and judiciary. We are called upon to consider the legal position with regard to all forms of preventive detention, whether for action prejudicial to the security of the State itself or the maintenance of public which threatens to undermine the first pillar or for action prejudicial to the maintenance of essential services particularly those affecting the supply of food, such as black marketing and boarding and cornering operations by which fortunes can be accumulated at the expense of the suffering poor, which threatens to undermine the second pillar. If a case should ever arise of a Member of a Legislative Assembly being preventively detained for black marketing operations prejudicial to such essential services, involving as it does social and moral turpitude, really worse than that of many criminals imprisoned under ordinary law, can it possibly be said that his being restricted from attending the House while under such detention in the slightest degree puts in jeopardy any basis of the Constitution? On the contrary, both justice and law require that he should be restrained from further legislative activity and further misuse of his position till the electorate call upon him to account at the next election. We are unable to differentiate in law any treatment of cases of preventive detention. Once a member of a Legislative Assembly is arrested and lawfully detained, though without actual trial under any Preventive Detention Act, there can be no doubt that under the law as it stands, he cannot be permitted to attend the sittings of the House. A declaration by us that he is entitled to do so, even under armed escort is entirely out of the question. We however readily concede the contention of Mr. Kumaramangalam that if a party in power detains a political opponent or continues his detention with 100 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the mala fide object of stifling opposition and prejudicing the party to which he belongs in a forthcoming election, there would be an undermining of the basis of the Constitution, putting in jeopardy the second pillar to which we adverted. That contention is wholly irrelevant for the purposes of this petition, which proceeds on the basis that detention is lawful, bona fide and for proper grounds. 8. *** We see no grounds for any differentiation in treatment as between a member of a Legislative Assembly detenu and any other ordinary detenu in the application of these rules….” (emphasis supplied) 37. A brief survey of the Constituent Assembly Debates would also aptly lead to the original intention of our lawmakers that culminated in the enactment of the RoP Act. A perusal of the Debates reveals the deliberate exclusion of the contingencies under Article 102 (Article 83 of the Draft Constitution), which was left for the new Parliament to decide.