: (2009) 4 SCC 486 to submit that auction purchaser without notice and in absence of any provision in terms of sale or any statutory provision could not be made liable for such arrears of tax; and 9 Hereinafter also referred to as ‘the Act of 1882’. H 1100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A that no charge could be enforced against any property in hands of transferee for consideration and without notice of the charge; and that for its enforceability, a provision of law must expressly provide for enforcement of a charge against the property in the hands of the transferee for value without notice to the charge and not merely create a charge. Learned counsel would submit that the dues in relation to B municipal taxes in terms of the said M.P. Act of 1956 do not create any encumbrance or charge on the property such as to run with property for all times and under all circumstances as held in AI Champdany Ltd. (supra). Moreover, it cannot be said to constitute any encumbrance which diminishes the value of the property. C 12.4. It has been submitted that there is no obligation that has been created or could be assumed on account of the terms and conditions of the sale carried out by the appellant, particularly when there was no express provision in the sale notice that the liability of charges on account of property tax and water tax were to be borne by the purchaser. In D regard to the submissions of the appellant that the auction purchaser had purchased the property with “as is where is and whatever there is” stipulation, learned counsel has strenuously argued that such a stipulation pertains to the physical properties of an asset and could not be construed as indicative of constructive notice of charge or encumbrance. Reliance is placed on Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (supra), which has, E in turn, approved the reasoning of the Full Bench of High Court of Allahabad in the case of Municipal Board, Cawnporev.Roop Chand Jain and Anr. : AIR 1940 All 456. 12.5. It has been contented that by virtue of Section 185 of the M.P. Act of 1956, arrears could only be claimed from a person who was F an occupier at relevant time and from no one else and, therefore, the question of auction purchaser making any inquiries or foisting upon him any constructive knowledge does not arise; rather, proviso to Section 185 frees an auction purchaser from even making inquiries about such tax arrears. In this regard, further reliance has been placed on the decision G in Delhi Development Authority v. Kenneth Builders and Developers Pvt. Ltd. and Ors. : (2016) 13 SCC 561. 12.6. Lastly, learned counsel has placed reliance on correspondence between respondent No. 3 and the appellant to suggest the sufficiency of funds available with the appellant to discharge the H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1101 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] claims of respondent No.1 before disbursing any left-over amount to the A shareholders.