Alphabet ‘D’ is marked to indicate the place where the cycle of deceased was lying. The distance between “A” to “C” is stated E to be 14.80 metres (48.56 ft.), the distance between “A” and “B” is 250 metres (820.21 ft.) and the distance between “A” to “D” is shown to be 13.30 metres (43.64 ft.). 10. With the above picture in mind as depicted by the site plan, the evidence of the witnesses of fact is being discussed. It would be relevant F to note that evidence as recorded is in close proximity and within a reasonable time from the date of occurrence (within a few months on 11.02.2009). As such the facts would be still fresh in the minds of the witnesses. 11. PW-1 states that the incident happened about 4 months back G at about 08.00PM when Jagat shouted that Shatrughan has assaulted him. He rushed to the place of occurrence and saw the accused running away and the Tabbal was lying there. The deceased had already fell unconscious by that time with a deep cut at the neck from which blood was flowing. Upon his call, Chandu, Firtu, Akshay and his daughter had all come running. The incident had actually taken place in front of H SHATRUGHAN v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 765 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] house of Chandu and Akshay. The deceased was taken to Dr. Sahu A who declared him brought dead and then he went to lodge the report at the Police Station. He also states that he does not know why the appellant assaulted his nephew. He then acknowledges the signature on First Information Report (Ex. P1). He also acknowledges his signature on Merg report (Ex. P2). B 12. In his cross-examination, PW-1 admits that after the house of Chandu there is house of one Ram Singh and after the house of Ram Singh, next is his house. He further admits that there were some guests in the house of his brother Ajit Ram i.e. the house of the deceased. He does not deny the fact that the guests at his brother’s place were C served alcohol along with food and he does not deny that maybe the deceased had also consumed alcohol with his guests. In paragraph 9 of the cross-examination, he states that Akshay and Firtu had come to the spot on his calling. Chandu was not there, as he had gone out and he admits that Chandu did not come to the spot on his calling. He denies the suggestion that he had come out on the D calling of Firtu. He admits that the deceased was not talking at the time when he came there as he was already unconscious. He then admits that the appellant, along with one Rajendra, had lodged a complaint against the Sarpanch Khemraj as also the wife of one Munnu Lal. He admits that he had no dispute with the E appellant nor did the deceased had any dispute with him. Then, on his own he states that he did not know that if there was any dispute between deceased and the appellant.