In Sushila Aggarwal v. State (NCT of Delhi)9, the Constitution Bench reiterated that while deciding applications for anticipatory bail, courts should be guided by factors like the nature and gravity of the offences, the role attributed to the applicant, and the facts E of the case. 24. The time-tested principles are that no straitjacket formula can be applied for grant or refusal of anticipatory bail. The judicial discretion of the Court shall be guided by various relevant factors and largely it will depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case. The Court must F draw a delicate balance between liberty of an individual as guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution and the need for a fair and free investigation, which must be taken to its logical conclusion. Arrest has devastating and irreversible social stigma, humiliation, insult, mental pain and other fearful consequences. Regardless thereto, when the Court, on consideration of material information gathered by the Investigating G Agency, is prima facie satisfied that there is something more than a mere needle of suspicion against the accused, it cannot jeopardise the investigation, more so when the allegations are grave in nature. 9 (2020) 5 SCC 1. H 494 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 25. Keeping these principles in mind, we proceed to evaluate the rival submissions. At the outset, it is to be noted that the High Court fell in a factual error in observing that FIR was registered on 12th October, 2022 for the offence alleged to have taken place on 3rd and 4th October, 2022. The FIR was registered by the ACB against Respondent No. 1 on 4th October, 2022 under Sections 7, 13(1) and 13(2) of the Prevention of B Corruption Act, 1988 and was re-registered by CBI on 12th October, 2022. 26. Further, the primary ground assigned by the High Court to grant anticipatory bail to Respondent No. 1 is that there was doubt as to the acceptance of the bribe amount since records of Dhara Angadia C firm had not been produced establishing any link between Respondent No. 1 & the firm. 27. The CBI has produced the case diary which contains the statement made by Smit Thakkar, who handles Dhara Angadia firm. He has clearly stated that Malav Mehta was the owner of Vardhman account D and had informed him that 30 lakhs rupees would be deposited in his account on 4th October, 2022, which in turn had to be sent to someone else. The purported recording of conversation between the complainant and Respondent No. 1 wherein Respondent No. 1 thanked the complainant, after the deposit of amount in the Vardhman account, is a E reasonable link to connect Respondent No. 1 with the deposit of illegal gratification in Dhara Angadia firm, thereby prima facie showing acceptance thereof. 28. Regarding the alleged discrepancy of delay of more than 24 hours in the registration of FIR, we find from the material produced before us that the complainant started narrating the complaint at 07:15 F hours and it ended at 08:00 hours on 4th October, 2022.