[Para 35][448-G] F 1.17 After taking note of the submissions of parties, the Commercial Court precisely framed the points for determination and then, dealt with every point on the anvil of Section 34 of the Act of 1996. The High Court was not justified in making a comment about framing of points for determination by Commercial G Court and then observing that the Commercial Court merely reproduced the findings of the award. The Commercial Court dealing with Section 34 application was not acting as a Court of Appeal. Yet, the Commercial Court enumerated the issues raised H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 387 and then returned the findings after examining the record and A while rejecting the submissions made on behalf of the State. There had been no such flaw in the and passed by the Commercial Court which called for interference by the High Court on the parameters and within the periphery of Sections 34/37 of the Act of 1996. [Para 35.1][448-H; 449-A-C] B 1.18 The narrow scope of “patent illegality” cannot be breached by mere use of different expressions which nevertheless refer only to “error” and not to “patent illegality”. Restraint is required to be shown while examining the validity of arbitral award by the Courts, else interference with the award after reassessing C the factual aspects would be defeating the object of the Act of 1996. This is a part from the fact that such an approach would render several judicial pronouncements of this Court redundant if the arbitral awards are set aside by categorizing them as “perverse” or “patently illegal” without appreciating the contours of these expressions. [Para 36][450-B-D] D 1.19 In the impugned , the High Court though referred to the principles laid down by this Court in Ssangyong Engineering’s case but then, reproduced an analysis by a Single Judge of the High Court and proceeded to decide the matter with reference to the passages so extracted. Enunciation of this E Court ought to have been examined by the Division Bench of the High Court while dealing with the matter at hand, rather than relying on the analysis by a Single Judge of the High Court. Nothing is said more in this regard, essentially because the latter decisions of this Court like those in Delhi Airport Metro Express F and Haryana Tourism Limited were not available before the High Court at the time of passing of the impugned and dated 08.03.2021. Nevertheless, the principles expounded by this Court in Associate Builders and Ssangyong Engineering’s case were available and the matter was required to be dealt with in reference to those principles. Leaving this aspect at that, suffice G it would be to observe for the present purpose that the impugned and , insofar it interferes with the findings and the conclusions of the award in question, cannot be sustained and is required to be set aside. [Para 37][450-D-G] H 388 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 1.20 Fact of the matter remains that nothing of a patent illegality apparent on the face of the award has been pointed out.