In a finer sense, harmony is the beautiful totality of a whole sequence of notes and the concord of sweet sounds is ill-tuned into disjointed discord if a note or two is unmusically cut and played. Truth, like song, is whole and half- truth can be noise; Justice is truth, is beauty and the strategy of D healing injustice is discovery of the whole truth and harmonising human relations. Law’s finest hour is not in meditating on abstractions but in being the delivery agent of full fairness. This divagation is justified by the need to remind ourselves that the grammar of justice according to law is not little litigative solution of isolated problems but resolving the conflict in its wider bearings.” E 36. The State of West Bengal has drawn our attention to the of this Court in Gopal Das Sindhi and Others v. State of Assam and Another, AIR 1961 SC 986 to the effect that even when a private complaint is filed, the Magistrate is not bound to take cognizance under Section 190 as the word used therein is ‘may’, which should not F be construed as ‘must’ for obvious reasons. The Magistrate may well exercise discretion in sending such complaint under Section 156(3) to the police for investigation. However, when a Magistrate chooses not to proceed under Section 156(3), he cannot simply dismiss the complaint if he finds that resorting to Section 156(3) is not advisable. Reference in G this regard can also be made to Suresh Chand Jain v. State of M.P. and another, (2001) 2 SCC 628 which distinguishes between the power of the police to investigate under Section 156, the direction of the Magistrate for investigation under Section 156(3) and post-summoning inquiry and investigation after cognizance under Section 190 and Section 202 of the Code. When a Magistrate s investigation under Section H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 173 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 156(3), he does so before cognizance of the offence. If he takes A cognizance, he needs to follow the procedure envisaged in Chapter XV (see Afaq Jahan (supra). The decision in Mona Panwar v. High Court of Judicature of Allahabad through its Registrar and Others, (2011) 3 SCC 496 is rather succinct. This Court held that when a complaint is presented B before a Magistrate, he has two options. One is to pass an contemplated by Section 156(3). The second one is to direct examination of the complainant on oath and the witness present, and proceed further in the manner provided by Section 202. An under Section 156(3) is in the nature of a peremptory reminder or intimation to the police to C exercise its plenary power of investigation under Section 156(1). However, once the Magistrate has taken cognizance under Section 190 of the Code, he cannot ask for an investigation by the Police. After cognizance has been taken, if the Magistrate wants any investigation, it will be under Section 202, whose purpose is to ascertain whether there is prima facie case against the person accused of the offence and to D prevent issue of process in a false or vexatious complaint intended to harass the person named.