G (5) At the first hearing of the suit the Court shall, after reading the plaint and the written statements, if any, and after examination under rule 2 of X and after hearing the parties or their pleaders, ascertain upon what material propositions of fact or of law the parties are at variance, and shall thereupon proceed to frame and record the issues on which the right decision of the case appears to depend. (6) Nothing in this rule requires the Court to frame and record issues where the defendant at the first hearing of the suit makes no defence.” H 430 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A and, obviously, the Arbitral Tribunal was not obliged to frame issues on each and every fact pleaded or disputed. The Arbitral Tribunal was only expected to arbitrate on the dispute presented to it. Significantly, in the present case, the parties themselves succinctly formulated the issues on which the Arbitral Tribunal was required to give its ruling and therein, as regards this matter of variable charges, the question posed was with B reference to assertion of the Government of Goa that the claimant had agreed to supply power based on fixed rate of fuel price and a fixed rate of exchange in terms of price of US dollar to INR for supply of power using RLNG as fuel from June, 2013 onwards (vide point C in paragraph 34 of the award-reproduced hereinabove). The Tribunal, therefore, rightly C indicated that the real issue was as to whether the invoices prepared by the claimant were in accordance with the terms and conditions of the proposal made by the claimant and accepted by the Government; and the core of dispute was as to whether price of energy to be supplied was based upon a fixed dollar rate and a fixed import price irrespective of actual fluctuations. The Tribunal indeed adverted to all the relevant facts D and evidence in that regard and determined this issue in favour of the claimant. 16.5. In view of the real issue projected and agitated before the Arbitral Tribunal, reference to clauses 12.1.4 to 12.1.7 of PPA had obviously been unnecessary. This is coupled with the submissions of the E claimant that the definition of “Fuel Supply Contract” in PPA was restricted to a contract entered into between the claimant and a fuel supplier for supply of “Naphtha”, and not pertaining to alternate fuel also. For ready reference, we may reproduce the definitions of “Fuel” as also “Fuel Supply Contract” in the PPA which read as under: - F “ ‘Fuel’ means Naphtha or any Alternate Fuel; *** *** *** ‘Fuel Supply Contract’ shall mean any contract entered into between RSPCL and any Fuel Supplier for the supply of Naphtha pursuant to clause 12;” G 16.5.1. If “Alternate Fuel” is also to be read alongwith “Naphtha” in the aforesaid definition, that would be either re-writing the contract or at least reading something into the contract by stretching the principles of construction of document.