D 24. Hence, the contention of the Petitioner that the legislative intent is for settlement of all cases cannot be accepted. 25. Further, Section 127B lays down specific conditions for its application, and the proviso provides categories of goods wherein settlement cannot be undertaken. This makes it evident that Section E 127B is not meant to be applied in all categories of cases. Only in the following circumstances can an application be made to the settlement commission: a) the applicant has filed a bill of entry, or a shipping bill, in respect of the import or export of such goods, as the case F may be, and in relation to such bill of entry or shipping bill, a show cause notice has been issued to him by the proper officer; (b) the additional amount of duty accepted by the applicant in his application exceeds three lakh rupees; G (c) the applicant has paid the additional amount of customs duty accepted by him along with interest due under section 28AB: and (d) the proviso to Section 127B is not attracted. H 936 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 26. Furthermore, as discussed above, the scheme of the Act involves payment of fines and/or imprisonment for offences enumerated under Chapter XVI. All offences, under the Act, cannot be permitted to go before the Settlement Commission under Section 127B. This would make the legislative intent behind the proviso to Section 127B, which bars certain goods, including those mentioned under Section 123 and B goods which are prohibited under the Narcotic Drugs Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, redundant. Importantly, as a consequence of such an interpretation being accepted, the power to prohibit the importation of goods for the maintenance of security of India under Section 11, the powers of arrest under Section 105, the power to summon under Section C 108, confiscation under Section 111 and offences for which imprisonment may be given from Sections 132 to Section 135 would have no application, thereby making the respective legislative provisions in effect, null. As prayed for by the Petitioner, such an interpretation would allow a person importing goods without declaration to evade confiscation and criminal prosecution by simply taking recourse under Section 127B. The deterrent D of criminal prosecution would stand vitiated. It is observed that the Delhi High Court has taken a view contrary to that taken by the Bombay High Court in this regard. 26.1 In Additional Commissioner of Customs v. Ram Niwas Verma, 2015 SCC Online Del 11542 (2-Judge Bench of the Delhi E High Court), there was a recovery of 6452 grams of gold from the Respondent therein. He was crossing through the green channel but was intercepted by the Customs Officer. The Court stated that it is evident that no application for settlement can be made if it relates to goods to which S.123 applies. F 26.2 In Commissioner of Customs v. Avinash Dawar & Anr., 2015 SCC Online Del 13875 (2-Judge Bench of the Delhi High Court), the Settlement Commission held that since there is an admission of illicit importation, shifting of burden as contemplated under Section 123 of Customs Act, is not required.