On the contrary, the ratio of the two Supreme Court s run counter to the ratio of the Punjab case.” Justice Tulzapurkar: E “179. I have already indicated above that in Haji Aziz’s case1 while dealing with penalty or fine imposed in lieu of confiscation of goods, the Supreme Court has observed that the penalty suffered by an assessee for an infraction of law cannot be regarded as incidental to the business and in fact it falls upon the assessee in some character other than that of a F trader. In my view, the aforesaid authorities make the position very clear that before any loss could be claimed as deductible loss under section 10(1) of the Act, it must be a trading loss or commercial loss arising out of carrying on business or it must be incidental to the business and such loss must also fall on the G assessee in his character as a trader. The question in the present case is as to whether the loss consequent upon confiscation of goods for an infraction of law suffered by the assessee could be regarded as a commercial loss or could it be said to be loss incidental to the business and, what is of importance, could it be said to have been suffered by him in his character as a H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 129 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] trader? In my view, it is certainly not a commercial loss arising A from carrying on of the business nor can it be regarded as incidental to the activity of the assessee as dealer in gold; moreover, it cannot be regarded as loss falling upon the assessee in his character as a trader. It is a loss falling upon him as a person who had infracted law. The loss suffered by B confiscation of goods directly sprang from an illegal act committed by the assessee, namely, having acquired gold without requisite permit or permission of the Reserve Bank of India and without having paid any duty for the import thereof into India. Surely, the loss has not fallen on the assessee as a trader or businessman, for, obviously, even a lay person who is C not a businessman, if he were to import gold for his private use without requisite permission and without payment of customs duty, would subject himself to the penalty of having that gold confiscated from him and he would as a consequence suffer great loss. It is thus clear that the loss consequent upon D confiscation of goods for infraction of law suffered by the assessee must be regarded as loss falling upon him in some character other than a trader. In this view of the matter, I am clearly of the view that the petitioner is not entitled to claim the loss suffered by him as a result of confiscation of the gold in question as allowable deduction while computing his business E income under section 28 of the Act.