So, in my opinion picking out one stray sentence here and there in the deposition of P.W. 4 and importing his personal knowledge about the so called instructions and guidelines issued by the Bank, in my view, the enquiry offi cer could not have come to the conclusion that the Petitioner failed to conduct periodical inspection and therefore that part of the charge in the charge memo is proved against him.” 19. To satisfy ourselves on this aspect, we examined the enquiry report. The rationale for the inspection is set out in the preliminary portion of the report. It is stated as follows:- “Follow up and supervision for term loans: Term lending particularly to small scale units, is subject to various risks due to the long period of loan and the fact that the small scale units being fi nancially vulnerably are likely to be aff ected by even minor adverse changes in their fortunes, where mortgage of immovable properties are obtained, we are in a relatively better position although the process of realization in the event of default may prove to be cumbrous. Where, however, the security comprises machinery in leased, rented premises, the risks are much greater; movable machinery, particularly, being liable to felonious removal. Further, the tenancy in rented premises may sought to be terminated by the owner although the law generally protects the tenancy against unfair ejectment. Having regard to the foregoing consideration, it is needles to add the proper selection of clients is one matter to which considerable thought should be given. The only means of forestalling and avoiding possible loss would lie in the vigilant follow up of loans after they have been granted.” Thereafter, some guidelines have been set out. Dealing with the charge, the Enquiry Offi cer records the following:- STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY 663 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] “From the above instructions it may be observed that it is the duty of Field Offi cer to conduct periodical inspection and maintain proper records of those inspections. The defence merely contested the charge on the plea that inspection register has not been produced for evidence. The I is not only supposed to maintain the inspection register but also report the observations made by his (sic.) during the inspection by means of separate report. None of such reports have been produced by the defence to prove that inspections have been conducted by him. In this connection it is pertinent to bring the following instructions of the Bank in regard to report to be submitted by the fi eld Offi cer. Accounts with borrowings of Rs.2 lacs and over should be followed up by I on the basis of a proforma marked follow up form for I (STF6). The objective underlying the form is to relate outstanding to the activity level on a continuing basis i.e. every month, and to relate the activity level to earlier projections (as indicated in the scheme or estimates based on past performance). A systematic follow-up through this form will reveal any tendency towards irregularity in an account and the probable reasons if any irregularity does occur.