Since the third parties accepted the benefi ts of the agreement, it was held that they must also accept the burdens of its stipulated conditions, including arbitration. 112 [2019] HCA 13 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 134.In Rinehart (supra), the Australian High Court’s approach is similar to the doctrine of equitable estoppel developed by the US Courts, to the eff ect that a non-signatory party who elects to take the benefi t of some aspects of the contract, must also accept the burden of it.113 However, we cannot adopt the Rinehart (supra) position in the context of the phrase “claiming through or under” as doing so would be contrary to the common law position and the legislative intent underpinning the Arbitration Act, as will be discussed below. 135. An analysis of the cases cited above establishes the following propositions of law: fi rst, the typical scenarios where a person or entity can claim through or under a party are assignment, subrogation, and novation; second, a person “claiming through or under” can assert a right in a derivative capacity, that is through the party to the arbitration agreement, to participate in the agreement; third, the persons claiming through or under do not possess an independent right to stand as parties to an arbitration agreement, but as successors to the signatory parties’ interest; and fourth, mere legal or commercial connection is not suffi cient for a non-signatory to claim through or under a signatory party. i. Party and Persons “claiming through or under” are diff erent 136. The 246th Law Commission suggested that the defi nition of “party” under section 2(1)(h) of the Arbitration Act be amended to include the words “or any persons claiming through or under such party”. The Commission reasoned that in appropriate contexts, a party also include persons “claiming through or under” a signatory party such as successors-in-interest. However, the suggested amendment was not carried out by Parliament. 137. The word “claim” is of very extensive signifi cance embracing every species of legal demand. In the ordinary sense, it means to demand as one’s own or as one’s right.114 A “claim” also means assertion of a cause of action.115 The expression “through” connotes “by means of, in consequence 113 Vicky Priskich, ‘Binding non-signatories to arbitration agreements – who are person ‘claiming through or under’ a party?’ (2019) 35(3) Arbitration International 375-386. 114 Black’s Law Dictionary (5th edn, 1979) 224 115 P Ramanatha Aiyar’s, The Law Lexicon (1997) 330 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 703 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] of, by reason of.”116 The term “under” is used with reference to an inferior or subordinate position. P Ramanatha Aiyar’s Law Lexicon defi nes “claiming under” or “claiming under him” to denote a person putting forward a claim under derived rights.117 When the above defi nitions are read harmoniously, it gives rise to an inference that a person “claiming through or under” is asserting their legal demand or cause of action in an intermediate or derivative capacity.