The fi rst proviso to Rule 6 of CTPM mandates that the authorised offi cer may direct modifi cations of the details as prescribed thereunder. The perusal of the second proviso would indicate that if the manufacturer does not receive the approval in respect of his declaration within the said period of 3 working days, the approval shall be deemed to have been granted subject to the modifi cations, if any, which the authorised offi cer as the case may communicate not later than 30 days of the fi ling of such declaration. 101. Learned counsel appearing for the assessee has raised a contention that since the classifi cation of the product being disputed by the Revenue, the burden lies upon the Department and it is beyond the scope of Rule 6(2) and suggested change of classifi cation whilst adjudicating a declaration made under Rule 6 can only be by the issuance of a Notice or otherwise, it would be foul of natural justice. The said argument howsoever attractive cannot be accepted for the simple reason that sub-rule (2) of Rule 6 would clearly indicate that on receipt of a declaration referred to in sub-rule (1), the Competent Authority would be required to make such inquiry as may be necessary including physical verifi cation by determining the correctness or otherwise of such declaration concerning the annual capacity of production 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. of the factory. The nomenclature of the Rule would itself indicate that the said Rule is called as “Chewing Tobacco and Unmanufactured Tobacco Packing Machines (Capacity, determination and collection of duty) Rules, 2010”. A combined reading of clause (i) to (x) of sub-rule (1) of Rule 6 would indicate during the inquiry contemplated under sub-rule (2), the adjudicating authority would be determining the annual capacity production of the factory and the Competent Authority would be required to take into consideration the details of the track packing machines installed in the factory, the number of packing machines which are available and the assessee intending to operate in his factory, number of multiple tracks or multiple line packing machines available and to be used or operated with and without lime tube. The maximum packing speed of such machines, various retail sale prices, description of goods to be manufactured including whether ‘unmanufactured tobacco’ or ‘chewing tobacco’ or both, and whether pouches contain lime tube or not, details of said products, are to be determined. In the process of undertaking such an exercise, the Competent Authority would be required to necessarily examine as to whether the product in question would fall within the classifi cation of notifi ed goods, inasmuch as the product has to necessarily fall within the notifi ed goods as notifi ed under sub-section (1) of Section 3A and for the relevant period. 102. The Form of declaration that has been prescribed under Rule 6 is Form No. 1 and such declaration ought to contain the details specifi ed thereunder. For the purposes of clarity and brevity we deem it appropriate to extract the Form No.1 as prescribed under Rule 6 herein below: “FORM - 1 [See rule 6] (1) Name of the manufacturer : (2) Address of the manufacturing premise : (3) ECC No: (4) Address of other premises manufacturing the same products : (5) Number of single track packing machines available in the factory : (6) Number of packing machines out of (5), which are installed in the factory : COMMR.