The decision holds that an association of corporate bodies can establish a power plant. SBMPL held 27.6% equity shares in SBPIL and thus satisfi ed the ownership requirement of 26%. The second requirement with regard to consumption of electricity was satisfi ed as SBMPL and SBPIL, together, would be consuming more than 51% of the power generated.38 35 For short, CSPDCL. 36 For short, “SBMPL”. 37 The states that, “It was contended by the appellant that SBPIL holds more than 72% of the shares of the company. However, its consumption would be limited only to 14.16% (13.22 MU), whereas the consumption of SBMPL holding 26.67% shares, would be 57.87%(54 MU). It was submitted that this was not proportionate to the ownership of the power plant”. Proviso to Explanation 1 to Rule 3 states that consumption by a holding or subsidiary of a company, which is a captive user, shall also be admissible as captive consumption. 38 See footnote 37. 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 24. The ratio in the Chhattisgarh State Power39 requires clarifi cation and elaboration. We have provided such clarifi cation and elaboration in Issues I and II, on our interpretation of the rule of proportionality in terms of the second proviso to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. 25. To qualify as a CGP under Section 9, read with Section 2(8) of the Act, the requirements of paragraphs (i) and (ii) to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules have to be satisfi ed. We have already referred to the defi nition of a CGP under Section 2(8) of the Act which uses the words, “primarily for his own use”. This expression has been given statutory grail vide Rule 3 of the Rules. Rule 3 as repeatedly noticed incorporates two separate requirements. The fi rst requirement is that the captive user(s) should have not less than 26% of the ownership in the CGP. Lower limit or minimum of 26% ownership is prescribed. Upper limit of ownership is not prescribed. The second requirement relates to the minimum electricity consumption. 51% of aggregated or more of the generated electricity should be consumed by the user(s) who meets the ownership requirement. 26. The presence of the words, “not less than”, in paragraphs (i) and (ii) to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules refl ects and shows that the stipulations with regard to 26% ownership and 51% consumption is the minimal or lowest threshold. Maximum is not prescribed. A captive user who owns 100% of the CGP and consumes 51% or more electricity generated from such plant would satisfy the parameters prescribed. Equally, a captive user who owns 26% of the CGP and consumes 51% or more of the electricity generated would qualify as a captive user. However, this can result in abuse or gaming where there are multiple owners with diff erent shareholdings. In case of an association of persons, a situation which is covered by the fi rst explanation. This aspect, when there are multiple owners, in a case of association of persons, is examined under Issue II.