They can be deployed to work as AE (Material Management) or AE (CAUP) in the offi ce of the Executive Engineer or even as AE (General) in the offi ce of the SE offi ce only. The AE (General) in the offi ce of the SE can interchangeably use for AE (Lines) in the Substation. 16. It was argued that there are suffi cient safeguards to ensure that a person like the appellant can be posted in a position in not merely in one department but several departments or units which may not require actual fi eld participation. It is also emphasized that the mandate of accommodation or reasonable accommodation requires the employer to ensure that every person’s talent is utilized to the utmost, within the limitations that she or he is placed in, inadvertently. Therefore, the employer in the present case, was clearly under a duty to accommodate the appellant and continue with his employment. 936 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Analysis and Conclusions 17. As noticed earlier, TANGEDCO, has nowhere indicated in express terms, that colour vision defi ciency, in any form or degree, is a bar to employment for AE. Its broad argument that a candidate’s level of medical fi tness necessary for the discharge of functions and responsibilities, required of the post, is unexceptionable. Yet, that broad formulation is not suffi cient ground for it to deny the possibility of any form of accommodation. The need- nay, the entitlement of the appellant to some form of accommodation, in this case, is undeniable, because he is a graduate in electrical engineering. This implies that he has more than basic or essential knowledge of the subject; he has awareness and experience in respect of identifi cation of functions of various kinds of electrical equipment and appliances. A precondition for successfully completing a course in electrical engineering, is practical experience during the course, about the functions of such equipment and appliances, the possible defects and solutions for their breakdown. The facts of this case instruct us that there is nothing on record to suggest that whatever condition the appellant had, was without his awareness; his academic performance, skill and profi ciency, during the course of his education nowhere appears to have highlighted the colour vision defi ciency, which appears to have been discovered after his selection. As a condition for his selection, he cleared the public examination successfully, and appears to have also participated in the viva voce or interview, successfully. 18. The provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (hereafter “the Act”) were preceded by the previous law, the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights, and Full Participations) Act, 1995. The previous law, was enacted by Parliament pursuant to our country becoming a signatory to the Proclamation on the Full Participation and Equality of the People with Disabilities in the Asian and Pacifi c Region19. The earlier Act, as well as the Act have set out provisions to enable participation, and empowerment of persons with disability (PWD), including affi rmative action for their admission to educational institutions, 19 A Meeting held to to Launch the Asian and Pacifi c Decade of Disabled Persons 1993-2002 convened by the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and Pacifi c held at Beijing on 1st to 5th December,1992, adopted the Proclamation on the Full Participation and Equality of People with Disabilities in the Asian and Pacifi c Region.