Further, it was observed that the clubs seized (M.O. 3) were of 4 ft in length and 3 inches, in diameter which could cause such as abrasion(s), contusion(s), and laceration(s). However, the medical evidence of PW1 did not record any such injury. The Court, therefore, concluded that the incriminating objects or weapons were not of any assistance in the case against the accused. 4.6 On motive, it was observed that although a dispute had taken place on the night of 4th August, 1997 between PW4 and A1, A2, A4, A7, A8, A9, A11 and A12 regarding the obstruction of a pathway, resulting into criminal prosecution against the persons involved but leading only to their acquittals. Therefore, in view of the Court, motive was absent. 4.7 Two other aspects were also urged on behalf of the prosecution, one; regarding the place of occurrence of off ence and two; the delay in recording the statements of the ocular and circumstantial witnesses. On both these grounds as well, the court did not fi nd anything to be pointing towards the guilt of the accused persons. 4.8 In view of such fi ndings, the court acquitted all accused persons. 5. The State, aggrieved by the acquittals en masse, appealed to the High Court. FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT 6. It was noted that the deceased had specifi cally named as certain accused as also attributed specifi c roles to them. Having appreciated the evidence on record and the submissions of the learned counsel for the accused, who stated that the doctor had not certifi ed the deceased fi t to give a statement and in the absence of such a certifi cate of fi tness, his declaration MANJUNATH & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 735 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] could not be relied upon; and the learned counsel for the state who submitted that the dying declaration categorically indicts A1-A7. 7. The Court found :- 7.1 The dying declaration makes a clear case against A1 to A7; 7.2 The injuries sustained by the deceased correspond to narration of the incident to PW19 (S. Narayanaswamy) and that PW1 (Dr. Loganayagi) certifi ed the deceased to have been in a fi t condition to give a statement. 7.3 The dying declaration of the deceased stood corroborated by PW3, PW4, PW5 as well as other witnesses. 7.4 On submission of the learned counsel for the accused that the injuries infl icted upon the deceased were on non-vital parts of the body, no intention could be gathered on part of the accused; hence the Court, in its wisdom, convicted the above specifi ed accused under Section 304 Part II, IPC to undergo a sentence of rigorous imprisonment for a period of four years and pay fi ne of Rs. 5000/- each. All other accused were acquitted. 8. The position of the accused persons as it presently stands is indicated in a tabular form as under :- Sl Name of Accused Sentenced Sentenced by Punishment by Trial no. High Court awarded Court 1.