19. In this backdrop, there are two broad objects which the directions of this Court must subserve. Firstly, there is a need to ensure that the violence ceases, the perpetrators of violence are punished according to the procedure established by law, and that consequently, the faith and confi dence of the community in the justice system is restored. Secondly, there is a pressing need to ensure that the rule of law is restored and public confi dence in the investigative and prosecutorial process is sustained. 20 In to subserve the two objectives which have been highlighted above, we issue the following directions: a. A Committee consisting of the following three members is constituted: i. Justice Gita Mittal, former Chief Justice of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir; 6 United Nations, General Assembly, Resolution 60/147, ‘Basic Principles and Guidelines on the Right to a Remedy and Reparation for Victims of Gross Violations of International Human Rights Law and Serious Violations of International Humanitarian Law.’ DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1105 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] ii. Justice Shalini Phansalkar Joshi, former Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay; and iii. Justice Asha Menon, former Judge of the High Court of Delhi. b. The mandate of the Committee shall be to: i. Enquire into the nature of violence against women that occurred in the State of Manipur from 4 May 2023 from all available sources including personal meetings with survivors, members of the families of survivors, local/ community representatives, authorities in charge of relief camps and the FIRs lodged as well as media reports; and ii. Submit a report to this Court on the steps required to meet the needs of the survivors including measures for dealing with rape trauma, providing social, economic, and psychological support, relief and rehabilitation in a time bound manner; iii. Ensure that free and comprehensive medical aid and psychological care to victims of survivors is provided; iv. Ensure conditions of dignity in relief camps set up for displaced persons including suggestions for additional camps. This would include, illustratively, ensuring that the following requirements are met: A. Clean rations which are adequate in quantity; B. Adequate supplies of essential products such as soap, water, toothpaste, other toiletries, and clothes; C. Taking care of the needs of infants and lactating mothers; D. Meeting the requirement of basic medical care; E. Control on the outbreak of communicable diseases; 1106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. F. Providing information on the accessibility of legal, psycho-social, medical and livelihood services; G. Access to free pregnancy tests, free emergency contraceptives, free sanitary pads and free maternal health services including access to gynaecologists; H. Emergency and specialised medical care for people suff ering with critical illness including haemophilia, cancer, and HIV/AIDS; I. Proper sanitation facilities at the relief camps including clean toilets and bathrooms which are adequate in number having due regard to the number of people housed in a particular relief camp and proper disposal of sewage and other waste; J.