The minutes of the meeting dated 28.05.2018, disclose the reason as to why B.Ed. should be included as a qualifi cation. These minutes state as under :- “…... 2. The matter was considered in this Ministry and HRM has approved the proposal of KVS to recruit primary teacher with higher qualifi cation (i.e. B.A./B.Sc., B.Ed.+ TET). Further, HRM has also directed that NCTE may amend the qualifi cation and make B.A./B.Sc., B.Ed. also 16 Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan – An autonomous body under Ministry of Education, Government of India, which looks aft er the management of Central Schools through- out the country. 186 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. eligible for teaching at Primary level with provision of completing Pedagogical module in 2 years of joining the service, these directions were conveyed to NCTE on 12.04.2018, however, the action is still pending at their part. 3. The matter was again discussed and deliberated in detail in the meeting held today (28th May, 2018) chaired by HRM and attended by Special Secretary, Chairperson, NCTE, MS, NCTE, Joint Secretary (SE.I) and KVS Commissioner. KVS Commissioner raised the issues of insufficient number of candidates applying for the post of Primary teachers and candidates applying from few states rather than across the country. It was informed by MS, NCTE that approximately 7.5 lakh seat are available for D.El.Ed across the country out of which 50% seats are filled. However, the TET pass D.El.Ed. candidate would be much less as the result of TET varies from 6% to 16%. This makes the availability of eligible D.El.Ed. candidates much less than the desired. HRM also pointed out the need for better equipped teachers to ensure quality education in schools. Recruitment of Teachers with higher qualifications will ultimately be beneficial and in the interest of the students. 4. In addition to above, NCTE will roll out four year B.Ed. integrated course from next academic year, therefore, the prevalent D.El.Ed./B.Ed. etc will phase out in time bound manner. Further similar kind of request has also been from the state of Uttrakhand. 5. In view of the above discussions, HRM directed NCTE to change its regulations, Directions are required to be given under section 29 of the NCTE Act, 1993. Section 29 of the NCTE Act is as follows: (1) The Council shall in the discharge of its functions and duties under this Act be bound by such directions on questions of policy as the Central Government may give in writing to it from time to time. (2) The decision of the Central Government as to whether a question is one of policy or not shall be final. DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 187 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] (6) We may request NCTE to submit draft notifi cation to amend NCTE regulations at the earliest. The draft letter is attached for approval please. Once the draft notifi cation is received, the same will be sent to Legislative Department for vetting with the approval of HRM. Submitted.” The minutes of the meeting dated 29.05.2018 state as under :- “Note dated 29.05.2018 Please place on fi le the letter from NCTE which was handed over to the HRM by the MS, NCTE during the meeting, the details of which have been referred to in the draft reply.