7. In view of the above, let us see whether the impugned warrants any inference of this Court exercising extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. Undoubtedly, a plenary jurisdiction exercisable on assuming appellate jurisdiction has been conferred upon the Supreme Court under Article 136, nonetheless it is an extraordinary jurisdiction which must be exercised in exceptional circumstances and that too with great care and caution. 8. The guiding principles for determining the market value of the land at the date of the publication of the notifi cation under Section 4(1) in view of Section 23(1) of the said Act, are well settled by this Court in catena of decisions. Accordingly, the determination of market value is the process of predicting an economic event that is assuming a price a willing vendor would off er to a willing purchaser in normal market conditions, but not an event of anxious dealing at arm’s length nor a facade of sale nor fi ctitious sale brought about in quick succession or otherwise to infl ate the market value. No doubt, for ascertaining the market value of the land, its existing 1 (2010) 11 SCC 175 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. condition, location and user, its proximity to residential, commercial or industrial area etc. are the major factors required to be considered. The size and nature of the lands acquired and size and nature of the lands in respect of which sale instances are produced on record, also would be an important aspects in as much as normally the sale instances of small piece of land can not form reasonable basis to determine the market value of large chunk of land, unless suitable deductions are made in respect of development charges. How much deductions should be made would depend on the nature of land, its topography, special features and state of its development so as to make it suitable for the purpose for which it is acquired. 9. In the instant cases, the Tribunal after recording the submissions of the counsels for the parties and recording the sale instances on record, without any further analysis of evidence or discussion, abruptly enhanced the market rates of the acquired lands to almost double the rates at which the compensation was assessed by the Land Acquisition Collector. The Tribunal enhanced the rates from Rs. 668.75/- to Rs. 1337.50/- per marla for the land Chahi and from Rs. 687.50/- to Rs. 1375/- per marla for the remaining kinds of land for the village Purhiran, and enhanced from Rs. 714.30/- to Rs. 1428.60/- per marla for all kinds of land for village Sutehri. The said rates have been further enhanced by the High Court to Rs. 3,000/- per marla for all the lands in question. 10. Though the Learned Senior Counsel Mr. Patwalia had sought to submit that the High Court had failed to consider the sale instance of the shop executed in close proximity of the date on which the lands in question were acquired, we do not fi nd any merit in the said submission.