In such and other circumstances as detailed herein below petitioner is filing the present eviction petition for bonafide requirements. Further, the construction of the whole premises is very old and in dilapidated condition and needs urgent repairs and during the rainy C season, the petitioner and her family has to suffer immense hardship as there is water logging on the ground floor and life of the petitioner and her family is thrown out of gear. Further, all the furnitures and fixtures are damaged during rainy season. Petitioner and her family members have to move all their belongings elsewhere during rainy season. Even petitioner and D her family members have to leave their home and go to their relatives place during rainy season. Moreover, petitioner is a senior citizen and widow lady and the respondent and his family constantly misbehave and abuse the E petitioner. ii) As stated above, front portion of property bearing no. C- 586/ 587, Gall No. 12, Majlis Park, Delhi-110033 comprises of only ground floor and is having 2 bed rooms, 1 drawing room, 2 kitchens, 2 latrine/bathroom, 2 small store rooms, 1 pooja room and one court yard and petitioner is presently having the aforesaid F accommodation in her possession. Apart from the above, out of 3 rooms on the first floor and 3 rooms on the second floor, 1 room each on the first floor and second floor are in the possession of the petitioner. iii) Petitioner submits that aforesaid accommodation which is G presently available with her is totally insufficient. As stated above, family of petitioner comprises of her husband’s real brother, his 2 unmarried daughters, 1 married daughter and 1 son and petitioner considers family of her husband’s brother as her own family. The eldest daughter of her husband’s H 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A brother is Ms. Nisha who is married and is having one son aged about 2 years and lives separately, second daughter is Ms. Renu Sharma aged about 28 years and is unmarried, third daughter is aged about 25 years and studying in B.Com 3rd year (correspondence) from Delhi University and one son namely Master Govind Sharma who is aged about 16 years and studying B in 10th class in A.G. DAV School, Model Town, Delhi. Documents regarding residential proof of petitioner and her family members are filed herewith as Annexure “P-1” (colly).” 4.3. The appellant took several other averments on her requirement, including the lack of accommodation for herself as also for the wife and C children of her brother-in-law. Along with the petition seeking eviction, the appellant appended a site plan of the property carrying the caption in the following terms: - “Site plan of Property No. C-586, Gali No. 12,13, Majlis Park, Delhi – 110033.” D 4.4. The respondent-tenant filed his written statement denying the assertions of bona fide requirement of the appellant while stating, inter alia, that the appellant wanted to sell out the suit premises to earn profit; her husband had expired 8-10 years back and she had no issues of her own; and there was no need of extra accommodation.