In view of the above and taking all the factors into B consideration, the High Court upheld the of the Trial Court and dismissed the appeal. 8. Assailing the and aforesaid, learned counsel for the appellant has put forward a variety of submissions, particularly assailing the findings in question with reference to several discrepancies C appearing in the prosecution case; the factum of strained relations between the husband of the appellant and PW-1 to PW-3 for which, they might be interested in deposing against the appellant; the plea of alibi of the appellant, particularly with reference to the testimony of PW- 6 Jamal Mohammed; and no likelihood of motive for the appellant to kill D her own child. 8.1. Learned counsel has made elaborate reference to the contents of the complaint and several contradictions appearing in the version occurring in the complaint from that occurring in the statement of PW-1 Basheera, particularly when in the complaint she alleged to have left her E house for buying idli without taking money but, in the deposition, she has stated that the appellant gave her Rs. 100 and asked her to get idli; when in the complaint, PW-1 asserted that the appellant ran away from the scene of occurrence, but in her deposition, she stated that the appellant was taken to the police station. Various other contradictions as to what PW-1 saw and did after reaching back the house have also been referred F to. 8.2. Learned counsel has also referred to the omission in the statements of witnesses that the appellant twisted her saree and strangulated the child by pressing the same around the neck and has submitted that their versions do not correlate with the post-mortem G examination. 8.3. Learned counsel has submitted that there was no conclusive proof as regards the theory of arrest of the appellant at the bus stand and has relied upon the testimony of PW-6 Jamal Mohammed that the appellant was arrested at the bus stand only when she came back to H 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Perambalur with him after receiving information about the demise of the child. Further, with respect to the statement of PW-6, learned counsel has argued that plea of alibi taken by the appellant is clearly established on record and looking to the background facts, particularly the strained relations of the appellant with her mother-in-law and other relatives of her husband, the plea of alibi and assertion of PW-6 that he and the B appellant left the child in the company of PW-1 and her relatives cannot be ignored. 8.4. Learned counsel has also argued that the motive as suggested by the prosecution that the appellant wanted to live lavishly and for that purpose killed the child remains baseless as the appellant was living C alone in her matrimonial house immediately after the marriage where her husband used to stay during his short visits to India. In this regard, the learned counsel has also submitted that husband of the appellant was never examined by the prosecution as regards her conduct and hence, there is no basis to allege motive.