4.1 crores as pre-deposit under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act. F 6.1 It is further submitted that in the present case the secured property was sold in a public auction for a sum of Rs. 12.5 crores against the original amount of debt of Rs. 16.61 crores. That therefore the amount recovered was more than 50% of the original amount of debt of Rs. 16.61 crores and therefore no further could have been passed G directing the principal borrower to deposit any amount towards pre- deposit as required under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act. It is contended that the amount realised by the financial institution by selling the secured property is required to be adjusted/appropriated while considering the “debt due”. H M/S SIDHA NEELKANTH PAPER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. 563 PRUDENT ARC LIMITED & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] 6.2 It is further contended that while passing the impugned , A the High Court has misinterpreted the definition of “debt” defined under Section 2(g) of the Recovery of Debts and Bankruptcy Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act 1993’). That the “debt due” required to be calculated to determine the pre-deposit amount shall have to be calculated deducting the money received by the bank/financial institution B during the pendency of the proceedings before the DRT. 6.3 It is next submitted that while passing the impugned and , the High Court has erred in not applying the literal rule of interpretation for construing the second proviso to Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act for ascertaining true and correct meaning on the C expression of “debt due”. 7. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the financial institution and the auction purchaser have vehemently submitted that the High Court has materially erred in directing the borrower to deposit 50% of the remaining Rs. 4.1 crores only as pre-deposit. It is contended that the D said is under challenge by the financial institution in the present case and it is the case on behalf of the financial institution that the High Court ought to have directed the borrower to deposit 50% of the original amount of debt of Rs. 16.61 crores. 7.1 It is submitted that the High Court has very seriously erred in E directing that the amount realised from auction sale of the secured property shall have to be appropriated for the pre-deposit amount which is to be determined on the balance of the “debt due”, without considering the interest component. 7.2 It is further submitted that as per proviso to Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act, the amount of pre-deposit is to be calculated in respect F of the amount of “debt due” and the “debt” in SARFAESI Act is defined in Section 2(ha). It is submitted that as per section 2(ha) “debt” shall have the same meaning as assigned to it in section 2(g) of the Act of 1993. It is submitted that on perusal of Section 2(g) of the Act of 1993, “debt due” would include liability + interest.