We think that the Court below was entitled to take such inference in the backdrop of the case as depicted above. 4. We, accordingly, fi nd no reason for interference. The Appeal is dismissed. The of the Court below is affi rmed. The Application (CRMA No. 1744 of 2013) fi led for examining applicant as witness for the defence is not pressed. The same is dismissed. A1 is in Jail. He will serve out the sentence as awarded by the Court below. A2 is on bail. Her bail bond is cancelled. She is directed to surrender forthwith to serve out the sentence awarded against her.” 15. In such circumstances referred to above, the appeals are here before this Court with the captioned two appeals. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS 16. Ms. Manisha Bhandari, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant vehemently submitted that the trial court as well as the High Court committed a serious error in holding the appellants guilty of the off ence as enumerated above. It was argued that the case is one of “No Evidence” so BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 831 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] far as the charge of murder is concerned. According to the learned counsel, the husband was working in Delhi past sometime before the date of incident whereas the deceased along with her son was staying at their native home town in the State of Uttarakhand. It was also sought to be argued that the deceased was not keeping well as she was suff ering from a heart ailment. It was pointed out from the post mortem report as well as from the oral evidence of the doctor that the deceased had an enlarged heart and the ailment relating to heart could be the cause of sudden death. The learned counsel in the alternative put forward the theory of suicide. This theory of suicide was put forward by the defence on the basis of the fact that poison was detected in the viscera, in the form of “aluminium phosphide”. An attempt was made to argue that the deceased might have consumed poison and committed suicide as she was tired of her ailment. 17. It was also argued that the evidence of the two defence witnesses would suggest that there was no harassment of any nature to the deceased either by the husband nor by the mother-in-law. It was also argued that no sooner the deceased passed away than the husband immediately informed the family members of the deceased about her sudden death. It is the husband who carried the dead body from Delhi to his village at Uttarakhand. 18. It was argued that the entire case hinges on circumstantial evidence. It is a primary principle that the accused must be and not merely may be guilty. 19. The learned counsel submitted that the facts which, the prosecution has so established should be consistent only with the hypothesis of the guilt of the accused that is to say, they should not be explainable on any other hypothesis except that the accused is guilty.