B “19(1)(c) to form associations or unions;” The said article is further restricted by Article 19(4) which is as follows: (4) Nothing in sub-clause (c) of the said clause shall affect C the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interests of 4 [the sovereignty and integrity of India or] public or morality, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause.” D Relying upon the same it is highlighted by the learned Solicitor General that the Court has not kept this aspect in view while placing heavy reliance on the foreign authorities which are fundamentally not applicable to the interpretative process of the provisions which have been enacted in consonance with the provisions of the Constitution of India. E Regard being had to the important issue raised by the learned Solicitor General and Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel for the State of Assam, we think it appropriate that the matter should be considered by a larger Bench. Let the Registry place the papers before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India for F appropriate s.” That is how the matter is listed before this Bench of three judges. 2.4 The short issue before the Bench is whether the s in Raneef (supra) and Arup Bhuyan (supra), have been correctly decided G and whether “active membership” is required to be proven over and above the membership of a banned organization under the UAPA, 1967. Another issue which is required to be considered by this Bench is whether American decisions concerning freedom of speech referred to in the case of Raneef (supra) to which this Court agreed could have been relied upon while considering the right to freedom of speech available H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 515 [M. R. SHAH, J.] under the Constitution of India more particularly Article 19(1)(c) and A 19(4) of the Constitution of India? Another question which is required to be considered is whether this Court was justified in reading down of a provision (Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act, 1967) without impleading the Union of India as a party and more particularly when the constitutional validity of the aforesaid provision was not called in question? B 2.5 While appreciating the submissions on behalf of the respective parties on the aforesaid issues, the relevant provisions of the UAPA, 1967 are required to be referred to which are as under: “Section 2 – Definitions: C (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— (a) association means any combination or body of individuals; (k) terrorist act has the meaning assigned to it in section 15, and the expressions terrorism and terrorist shall be construed accordingly; D (l) terrorist gang means any association, other than terrorist organisation, whether systematic or otherwise, which is concerned with, or involved in, terrorist act; (m) terrorist organisation means an organisation listed in the 9[First Schedule] or an organisation operating under the same name as E an organisation so listed; (o) unlawful activity, in relation to an individual or association, means any action taken by such individual or association (whether by committing an act or by words, either spoken or written, or by signs or by visible representation or otherwise),— F (i) which is intended, or supports any claim, to bring about, on any ground whatsoever, the cession of a part of the territory of India or the secession of a part of the territory of India from the Union, or which incites any individual or group of individuals to bring about such cession or secession; or G (ii) which disclaims, questions, disrupts or is intended to disrupt the sovereignty and territorial integrity of India; or (iii) which causes or is intended to cause disaffection against India; H 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.