This amendment will result in disallowance of the claims made by certain assessees in respect of payments on ac-count of protection money, extortion, hafta, bribes etc. as business expenditure. It is well decided that unlawful expenditure F is not an allowable deduction in computation of income. 20.2 This amendment will take effect retrospectively from 1st April, 1962 and will, accordingly, apply in relation to the as-sessment year 1962-63 and subsequent years.” 12. Explanation-I makes a declaration to remove any possible G doubts to reckon a loss suffered in the form of expenditure for any purpose which is an offence or one that is prohibited by law.There is no difficulty in holding that this explanation is clarificatory in nature.Applying the principle of literal interpretation with the intendment being very clear, giving no room for further doubts, coupled with the fact that there is no H 104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A challenge to it, the meaning appears to be rather very clear. It seeks to prohibit a deduction of any expenditure incurred by an assessee for any purpose which is an offence or which is prohibited by law. Due regard will have to be given to the words ‘any expenditure’ and ‘any purpose’. The reiteration being a legislative clarification of the main provision is required to be taken note of, as such,the power of judicial review over B an explanation, which has been introduced to explain and remove the doubts of the main provision, is rather limited. 13. Though the provision speaks of expenditure while not making a specific reference to loss, one has to press into service the accepted commercial practice and trading principles. If one is to treat the C expenditure as a genus, a loss would become a specie. All losses would become expenditures but not vice versa. A commercial loss in trade arising out of a business being carried on and incidental to it would be a deductible loss as laid down by this Court in BadridasDaga v. CIT, (1959) SCR 690. There is a similarity in the test qua a loss as laid down D by this Court,and expenditure under Section 37 of the Act. Perhaps, there is a distinction when it comes to the accounting treatment of the two concepts. Thus, there is no difficulty in holding that the word ‘any expenditure’ mentioned in Section 37 of the Act takes in its sweep loss occasioned in the course of business, as well. Therefore, I agree with the view of my learned brother that Section 37 of the Act and Explanation E 1 will have a bearing in the present case. Section 115BBE “Section 115BBE.- “Tax on income referred to in section 68 or section 69 or section 69A or section 69B or section 69C or section 69D.-(1) Where the total income of an F assessee,— (a) includes any income referred to in section 68, section 69, section 69A, section 69B, section 69C or section 69D and reflected in the return of income furnished under section 139; or G (b) determined by the Assessing Officer includes any income referred to in section 68, section 69, section 69A, section 69B, section 69C or section 69D, if such income is not covered under clause (a), H the income-tax payable shall be the aggregate of— THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 105 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR.