39, 27. C Income Tax Act, 1961 – s.69A – ‘Other valuable article’ within meaning of s.69A – Whether it must be intrinsically costly – Whether bitumen- the residual offshoot material during processing of crude oil, excluding its valuable constituents like petrol, diesel, LPG, aviation fuel etc., can be covered within the category of ‘other D valuable article’ alongside money, bullion and jewellery within the meaning of s.69A – Held (per K.M. Joseph, J. ): Bitumen may be found in small quantities or large quantities – If the ‘article’ is to be found ‘valuable’, then in small quantity it must not just have some value but it must be ‘worth a good price’ or ‘worth a great deal of money’ and not that it has ‘value’ – s.69A would then stand attracted E – ‘Bitumen’ as such cannot be treated as a ‘valuable article’ – Held (per Hrishikesh Roy, J.) (concurring): When the principle of Ejusdem Generis is applied, the preceding words in s.69A such as money, bullion, jewellery would suggest that the phrase ‘other valuable article’ which follows those words, would justify inclusion of only F high value goods – Any other way of reading the phrase ‘other valuable article’ or ‘valuable article’ by ignoring the kind of specific goods mentioned in the preceding part of s.69A, would be incorrect and would do violence to the plain language of the provision and will travel beyond the legislative intent – Additionally, the maxim ‘noscitur a sociis’ i.e. (a word is known by its associates) would also G support the above view that the other valuable articles should be items in the nature of silver bars, or jewellery or money i.e. only high priced item – It is given, that no law could possibly provide for an exhaustive list of all valuable items that may facilitate high income assessees to adjust their income – Only an indicative list of valuable H 532 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A articles can practically be mentioned in the Section – But to include bitumen within the expression ‘other valuable article’ in s.69A, would result in absurdities, that one needs to eschew – The common place items from kirana store and bitumen are intrinsically dissimilar to the high value items in s.69A and through an interpretive exercise, one should not categorise them with items such as gold bars and B jewellery. Income Tax Act, 1961– s.69A – Can a thief be the owner of the goods – Held (per K.M. Joseph, J. ): The illegality of the ownership may not ill square with the requirement of s.69A that the assessing officer must find the assessee to be the owner of the article C – However, that is not to say that without finding ownership or when it is obvious that someone else is the owner, a person found in possession, which is illegal, can be found to be the owner under s.69A – It would be straining the law beyond justification if the Court were to recognise a thief as the owner of the property within D the meaning of s.69A – Recognising a thief as the owner of the property would also mean that the owner of the property would cease to be recognised as the owner, which would indeed be the most startling result – While possession of a person may in appropriate cases, when there is no explanation forthcoming about the source and quality of his possession, justify an assessing officer E finding him to be the owner, when the facts are known that the carrier is not the owner and somebody else is the owner, then to describe him as the owner may produce results which are most illegal apart from being unjust.