It was reasoned that one need (Pritam Singh) not mix up the jurisdiction relating to cognizance of an offence with that of granting bail. Bails are against arrest and detention. Therefore, an appropriate Court within whose jurisdiction the arrest takes place or is apprehended or is contemplated will also have jurisdiction to grant bail to the person concerned. If the Court of Session or the High Court has the jurisdiction to grant interim bail, then the power to grant full anticipatory bail will emanate from the same jurisdiction. PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 561 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Case Name High Court Outcome and Reasoning Concurrent jurisdiction in Courts situated in diff erent States is not outside the scope of the CrPC. It is not possible to divide the jurisdiction under S. 438 of CrPC into an ad interim and fi nal, but it is permissible if it is so expedient or desirable, for any of the Courts competent to take cognizance of and to try an off ence and the Courts competent to grant bail can also grant anticipatory bail for a specifi ed period only. hh 2. InRe: Benod Calcutta High The High Court granted relief under Ranjan Sinha, Court regarding Section 438 of the CrPC to the petitioner 1981 SCC FIR registered in therein and reasoned that it has jurisdiction Online Cal 102 the State of Bihar. to entertain the application for anticipatory bail of a petitioner who resides within the (InRe: Benod jurisdiction of the said Court, though he Ranjan Sinha) apprehends arrest in connection with a case which has been initiated outside the jurisdiction of this Court. 3. L.R. Naidu Karnataka High The anticipatory bail applicant was (Dr.) vs. State of Court regarding granted protection from arrest with the Karnataka, 1983 FIR registered in direction that upon a future arrest, he shall SCC OnLine Kar the State of Kerala be released on bail on his executing a bond 206 of a sum of Rs. 3,000/- with a surety in a like sum to the police’s satisfaction. He (L.R. Naidu) was directed to approach the appropriate Court in Kerala State within twenty days from the date of his arrest by the Cannanore Police. It was held that in case he made any such application within the time referred to above, the of anticipatory bail would be in force till such time as that Court passes an . In case the petitioner does not make any application the would cease to be in force thereafter i.e., from the 21st day of his arrest. 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Case Name High Court Outcome and Reasoning 4. C.L. Mathew Kerala High Court The High Court granted anticipatory bail. vs. Govt. of regarding off ences It noted that an off ence may be committed India, 1984 SCC committed in in one State and that the applicant may Online Ker 207 Jamshedpur, reside in another State; or he may have Bihar. residence in several States.