But only that should not save him from the rigours of incarceration which he was supposed to be in, had the illness of that not there at the time of getting magnitude been not person the interim bail. There is nothing in the medical documents to assume that the accused is not fit enough to move, think or talk properly, as was urged by the Ld. Advocate for the C accused person. In the contrary it is found that the accused person is suffering from cirrhosis of liver since before this case was initiated and there had been ups and downs in his health condition. For that this court cannot let the truth submerge in the plea of his chronic ailments. D Coming to the medical reports submitted today it is found that today at 12.10 am he shifted himself to Apollo Hospital where he was examined and was readily admitted in some medically unspecified ward (Deluxe) under treatment of a specialist pulmonologist. Notable that the documents produced show that E the emergency admission advice form has been struck down by hand making it a direct admission advice form and the bed number there is also illegible due to repeated overwriting. The admission form submitted shows that expected length of stay of the patient at the hospital is nil. Even if it is accepted that the accused person is admitted in hospital for a suspected pulmonary tract infection, F that does not take away the adverse inferences already drawn by this court hereinabove. For the sake of precise investigation coercive participation of the accused person by way of judicial detention now appears to be imminent and indispensable.” 7. In light of the aforesaid facts and circumstances and the G observations made by the learned Special Judge while cancelling the interim bail, the decision of this Court in the case of Anupam J. Kulkarni (supra) is required to be considered. 7.1 It is true that in the case of Anupam J. Kulkarni (supra), this Court observed that there cannot be any police custody beyond 15 H 330 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A days from the date of arrest. In our opinion, the view taken by this Court in the case of Anupam J. Kulkarni (supra) requires re-consideration. When we put a very pertinent question to Shri Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-accused that in a given case it may happen that the learned trial/Special Court refuses to grant the police custody erroneously which as such was prayed B within 15 days and/or immediately on the date of arrest and thereafter the passed by the trial/Special Court is challenged by the investigating agency before the higher Court, namely, Sessions Court or the High Court and the higher Court reverses the decision of the learned Magistrate refusing to grant the police custody and by that time the C period of 15 days is over, what would be position? The learned senior counsel is not in a position to answer the court query.