750(E), dated the 31st March, 2010 issued by the Department of School Education and Literacy, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) hereby makes the following further amendments to the notifi cation number F.N. 61-03/20/2010/NCTE/(N&S), dated the 23rd August, 2010 published in the Gazette of India, Extraordinary, Part III, Section 4, dated the 25th August, 2010 hereinafter referred to as the said notifi cation namely:- (1) In the said notifi cation, in para 1 in sub-para (i), in clause (a) after the words and brackets “Graduation and two year Diploma in Elementary Education (by whatever name known), the following shall be inserted, namely:- OR “Graduation with at least 50% marks and Bachelor of Education (B.Ed. )” 2. In the said notifi cation in para 3, for sub-para (a), the following sub- para shall be substituted namely:- “(a) who has acquired the qualifi cation of Bachelore of Education from any NCTE Recognized institution shall be considered for appointment as a teacher in classes I to V provided the person so appointed as a teacher shall mandatorily undergo a six month Bridge course in Elementary Education recognized by the NCTE, within two years of such appointment as primary teacher” (Emphasis supplied) DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 185 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 30. The sequence of events, which are now well established by the documents which were placed before the Rajasthan High Court and before this Court, make it clear, that the decision to include B.Ed. as a qualifi cation was apparently triggered by a letter of the Commissioner of KVS16, who made a request requested that since in the Primary classes of Central Schools suffi cient number of trained Diploma holders are not available, they may be permitted to appoint B.Ed. qualifi ed teachers, who are readily available. The Ministry takes cognizance of this letter, meetings are held and ultimately it directs NCTE to appoint B.Ed. trained teachers not just in central schools but in primary schools throughout the country, which would include State run schools. The sequence of how it happened is as under. A meeting was held on 28.05.2018 in the Ministry of Human Resource Development, headed by the Minister concerned. In the meeting it was decided to recognize B.Ed. as an additional eligibility criterion for the appointment to the post of primary teachers in KVS Schools. This was followed by a note on the very next day, i.e., 29.05.2018, which says that since B.Ed. qualifi ed candidates were eligible to be appointed as primary teachers in KVS Schools, there should be no objection to implement this direction in other schools as well. These communications culminate in a letter dated 30.05.2018 issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development, which was in the form of a direction issued under Section 29 of the NCTE Act which required NCTE to amend the eligibility criteria to include B.Ed. qualifi ed candidates as Primary Teachers. Complying with the above directions, NCTE issued the impugned notifi cation on 28.06.2018.