It is one thing to say that the absence of provision for re- valuation will not enable the candidate to claim the right of F evaluation as a matter of right and another to say that in no circumstances whatsoever where there is no provision for re- valuation will the writ court exercise its undoubted constitutional powers? We reiterate that the situation can only be rare and exceptional.” G (emphasis supplied) 25. The unique nature of power bestowed on the High Courts under Article 226 has very recently been commented upon in B S Hari Commandant v Union of India, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 413. In Sanjay Dubey v State of Madhya Pradesh, 2023 SCC OnLine SC H AISH MOHAMMAD v. STATE OF HARYANA AND ORS. 417 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 610, while declining to interfere with the impugned therein, a reason A which weighed was that a High Court had passed the said , and not a Court of Session. This again emphasised the special nature of the High Courts, including that they are Constitutional Courts. 26. Thus, the observation by the learned Civil Court that the appellant could approach the authority, cannot be taken to mean that the B appellant was granted carte blanche liberty in law to approach the same authority. What the learned Civil Court lost sight of was that no provision permitted the course of action suggested by it. Examined from another lens, even if we were to read the learned Civil Court’s view in the appellant’s favour, at best, he may have had some justification in C approaching the Director General of Police, Haryana, being a superior authority, but the same authority could not have been approached again. On this line of reasoning, it becomes clear that even though the appellant had a window to move before the authorities again and dehors the learned Civil Court not interfering, but the same should have been to the superior authority and not the same authority, which had earlier refused expunction. D In any event, we need not dilate on this further. 27. As far back as in 1971, directions were issued by the State Government that repeated representations would not be entertained as it would be contrary to Government Letter No. 2784-3S-70 dated 22.03.1971 mandating that a second representation against adverse E remarks would not lie and which clarified the position that the same authority did not have any power of review for an passed by its predecessor-in-office. 28. As such, the Director General of Police had rightly show- caused the appellant and taken subsequent action thereupon. Considering F the chain of events, the consequential action, in our considered view, cannot be said to be arbitrary or shocking the conscience of the Court, so as to warrant interference. For a person in uniformed service, like the police, adverse entry relating to his/her integrity and conduct is to be adjudged by the superior authority(ies) who record and approve such G entry. Personnel having such remarks being compulsorily retired as per the statutory provisions under the Punjab Civil Services Rules, 1934, in the instant facts, is not an action this Court would like to interdict.