Civil contempt, with which the present case concerns itself, is defined under Section 2(b) which reads as follows: “2(b). “civil contempt” means wilful disobedience o any , F decree, direction, , writ or other process of a court or wilful breach of an undertaking given to a court;” 12. The punishment for contempt of Court is prescribed under Section 12 of the Contempt Act, which reads as under: “12. Punishment for contempt of court.- (1) Save as otherwise G expressly provided in this Act or in any other law, a contempt of court may be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees, or with both: H 4 Hereinafter referred to as the ‘Contempt Act’ GOSTHO BEHARI DAS v. DIPAK KUMAR SANYAL & ORS. 1179 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] Provided that the accused may be discharged or the punishment A awarded may be remitted or on apology being made to the satisfaction of the court. Explanation.- An apology shall not be rejected merely on the ground that it is qualified or conditional if the accused makes it bona fide. B (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, no court shall impose a sentence in excess of that specified in sub-section (1) for any contempt either in respect of itself or of a court subordinate to it. xx xx xx” C 13. It may be noted that right from the Privy Council onwards, judicious and sparing use of the power of contempt has been an accepted proposition. In Parashuram Detaram Shamdasani v. Emperor5 the Council had observed- “… this summary power of punishing for contempt of court should D be used sparingly and only in serious cases. It is a power which a Court must of necessity possess; its usefulness depends on the wisdom and restraint with which it is exercised…” 14. A Bench of seven judges in C.S. Karnan, In re6, had, referring to various decisions of other jurisdictions, observed E “63. The authority to punish for contempt of court has always been exercised by the judiciary from times immemorial [ In one of the earliest legal pronouncements dealing with the subject, Justice Wilmot in R. v. Almon, 1765 Wilmot’s Notes 243 : 97 ER 94 explained the philosophy behind the power to punish for F contempt of court. The passage now a classic exposition runs as follows : (ER p. 100)”… and whenever men’s allegiance to the laws is so fundamentally shaken, it is the most fatal and most dangerous obstruction of justice, and, in my opinion, calls out for a more rapid and immediate redress than any other obstruction whatsoever; not for the sake of the Judges, as private individuals, G but because they are the channels by which the King’s justice is conveyed to the people.”] . The justification for the existence of that is not to afford protection to individual Judges [ “14. … the 5 1945 AC 264 6 (2017) 7 SCC 1 H 1180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.