of the present case, non-impleadment of the State cannot be perceived as fatal for the maintainability of the suit as the contesting defendant i.e. Urban Improvement Trust is an instrumentality of the State and the benefi ciary of the acquisition process. At this point, we may also usefully refer to the conclusion of the Rajasthan High Court in Urban Improvement Trust v Shri Padmanand27, where after analysing the provisions of the Act 1959, it was noted as under: “15..............In our view, a close scrutiny of the provisions of the 1959 Act leave no doubt that the Improvement Trust, created under the aforesaid Act, works as an agent or instrumentality of the State Government and as such the Trust must be considered as a ‘State Government department’, for the purposes of Section 18 of the Act of 1953.ˮ 35. In light of the above observation, can it possibly be said that the Urban Improvement Trust for the present purpose, is a separate entity altogether in relation to the State of Rajasthan, without whose participation, no authoritative pronouncement could possibly be made in the suit? The answer for this has to be in the negative. The ratio in Shri Saurav Jain v M/s ABP Design & Another28 would also not be applicable here. In that case, a suit was instituted by the 1st respondent in the Court of Civil Judge who claimed to be a “transferable owner and cultivator” of a certain piece of land. This Court, in the said case, inter alia, arrived at a fi nding that invalid transfer of land was made to the Respondent and it was null and void for being in violation of Section 5(3) of Urban Ceiling Act,1976. Signifi cantly, neither the State nor any authority under the Urban Land (Ceiling and Regulation) Act 1976 were impleaded in that suit. The Court specifi cally noted that the real object of the suit was to affi rm plaintiff ’s title on the basis of an alleged permission for sale in his favour. It was in that context that the Court noted that the 1st respondent resorted to engineered drafting for declaration of title. However, in the present case, the title is undisputed and the necessary contesting party i.e. the Trust was arrayed as a party. These are the key distinguishing features for that case to be of no relevance in the present matter. 27 AIR 1980 Raj 176 28 2021 SCC OnLineSC 552 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 547 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] 36. At this point, let us now refer to the observations of this Court in Urban Improvement Trust v Mohan Lal29 which are closer to the facts of the present case. This Court deprecated the tendency of State and its instrumentalities of fi ling appeals against all s that came against them on false, frivolous, vexatious and technical grounds. The facts in that case were that the Urban Improvement Trust, Bikaner without notice, acquisition or consent, took over the allotted plot of the landowner and thereafter, when relief was granted to landowners by the National Commission, challenged it on technical grounds for absence of protest and Complaint, within two years of the cause of action.