It is further observed that the true test, therefore is, whether the appellate court is able G to pronounce on the materials before it without taking into consideration the additional evidence sought to be adduced.” 10. It could at once be noticed that in terms of Rule 33 of XLI CPC, the Appellate Court is empowered to pass any decree and to make any which ought to have been passed or made; and which H may be considered requisite in a case. While the said Rule 33 prescribes SIRAJUDHEEN v. ZEENATH & ORS. 17 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] general powers of the Court of appeal, the specific powers of remand A are prescribed in Rules 23 and 23-A of XLI CPC. Hence,for the purpose of the case at hand, reference to aforesaid Rule 33 remains inapposite. Having said so, we may proceed to examine if the of remand in the present case could be justified with reference to the other referred provisions of XLI CPC? B 11. One of the striking features of the impugned dated 28.06.2019 is that even while dealing with a regular first appeal against the and decree of the Trial Court, the High Court has not even adverted to the findings of the Trial Court pertaining to the present case and has not specified as to how the findings recorded by the Trial Court C were unsustainable or unjustified. As noticed, in the impugned , the High Court has narrated a few circumstances leaning in favour of the plaintiff (in paragraph 21) and then a few other circumstances which favour the genuineness of the sale in question (in paragraph 22) and thereafter, has observed that the evidence necessary for a proper determination of the suit had not been brought on record; and that the D evidence on record was insufficient to arrive at a proper finding in favour or against the sale deed in question. The High Court would further observe that material witnesses have not been examined and no evidence has been brought in with regard to passing of consideration. 11.1. With respect, what turns on the observations in the impugned E is that the High Court was unable to arrive at a conclusion on the basis of the material on record. However, fact of the matter remains that on the basis of the same material on record, the Trial Court had indeed arrived at a definite conclusion that the plaintiff had failed to establish her case and hence, the suit was liable to be dismissed. As indicated hereinabove, the High Court has not at all referred to the findings F of the Trial Court and it is difficult to find from the impugned as to why at all those findings of the Trial Court were not to be sustained or the decree was required to be reversed. 11.2. After having taken note of the salient features of the impugned as also the significant omissions therein, if we refer G to the provisions empowering the Appellate Court to make an of remand, it is difficult to find any justification for remand by the High Court in the present case.