It was argued before the Court that the identifi cation in Court not preceded by a TIP is of no evidentiary value. On the other hand, it was argued on behalf of the prosecution that the substantive 920 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. evidence is the evidence of identifi cation in Court and, therefore, the value to be attached to such identifi cation depends on facts and circumstances of each case. The Court ultimately answered as under:- “7. It is trite to say that the substantive evidence is the evidence of identifi cation in court. Apart from the clear provisions of Section 9 of the Evidence Act, the position in law is well settled by a catena of decisions of this Court. The facts, which establish the identity of the accused persons, are relevant under Section 9 of the Evidence Act. As a general rule, the substantive evidence of a witness is the statement made in court. The evidence of mere identifi cation of the accused person at the trial for the fi rst time is from its very nature inherently of a weak character. The purpose of a prior test identifi cation, therefore, is to test and strengthen the trustworthiness of that evidence. It is accordingly considered a safe rule of prudence to generally look for corroboration of the sworn testimony of witnesses in court as to the identity of the accused who are strangers to them, in the form of earlier identifi cation proceedings. This rule of prudence, however, is subject to exceptions, when, for example, the court is impressed by a particular witness on whose testimony it can safely rely, without such or other corroboration. The identifi cation parades belong to the stage of investigation, and there is no provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure which obliges the investigating agency to hold, or confers a right upon the accused to claim a test identifi cation parade. They do not constitute substantive evidence and these parades are essentially governed by Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Failure to hold a test identifi cation parade would not make inadmissible the evidence of identifi cation in court. The weight to be attached to such identifi cation should be a matter for the courts of fact. In appropriate cases it may accept the evidence of identifi cation even without insisting on corroboration.” [Emphasis supplied] 48. It is well settled that the substantive evidence is the evidence of identification in court and the test identification parade provides corroboration to the identifi cation of the witness in court, if required. MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 921 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] However, what weight must be attached to the evidence of identifi cation in court, which is not preceded by a test identifi cation parade, is a matter for the courts of fact to examine. 49. In Prem Singh v. State of Haryana, (2011) 9 SCC 689, a two-Judge Bench of this Court expressed confl icting opinion, H.S.