Threatening any person to give false evidence. Whoever threatens another with any injury to his person, reputation or property or to the person or reputation of any one in whom that person is interested, with intent to cause that person to give false evidence shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, or with fi ne, or with both; and if innocent person is convicted and sentenced in consequence of such false evidence, with death or imprisonment for more than seven years, the person who threatens shall be punished with the same punishment and sentence in the same manner and to the same extent such innocent person is punished and sentenced.” 16. A plain reading of the aforesaid provision indicates that if any individual is threatened with any injury to his person, reputation or property and such threats are administered with intent to cause that person to give false evidence, the same would constitute an off ence under Section 195A of the IPC. In our opinion, none of the ingredients to constitute the off ence punishable under Section 195A of the IPC are disclosed, on plain reading of the FIR and the further statement of the fi rst informant including the statement of the so-called eye witness. The allegation in the FIR is that the accused persons threatened and pressurised the fi rst informant to withdraw her fi rst FIR bearing No. 122 of 2022 registered for the off ences punishable under Sections 376D, 323, 120B, 354A and 452 resply of the IPC. There is nothing to indicate that the accused persons threatened the fi rst informant with intent that the fi rst informant gives false evidence before the Court of law. The later part of Section 195A makes 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. it very clear that false evidence means false evidence before the Court of law. On such false evidence if a person is convicted and sentenced, then the person found guilty of administering threats would be liable to be punished with the same punishment and sentence in the same manner and to the same extent as such innocent person is punished and sentenced. The word “false” in Section 195A should be read in the context with what has been explained in Section 191 of the IPC which falls in Chapter XI – of False Evidence and Off ences Against Public Justice. Thus, even if we believe the allegations levelled in the FIR to be true, none of the ingredients to constitute the off ence punishable under Section 195A are disclosed. To give threat to a person to withdraw a complaint or FIR or settle the dispute would not attract Section 195A of the IPC. 17. In the aforesaid context, we must look into Section 195A of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Section 195A of the CrPC reads thus:- “Section 195A. Procedure for witnesses in case of threatening, etc.—A witness or any other person may fi le a complaint in relation to an off ence under section 195A of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860).” 18.