He further contended that prior to 31st October, 2017, no of stay passed by the DRT was F subsisting and there was absolutely no reason for the contesting respondent, if he was genuinely interested in closing the deal, to deposit the balance amount of sale price while at the same time reserving his right to claim the entire amount deposited, if the sale did not fructify. It was also contended that the contesting respondent had applied for extension of time to deposit the balance amount before the DRT, but no G was passed on his application and the Authorized Officer, perceiving that the contesting respondent was seeking to delay matters, rightly proceeded to forfeit the amount of Rs. 30,75,000/. He, accordingly, submitted that the impugned and of the High Court is unsustainable in law and, hence, deserves to be set aside. H 1078 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 8. Per contra, counsel for the contesting respondent sought to impress upon us that the directing refund was passed on a concession made by counsel for the first respondent before the High Court, i.e., the Authorized Officer; hence, the appeal was not maintainable. In the alternative, he contended that the Bank having sold the secured asset through a subsequent auction which fetched Rs. B 1,23,00,000/-, i.e., the same price at which the contesting respondent intended to purchase the immovable property, it cannot be the case of the Authorized Officer or, for that matter, the Bank that the latter has suffered any financial loss. He further contended that although not assigned as a specific ground for interference, a bare reading of the C impugned and would reveal that the direction for refund was made bearing in mind such circumstance that the Bank did not suffer any loss. He also contended that there has to be an overall consideration of the facts and circumstances obtaining in the case which led the contesting respondent to reasonably believe that pendency of proceedings before the DRT at the instance of Stallion would result in D the entire sale price, if deposited, being blocked. In such view of the matter, the Authorized Officer without proper consideration of the entire facts and circumstances proceeded to forfeit the amount deposited. Since, there has been patent arbitrariness on the part of the Authorized Officer in not acceding to the request of the contesting respondent to extend the E time further, the High Court was justified in its interference with the of forfeiture and rightly directed refund. It was, thus, prayed that the appeal be dismissed. 9. We have heard counsel for the parties and perused the materials on record. F 10. At the outset, we reject the contention of the contesting respondent that the High Court, based on concession of counsel for the Authorized Officer, proceeded to pass the for refund. After referring to the applicable statutory provisions, the said counsel submitted before the Court that the interest of the Authorized Officer should be G taken care of. Such a submission does not, in our considered view, amount to any concession rendering the appeal not maintainable.