Vedanta Resources Limited is contemplating to set up a University in Orissa to impart education in under-graduate and post- graduate courses in Engineering, Medicine, Management, General Science and Humanities etc. It was further stated in the application that the Group had given a presentation to the Hon’ble Chief Minister of H 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Orissa during April, 2006. That after visiting different sites in Orissa, their team have selected a site on the outskirt of Puri on the Puri-Konark marine drive to be the place ideal for establishment of the University. Therefore, it was, inter alia, prayed that the Government of Orissa should make available 15,000 acres of contiguous land around Nuanai, in the district of Puri in Bhubneswar-Puri-Konark marine drive. It was also B prayed that the Government of Orissa should also coordinate the land acquisition process by appointment of a Special Land Acquisition Officer. The Group prayed that they require 1500 acres of land for Phase-I to be acquired by September, 2006 and the balance by December, 2006. Thereafter, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the C Government of Orissa and Vedanta Foundation on 19.07.2006. The Government of Orissa confirmed the availability of contiguous land of about 8000 acres and to make endeavour to provide an additional contiguous land and other facilities as required by the Foundation. 3.2 That a Private Limited Company incorporated in the name D and style of Sterlite Foundation changed its name to Vedanta Foundation under section 25 of the Companies Act, 1956 and accordingly fresh Certificate of Incorporation consequent on change of the name was issued in July, 2004. After signing of the MOU, necessary steps were taken by the State Government for allotment of the land to the Foundation and the Vice President of the Vedanta Foundation was directed to deposit E 20% of the estimated investment cost, which was subsequently reduced to 10% and necessary direction was issued to Collector, Puri to obtain administrative approval of the project from the Higher Education Department and to produce the approval along with the proposal before the Government. F 3.3 According to the State, in the meantime, the opinion of the Law Department was sought on the questions:- (a) Whether the foundation is an education foundation? and (b) Whether the land is required to be acquired for public purpose? G 3.4 Thereafter the correspondences took place between the Law Department and the Revenue and Disaster Management Department. The Law Department observed that land can be acquired for the proposed educational scheme under the Act, 1894 if the appropriate Department of the Government sponsors a Scheme to carry out that. H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 977 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] Alternatively, the land can be acquired for an educational scheme A sponsored by a Society but with the prior approval of the Government. So observing, the Law Department opined that under the Act, 1894, land can be acquired for public purpose provided Government sponsors to carry out an educational scheme or by a registered society with prior approval of the Government.