The recovery certifi cate there was issued on 24.12.2001 and the fi nancial creditor fi led an application under Section 7 of the IBC before the NCLT on 21.07.2017. But in the said also the date of recovery certifi cate was treated to be the date on which the time of limitation began to tick. 11. On behalf of the appellant, submissions have been made that the banks having approached the DRT, were barred under the doctrine of election from approaching the NCLT for recovery of same set of debts. This is a doctrine embodied in the law of evidence, which bars prosecution of the same right in two diff erent fora based on the same cause of action. But so far as the present appeal is concerned, the recovery proceedings before the DRT had commenced in the year 2014. At that point of time, the IBC had not come into existence. Moreover, it has been held by this Court in Kotak Mahindra I (supra) that the recovery certifi cate itself would give rise to a fresh cause of action entitling a fi nancial creditor to initiate Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP). By this , the right of the fi nancial creditor to invoke the mechanism under the IBC after issue of recovery certifi cate stood acknowledged as a valid legal course. This Court, in that case also dealt with the question of instituting a CIRP on the strength of recovery certifi cate. Needless to add, such recovery certifi cate arose out of a proceeding from the DRT. The enforcement mechanism for a recovery certifi cate is an independent course, which a fi nancial creditor may opt for realisation of its dues crystalised under the 1993 Act, instead of chasing the mechanism under the 1993 Act. The IBC itself is not really a debt recovery mechanism but a mechanism for revival of a company fallen in debt, but the procedure envisaged in the IBC substantially relates to ensuring recovery of debts in the process of applying such mechanism. The question of election between the fora for enforcement of debt under the 1993 Act and initiation of CIRP under the IBC arises only after a recovery certifi cate is issued. The reliefs under the two statutes are diff erent and once CIRP results in declaration of moratorium, the enforcement mechanism under the 1993 Act TOTTEMPUDI SALALITH v. STATE BANK OF INDIA & 507 ORS. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] or the SARFAESI Act gets suspended. In such circumstances, after issue of recovery certifi cate, the fi nancial creditor ought to have option for enforcing recovery through a new forum instead of sticking on to the mechanism through which recovery certifi cate was issued. In the case of Transcore -vs- Union of India and Another [(2008) 1 SCC 125], application of SARFAESI mechanism was held permissible even though the subject- proceeding was instituted under the 1993 Act. Thus, the doctrine of election cannot be applied to prevent the fi nancial creditors from approaching the NCLT for initiation of CIRP.