The following aspects of the matter emerge when the A provisions of the Assam Act are considered in juxtaposition with the corresponding provisions of the Central Act: i) The Central Act operates in the area of modern scientific medicine, in all its branches, vide Section 2(f). The Assam Act seeks to regulate the practice of allopathic medicine, in B rural areas, vide Section 2(g). Essentially, modern scientific medicine, includes allopathy. In other words, modern scientific medicine is the genus and allopathic medicine is a species of modern scientific medicine. This view has been adopted by this Court in A.K. Sabhapathy and Dr. C Mukhtiar Chand. Therefore, the practice in modern scientific medicine including allopathic medicine, is governed by the Central Act. Hence, in to be recognised as a practitioner in any branch of modern scientific medicine, including allopathic medicine, the qualifications that must mandatorily be obtained are those listed in the Schedules to D the Central Act. ii) Further, Section 17 of the Assam Act provides that persons holding a Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care after successful completion of the course instituted under the Act, would be registered as Rural Health Practitioners and would E be eligible to practise ‘medicine’ and Health Care in rural areas of Assam. The Assam Act permits Diploma holders to practise ‘medicine’, i.e., allopathic medicine, in rural areas of Assam. We are unable to accept that allopathic medicine, which is governed by the Central Act, may be practised by F persons who do not possess the qualifications contemplated under the Schedules to the Central Act. iii) Practise in modern scientific medicine, including allopathic medicine, must be permitted only after having successfully undergone the academic rigor, as prescribed under the Central Act. The Central Act, in Section 33 authorizes the G Council to prescribe inter alia, the courses and period of study, practical training to be undertaken, subjects, examination and standards of proficiency required to be achieved. Therefore, it is problematic to hold that without having successfully gone through meticulous training as H 998 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A contemplated under the Central Act, a person may practise medicine. iv) On a close reading of Section 15 of the Central Act, in conjunction with Section 24 of the Assam Act, we find that Rural Health Practitioners possessing a Diploma under the B Assam Act have been authorised to perform certain functions identical to those performed by medical practitioners who possess qualifications prescribed under the Central Act. Such functions include treatment of common illnesses, prescription of certain categories of drugs, performance of minor surgeries, issuance of illness C and death certificates. Performance of such functions by persons who do not possess the qualifications prescribed under the Central Act, could, in our view, have dangerous consequences. It is to be noted that insofar as Entry 25 of List III is concerned, D there are dual restrictions which would operate on the legislative competence of a State Legislature to enact any law under the said Entry: first is, if such a law is to be made by the State Legislature, it is always subject to Entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I or the Union List, in respect of which only the Parliament has the power to enact a law.