As for movie goers with chronic diseases who may have received dietary instructions from their doctors or who may otherwise be under dietary restrictions due to their medical condition, we request G cinema hall owners to consider requests from such movie goers on a case-by-case basis. 35. In view of the above position, we allow the appeals and set aside the impugned and of the High Court dated 18 July 2018 in regard to direction (i) which has been referred to above. The H K C CINEMA (CORRECT NAME K C THEATRE) v. STATE OF JAMMU 589 AND KASHMIR [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] remaining directions of the High Court do not form the subject matter of A the appeals and are, therefore, not dealt with in the present . D. Parting remarks 36. Before concluding, it needs to be noticed that Rule 87 of the 1975 Rules is in the following terms: B “87. (i) The licensing authority shall ensure that the sale price of tickets in all the cinemas of the State holding licence under these rules in uniform. (ii) The licensing authority shall ensure that reduced rates are charged by the licensee for any picture screened for the second C time in any auditorium.” 37. The validity of Rule 87 was not in challenge before the High Court. The High Court in paragraph 8(iii) of its issued the following directions in regard to sub-clauses (i) and (ii) of Rule 87: “iii. The Government of J&K as well as Licensing Authority/every D District Magistrate in the State is directed to ensure proper uniformity be maintained with respect to the sale price of tickets in all the cinemas of the State in terms of Rule 87(i) & (ii) of the Jammu & Kashmir Cinemas (Regulation) Rules, 1975.” 38. The above direction of the High Court shall not be construed E as imposing any requirement over and above Rule 87 as it currently stands. 39. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. TC (C) Nos 28 of 2019 and 29 of 2019 F 40. In view of the delivered above in Civil Appeal No. 77 of 2023, the writ petitions transferred from the High Court of Delhi in TC (C) No 28 of 2019 and the Bombay High Court in TC (C) No 29 of 2019 are dismissed. The Transferred Cases are accordingly disposed of. G 41. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Divya Pandey Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) H