History of evolution of clause (2) of Article 19 13. For finding an answer to this question, it may be necessary and even relevant to take a peep into history. Since Dr. B.R. Ambedkar’s D original draft in this regard followed Article 40(6) of the Irish Constitution, the original draft of the Advisory Committee included restrictions such as public , morality, sedition, obscenity, blasphemy and defamation. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel suggested the inclusion of libel also. These restrictions were sought to be justified by citing the decision in Gitlow E vs. New York42. 14. Since the country had witnessed large scale communal riots at that time, Sir Alladi Krishnaswamy Iyer forcefully argued for the inclusion of security and defence of the State or national security as one of the restrictions. Discussion also took place about restricting speech F that is intended to spoil communal harmony and speech which is seditious in nature. With suggestions, counter suggestions and objections so articulated, the initial report of the Sub-Committee on Fundamental Rights underwent a lot of changes. The evolution of clauses (1) and (2) of Article 19 stage by stage, from the time when the draft report was G submitted in April 1947, upto the time when the Constitution was adopted, can be presented in a tabular form43 as follows: 42 286 US 652 (1925) 43 Sourced from the article “Arguments from Colonial Continuity- the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951” (2008) of Burra, Arudra, Assistant Professor, H Department of Humanities and Social Sciences , IIT (Delhi), KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 627 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] A B C D E F G H 628 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 15. Immediately after the adoption of the Constitution, this Court had an occasion to deal with a challenge to an passed by the Government of Madras in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 9(1-A) of the Madras Maintenance of Public Act, 194944, banning the entry and circulation of a weekly journal called ‘Cross Roads’ printed and published in Bombay. The ban was challenged on the ground B that it was violative of Article 19(1)(a). The validity of the statutory provision under which the ban was issued, was also attacked on the basis of Article 13(1) of the Constitution. A Seven Member Constitution Bench of this Court, while upholding the challenge in Romesh Thappar vs. State of Madras45 held as follows: - C “[12] We are therefore of opinion that unless a law restricting freedom of speech and expression is directed solely against the undermining of the security of the State or the overthrow of it, such law cannot fall within the reservation under clause (2) of Art. 19, although the restrictions which it seeks to impose may have D been conceived generally in the interests of public . …” 16. An argument was advanced in Romesh Thappar (supra) that Section 9(1-A) of the 1949 Act could not be considered wholly void, as the securing of public safety or maintenance of public would include the security of the State and that therefore the said provision, as applied E to the latter purpose was covered by Article 19(2).