Present is the case dealing with second eventuality, namely, the company was unable to reinstate or repair the property. The surveyor in its report determined the loss on the basis of reinstatement value at Rs. 29,17,500/- and on the basis of depreciated value at Rs. 12,60,000/-. Though, the complainant C claimed Rs. 76,64,000/- being the value of the new machinery, however, as rightly observed by the State Commission as well as the NCDRC, the complainant shall not be entitled to the said amount. However, at the same time considering second part of Clause 9 reproduced hereinabove, in case company is unable to reinstate or repair the property insured, the insurance company shall be liable to pay such sum as would be requisite D to reinstate or repair such property if the same could lawfully be reinstated to its former condition. For the aforesaid purpose, the report of surveyor wound be relevant evidence to consider the sum required to reinstate or repair. Therefore, as per second part of Clause 9 of Section 2 of the policy, the complainant shall be entitled to the reinstatement value and not the depreciated value. The NCDRC has mis-interpreted and mis-read E the Clause 9. The NCDRC has seriously erred in observing and holding that the insurance company shall be liable to pay the depreciated value only and not the reinstatement value. The State Commission was absolutely justified in awarding the reinstatement value. The impugned and passed by the NCDRC awarding the depreciated value and not the reinstatement value is unsustainable for the reasons F stated hereinabove. 6. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the present appeal succeeds. The impugned and passed by the NCDRC is hereby quashed and set aside. The passed by the State Commission is hereby restored. The complainant shall be entitled to Rs. 29,17,500/- being the reinstatement value with interest @ 7% G from the date of of the State Commission i.e., 10.11.2014 till the actual payment. The present appeal is accordingly allowed. No costs. Ankit Gyan Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh, LCRA) H