D. Issues in the reference 17. The reference essentially raises the following issue: whether a child who is conferred with legislative legitimacy under Section 16(1) or 16(2) is, by reason of Section 16(3), entitled to the ancestral/coparcenary property of the parents or is the child merely entitled to the self-earned/ separate property of the parents. The questions that arise before us are - fi rst, whether the legislative intent is to confer legitimacy on a child covered by Section 16 in a manner that makes them coparceners, and thus entitled to initiate or get a share in the partition - actual or notional; second, at what point does a specifi c property transition into becoming the property of the parent. For, it is solely within such property that children endowed with legislative legitimacy hold entitlement, in accordance with Section 16(3). 18. The answer to the latter question would primarily depend on interpretation of the phrase ‘any rights in or to the property of any person, other than the parents’. In to understand the ambit of the phrase, and the scope of the right, it would become necessary to analyse the provisions of the Hindu Succession Act 1956. 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 19. At this stage, it would be necessary to dwellon the fundamental precepts underlying the institution of the Hindu Undivided Family. Later, having dwelt on those precepts, the focus of the will turn to the manner in which the HSA 1956 has (i) regulated the devolution of interest in coparcenary property; (ii) prescribed general rules of succession; and (iii) stipulated principles for the distribution of property. E. Submissions 20. In the backdrop of the reference, and the legal position as stated above, we shall now avert to the submissions with respect to the interpretation of Section 16(3) and the legislative intent behind the conferment of legitimacy. The fi rst, more expansive, formulation may be summarised as follows: i) property of the parent includes the share in the coparcenary property - once the larger coparcenary (including the father and his father, brothers, etc. is partitioned, the property must then be divided between the father and all his children, including those covered by Section 16; ii) the provision confers all the connotations of legitimacy on the children - including coparcenary rights in the property of the father. On the other hand, according to the second formulation i) the property in the hands of the father after the partition from the larger coparcenary, is still coparcenary property belonging to the father as well as the children (who are per se considered legitimate); as such, it is not the ‘property of the parent’ as per Section 16(3), HMA and thus, the children under Section 16(3), have no right in it; ii) the intention of the legislature was merely to erase the stigma, and not to interfere with the structure of a coparcenary which does not include the children covered by Section 16; and iii) thus, under Section 16(3), the only right is with respect to the self-acquired/ self- earned property of the parent.