Submissions on behalf of the Respondents 40. On the other hand, it has been urged by both Mr KM Natraj, Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the Union of India and 109 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Mr Amit Sharma, counsel appearing on behalf of the Election Commission that: • First, the exercise of delimitation has to be carried out within the framework of the Delimitation Act 2002. • Second, the legislative framework for reservation of seats requires an amendment to the RP Act in to provide for such reservations. Such an amendment is exclusively the mandate of Parliament, and not the Election Commission. In the absence of an enabling legislation, the powers under Article 324 alone, would not warrant such an exercise at the instance of the Election Commission. In fact, in to create such an enabling provision, three Ordinances were promulgated in 2013, which eventually lapsed and the power could not be granted to the Election Commission. • Third, the power under Section 11 of the Delimitation Act 2002 cannot be extended to mean the power to carry out readjustment of seats or to provide for reservations for additional castes and tribes in the manner which the petitioners suggest. 41. Mr Rakesh Dwivedi and Mr Ashok Panda, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State of West Bengal have broadly adopted the submissions of the Election Commission regarding the need for an enabling statutory amendment. Mr Rakesh Dwivedi has highlighted that the provisions of the Constitution do not earmark reservations for each SC/ST separately but provide for reservations for the SC/STs as a whole in relation to each state in the House of People and legislative assemblies. 42. Against this backdrop, the petitioners seek directions to give eff ect to the constitutional right of the Limboo-Tamang Scheduled Tribes. They seek directions to the Delimitation Commission to amend its 2006 Notifi cation to that extent; and directions to the Election Commission, to incorporate the amendments to its 2008 ; and to make corrections to the Delimitation Commission’s 2006 Notifi cation and the 2008 . As they stand, the 2006 Notifi cation and 2008 , are based on the 2001 census and do not incorporate the subsequent additions/adjustments made to the Scheduled Tribes s whereby, inter alia, the Limboo Tamang Tribes were designated as Scheduled Tribes. PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1097 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Delimitation Notifi cation of 2006 and the Delimitation of 2008 43. Entry 72 of the Union List of the Seventh Schedule deals with elections to Parliament and the State Legislatures. Article 327 of the Constitution empowers Parliament to make provisions by law with respect to all matters relating to or in connection with elections to either House of Parliament or to the legislatures of the States including: (i) Preparation of electoral rolls; (ii) Delimitation of constituencies; and (iii) All matters necessary for securing the due constitution of the House. 44. The Delimitation Act 2002 is an outcome of the exercise of the power to legislate on the subject of delimitation.