The second step was to carry out physical inspection of such identified buildings/dwelling units to find out as to whether the sale of share(s) has actually translated into the buyer occupying an independent floor in the otherwise composite dwelling unit or to find out as to whether independent floors are in the process of being constructed, commensurate to the F share(s) that has been purchased in such dwelling unit. 108. It is thus clear that when the interim was passed on 27th July 2021, the Division Bench was conscious of the fact that even according to the Chandigarh Administration, it was not permissible to construct apartments on the sites allotted and sell it to different persons. G It is informed that, in pursuance to the directions of the High Court dated 27th July 2021, a survey was conducted and it was found that 891 sites were converted into three apartments each. 109. From the material placed on record, it appears that the modus operandi that is devised by the developers is that the allottee of the H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 657 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] house would convey 50% of the share to the first purchaser, 30% to the A second purchaser and 20% to the third purchaser. Thereafter, all the three purchasers would enter into either a settlement deed or a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) under which the party having 50% share of the house is entitled to the entire ground floor with basement including the back courtyard but excluding the front courtyard and the B staircase. The second purchaser having 30% share in the house would be entitled to the entire first floor excluding the staircase. The third purchaser having 20% share of the house would be entitled to the entire second floor including the roof of the second floor but excluding the staircase. C 110. It will be relevant to refer to the recitals in one of such settlement deeds executed on 2nd May 2013, which read thus: “Whereas as per the present rules of the Estate Office it could not been mentioned in the Sale Deed that the possession of which floor/portion/area has been given to the purchaser so this MOU D has been executed between the parties to avoid any future misunderstanding/litigation among all the co- owners of the said house in respect of their respective possession in the said house in lieu of their respective shares in the said house so this MOU has been executed between the parties and all the parties have agreed with each other on the following terms and conditions.” E 111. It is thus clear that, the parties who entered into such an MoU, were conscious of the fact that as per the Rules of the Estate Office, it could not be mentioned in the sale deed that the possession of particular floor is given to the purchaser. It asserts that the MoU has been executed between the parties to avoid any future misunderstanding/ F litigation amongst all the co-owners of the said house in respect of their respective possession in the said house in lieu of their respective shares in the said house.