The disqualifications, again, were, however, limited to what was contained in Article 326. The disqualifications, no doubt, were to be expressly provided by a law to be made by the appropriate Legislature.The F disqualification or rather qualification included the aspect of residence. Section 20 of the 1950 Act elaborates upon the concept of residence. Likewise, in the matter of corrupt practices and other crimes in connection with elections, within the meaning of Section 16(c) of the 1950 Act, the matter is to be regulated by the law. G 135. Having noticed all the relevant provisions and bearing in mind the characteristics of a legal right, we find as follows: Since every legal right, which would include a Constitutional Right, [as the Constitution is also law though the grundnorm and not law for the purpose of Article 13,] must have a title, we must ascertain whether a H 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A citizen of India, who is not less than eighteen years, as, on the ‘qualifying date’, as found by us, has a right. Since, the title to a legal right means, “the facts or events, by reason of which, the rights become vested in its owner”, who is the person of inherence, we will explore, whether Article 326 contains the facts and reasons and whether it also contains the content of a Right. In keeping with the mandate of Article 326, Parliament B has made the 1950 Act and the 1951 Act.It is thereafter that the first general elections were held in the country. It may be true that the 1950 Act and the 1951 Act have been amended from time to time. At any given point of time, placing Article 326 side-by-side with the law made by Parliament or the law made by the State Legislature, we would find C that, if a person is a citizen of India and not below eighteen years of age, and if he does not incur the disqualifications, which cannot be more than what is provided in Article 326, but the content of which, may be provided by the law made by the competent Legislature and the citizen not less than eighteen years does not have the disqualifications, he becomes entitled to be entered in the electoral roll. Such person, as is indicated in D Article 326, indeed, has a right, which can be said to be a Constitutional Right, which may be right subject to the restriction. Section 62(1) of the 1951 Act, as we have noticed, gives also the Right to Vote to such a person. Any other interpretation would whittle down the grand object of conferring adult suffrage on citizens. E 136. The mere fact that for the creation of a Right, one needs to lean on certain facts, which may consist of a law, which, in turn, is in the main respects dictated to by the constitutional provision, may not detract from the existence of a Right. Article 19 confers fundamental freedoms, which are understood as Fundamental Rights.