29. The argument, on the other hand, of the respondents is that the DCR of which the impugned rule, is apart of the Master Plan and there is statutory authority in regard to the making of a Master Plan H 1056 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A located in Section 17 of the Act. In other words, the argument of the respondents is that the court,when it approaches the issue raised in this case, cannot have a pedantic view and understand a Master Plan as one which is limited or confined to mere drawings. The Master Plan as contemplated in the Act in regard to a Metropolitan Authority like the CMDA must be viewed on a larger canvass. The plan was put in place B for catering to the needs of an ever-growing Metropolis.Various restrictions necessarily have to be put in place to provide for an ly development of such a sprawling urban area. The larger public interest of the entirety of the residents of such an area had to be envisaged and it is in this regard that the concept of OSR must be viewed. The Master C Plan goes to meticulous details about what is permitted and what is not. 30. A perusal of the writ petition No.23397 of 2007 being the petition filed by the Association of Vasanth Apartments Owners wherein Rule 19 has been challenged, reveals the following pleading: It is specifically stated that Rule 19 of the DCR which forms part D of the Master Plan prepared under Section 17 of the Act mandates reservation of 10% as open space for open and recreational facilities when the area exceeds 10000 sq. meters. The gift in the case was executed in the year 1994 (16.02.1994). It is further contended that under the rule the second respondent was to E maintain it either on their own or through the local body. The second respondent is the authority. Thereafter since the second respondent has not developed OSR area as park, petitioner wanted to maintain the OSR as Park. Reference is made to Writ Petition No. 4766 of 2007 and the developments including the passed by the learned single judge and also writ appeal (writ appeal no. F 478 of 2007) wherein an interim was passed. Thus, the writ petition is filed in the year 2007. Now let us look at the grounds urged: (1) Rule 19(b) of the DCR is beyond the rule making power conferred on the first respondent. The Act does not G empower the first respondent (the State of Tamil Nadu) to make the DCR. Section 36 contemplates acquisition where land is reserved for open space. Therefore, the rule is ultra vires. (2) There is an absolute right to enjoy the property. This is a H constitutional right under Article 300A of the Constitution. ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1057 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Unless there is acquisition and payment of due A compensation, Article 300A is violated.Therefore, the rule is unconstitutional.