19. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and with their assistance perused the material available on record. 20. The factual matrix which has come on record is not disputed D between the parties. The question of law that raised for consideration is that once the rural area is urbanized by issuance of notification under the Act 1957, what will be the effect to the provisions of the Act, 1954 in sequel thereto. 21. We would like to take a bird’s eye view of the relevant provision E of the Acts to examine the question raised for our consideration. 22. The Act, 1954 was enacted with an object to create a uniform body of peasant proprietors without intermediaries, for the unification of the tenancy laws in force in Delhi and to make provisions for other matters connected therewith. F 23. Section 1(2) of the Act, 1954 extends to the whole Union Territory of Delhi, but shall not apply to the areas notified in Section 1(2)(a) of the Act, 1954, i.e. such an area which are or may before the first day of November, 1956 be included in a Municipality or a notified area under the relevant Acts. G 24. It may be apposite to take note of the relevant provisions of the Act before we appreciate the effect and ambit of Act, 1954 which are as follows:- “1. (I) This Act may be called the Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954. H 266 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (2) It extends to the whole of the Union territory of Delhi, but shall not apply to- (a) the areas which are or may before the first day of November, 1956 be included in a Municipality or a Notified Area under the provisions of the Punjab Municipal Act 1911, B or a Cantonment under the provisions of the Cantonments Act, 1924, 3. Definitions. - In this Act, unless the Context otherwise requires- (1) to (4)….. ‘’(5) “Delhi town” means the areas which immediately before C the establishment of the Municipal Corporation of Delhi were included in the limits of Delhi Municipality, Civil Station Notified Area, West Delhi Municipality and the Fort Notified Area; (6) to (12)…. (l3) “land” except in sections 23 and 24, means land held or D occupied for purpose connected with agriculture, horticulture or animal husbandry including pisciculture and poultry farming and includes- (a) buildings appurtenant thereto, E (b) village abadis, (c) grovelands, (d) lands for village pasture or land covered by water and used for growing singharas and other produce or land in the bed of a river and used for casual or occasional cultivation, F but does not include- land occupied by buildings in belts of areas adjacent to Dehi town, which the Chief Commissioner may by a notification in the Official Gazette declare as an acquisition thereto; G 150. (1) & (2)…. (3) If the whole of a Gaon Sabha area ceases to be included in rural areas as defined in the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957, by virtue of a notification under section 507 of that Act, the Gaon Sabha constituted for that area shall thereupon stand H dissolved and on such dissolution,- MOHINDER SINGH(DEAD) THROUGH LRS AND ANOTHER 267 v. NARAIN SINGH AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.]