[2023] 2 S.C.R. 1049 1049 STATE OF ORISSA & ANR. A v. ORISSA KHADI AND VILLAGE INDUSTRIES BOARD KARAMCHARI SANGH & ANR. (Civil Appeal No. 6944 of 2015) B MARCH 17, 2023 [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board Act,1955 – s.36 – Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board Regulations, 1960 – C Regulation 40 and 52 – State Government decided not to introduce pension scheme for the employees of Orissa Khadi and Village Industries Board due to the financial hardship – Respondents challenged it before the High Court – The Single Judge issued directions to the State Government to amend the Regulations of 1960 and to take appropriate steps to incorporate the pension scheme D for the Board’s employees at par with the State Government employees – On appeal, the Division Bench of High Court dismissed the appeal and held that the direction of the Single Judge was only advisory in nature and the State Government shall honour the same while keeping in view the interest of the retired employees – In appeal E before the Supreme Court, the State Government contended before the Supreme Court that the High Court was not justified in issuing such directions, which are contrary to the regulations that rule out pensionary rights to Board employees – Held: Board has been established under enactment of the State, it could be considered to be an instrumentality of the State, its distinct characteristic of being F a Board established with particular aim and objective cannot be ignored – The employees of the Board cannot be treated as State Government employees in all respects just because the State has established the Board – Regulation 40 starts with exception clause, making that provision subject to other provisions of the Regulation G – Regulation 52 specifically provides that the employees of the Board shall not be entitled to any pension – Further held, mandamus could not have been issued to the State to carry out amendment – Under Art. 142, the Supreme Court cannot issue directions in violation of statutory provisions – s of High Court were set aside. H 1049 1050 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. The contentions urged on behalf of the respondents, seeking to put the employees of the Board at par with the employees of the State Government for all purposes, carry their own shortcomings. Even if Orissa Khadi and Village B Industries Board has been established under an enactment of the State and for several relevant factors, it could be considered to be an instrumentality of the State, its distinct characteristic of being a Board established with particular aim and objective cannot be ignored altogether. The Board being a body corporate, incorporated by its name, has been established to carry out the C purposes of the Act of 1955 and not beyond. In view of its independent corporate entity and existence, the provisions have been made in the Act of 1955 for making regulations by the Board consistent with the Act of 1955 and rules made thereunder with the previous sanction of the State Government, where the D Regulations could provide, inter alia, for remuneration, allowances and other conditions of service of the staff of the Board (vide Section 36 of the Act).