Conclusions: G 23. ‘Illegitimate’- a term that brands an individual with the shame of being born outside wedlock, casts a shadow on one’s identity. Times change and attitudes may change, but the impact of growing up with the social stigma of being illegitimate, does not. The Courts must hence be inclined towards upholding the legitimacy of the child unless the facts H 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A are so compulsive and clinching as to necessarily warrant a finding that the child could not at all have been begotten to the father and as such a legitimisation of the child would result in rank injustice to the father, vide Dukhtar Jahan vs. Mohammed Farooq,(1987) 1 SCC 624. 24. Questions as to illegitimacy of a child, are only incidental to B the claim of dissolution of marriage on the ground of adultery or infidelity. Allowing DNA tests to be conducted on a routine basis, in to prove adultery, would amount to redefinition of the maxim, “Pater est quem nuptiae demonstrant” which means, the father is he whom the nuptials point out. While dealing with allegations of adultery and infidelity, a request for a DNA test of the child, not only competes with the C presumption under Section 112, but also jostles with the imperative of bodily autonomy. 25. Another aspect that needs to be considered in the instant case is whether, for a just decision in the divorce proceedings, a DNA test is eminently necessary. This is not a case where a DNA test is the only D route to the truth regarding the adultery of the mother. If the paternity of the children is the issue in a proceeding, DNA test may be the only route to establish the truth. However, in our view, it is not so in the present case. The evidence of DNA test to rebut the conclusive presumption available under Section 112 of the Evidence Act, can be allowed only E when there is compelling circumstances linked with ‘access’, which cannot be liberally used as cautioned by this Court in Dipanwita Roy. 26. The case of the Respondent-husband is that if a DNA test is allowed and the same reveals that he is not the biological father of “X”, as a corollary, it would be proved that the Appellant-wife committed adultery. We do not find favour with the approach suggested by the F Respondent-husband to prove adultery, for the following reasons: i. It is not in dispute that Master “X”, the son stated to be born to the Appellant-wife from the wedlock, was born in the year 2013. DNA testing, cannot be used as a short cut to establish infidelity that might have occurred over a decade G ago or subsequently after the birth of Master “X”. ii. In the circumstances of the present case, we are unable to accept that a DNA test would be the only way in which the truth of the matter can be established. The respondent- husband has categorically claimed that he is in possession H APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 725 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]