4. Shri R.S. Hegde, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has vehemently submitted that on appreciation of entire evidence and the material on record as the learned Tribunal has observed and held that the IRCON was justified in rescinding the contract due E to abandonment of work by NBCC and when the said finding attained the finality, the IRCON was justified in forfeiting the security deposits. It is submitted that as such the High Court has taken too technical view. It is submitted that as such both, Clause 17.4 and Clause 60.1 are required to be read together. It is submitted that the main aspect F which is required to be considered is whether the NBCC failed to complete the work as per the contract and whether the NBCC abandoned the work and thereafter, having satisfied that even during the extended period, the NBCC was not able to complete the work, the contract was rightly rescinded and therefore, the security deposits were liable to be forfeited. G 4.1 It is submitted that therefore both, the learned Single Judge (in application under Section 34 of the Arbitration Act) and the Division Bench of the High Court have materially erred in upsetting / quashing and setting aside the award passed by the learned Arbitral Tribunal rejecting the Claim Nos.33 and 34. H INDIAN RAILWAY CONST. COMPANY LTD. v. M/S 719 NATIONAL BUILDINGS CONST. CORP. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.2 It is submitted that both, the learned Single Judge as well as A the Division Bench of the High Court have materially erred in not appreciating the fact that once the termination is justifiable with reference to the terms of the contract and even if a wrong clause is mentioned in the letter terminating the contract, the power to terminate the contract cannot be said to be illegal, more particularly, when the power is traceable B to the specific terms of the contract, i.e., Clause 17.4. 4.3 Now, so far as the Counter Claim No.3 is concerned, it is submitted that as such the Division Bench of the High Court has set aside the award of interest on the amount advanced against hypothecation of equipments, on the ground that there is no such provision of award of C interest in the contract / supplementary Agreements. It is submitted that however, the Division Bench of the High Court has not properly appreciated the fact that there is no bar to award interest on the amount advanced. It is submitted that the Arbitrator has power to award interest pendente lite unless specifically barred from awarding it. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Raveechee and Company Vs. D Union of India reported in (2018) 7 SCC 664. Making above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and restore the award passed by the Arbitral Tribunal. 5. Learned senior counsel, Mr. Minocha appearing on behalf of E the respondent – NBCC while supporting the impugned and passed by the High Court has vehemently submitted that in the present case admittedly the IRCON invoked Clause 60.1 and rescinded the contract.