While he may be a person who can be treated as “interested” in a waqf F within the meaning of Section 2(k) both by reason of the fact that he is a recipient of pecuniary or other benefit and also he may be a descendant of the wakif, it is a far cry from describing him as a Trustee. The beneficiary may have benefits coming his way in terms of the waqf deed. He may be clothed with rights in this regard. [Para 62-64][986-D-F; 987-A-B] G 1.20. The term ‘fiduciary’, as such, has not been defined, so is the case with the ‘fiduciary relationship’. In fact, Section 88 of the Trusts Act, 1882, inter alia, provides that a person standing in a fiduciary character and bound to protect the interest of H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 939 OTHERS another, cannot by using such character, obtain an advantage and A resist making over the benefit to the person, whose interest he was bound to protect. A fiduciary can, therefore, be taken to be a person who becomes charged with the duty to protect the interest of another. Fiduciary relationship is founded upon the reposing of confidence by one in another. The beneficiary of a waqf is B endowed with rights in terms of the waqf deed. No duty is culled out, as such, to protect the interest of another. No doubt, it could be said that as the property in a waqf, vests in the Almighty, there must be a concern and, undoubtedly, a moral duty to act in a manner that the object of the wakf is fostered. But a beneficiary is not like a trustee, who assumes possession in his character as C a trustee, coming under the restraint of discarding his character as trustee and donning the robes of an encroacher or a person asserting hostile title. It is not, as if, the beneficiary was in possession of the property in any capacity prior to the sale. [Paras 65 - 67][987-C-D; 988-H; 989-A-B; 989-C] D 1.21. In the second sale, the former Mutawalli, viz., QA, entered into the sale deed on the strength of a compromise and the of the Deputy Director, Consolidation, under which, he purported to act as one possessed of one-third right in his own right. No doubt it would have mattered little to the applicability E of Article 96 that the transferor purported to transfer waqf property professing it to be his property. But this is a case where the voidness arises on account of the fact that what is found to be waqf property has been purported to be alienated contrary to the peremptory statutory mandate. [Para 68][989-D-F] F 1.22. The argument that Section 107 of the Act would assist the appellant in tiding over the bar of limitation does not appeal. Section 107 of the Act, no doubt, proclaims that nothing in the Limitation Act,1963 shall apply to any suit for possession of the immovable property comprised in any waqf or for possession of any interest in such property.