Since the same is possible theoretically, in my view, such an extensive power cannot be exercised by issuance of a simple gazette notification in exercise of an executive power of the Central Government as if it is one under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. The same can only be through G a plenary legislation, by way of an enactment following a meaningful debate in Parliament, on the proposal of the Central Government.This would also answer the other contention of the learned senior counsel for the petitioners that sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act cannot be H interpreted to mean “all series” of bank notes of “all VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 205 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] denominations” when the words used in the provision are A “any series” of “any denomination”. Deciphering the plain meaning of sub-section (2) of Section 26: 15.25 The reason why power is vested only with the Central Board B of the Bank under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act to recommend to the Central Government to declare specified series of specific denomination of bank notes as having ceased to be legal tender, becomes clear when the plain meaning of the words of the said provision is recognised. When interpreted as such, no power to demonetise currency C notes at the behest of the Central Government is envisaged under the said provision. This is because the power of the Central Government to do so is vast and has a wider spectrum. Such a power is not traceable to sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act which operates in a narrower D compass. Hence, to save sub-section (2) of Section 26 from the vice of unconstitutionality, it must be given an interpretation appropriate to the object for which the provision is intended. In this context, the following principles become relevant. E 15.26 When the words of a statute are clear, plain or unambiguous, i.e., they are reasonably susceptible to only one meaning, the court is bound to give effect to that meaning and admit only one meaning and no question of construction of a statute arises, for, the provision/Act would speak for itself. The judicial dicta relevant to the above principle of interpretation F are as follows: (i) In Kanailal Sur vs.Paramnidhi Sadhu Khan AIR 1957 SC 907 at Page 910 this Court observed that if the words used are capable of only one “construction” then it would not be open to the courts G to adopt any other hypothetical construction on the ground that such hypothetical construction is more consistent with the purported object and policy of the Act. Reference was made to Section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 and interpretation of the expression “any person” by Lord Atkin, H 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A speaking for the Privy Council who observed that the expression “any person” includes any person who may thereafter be an accused, and he observed that “when the meaning of the words is plain, it is not the duty of Courts to busy themselves with supposed intentions” vide Pakala B Narayanaswami vs. Emperor AIR 1939 PC 47.