The Government had also stipulated that if any of the conditions imposed by them was not fulfilled, the permission granted to start the College would be withdrawn. In July, 1989, the University sent a communication to the Respondent institution informing H 954 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A them that the Syndicate had accepted the report of the High Power Committee appointed by the Government and it resolved to reject the request of the institution for provisional affiliation for 1989-90 for the first year and also the request for provisional affiliation for second and third year courses for 1989-90. By way of the said communication, the B Respondent was also informed that they should make alternative arrangement to distribute the students already admitted to the academic year 1987-88 and 1988-89 among other institutions with adequate facilities. A challenge to the communication and the resolution passed by the C Syndicate of the University accepting the report of the High Power Committee appointed by the Government, was carried before the High Court, and ultimately became the subject of challenge before this Court. The larger question before this Court in the said case was as regards the conflict between the All-India Council for Technical Education Act, D 1987 and the Tamil Nadu Private College [Regulation] Act, 1976, in so far as the State Act provided significantly different and more stringent yardsticks to be complied with by technical universities seeking recognition, as compared to the Central enactment. E In that background, this Court undertook analysis of the scope of Entry 66 of List I and Entry 25 of List III and culled out the following principles: “[i] The expression “coordination” used in Entry 66 of the Union List of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution F does not merely mean evaluation. It means harmonisation with a view to forge a uniform pattern for a concerted action according to a certain design, scheme or plan of development. It, therefore, includes action not only for removal of disparities in standards but also for preventing G the occurrence of such disparities. It would, therefore, also include power to do all things which are necessary to prevent what would make “coordination” either impossible or difficult. This power is absolute and unconditional and in the absence of any valid compelling reasons, it must be given its full effect according to its H plain and express intention. BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 955 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] [ii] To the extent that the State legislation is in conflict A with the Central legislation though the former is purported to have been made under Entry 25 of the Concurrent List but in effect encroaches upon legislation including subordinate legislation made by the centre under Entry 25 of the Concurrent List or to give effect to Entry 66 B of the Union List, it would be void and inoperative. [iii] If there is a conflict between the two legislations, unless the State legislation is saved by the provisions of the main part of Clause [2] of Article 254, the State legislation being repugnant to the Central legislation, the C same would be inoperative.