391 [SANJAY KAROL J.] respect to the particular type of off ence. These factors have to be taken into account by the Court in deciding upon the appropriate sentence. 17. It will thus be seen that there is a great discretion vested in the Judge, especially when pluralistic factors enter his calculations. … innovation, in all conscience, is in the fi eld of judicial discretion.” 14. Similarly, in Narinder Singh & Ors. V. State of Punjab & Anr.3 (2-Judge Bench), while considering the settlement between the parties concerning an off ence under Section 307 IPC, observed : i. The goal of sentencing can be a combination of incapacitation, specific deterrence, general deterrence, rehabilitation, or restoration. ii. In India we do not have any such sentencing policy till date. The prevalence of such guidelines may not only aim at achieving consistency in awarding sentences in diff erent cases, such guidelines normally prescribe the sentencing policy as well, namely, whether the purpose of awarding punishment in a particular case is more of a deterrence or retribution or rehabilitation, etc. In the absence of such guidelines in India, the Courts go by their own perception about the philosophy behind the prescription of certain specifi ed penal consequences for particular nature of crime. iii. For some deterrence and/or vengeance becomes more important whereas another Judge may be more infl uenced by rehabilitation or restoration as the goal of sentencing. Sometimes, it would be a combination of both which would weigh in the mind of the Court in awarding a particular sentence. However, that may be a question of quantum. 15. In State of Uttar Pradesh v. Sanjay Kumar4 (2-Judge Bench), this Court held that Courts for the purpose of deciding just and appropriate sentence, have to delicately balance the aggravating and mitigating factors (2014) 6 SCC 466 (2012) 8 SCC 537 392 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. and circumstances in which a crime has been committed. To balance the two, is the primary duty of Courts. 16. This Court has also noted the requirement for deterrence through punishments in certain categories of cases. In Purushottam Dashrath Borate & Anr. v. State of Maharashtra5 (3-Judge Bench), it was observed that it would be necessary for this Court to notice the rising violent crimes against women and the sentencing policy adopted by the Courts, in such cases, ought to have a stricter yardstick so as to act as a deterrent. 17. More recently, in Jasbir Singh v. Tara Singh & Ors.6 (2-Judge Bench), this Court observed that it is not possible to have strict principles on sentencing in absence of a sentencing policy for the State, however certain mitigating factors like the gravity of the off ence, motive for commission of the crime, the manner in which it was committed need to be borne in mind and thereafter sentence be imposed. 18. In Vetrivel v. State represented by its Deputy Superintendent of Police & Anr.7, a Bench of 2 Judges, of which one of us (Oka J.)