(a) on the basis of the census fi gures as ascertained at the census held in the year 1971 and subject to the provisions of section 4, the number of seats in the House of the People to be allocated to each State and determine on the basis of the census fi gures as ascertained at the census held in the year 2001 the number of seats, if any, to be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and for the Scheduled Tribes of the State; and (b) on the basis of the census fi gures as ascertained at the census held in the year 1971 and subject to the provisions of section 4, the total number of seats to be assigned to the Legislative Assembly of each State and determine on the basis of the census fi gures as ascertained at the census held in the year 2001 the number of seats, if any, to be reserved for the Scheduled Castes and for the Scheduled Tribes of the State: …” 17. In terms of Section 8, the Delimitation Commission is empowered to determine the seats to be allocated to each State in the House of the People and in the Legislative Assemblies of every State on the basis of the census fi gures of 1971. The Delimitation Commission is also empowered to determine the number of seats reserved for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes on the basis of the census of 2001. Section 9 of the Delimitation Act provides for distribution of these seats allocated to each state in the House of the People. Section 10 of the Act pertains to the publication of s by the Delimitation Commission in accordance with the exercise of its powers under Sections 8 and 9. Section 10(4) specifi cally states that the s so published under Section 10 shall apply to every election to the House of the People and to the Assembly if such election is held after the publication of such s. The s apply in supersession of all other provisions pertaining to representation and delimitation contained in any other law, or notifi cation. Section 10(4) provides as follows: “(4) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (5), the readjustment of representation of the several territorial constituencies in the House of the People or in the Legislative Assembly of a State and the delimitation of those constituencies provided for in any such shall apply PUBLIC INTEREST COMMITTEE FOR SCHEDULING SPECIFIC 1087 AREAS v. UOI [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] in relation to every election to the House or to the Assembly, as the case may be, held after the publication in the Gazette of India of that and shall so apply in supersession of the provisions relating to such representation and delimitation contained in any other law for the time being in force or any or notifi cation issued under such law in so far as such representation and delimitation are inconsistent with the provisions of this Act :…” (emphasis added) 18.