11 read with sub-section (1) of section 12 of the Act, the period for which the detention should continue is left to be specifi ed by the Government with the stipulation in section 13 thereof that the maximum period shall be 12 (twelve) months from the date of detention. This appears on a plain reading of the relevant statutory provisions. That apart, Mr. Luthra is right in placing reliance on the concurring authored by Hon’ble B.K. Mukherjea, J. in Dattatraya Moreshwar Pangarkar vs. State of Bombay24 that the duration for which a detenu is to be kept in detention is for the detaining authority to decide and not the Advisory Board. The said opinion fi nds approval in the decision of the Constitution Bench of this Court in A.K. Roy vs. Union of India25. The period of detention and the terminal point has, therefore, to be decided by the Government. Having observed the uncanny consistency of authorities continuing detention s under the preventive detention laws for the maximum permissible span of 12 (twelve) months from the date of detention as a routine procedure, without the barest of application of mind, we think that it is time to say a few words with a view to dissuade continuation of detention s till the maximum permissible duration unless some indication is provided therefor by the concerned Government in the confi rmation . 59. Article 22(4) of the Constitution provides that a preventive detention law cannot authorise the detention of a person for a period longer than 3 (three) months unless an Advisory Board has reported before the expiration of the said period of 3(three) months that there is, in its opinion, suffi cient cause for such detention. It is followed by a non-obstante clause which reads thus: “Provided that nothing in this sub-clause shall authorise the detention of any person beyond the maximum period prescribed by any law made by Parliament under sub-clause (b) of clause (7)” 60. What section 13 of the Act, with which we are concerned, provides has been noticed in one of the preceding paragraphs. However, the regular practice of the authorities treating the maximum period of detention of 12 (twelve) months as the standard duration, in our view, could be suggestive 24 AIR 1952 SC 181 25 (1982) 1 SCC 271 998 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. of a mechanical approach. Inherent in the conferment of power to extend detention for 12 (twelve) months is the discretion to make an to be operative for any period lesser than the maximum period. 61. Fagu Shaw vs. The State of West Bengal26 is another Constitution Bench decision of this Court where challenge was laid to section 13 of the MISA. It was argued that section 13 is bad because it is violative of the Fundamental Right under Article 14 of the Constitution for the reason that it has conferred unlimited discretion on the detaining authority to fi x the period of detention. Repelling the challenge, this Court held: “28.