The Inspecting Judge noticed the glaring defi ciencies both deliberate and malicious, step by step. The Inspecting Judge not only noticed the deliberate mischief on the part of the Investigating Agency but also the Public Prosecutor and the Presiding Judge of the Trial Court in not discharging their pious duty of doing justice. The Inspecting Judge recorded that the trial that had been conducted by the Presiding Offi cer leads to only two possible conclusions, either the is based on extraneous considerations or the Offi cer completely lacks judicial acumen. He then goes on to record that he examined seven random Sessions Trial s of the Offi cer and was of the view that it cannot be said that he does not know the law which meant the conduct of the Trial Judge was for extraneous consideration. The Inspecting Judge, vide his report dated 04.05.2009, recommended appropriate action against the Offi cer. The said report dated 04.05.2009 deserves to be reproduced and it is so done: “Hon’ble the Chief Justice, Re: and dated 24.10.2008 by Sri Man Mohan Chaudhary, Additional Sessions Judge, F.T.C. III, Patna in Sessions Trial No.469-470 of 2007 arising out of Panapur P.S. Case No.62 of 1995 - GR No.819 of 1995 under Sections 147, 148, 149, 302, 307 of the Penal Code and Section 27 of the Arms Act. In a Sessions Trial, normally it is the accused, who are on trial. Occasionally, apart from the accused, the judiciary, as an institution, is also on trial and its credibility is put to test. The present is defi nitely one such case. On a grievance petition by a seizure list witness, as the Inspecting Judge, Patna Judgeship, the entire Sessions Trial records were called for. I have gone through and studied the records. The informant Rajendra Rai, was deceased soon after the incident. Another injured Daroga Rai was also deceased subsequently. Three other persons were injured. The F.l.R. is in the nature of a dying declaration. One person was specifi cally named as accused, having 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. fi red at the deceased. Three persons were named as F.l.R. witnesses, and another two persons signed the FIR as witness to the contents. A seizure list was prepared with regard to empty pellets seized from the spot signed by the independent witnesses. The named accused, a powerful political personality, sought to interfere with the trial at Chapra. To ensure a fair trial, the case was transferred to Hazaribagh. On re-organization of the State of Bihar, the trial was transferred to Bhagalpur. At Bhagalpur witnesses were intimidated in the courtroom, and unruly created. Witnesses were kidnapped to prevent from deposing. The Presiding Offi cer remained a mute witness and did not submit any report to this Court. The Inspecting Judge on basis of a newspaper report made a surprise visit and submitted a report. Cr.WJC No.717 of 2006 (2007(2) PLJR 244) was fi led by Harendra Rai, aprosecution witness and brother of the deceased for the abduction of their mother to prevent from deposing.