A conjoint reading of Section 493 which provides for transitory D provisions read with Clause 5 of Appendix IV clearly indicates that the service rendered by the officers and servants before in the employment of the Municipality or the local authority immediately before the appended date shall be the officers and servants employed by the Corporation under the said Act and the E services rendered by such officers and servants before the appointed date shall be deemed to be service rendered in the service of the Corporation. The second proviso to Clause 5 of Appendix IV empowers the Corporation to discontinue, the service of any officer or servant who in its opinion is not necessary or suitable to the requirements of the municipal service, after giving such officer F or servant, such notice as is required to be given by the terms of his employment. Such discontinued employee shall be entitled to such leave, pension or gratuity as he would have been entitled to take or receive on being invalided out of service if this Act had not been passed. G 53. It is not the case of the respondent no.1 or respondent no.3 that service of any of these petitioners were discontinued by the respondent no.1 under second proviso to Clause 5 of Appendix IV on the ground of not being suitable to the requirements of the municipal service or on the ground that their services were not necessary for the respondent no.1 – Corporation. H MAHARASHTRA RAJYA PADVIDHAR PRATHAMIK SHIKSHAK VA 989 KENDRA PRAMUKH SABHA v. PUNE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] 54. In our view, the said provision under Section 493 of the A Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act read with Clause S(c) of the Appendix IV would also apply in case of en bloc transfer of the property forming part of such village which were transferred to the Municipal Corporation along with the schools, employees and the students. In our view, the seniority of each of these B petitioners thus will have to be counted from their initial date of appointment in the schools run by Zilla Parishad and not from the date of their transfer in the schools run by the respondent no.1 Corporation. The impugned showing the petitioners below the then existing employees of the respondent no. 1 by considering the date of their transfer in the schools run by the respondent no.1 C as the date of appointment is totally illegal and contrary to Section 493 read with Clause S(c) of Appendix IV thereto.” 10. The Appellant Association, representing those primary teachers who have been recruited directly by the PMC and whose seniority is adversely affected by the inclusion of the period spent by Respondent D Nos. 5 to 79 in ZP towards their seniority after absorption into the PMC, has now filed this appeal. SUBMISSIONS: 11. Mr. Vinay Navare, learned Senior Counsel for the Appellant E advanced three submissions: (i) Firstly, he argued that Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 were given a choice to either seek transfer into the PMC or to continue with their services in the schools run by the ZP.