8. Before us, the respondent has nothing adverse to state against any functionary of the State of Punjab, much less the aggrieved offi cer. There is no opposition to the present appeal. 648 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 9. Having perused the records as produced in Court, we are of the considered view that this matter needs to put a quietus to. The record, we are satisfi ed, does not support the prime facie view taken by the court below, in regard to ante-dating or interpolation of the despatch register. The register records multiple entries in diff erent hand, script, and language. 10. There is no basis for the High Court to arrive at such a conclusion. It is again a matter of record that for several reasons, various offi cials at the clerical level employed in the department are making entries in the despatch register, therefore, variation in ink and handwriting is bound to occur. A glance at the entries made in the register for the current as well as previous years would show that any communication, subject matter of which is in English, is usually recorded in English and whenever such a communication is in Punjabi language, the entries are accordingly recorded in Punjabi. Moreover, the entries have been made et seriatim and no anomaly, whatsoever, could be found with the same. There is neither any cutting, overwriting nor any interpolation, of any sort. A glance at the relevant page of the despatch register would further make it clear that the entry at the said page starts from Sl No.2026 and ends at Sl No. 2043 and the despatch of the communication in question to the respondent falls at Sl No. 2032 which is in the middle of the page. Therefore, the question of any interpolation/tampering does not arise, even remotely so. 11. In view thereof, the doubt as to the genuineness of the register does not stand on fi rm ground and must be disregarded. It is also to be noted that the record in no way refl ects the concerned offi cer to have any prior disposition or animus against the respondent. 12. There is no gainsaying in stating that offi cer was not to be benefi tted in any manner in ante-dating the communication dated 21.10.2010, as the said date was still beyond the period of 10 days initially granted by the High Court to unseal the premises of the respondent herein, vide dated 27.09.2010 of which fact, the High Court failed to take notice. 13. In our considered view, the conclusions arrived at, as re-produced (supra), are based on mere surmises and/or bald assertions, without any material attesting to the conclusions or regard for consequences. The directions were totally misplaced, more so, when the endeavour of the offi cer was to bring the off enders to book and save evasion of duty, mandatorily required to be paid by the assessee. STATE OF PUNJAB AND ANR. v. 649 M/S. SHIKHA TRADING CO. [SANJAY KAROL, J.]