D (1) The minimum extent of plots and frontage shall be as prescribed for various uses and types of developments given in the DR Nos. 25,26,27 and 28. (2) (a) The minimum width of the public streets/road on which the site abuts or gains access shall be 7.2m. for residential layout E developments and 9m. for industrial layout developments. For subdivisions the minimum width of the passage /public streets/ road on which the site abuts or gains access shall be as required for different uses and types of developments. (b) The minimum width stated above shall be the existing width of F the road and not the street alignment prescribed. For residential development “29(3) The width of the streets/roads and passages in the layouts. /subdivisions / amalgamations shall conform to the minimum G requirements given below: (a) for Residential developments H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1127 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] A B C D E F G H 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 29(3)(b) for Industrial Development B C Note: Not withstanding anything contained above Authority reserves the right to revise layouts proposed by the applicant and D applied for sanction in to provide for better adequate linkages proper circulation pattern requirements considering local conditions etc.” 120. It becomes clear that in regard to streets and roads what is contemplated under the regulation is that under 29 (3)(a) (B) all streets E will become public. This is to be read along with Regulation 29(7)(a). It is apparently to ensure that the roads which are covered by 29(3)(a)(B) which are to be treated as public are so maintained that it is insisted under 29(7)(a) that a gift deed be executed. In other words, keeping in mind the preambular portion of Regulation 29 which proclaims F that the regulation seeks to provide access to plots by way of roads and private passages creating a hierarchy of roads based on road length, intensity of developments in the area and also provide adequate linkages to the existing roads and proposed roads in the Master Plan and a detailed development plan and to provide proper circulation pattern in the area G inter alia, we must arrive at the conclusion that visionary perspective of town planning would require an imaginative full play being given.Meticulous requirements of futuristic needs of an ever-growing Metropolis when a large area such as what would be found in a layout of more than 10000 square meters which is nearly one hectare of land in the metropolitan area must be factored in. Circulation of traffic between H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1129 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] parts of the area would require the roads being thrown open to the public A so that different parts of the metropolitan area can be easily accessed. In fact, even the writ petitioner by seeking to limit the challenge in the first place only to Regulation 29(7)(a) and not to Regulation 29(3)(a)(B) under which anyway the streets are declared as public acknowledges the need for and justification for the declaration of roads being public.