Borrowing THE WORDS OF Hon’ble Supreme Court in SEBI vs. Sahara India Real Estate Corpn. Ltd., (2014) 5 SCC 429 “non-compliance with the s passed … shakes the very foundation of our judicial system and B undermines the rule of law” which this tribunal is also duty-bound to “honour and protect”, so essential “to maintain faith and confidence of the people of this country in the judiciary”.” [emphasis supplied] C 174. It could thus be seen that even the Standing Committee of Parliament, in its report, has recommended that there should be consistency and uniformity with regard to s emanating from the status of ‘Change in Law’. It has also recommended that the provisions should also be made for certain percentage of payments of regulatory D dues to be paid by DISCOMS in case the s of regulators are being taken to learned APTEL/higher judiciary for their consideration and decision. The learned APTEL has also referred to the Policy Directive dated 27th August 2018 issued in terms of Section 107 of the Electricity Act, 2003 by the MoP to the CERC, where it emphasized the need to E ensure expeditious recovery of ‘Change in Law’ compensation. The learned APTEL has also referred to the Electricity (Timely Recovery of Costs due to Change in Law) Rules, 2021, notified by MoP on 22nd October 2021, which provide for timely recovery of compensation on account of occurrence of ‘Change in Law’ events. The learned APTEL found that the Haryana Utilities have been adopting dilatory tactics, which F not only defeat the public policy but also have the undesirable fallout of adding to the burden of the end-consumers they profess to serve on account of increasing ‘Carrying Cost’. The learned APTEL further found that withholding of past payments, including towards taxes and duties by the DISCOMS, is in violation of the provisions of the PPAs, which casts G a specific mandate on the procurer to honour the invoices raised, irrespective of dispute, and impose a specific bar against unilateral deductions/setting off. 175. It is further to be noted that this Court, in the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (UNHVNL) and another v. H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 241 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Adani Power Limited and others12, has specifically observed that the A ‘Change in Law’ events will have to accrue from the date on which Rules, s, Notifications are issued by the instrumentalities of the State. Even in spite of this finding, the DISCOMS are pursuing litigations after litigations. 176. We find that, when the PPA itself provides a mechanism for B payment of compensation on the ground of ‘Change in Law’, unwarranted litigation, which wastes the time of the Court as well as adds to the ultimate cost of electricity consumed by the end consumer, ought to be avoided. Ultimately, the huge cost of litigation on the part of DISCOMS as well as the Generators adds to the cost of electricity that is supplied C to the end consumers.