It could be reasonably noticed that in relation to the suit to which the Act of 1887 applies, an applicant seeking an to set aside the decree passed ex parte is required to deposit the amount due under the decree/ or has to furnish security for due performance of the decree or compliance with the . Even under IX Rule 13 CPC, while making an for setting aside the decree passed ex F parte, the Court may put the defendant to terms as to costs, payment into Court or otherwise. However, these requirementsneed to be visualized from a practical standpoint and cannot be applied as if to penalize the defendant for every mistake, even if the amount payable is not explicitly quantified in the decree in question. G 15.1. For the purpose of the case at hand, as regards the amount payable, a sum of Rs. 8,000/- towards arrears of rent had been quantified in the decree and another sum of Rs. 3,212/- towards costs could have been taken as quantified. Of course, the plaintiff was further held entitled to receive Rs. 2,000/- per month towards rent/mesne profitsduring the H 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A suit and until getting the actual vacant possession of the suit shop after payment of requisite court fees but, the Trial Court did not specifically quantify the amount payable by the defendant even until the date of decree. In the given circumstances, when the defendant, predecessor of the appellants, immediately moved the Court after noticing the decree in question and deposited the amount directly quantified thereunder i.e., B the sum of Rs. 8,000/- towards arrears of rent and Rs. 3,212/- towards costs, totalling to Rs. 11,212/-, while seeking the for setting aside ex parte decree, it had not been a case where the defendant had ignored the requirements of deposit altogether. Moreover, the decree in question had not been merely a money decree but had been for C eviction too. Looking to the subject-matter of the suit and the overall circumstances, a practical view was required to be taken and if all any further deposit or furnishing of security was considered necessary, appropriate s could have been passedin that regard. Putting it differently, in terms of Section 17 of the Act of 1887 read with IX Rule 13 CPC, the Court could have extended the time for making D deposit if so required, or could have put the defendant to the terms of security for performance of the decree. 15.2. However, for what has been noticed and extracted hereinabove, it is apparent that Trial Court and the High Court have viewed the requirements of Section 17 of the Act of 1887 from such an E exacting and rather impractical standpoint that the bonafide attempt of the defendant to seek a merit decision of the suit after due contest has been totally ignored. In our view, in the present set of facts and circumstances, prayer of the defendant to set aside ex parte decree could not have been denied for want of further deposit in terms of the F decree in question.