A (i) Acts done under the Trading with the Enemy Act, 1947; (j) Acts done or omitted to be done under a Proclamation of Emergency when the security of the State is threatened. (iv) Acts done in relation to the Defence Forces: B (a)Combatant activities of the Armed Forces during the time of war; (b)Acts done in the exercise of the powers vested in the Union for the purpose of training or maintaining the efficiency of the Defence Forces; C The statutes relating to these already provide for payment of compensation and the machinery for determining the compensation: See Manoeuvres, Field Firing and Artillery Practice Act, 1948; Seaward Artillery Practice Act, 1949; D (c) The liability of the State for personal injury or death caused by a member of the Armed Forces to another member while on duty shall be restricted in the same manner as in England (Sec. 10 of the Crown Proceedings Act) (v) Miscellaneous: E (a) any claim arising out of defamation, malicious prosecution and malicious arrest, (b) any claim arising out of the operation of quarantine law, (c) existing immunity under the Indian Telegraph Act, 1885 and Indian Post Offices Act, 1898, F (d) foreign torts. (The English provision may be adopted. )” 145. It appears that based on the First Report of the Law Commission, a Bill known as the Government (Liability in Torts) Bill was introduced in 1967, but the same did not become the law. As a G consequence, a huge burden was cast on the Courts to develop the law through judicial precedents, some of which we shall see now. 146. The judicial journey actually started off on a right note with the decision in The State of Bihar vs. Abdul Majid112, where a H 112 AIR 1954 SC 245 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 711 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Government servant who was dismissed but later reinstated, filed a suit A for recovery of arrears of salary. Though the State raised a defence on the basis of the doctrine of pleasure, this Court rejected the same on the ground that said doctrine based on the Latin phrase “durante bene placito” (during pleasure) has no application in India. This decision was followed in State of Rajasthan vs. Mst. Vidhyawati113, which involved B a claim for compensation by the widow of a person who was fatally knocked down by a jeep owned and maintained by the State. When sovereign immunity was pleaded, this Court observed in Vidhyawati (supra): “when the rule of immunity in favour of the Crown, based on common law in the United Kingdom has disappeared from the land of its birth, there is no legal warrant for holding that it has any C validity in this country, particularly after the Constitution.” 147. On the question of the liability of the State, for the tortious acts of its servants, this Court opined in Vidhyawati, as follows: “(10) This case also meets the second branch of the argument D that the State cannot be liable for the tortious acts of its servants, when such servants are engaged on an activity connected with the affairs of the State.