IV 16. Before proceeding with the merits of the parties’ contentions, G it would be worthwhile to notice that on 25.03.2004, the Tax Research Unit of the Department of Revenue, Union Ministry of Finance had 10 [(2000) 4 SCC 57] 11 (2006) Supp 6 SCR 417 12 [(1997) 3 SCC 398] 13 (2004) Supp 6 SCR 264 H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A issued a letter, justifying the withdrawal of tax exemption. The relevant extract of that letter is as follows: “This amendment was done taking into account representations from domestic manufacturers of printing machines seeking reconsideration of the said concession. B The intention was to restrict the concessional customs duty of 5% with Nil CVD and Nil SAD only to those high - speed cold - offset printing machines which have no indigenous angle.” The reply, or return filed by the Union before the High Court (in the form of a supplementary affidavit) inter alia, averred as follows: C “I further say and submit that the power to grant exemption was utilized in the instant case for the purpose of regulation, control and promotion in the public interest. It is obvious that no representation was held out to the public that the first notification would be continued indefinitely. The tax research unit of the respondent authorities considered the relevant facts D and market conditions and upon being satisfied that the first notification required amendment issued the second notification amending the description of the goods in respect of which the exemption was to be prospectively allowed as a matter of fiscal policy. It is submitted that the tax research E unit duly assessed the priorities in the matter of grant of exemption and accordingly the second notification was issued. Serial No. 267A of notification No.21/2002-Customs was amended vide Notification No.164/2002-Customs was amended vide notification no.164/2003- Customs dated 11th November, 2003 so as to restrict the benefit of customs duty F concession available for· specified printing machinery only to ‘high speed cold set web offset rotary double width four plate printing machines with a minimum speed of 70,000 copies per hour’. This amendment was done as a matter of fiscal policy taking into account several representations from G domestic manufacturers of printing machines seeking reconsideration of the earlier concession. The intention as a matter of policy was to restrict the concessional customs duty of 5% with nil CVD and Nil SAD only to those high-speed cold offset printing machines which have no indigenous angle. The earlier notification, significantly, did not hold out any, H far less any unequivocal promise that it would be continued UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. A. B. P. PVT. LTD. & ANR. 1123 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] indefinitely. Hence, the earlier notification was amended after A due consideration of the fiscal circumstances warranting the change in description in respect of which the benefit was to be provided. The alteration was made in the public interest after assessing the circumstances relating to the particulars of the machinery covered by the earlier and the later B notification.” 17.