It was observed that a departmental enquiry could be said to be contemplated when on objective consideration of the material, the appointing authority considered the case as one which would lead to a departmental enquiry irrespective of whether any preliminary enquiry summary or detailed, had or had not been made or if made is not completed, and that there could be suspension pending enquiry even before a fi nal decision was taken to initiate the disciplinary proceedings i.e. even before the framing of the charge and the communication thereof to the Government servant.” 39. In State Of U.P v. Jai Singh Dixit and Others(1976) ILLJ 246 All the Allahabad High Court made the following observations regarding the contemplation of inquiry while considering the suspension of the respondent under Rule 49-A of the Uttar Pradesh Civil Services (Classifi cation, Control and Appeal) Rules: “35. The inquiry contemplated by Rule 49-A cannot have reference to an informal preliminary inquiry or a fact-fi nding inquiry preceding the actual disciplinary proceeding, otherwise it shall be permissible to, suspend a Government servant pending such informal inquiry, but not after charges have been framed and regular departmental proceeding is pending. This shall lead to an anomalous situation. We are, therefore, of opinion that the “inquiry” contemplated by Rules 49-A and 1-A has reference to the formal departmental inquiry, and not to any informal preliminary or fact-fi nding inquiry preceding the initiation of the formal disciplinary proceeding. STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS v. DINESH SINGH 1065 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 39. The meaning of the word “contemplate” has been given in Shorter Oxford English Dictionary, Volume I, as: “1. To look at the continued attention, gaze upon, observe. Behold. 2. To view mentally; to med tate upon, ponder, study. 3. To consider in a certain aspect, regard. 4. To have in view; to expect, take into account as a contingency; to purpose” and in the New in ernational Dictionary, Volume I, as: “1. To view with sustained attention: give at though fully for a noticeable time: observe with ostensibly steady refl ection. 2. to view mentally with continued thoughtfulness, attention, or refl ection: muse or ponder about. 3. to view mentally in a stated or implied way with thoughtfulness and refl ection: A. to think about or regard from a certain view point or in a certain light or respect, b: to have in view as a purpose: anticipate doing or performing: plan on: INTEND, PLAN e. to dream of as a Cherished Aim: ENVISION—d: to presume or imply as a concomitant or result: POSTULATE, PRESIOND—d: to presume or imply as a concomitant or result: POSTULATE, PRESUPPOSE 4: to view or regard (as an object or an objective fact) with deachment.” 40. The proper meaning which can be assigned to the word “contemplate” used in Rule 49-A or in Rule 1-A, therefore, is to have in view’, ‘to expect’, ‘take into account as a contingency’. Therefore, whenever it is in the mind of the appointing authority that in due course a formal departmental inquiry shall be held or there exists a contingency for such an inquiry, one can say that a formal departmental inquiry is contemplated.