for the Respondents. D The of the Court was delivered by DR. DHANAJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI 1. The applicant Tata Sons Pvt Ltd is a company incorporated under the Indian Companies Act 1913. The first respondent, Siva Industries and Holdings Ltd is a company incorporated under the E Companies Act 1956 with a registered office at Chennai. The second respondent, C Sivasankaran, who is the promoter of the first respondent is a resident of Seychelles. 2. The applicant, the first respondent and Tata Tele Services Ltd1 executed a share subscription agreement on 24 February 2006 for the F issuance and allotment of shares of TTSL to Siva Industries in accordance with its terms and conditions. 3. Subsequently, a share subscription agreement dated 12 November 2008 was entered into between NTT Docomo Inc,2 a company incorporated in Japan, the applicant and TTSL. In terms of the agreement, G Docomo sought to acquire 26% of the equity share holding of TTSL through a combination of primary shares (fresh shares issued and allotted by TTSL) and secondary shares (shares held by certain existing shareholders of TTSL). 1 “TTSL” 2 “Docomo” H TATA SONS PVT LTD (FORMERLY TATA SONS LTD) v. SIVA INDUSTRIES 1273 AND HOLDINGS LTD [DR. DHANAJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 4. The first respondent was an existing shareholder of TTSL and A was invited to participate in the sale of secondary shares to Docomo. Accordingly, Docomo and the first respondent executed a secondary share purchase agreement dated 3 March 2009 in terms of which Docomo acquired 20.740 million equity shares of TTSL from the first respondent. The applicant, TTSL and Docomo executed a Shareholders’ Agreement B dated 25 March 2009 to record the terms and conditions of the understanding between the parties regarding the rights, obligations and duties with respect to Docomo’s ownership of shares of TTSL. Thereafter, the applicant, TTSL and the respondents executed an Inter se agreement. The agreement, inter alia, obliged the respondents to purchase the TTSL shares on a pro-rata basis in the event Docomo C exercised its sale option under the Shareholder’s Agreement. 5. Docomo addressed a sale notice on 7 July 2014 to the applicant while invoking its sale option under clause 5.7 of the Shareholder’s Agreement dated 25 March 2009. 6. Disputes having arisen between the applicant and Docomo, the D latter invoked arbitration against the applicant under the Rules of the London Council for International Arbitration. A three-member Tribunal made its award dated 22 June 2016, consequent upon which the applicant was called upon to make payment to Docomo and to acquire the shares of TTSL which were put by Docomo. E 7. Thereupon, the applicant called upon the first respondent under the Inter se agreement to proportionately pay for and acquire back its shareholdings in TTSL from Docomo. Under the terms of the Inter se agreement, the second respondent, as promoter of the first respondent company, had agreed to be liable to the applicant in the event that the first respondent failed to fulfill its obligation.