It is clear from the decisions of this Court and a plain reading D of Sections 33, 35 and 2(14) of the Act that an instrument which is not duly stamped can be impounded and when the required fee and penalty has been paid for such instrument it can be taken in evidence under Section 35 of the Stamp Act. Sections 33 or 35 are not concerned with any copy of the instrument and party can only be allowed to rely on the document which is an instrument E within the meaning of Section 2(14). There is no scope for the inclusion of the copy of the document for the purposes of the Stamp Act. Law is now no doubt well settled that copy of the instrument cannot be validated by impounding and this cannot be admitted as secondary evidence under the Stamp Act, 1899.” F (Emphasis added) 45. Law on the subject is well settled that duly certified copy/ photocopy of the alleged instrument cannot be validated by impounding and this cannot be admitted in evidence under the Act, 1899. It leads to the conclusion that the deficiency in an instrument, whether it is unduly G stamped or insufficiently stamped, can be rectified through a procedure as prescribed under the Act, 1899. It clearly indicates that the requirement under the Actcan indeed be fulfilled even after the time when the instrument was executed. The requirement under the Actis not rigid or strict, so as to make the instrument invalid at the first instance. H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 403 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 46. It also shows that the purpose of the Act, 1899 is not to declare A an instrument as completely invalid if it is unstamped or insufficiently stamped, but to collect the stamp duty on each instrument. The object of the Act, 1899 is to secure revenue for the state. 47. This Court, in the case of Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Messrs Dilip Construction Company,11 dealt with the object of the Act, 1899 B and held: “7. The Stamp Act is a fiscal measure enacted to secure revenue for the State on certain classes of instruments: It is not enacted to arm a litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of his opponent. The stringent provisions of the Act are conceived in C the interest of the revenue once that object is secured according to law, the party staking his claim on the instrument will not be defeated on the ground of the initial defect in the instrument. Viewed in that light the scheme is clear. Section 35 of the Stamp Act operates as a bar to an unstamped instrument being admitted D in evidence or being acted upon; Section 40 provides the procedure for instruments being impounded, sub-section (1) of Section 42 provides for certifying that an instrument is duly stamped, and sub-section (2) of Section 42 enacts the consequences resulting from such certification.” E 48.