In Jinia Keotin v Kumar Sitaram Manjhi3, a two judge Bench held that merely because the children born out of a void and illegal marriage have been specifi cally safeguarded under Section 16, they ought not to be treated on par with children born from a lawful marriage for the purpose of inheritance of the ancestral property of the parents4. This Court held that in view of the express mandate of the legislature in Section 16(3), a child born from a void marriage or a voidable marriage in respect of which a decree of nullity has been passed would have no right to inheritance in respect of ancestral or coparcenary property. The decision in Jinia Keotin was followed by two judge benches in Neelamma v Sarojamma5and later in Bharatha Matha v R Vijaya Renganathan6. After adverting to the two earlier decisions, this Court held that “a child born of void or voidable marriage is not entitled to claim inheritance in ancestral coparcenary property but is entitled only to claim a share in self-acquired properties.”7 3. The correctness of the decisions in Jinia Keotin, Neelamma, 2 Section 16(2) of HMA 3 (2003) 1 SCC 730 4 At page 732, para 2 5 (2006) 9 SCC 612 6 (2010) 11 SCC 483 7 At page 513, para 29 REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 327 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] and Bharatha Matha has been doubted by a two judge Bench in Revanasiddappa v Mallikarjun8. In its referring the correctness of the earlier decisions to a larger bench, the Court has premised its doubt on the following basis: (i) Section 16(3) does not qualify the expression ‘property’ either with ‘ancestral or self-acquired’ property. It sets out an express mandate that such children are only entitled to the property of their parents and not of any other relations; (ii) Once children born from a void marriage (or a voidable marriage which has been declared to be nullity) are declared to be legitimate by sub-sections (1) and (2) of Section 16, they cannot be discriminated against andwill be onpar with other legitimate children for the purpose of all the rights in the property of their parents, both self-acquired and ancestral9; (iii) Section 16 was amended by Act 68 of 1976. As a consequence of the amendment, the common law view that children of a marriage which is void or voidable ‘are illegitimate’ ‘ipso jure’ has to change completely10. The law has a socially benefi cial purpose of removing the stigma of illegitimacy faced by children of such marriages, since the children themselves are innocent; (iv) The benefi t of Section 16 (3) is available only when there is a marriage but the marriage is either void or voidable in view of the provisions of the legislation; (v) In the case of joint family property, children born from a void or voidable marriage will only be entitled to a share in their parents’ property but not in their own right: “38…Logically, on the partition of an ancestral property, the property falling in the share of the parents of such children is regarded as their self-acquired and absolute property.