14. Shri Ramachandran further submits that a perusal of the D various pleadings of AP(M)L would clearly reveal that AP(M)L’s bid was premised on domestic and imported coal in the proportion of 70:30. However, all these documents have been ignored by the learned APTEL. Shri Ramachandran submits that the documents placed on record would reveal that AP(M)L had represented that it will use imported coal for generation of power. He submits that the Executive Summary of the bid E submitted by AP(M)L would reveal that AP(M)L had represented therein that the strategic advantage of the Power Plant was its proximity to Mundra Port, where coal is being imported. Learned counsel submits that in view of the pleadings of AP(M)L, it was clear that it was its responsibility to procure 30% imported coal. He, therefore, submits that F granting of relief for shortfall of 30% imported coal is nothing else but a perversity. 15. Shri Ramachandran further submits that the methodology of computation of compensation on account of the Change in Law event has also been erroneously applied by the CERC and affirmed by the learned APTEL. He submits that the methodology that ought to have G been applied was the difference between landed cost of alternate coal on the one part and the prevalent landed cost of domestic coal or quoted energy charges, whichever was higher, on the other part. He submits that had there been no Change in Law and AP(M)L had received the entire quantum of domestic coal, it would have had to bear the prevalent H 476 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A price of landed domestic coal on its own, irrespective of whether such cost is below or above the quoted energy charges in the bid. He submits that if such landed cost of domestic coal is higher than the quoted energy charges, AP(M)L was not entitled to claim the difference between the landed cost of domestic coal and the quoted energy charges. B 16. Shri Ramachandran further submits that the learned APTEL is wrong in proceeding on the basis that there was no objection by the appellants before the CERC on the methodology for computation of Change in Law compensation laid down in its in Petition No. 79/ MP/2013-GMR Kamalanga Energy Ltd. & Anr. v. DHBVNL & Ors. (hereinafter referred to as “GMR Case”) C 17. Shri Ramachandran further submitted that the appellants have no objection for giving benefit on account of Change in Law for shortfall in 70% of coal to be procured indigenously. 18. Dr. A.M. Singhvi, on the contrary, submits that the bid submitted D by AP(M)L was on the basis of National Coal Distribution Policy, 2007 (for short, “NCDP 2007”). He submits that there was no bifurcation in the bid with regard to 70% domestic coal and 30% imported coal. Learned Senior Counsel submits that the cut-off date for Change in Law claim would be 17th November 2007, i.e. minus 7 days from the last date for E submission of the bid, i.e.