3.4 It is submitted that Section 530, when it provides for C “Preferential Payments”, restricts Government dues to a period of 12 months and wages or salary of an employee to a period not exceeding 4 months within 12 months next before the relevant date, subject to limit in sub-section (2) of Section 530(1)(b). 3.5 It is submitted that prior to enactment of the Companies Act, D 2013, there were several Committees that were set-up in to consider the proposals for reformation of the Companies Act, 1956. It is submitted that two of these Committees and their proposals are indicative of the issues that were sought to be addressed through a new, refurbished legislation. In the year 2000, the Report of the High-Level Committee E on Law relating to Insolvency and Winding Up of Companies was submitted under the chairmanship of Justice V. Balakrishna Eradi (popularly known as “Eradi Committee”). On consideration of various suggestions received by it, the Eradi Committee inter alia recommended that appropriate legislative action must be taken to ensure that the claims of all “employees of a company” and its secured creditors are ranked F pari passu. Thereafter, in 2005, the Report of Expert Committee on Company Law, 2005 was submitted under the chairmanship of Dr. Jamshed J. Irani. The Irani Committee, on consideration of proposals before it, recommended that the status of secured creditors should be pari passu with “employees” in respect of their claims after payment G of claims related to costs and expenses of administration of liquidation. 3.6 It is submitted that the focus of these two Committees was on bringing the claims of “employees of a company” pari passu with the secured creditors, when the existing provision as on that day only specified that “workmen’s dues” would rank pari passu with secured creditors. It is submitted that these two Reports were followed by the H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 97 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] introduction of the Companies Bill, 2009 which retained the same structure A as that of Section 529, 529-A and 530 of the Companies Act, 1956. It is submitted that it was clear that the recommendations qua ranking of dues of “employees of a company” were not accepted as the existing structure had been retained. It is submitted that however, this Companies Bill, 2009 lapsed and, therefore, the same was not given effect to. B 3.7 It is submitted that thereafter, again, the Companies Bill, 2011 was introduced, which was then referred to a Standing Committee. The Report of the Standing Committee of 15th Lok Sabha on Companies Bill, 2011 notes the legislative changes made to the Companies Act, 1956 and the Companies Bill, 2009. It is submitted that this indicates that C Section 326, which was being introduced in lieu of Section 529-A of Companies Act, 1956, will now include a proviso to Section 326(1) and amendment to Section 326(2) to ensure that wages/salaries payable to workmen for a period of 2 years is protected in the case of winding up.