390 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. c) that that due to pandemic and lock down, the certifi ed copy of the reconstituted Partnership Deed has not been issued till the submission of the tender form. d) that the Partnership Deed submitted contained the name of D. Guru Maheshwar Reddy and he was a partner right from the registration of the fi rm. Hence, it was contended that the fi ling of the earlier Partnership Deed and the Power of Attorney did not vitiate the condition of the tender process warranting disqualifi cation. In view of the explanation and additionally in view of the fact that the tendering authority has found no illegality in the same and further the High Court having not thought it fi t to examine this issue, we do not fi nd merit in these additional grounds. 33. Before we part, we would do well to remind ourselves of the words of caution administered by this Court in Jagdish Mandal vs. State of Orissa and Others, (2007) 14 SCC 517. Speaking for the Court, Justice R.V. Raveendran said: “22. … Attempts by unsuccessful tenderers with imaginary grievances, wounded pride and business rivalry, to make mountains out of molehills of some technical/procedural violation or some prejudice to self, and persuade courts to interfere by exercising power of judicial review, should be resisted. Such interferences, either interim or fi nal, may hold up public works for years, or delay relief and succour to thousands and millions and may increase the project cost manifold. Therefore, a court before interfering in tender or contractual matters in exercise of power of judicial review, should pose to itself the following questions: (i) Whether the process adopted or decision made by the authority is mala fi de or intended to favour someone; OR Whether the process adopted or decision made is so arbitrary and irrational that the court can say: “the decision is such that no responsible authority acting reasonably and in accordance with relevant law could have reached”; (ii) Whether public interest is aff ected. If the answers are in the negative, there should be no interference under Article226. ….” M/S OM GURUSAI CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. 391 M/S V.N. REDDY & ORS. [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] 34. Accordingly, the impugned is set aside and we direct that Writ Petition No. 1787 of 2021 on the fi le of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, Nagpur Bench, Nagpur shall stand dismissed. The Appeal is allowed. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan