H HARBHAJAN SINGH v. STATE OF HARYANA 549 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] The sine qua non for the applicability of Section 25 of the A Act is thus not made out. 9. The High Court has however drawn a presumption against the appellant under Section 35 of the Act. This provision is reproduced below: “35.Presumption of culpable mental state.—(1) In any B prosecution for an offence under this Act, which requires a culpable mental state of the accused, the court shall presume the existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an C offence in that prosecution. Explanation.—In this section ‘culpable mental state’ includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and belief in, or reason to believe, a fact. (2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be D proved only when the court believes it to exist beyond a reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probability.” 10. While dealing with the question of possession in terms of Section 54 of the Act and the presumption raised under E Section 35, this Court in Noor Aga v. State of Punjab (2008) 16 SCC 417 while upholding the constitutional validity of Section 35 observed that as this section imposed a heavy reverse burden on an accused, the condition for the applicability of this and other related sections would have to be spelt out on facts and it was only after the prosecution F had discharged the initial burden to prove the foundational facts that Section 35 would come into play. 11. Applying the facts of the present case to the case cited above, it is apparent that the initial burden to prove that the appellant had the knowledge that the vehicle he owned was G being used for transporting narcotics still lays on the prosecution, as would be clear from the word “knowingly”, and it was only after the evidence proved beyond reasonable doubt that he had the knowledge would the presumption under Section 35 arise. Section 35 also presupposes that the culpable mental state of an accused has to be proved as a H 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A fact beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of probabilities. We are of the opinion that in the absence of any evidence with regard to the mental state of the appellant no presumption under Section 35 can be drawn. The only evidences which the prosecution seeks to rely on is the Appellant’s conduct in B giving his residential address in Rajasthan although he was a resident of Fatehabad in Haryana and that the Appellant had taken the truck on superdari. Registration of the offending truck cannot by any stretch of imagination fasten him with the knowledge of its misuse by the driver and others.” C (emphasis supplied) 9.