24. A balance sheet acknowledging debt is also a document relevant for calculating the limitation. This has already been held in case of Asset reconstruction Company India Ltd. (supra). In all the above cases, what has been elaborately discussed is the ‘purposive interpretation of the statute’ to advance the cause of justice. 25. The argument advanced on behalf of the appellant regarding the improvement made by Respondent No. 2- State Bank of India from stage to stage also is of no assistance inasmuch as if the OTS proposals are found to have been made by the Corporate Debtor and the balance sheet refl ected the debt in the fi nancial year ending 31st March, 2015, then in fact, there would be no delay on the part of the Respondent No. 2- State Bank of India in initiating the proceeding as the same would be within the extended period of limitation provided under Section 18 of the Limitation Act. 26. Another argument raised by the counsel for the appellant was with respect to the genuineness of the OTS proposals giving several reasons to discard the same. All the said reasons will be tested in the proceedings before the Adjudicating Authority as and when raised by the Corporate Debtor or any other party having locus to raise such plea. Presently in this appeal the said issue cannot be taken up for two reasons: fi rstly, the Adjudicating Authority as well as NCLAT have accepted the explanation of Respondent No.2 for the delay caused in fi ling the Section 7 IBC petition to be satisfactory and have condoned the same. Secondly, in view of the fi rst and second OTS proposals by the Corporate Debtor being not questioned by the suspended Directors, there is no reason to disbelieve or to cast any doubt on the said documents at the instance of the appellant. 27. The case laws relied upon on behalf of the appellant are on three points as already noted above. The same are briefl y discussed hereunder: (a) First point on which case laws have been referred to is that a time barred application cannot be entertained under Section 7 IBC. The same would not be relevant or of any help to the appellant as it has already been held that the application of Respondent No.2 would be entitled to benefi t of Sections 5 and 18 of the Limitation Act and, therefore, was within time. AXIS BANK LIMITED v. NAREN SHETH & ANR. 599 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] (b) The second point on which case laws have been referred to was that no benefi t could be claimed under Section 14 of the Limitation Act. These case laws are also not of any relevance as it has been held above that no benefi t could be claimed by Respondent No.2 under the said provision. (c) The third point on which case law is relied upon is that for benefi t under Section 18 of the Limitation Act, the acknowledgment should be made within expiry of the limitation provided under law.