Commission. The petitioner would have the Court declare qualifications, A which include citizenship of India, and that a personshould have completed between 45 years and 61 years. The further qualifications are that the person should have impeccable integrity and high moral character. The individual must have never had affiliation either directly or indirectly to any political party. It is also prayed that the person appointed must have been a Member of the IAS or the IPS or a Judge of the High Court. In B terms of the two provisos in Article 324(5), the Election Commissioners must be irremovable except after following the procedure in the first proviso. An independent Secretariat must be established.The expenditure of the Election Commission should be brought on par with those of the Supreme Court, the CAG and the UPSC. The expenditure must be made non-votable expenditure charged on the Consolidated Fund of India. C C. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF SHRI PRASHANT BHUSHAN, LEARNED COUNSEL ON BEHALF OF PETITIONER IN WRIT PETITION (CIVIL) NO. 104 OF 2015. 9. An independent Election Commission is necessary for a D functioning democracy as it ensures Rule of Law and free and fair elections. The existing practice of appointment is incompatible with Article 324(2) and manifestly arbitrary. This is because Article 324(2) mandates that Parliament should make a just, fair and reasonable law. The provision for making a law was rested on the hope that in due course of time, the Government would exhibit initiative to make such a law and ensure E independence and integrity of the Members of the Election Commission. It is contended that there is a vacuum. No power under the constitution can be exercised contrary to Part III of the Constitution, be it the Executive or the Legislative power. The Government of India (Transaction of Business) Rules, 1961 are silent regarding the process of selection and on the eligibility criteria. The convention invoked by the Union of India F of appointments being made from Members of the Bureaucracy, is criticised as being not a healthy convention. It is for the reason that it is bereft of transparency, objectivity and neutrality. This system is inaccessible to public. The Executive alone being involved in the appointment, ensures that the Commission becomes and remains a partisan Body and a branch of the Executive. The independence of the G Commission is intimately interlinked with the process of appointment. The concepts of power of reciprocity and loyalty to the appointing Body, referred to in Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association and Another vs. Union of India1, is invoked. With reference to 1(2016) 5 SCC 1 H 30 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A developments said to have taken place recently, casting a shadow on the conduct of the Election Commission, the Report of Justice Madan B. Lokur is relied upon. Several instances of inaction or omission are pointed out. This is apart from various Commissions and Committees which have highlighted the need for a change. This Court has stepped- in on many occasions.