Clearly, if the arbitration agreement requires the parties to exhaust the dispute resolution process as a pre- condition for invoking arbitration, the right to refer the dispute to arbitration would arise only after the parties have exhausted the said procedure. The counterparty could raise H 632 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A a valid objection to any step taken to refer the disputes to arbitration in avoidance of the agreed pre-reference dispute resolution procedure. If the parties have agreed that they would first endeavour to resolve the disputes amicably in a particular manner, it is necessary for them to first exhaust that procedure before exercising any right to refer the disputes to arbitration. B 59. In Hari Shankar Singhania v. Gaur Hari Singhania [(2006) 4 SCC 658], the Supreme Court categorically held that a reference to arbitration “is required to be filed within a period of three years when the right to apply accrues”. It is, therefore, crucial to determine when such ‘right to apply’ C accrues in a case. As per the Court, the right to apply would accrue when differences between the parties to the arbitration agreement were evident - when the parties reach a ‘breaking point’, that is, when a settlement with or without conciliation is no longer possible. Pertinently, the Court noted that the D limitation period would not start so long as the parties were in dialogue even if differences surfaced during such period, as an interpretation to the contrary would inevitably “compel the parties to resort to litigation/arbitration even where there is serious hope of the parties themselves resolving the issues”. Thus, the right to apply can be said to have accrued “only on E the date of the last correspondence between the parties and the period of limitation commences from the date of the last communication between the parties.” 51. The learned counsel appearing for the petitioner also placed reliance on a decision rendered by the Calcutta High Court in Zillon F Infraprojects Pvt. Ltd. v. Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited reported in 2023 SCC OnLine Cal 756, wherein, the High Court observed as under: “33. Therefore, after a careful perusal of the aforesaid facts, it would not be incorrect to state that the cause of action G herein has been of a ‘continuous’ nature. The claims of the petitioner never attained finality, and remained a ‘live claim’ as the parties were in mutual discussion to resolve the disputes between them. The arbitration petition was filed on July 28, 2021 that is within a period of one and half years from the respondent’s last communication vide email dated January H M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 633 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 09, 2020, and within a period of two and half years from the A issuance of Section 21 notice dated January 16, 2019. Xxx xxx xxx 35. Therefore, the limitation period will not be operative against the petitioner from February 05, 2019 onwards, and B hence, the present petition is well within time and not barred by limitation.