2 Gumla Mahila P.S. in Case No. 07/2022. H 3 A.B.A. No. 5771 of 2022 dated 18.01.2023 MD. ASFAK ALAM v. THE STATE OF JHARKHAND & ANR. 1187 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] allegations, I am not inclined to grant privilege of anticipatory A bail to the petitioner, which stands rejected. Petitioner is directed to surrender before the court below and pray for regular bail, the learned court below shall consider the same on its own merits, without being prejudiced by this .” B 6. The appellant contends that importance has been placed by the Constitution on the value of personal liberty, the necessity for arrest before filing of the charge sheet occurs when the accused’s custodial investigation or interrogation is essential or in certain cases involving serious offences where the accused’s possibility of influencing witnesses C cannot be ruled out. Learned counsel contends that an arrest can be made does not mandate that it ought to be made in every case and emphasised that the distinction between the existence of the power (to arrest) and the justification of exercising it must always be kept in mind. It is thus argued that the procedural requirements of Section 41A of the D CrPC must always be followed in this regard. 7. Learned counsel relied upon the decisions of this Court in Arnesh Kumar v. State of Bihar and Another4, Satender Kumar Antil v. Central Bureau of Investigation and Another5 and Siddharth v. State of Uttar Pradesh and Another6 to underline the submissions and E also highlighted that it is only if the Investigating Officer believes that the accused may abscond or disobey summons then only, he or she needs to be taken into custody. 8. Learned counsel on behalf of the State submitted that the mere fact that a charge sheet is filed would not per se entitle an accused to the grant of anticipatory bail, which always remains discretionary. The F Court always weighs the possibility of an accused [depending on his past conduct] of influencing witnesses or otherwise tampering with evidence. It was highlighted that the respondent, who is a complainant in this case, had alleged harassment on a regular basis by the appellant and his relatives at the matrimonial home just about one and a half months G after their marriage and that she had even been threatened with loss of life. It was highlighted that according to the complainant, the threat 4 [2014] 8 SCR 128. 5 [2022] 10 SCR 351. 6 (2022) 1 SCC 676. H 1188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A extended to the one that she would be injected in such a manner that medical evidence would disclose that she had died of a heart attack. Analysis 9. This court has emphasised the values of personal liberty in the context of applying discretion to grant bail. It has been ruled, in a long B line of cases that ordinarily bail ought to be granted and that in serious cases – which are specified in the provisions of the CrPC (Section 437) which involve allegations relating to offences carrying long sentences or other special offences, the court should be circumspect and careful in exercising discretion.