Therefore, directions have been issued in this regard so as to save the Explanation from the vice of being ultra vires under Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution of India. B 70. The third category of individuals are those, whose names do not appear in the Register of Sikkim Subjects, but it is established beyond doubt that the name of such individuals’ father or husband or paternal grandfather or brother from the same father has been recorded in that register. C 70.1. As far as these categories of individuals are concerned, there is a necessity to prove beyond doubt that the name of such individual’s father or husband or paternal grandfather or brother from the same father has been recorded in the Register. In such a case, even if an individual’s name does not appear in the Register of Sikkim Subjects, D for the purpose of clause (26AAA) of Section 10 of the I.T. Act, 1961, a Sikkimese is entitled to the benefit of the said provision of the said Act. This is on the basis of the concept of domicile of the ancestors or close relations of the individual. Therefore, such category of individuals are also included to avail the benefit of the exemption clause. E 71. On an analysis of the Explanation, it would emerge that the Register of Sikkim Subjects is the basis for granting an exemption from payment of income tax under the I.T. Act, 1961 to a Sikkimese. Therefore, the Government of India has extended opportunities for the names of individuals to be recorded in the Register of Sikkim Subjects even after the merger of Sikkim as a State with India on 26th April, 1975, F by issuance of Government s dated 7th August, 1990 and 8th April, 1991. Further, names of individuals which do not appear in the Register of Sikkim Subjects but it is established beyond doubt that the names of such individual’s father or husband or paternal grandfather or brother from the same father have been recorded in that Register, could also be G included in the said Register. Hence, even as of now, if any individual’s name is not entered in the Register, such individual’s name could be entered into the Register by virtue of clause (iii) of the Explanation to Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961. The object of providing clause (iii) of the Explanation, which is in the nature of an omnibus clause, is to extend the benefit of the exemption under Section 10 (26AAA) of the H 364 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A I.T. Act, 1961 to all Sikkimese as per the conditions mentioned therein by providing individuals whose names do not appear in the Register, an opportunity of getting their names registered in the said Register so as to avail the benefit of exemption from payment of income tax as per the aforesaid provision. B 72. Thus, the object is to provide the exemption from payment of income tax only to those Sikkimese who were domiciled in Sikkim having regard to the 1961 Regulation or by virtue of the Government s dated 7th August, 1990 or 8th April, 1991 issued by the Government of India which are again based on the 1961 Regulation.