As observed by this Court in the case of State of Himachal Pradesh Vs. H 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Ramchandra Rabidas (2019) 10 SCC 75, this Court time and again emphasised on the need to strictly punish offenders responsible for causing motor vehicle accidents. With rapidly increasing motorisation, India is facing an increasing burden of road traffic injuries and fatalities. The financial loss, emotional and social trauma caused to a family on losing a bread winner, or any other member of the family, or incapacitation B of the victim cannot be quantified. As observed and held, the principle of proportionality between the crime and punishment has to be borne in mind. As observed that the principle of just punishment is the bedrock of sentencing in respect of a criminal offence. 5.2 At this stage, the decision of this Court in the case of Saurabh C Bakshi (supra), in which this Court was considering the offence under Section 304A of IPC is required to be referred to. On the principle of sentencing, this Court has observed and held as under: - “The eminent thinker and author, Sophocles, said centuries back : “Laws can never be enforced unless fear supports them.” The D statement has its pertinence, in a way, with the enormous vigour, in today’s society. It is the duty of every right-thinking citizen to show veneration to law so that an ly, civilised and peaceful society emerges. It has to be borne in mind that law is averse to any kind of chaos. It is totally intolerant of anarchy. If anyone E defies law, he has to face the wrath of law, depending on the concept of proportionality that the law recognises. It can never be forgotten that the purpose of criminal law legislated by the competent legislatures, subject to judicial scrutiny within constitutionally established parameters, is to protect the collective interest and save every individual that forms a constituent of the F collective from unwarranted hazards. It is sometimes said in an egocentric and uncivilised manner that law cannot bind the individual actions which are perceived as flaws by the large body of people, but, the truth is and has to be that when the law withstands the test of the constitutional scrutiny in a democracy, G the individual notions are to be ignored. At times certain crimes assume more accent and gravity depending on the nature and impact of the crime on the society. No court should ignore the same being swayed by passion of mercy. It is the obligation of the court to constantly remind itself that the right of the victim, and be it said, on certain occasions the person aggrieved as well as the H STATE OF PUNJAB v. DIL BAHADUR 771 [M. R. SHAH, J.] society at large can be victims, never be marginalised. In this A context one may recapitulate the saying of Justice Benjamin N. Cardozo “Justice, though due to the accused, is due to the accuser too.” And, therefore, the requisite norm has to be the established principles laid down in precedents.