[2023] 4 S.C.R. 445 445 ISOLATORS AND ISOLATORS THROUGH ITS PROPRIETOR A MRS. SANDHYA MISHRA v. MADHYA PRADESH MADHYA KSHETRA VIDYUT VITRAN CO. LTD. AND ANR. B (Civil Appeal Nos. 2890-2891 of 2023) APRIL 18, 2023 [DINESH MAHESHWARI AND SANJAY KUMAR, JJ.] Contract – Imposition of penalty, debarment/blacklisting of C the appellant-firm – Requirement of specific show-cause notice – Held: Cancellation s dtd. 19.11.19 and 21.11.19 cannot be read as show-cause notice specifically for the purpose of imposition of penalty – Finality attaching to the action of cancellation cannot be read as a due notice for imposition of penalty even if the respondents chose to employ the expression ‘cancelled with imposition D of penalty’ in those s – Thus, the action of the respondents in imposing the penalty without even putting the appellant to notice as regards this proposed action cannot be approved – Further, even the debarring the appellant for a period of 3 years for default in making the requisite supplies has its own shortcomings – Appellant E had indeed made substantial supplies against the purchase s in question – On 18.09.2019, the respondent No.2 dealing with the procurement specifically informed the appellant that the supply under the purchase in question was to be deferred – After such an of deferment, there had not been any other communication or even indication from the respondents which would F have informed the appellant to resume supplies – Debarment was issued against the appellant without due regard to the undeniable factual situation where the entire blame could not have been foisted upon or shifted towards the appellant – Impugned s imposing penalty and debarring the appellant are quashed G and set aside. Practice & Procedure – Maintainability of fresh appeal after withdrawal of the earlier one and after another round of approach to the High Court – Discussed. H 445 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 Imposition of penalty cannot be approved for two major factors: The first and foremost being that in the show- cause notice dated 26.11.2019, the appellant was put to notice only as regards the proposition of debarment and in the said B notice, nothing was indicated about the proposed imposition of penalty. Though in the cancellation s dated 19.11.2019 and 21.11.2019, the respondents purportedly reserved their right to take appropriate steps, those s cannot be read as show- cause notice specifically for the purpose of imposition of penalty. The submissions on behalf of the respondents in this regard that C the said s dated 19.11.2019 and 21.11.2019 have attained finality do not take their case any further. Finality attaching to the action of cancellation cannot be read as a due notice for imposition of penalty even if the respondents chose to employ the expression ‘cancelled with imposition of penalty’ in those D s. Looking to the terms of contract, quantification of the amount of penalty (if at all the penalty is considered leviable) could not have been carried out without affording adequate opportunity of response to the appellant.