[2023] 2 S.C.R. 297 297 SNEHASIS GIRI AND ORS. A v. SUBHASIS MITRA (Contempt Petition (Civil) No. 352 of 2022) FEBRUARY 02, 2023 B [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Contempt of Court – Certain provisions of the West Bengal Madrasa Service Commission Act, 2008 regulating the process of appointment of teachers in aided Madrasas recognized as minority C institutions, were declared unconstitutional by High Court – However, Supreme Court declared the provisions of the Act to be valid and binding – During the pendency of the appeals, some appointments were made by the madrasas – Contempt proceedings filed seeking release of salaries of teachers appointed after the provisions of the Act were declared unconstitutional by the High D Court – Held: Given the nature of the interim s made during the pendency of the appeal, there is no doubt that the court declared the appointments to be valid to the extent, they conformed to the concerned rules and norms – However, there was no discussion w.r.t whether the Court had applied its mind as to how the madrasas had proceeded to appoint teachers as teaching/non-teaching staff E – Also, there was no discussion regarding rules/regulations, applicable circulars and guidelines in terms of which aided and unaided recognized institutions could make appointments – In contempt proceeding, court cannot enlarge its scope and examine matters which are not part of the directions/s contained in the F judgement of which contempt is alleged – Argument of the respondent-alleged contemnors that there ought to be an exercise of verification, is merited – Further proceedings cannot be continued as no determination can be made unless there is a due verification in regard to the employment of each of the petitioners – Committee constituted to consider the claims of the petitioners – G West Bengal Madrasa Service Commission Act, 2008 – Constitution of India – Art.142. Disposing of the petitions, the Court HELD: 1.1 The judgement of the High Court in the appeal had declared unconstitutional certain provisions of the Act. This H 297 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A court, in its judgement set aside those findings of the High Court regarding validity of the Act. Consequently, the provisions of the Act were held to be valid and binding. In Para 58, the court declared the nominations by the Commission in pursuance of the provisions of the Act as valid, and the appointments made, after disposal of the matters by the High Court as deemed to be valid B for all purpose. However, there is no discussion with respect to whether the court had applied its mind as to how the madrasas had proceeded to appoint teachers as teaching/non-teaching staff. Also there is no discussion regarding rules/regulations, applicable circulars and guidelines in terms of which aided and unaided C recognized institutions could make appointments, having regard to the standard of education required and the requisite experience; whether a transparent method was followed; whether the madrasa concerned was recognized one or not; whether the committee or body selecting the individual was constituted in accordance with the rules and regulations, etc.