As an alternative, Govind Ballabh Pant suggested that “this very clause is sent to the Constituent Assembly, not as part of these fundamental rights, but included in the letter of the Chairman to the effect that we recommend to the Constituent Assembly the following principles in regard to the framing of the Constitution.”27 While Dr. C Ambedkar insisted on his view, the majority of members of the Advisory Committee including Sardar Patel adopted Pant’s suggestion.28 42. Accordingly, in the “Minutes of the Meetings of the Advisory Committee” dated April 21, 1947, it was noted: “Clause 13 to be deleted from the fundamental rights, but it should be recommended by the Chairman in his report to the Constituent Assembly on behalf of the D committee, that it be made a part of the Union Constitution.”29 In his letter addressed to the President of the Constituent Assembly, Sardar Patel presented the interim report of the Advisory Committee, while also noting that: “While agreeing in principle with this clause, we recommend that instead of being included in the list of fundamental rights, E it should find a place in some other part of the Constitution.”30 43. What emerges from this discussion is that there was an initial agreement among the members of the fundamental rights sub-committee and the minority rights sub-committee that there needs to be a clause in the fundamental rights chapter which should provide for the right to F vote; and the task to conduct free and fair elections, there shall be an independent body called the Election Commission.However, the clause was not retained by the Advisory Committee as a fundamental right because it was apprehended that the princely states might not agree to the Union Constitution if that clauseis retained, as India was going through a historical period of unification where negotiations were being made G with the princely states to become part of a united India. Despite this, 26 ibid, page 251 27 ibid, page 251 28 ibid, page 251-52 29 ibid, page 288 30 ibid, page 296 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 197 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] the Founders retained the right to vote as a constitutional right by A recommending that it should find a place in the text of the constitution. 44. On 16 June 1949, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar moved the following clause, providing for the adult franchise: “289-B: Elections to the House of the People and to the B Legislative Assemblies of states to be on the basis of adult suffrage: The elections to the House of the People and to the Legislative Assembly of every State shall be on the basis of adult suffrage; that is to say, every citizen, who is not less than twenty- one years of age on such date as may be fixed in this behalf by or under any law made by the appropriate Legislature and is not C otherwise disqualified under this Constitution or any law made by the appropriate Legislature on the ground of nonresidence, unsoundness of mind, crime or corrupt or illegal practice, shall be entitled to be registered as a voter at any such election.”31 45.