The in Narendra Kumar Maheshwari’s case (supra) is sought to be distinguished on the ground that it was in the context of a public interest litigation, and has referred to the concept of the debentures which are intrinsically in the character of a debt. It is towards the objective of fi nancing these infrastructure projects, it is submitted, that a set of documents have been devised, and the real objective was that the amount advanced was to be treated as a debt. The conversion of CCDs to equity actually became impossible due to the insolvency of the ICTL and thus, the entire principal amount along with the interest became due and payable. 10. Learned senior counsel contends that in eff ect the appellant is neither treated as shareholder nor as a fi nancial creditor leaving the appellant remediless. He further sought to emphasise that ICTL was a subsidiary of IVRCL, which was really holding 100 per cent shareholding of ICTL. 11. We may note that it is not disputed by him that the put option was never exercised. In eff ect, his submission was that whether CCDs should be categorized as debt or equity would depend on the status of the maturity of the CCDs and the position of the investor at the inaugural time, and this would vary in the facts and circumstances of each case. M/S. IFCI LIMITED v. SUTANU SINHA & ORS. 287 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 12. In to appreciate this submission, we may note the submission of Mr.Shyam Divan, learned senior counsel for the respondent No.1 who has drawn our attention to the Concessionaire Agreement with the NHAI defi ning equity as under:- “Equity” means the sum expressed in Indian Rupees representing the paid up equity share capital of the Concessionaire for meeting the equity component of the Total Project Cost, and shall for the purposes of this Agreement include convertible instruments or other similar forms of capital, which shall compulsorily convert into equity share capital of the company, and any interest free funds advanced by any shareholder of the Company for meeting such equity component, but does not include Equity Support.” 13. Thus, his submission is that the concept of convertible instruments including CCDs falls within the defi nition of equity. In to support his contention, he has also referred to the common loan agreement dated 24.11.2010 inter alia to the stipulation that prior written approval of lenders was required before the borrower could issue any debentures or raise any loans. We may also appreciate this aspect in the context of the submission of Mr. Ramji Srinivasan, learned senior counsel that the lenders had put certain restrictions to ensure that their pool is not expanded which had the potential of casting doubt on the full recoverability of their debt. Thus, while 70 per cent of the funding to the debt equity ratio was under the category of debt, 30 per cent was equity and it is this equity portion which was partly funded by the initial promoters and the remaining through the appellant.