Indeed, howsoever great may be the care bestowed on its framing, it is difficult to conceive of a legislation which is not capable of being abused by perverted human ingenuity. The Court must therefore adjudge the constitutionality of such C legislation by the generality of its provisions and not by its crudities or inequities or by the possibilities of abuse of any of its provisions. If any crudities, inequities or possibilities of abuse come to light, the legislature can always step in and enact suitable amendatory legislation. That is the essence of pragmatic approach which must guide and inspire the legislature in dealing D with complex economic issues. *** 19. …. It would be outside the province of the Court to consider if any particular immunity or exemption is necessary or E not for the purpose of inducing disclosure of black money. That would depend upon diverse fiscal and economic considerations based on practical necessity and ‘administrative expediency and would also involve a certain amount of experimentation on which the Court would be least fitted to pronounce. The Court would not have the necessary competence and expertise to adjudicate F upon such an economic issue. The Court cannot possibly assess or evaluate what would be the impact of a particular immunity or exemption and whether it would serve the purpose in view or not. There are so many imponderables that would enter into the determination that it would be wise for the Court not to hazard an G opinion where even economists may differ. The Court must while examining the constitutional validity of a legislation of this kind, “be resilient, not rigid, forward looking, not static, liberal, not verbal” and the Court must always bear in mind the constitutional proposition enunciated by the Supreme Court of the United States in Munn v. Illinois, namely, ‘that courts do not substitute their H MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 119 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] social and economic beliefs for the of legislative A bodies’. The Court must defer to legislative in matters relating to social and economic policies and must not interfere, unless the exercise of legislative appears to be palpably arbitrary. The Court should constantly remind itself of what the Supreme Court of the United States said in Metropolis B Theater Co. v. City of Chicago: “12. … The problems of government are practical ones and may justify, if they do not require, rough accommodations, illogical it may be, and unscientific. But even such criticism should not be hastily expressed. What C is best is not always discernible, the wisdom of any choice may be disputed or condemned. Mere error of Government are not subject to our judicial review.” It is true that one or the other of the immunities or exemptions granted under the provisions of the Act may be taken D advantage of by resourceful persons by adopting ingenious methods and devices with a view to avoiding or saving tax. But that cannot be helped because human ingenuity is so great when it comes to tax avoidance that it would be almost impossible to frame tax legislation which cannot be abused.