In the case of State of M.P. v. Nandlal Jaiswal2, wherein this court was examining certain disparaging remarks made by the High Court against the State officials held that judges, must refrain from passing F adverse remarks, as the same can cause great mischief and might become an antithesis to the ends of achieving justice. The relevant observations from the aforesaid is being reproduced herein: “We may observe in conclusion that Judges should not use strong and carping language while criticising the conduct of G parties or their witnesses. They must act with sobriety, moderation and restraint. They must have the humility to recognise that they are not infallible and any harsh and 1 (1986) 2 SCC 569 H 2 (1986) 4 SCC 566 SEEMANT KUMAR SINGH v. MAHESH PS & ORS. 593 [KRISHNA MURARI, J. ] disparaging strictures passed by them against any party may A be mistaken and unjustified and if so, they may do considerable harm and mischief and result in injustice. Here, in the present case, the observations made and strictures passed by B.M. Lal, J. were totally unjustified and unwarranted and they ought not to have been made. B 17. Further, In the case of Election Commission of India v. M.R. Vijaybhaskar3, while examining certain adverse remarks made by the High Court, held that judges must exercise extreme caution while passing remarks in court that may susceptible to misinterpretation. The relevant paragraph of the is being produced hereunder: C “Having said that, we must emphasise the need for Judges to exercise caution in off-the-cuff remarks in open court, which may be susceptible to misinterpretation. Language, both on the Bench and in s, must comport with judicial propriety. Language is an important instrument of a judicial D process which is sensitive to constitutional values. Judicial language is a window to a conscience sensitive to constitutional ethos. Bereft of its understated balance, language risks losing its symbolism as a protector of human dignity. The power of judicial review is entrusted to the High Courts under the Constitution. So high is its pedestal that it E constitutes a part of the basic features of the Constitution. Yet responsibility bears a direct co-relationship with the nature and dimensions of the entrustment of power. A degree of caution and circumspection by the High Court would have allayed a grievance of the nature that has been urged in the F present case. All that needs to be clarified is that the oral observations during the course of the hearing have passed with the moment and do not constitute a part of the record. The EC has a track record of being an independent constitutional body which shoulders a significant burden in ensuring the sanctity of electoral democracy. We hope the G matter can rest with a sense of balance which we have attempted to bring.” 18. In light of the aforesaid decisions, as far as the Appellant No.2 is concerned, the remarks made by the High Court against him 3 (2021) 9 SCC 770 H 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.