2.2 The Inquiry Report was made available to him calling for his representation. Report of the Inquiry Officer was supplied alongwith notice dated 02.09.1998. He was called upon to show cause as to why B major penalty as provided under Rule 6 of the Gujarat Civil Services (Disciplinary and Appeal) Rules, 1971, should not be imposed upon him. The respondent replied to the said show cause notice. The Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation, thereafter, passed a dismissal dated 07.12.1998 by which the respondent was ed to be dismissed from service. C 2.3 The of dismissal passed by the Commissioner of the Municipal Corporation was challenged by the respondent before the learned Single Judge of the High Court. Before the learned Single Judge, the respondent challenged the inquiry report as well as the dismissal on merits and also on the ground that the Commissioner, who D passed the of dismissal was not having any jurisdiction and/or authority to pass a dismissal and impose the major penalty. 2.4 It was the case on behalf of the respondent before the learned Single Judge that the Resolution No. 51 dated 20.11.1998 passed by the General Board of the Jamnagar Municipal Corporation did not empower E the Municipal Corporation to initiate and/or to conclude the disciplinary proceedings for the alleged irregularities or negligence in the present case. 2.5 The petition was opposed by the Corporation on merits as well as on the authority of the Commissioner. It was submitted that F under Resolution No. 51 dated 20.11.1998, the Commissioner had passed the final of penalty. It was contended that the delegation covers all kinds of works including purchases and other execution of work in which it is found that the officer has committed irregularity or had acted in a negligent manner. It was further submitted that eventually, the General Body of the Corporation vide its Resolution No.56 dated 15.12.1998 as G amended by subsequent Resolution dated 30.12.1998, had ratified the action taken by the Commissioner. 2.6 The learned Single Judge though held on merits against the respondent but, however, set aside the of dismissal passed by the Commissioner solely on the ground that the Commissioner had no H MUNICIPAL COMMISSIONER, JAMNAGAR MUNICIPAL 1113 CORPORATION AND ANR. v. R. M. DOSHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] authority and/or power to impose any major penalty upon the respondent A for the misconduct proved. The learned Single Judge observed that the Resolution No. 51 dated 20.11.1998 conferred power upon the Commissioner for initiating action for irregularities with respect to the purchases only and not with respect to any other misconduct and/or irregularity. The learned Single Judge also held that the subsequent B ratification by the General Board would not confer any authority upon the Commissioner and the subsequent ratification of the action of the Commissioner would not save the action. Consequently, the learned Single Judge allowed the writ petition and set aside the of dismissal with all consequential benefits. C 2.7 The and passed by the learned Single Judge was the subject matter of appeal before the Division Bench by way of Letters Patent Appeal No.