Explanation. - For the removal of doubts, it is hereby declared that the price-cum-duty of the excisable goods sold by the E assessee shall be the price actually paid to him for the goods sold and the money value of the additional consideration, if any, flowing directly or indirectly from the buyer to the assessee in connection with the sale of such goods, and such price-cum-duty, excluding sales tax and other taxes, if any, F actually paid, shall be deemed to include the duty payable on such goods. (2) Where, in relation to any excisable goods the price thereof for delivery at the place of removal is not known and the value thereof is determined with reference to the price for G delivery at a place other than the place of removal, the cost of transportation from the place of removal to the place of delivery shall be excluded from such price. (3) The provisions of this section shall not apply in respect of any excisable goods for which a tariff value has been fixed H under sub-section (2) of section 3. M/S BILAG INDUSTRIES P. LTD. v. COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. 625 DAMAN [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (4) For the purposes of this section- A (a) “assessee” means the person who is liable to pay the duty of excise under this Act and includes his agent; *********** ********** (c) “related person” means a person who is so associated B with the assessee that they have interest, directly or indirectly in the business of each other and includes a holding company a subsidiary company, a relative and a distributor of the assessee and any sub-distributor of the assessee, and any sub-distributor of such distributor.” C 11. In Atic Industries (supra), this court examined the expression “related person”: “What the first part of the definition requires is that the person who is sought to be branded as a related person” must be a person who is so associated with the assessee that they have D interest, directly or indirectly, in the business of each other. It is not enough that the assessee has an interest, direct, or indirect in the business of the person alleged to be a related person nor is it enough that the person alleged to be a related person has an interest, direct or indirect, in the business of the assessee. It is essential to attract the applicability of the E first part of the definition that the assessee and the person alleged to be a related person must have interest, direct indirect, in the business of each other. Each of them must have a direct or indirect interest in the business of the other. The equality and degree of interest which each has in the F business of the other may be different; the interest of one in the business of the other may be direct, while the interest of the latter in the business of the former may be indirect. That would not make any difference, so long as each has got some interest, direct or indirect, in the business of the other.