It was held: B “277. There can be no quarrel about the proposition that the reports of the Committee enacting a legislation can serve as an external aid for construing or understanding the statute. However, in the instant case, as we have elaborately dealt with the meaning to be conferred on the constitutional provision that calls C for interpretation, there is no necessity to be guided by the report of the Committee.” (emphasis supplied) 118. Contrary to the suggestion in the report, the 2018 Constitution Bench provided that NCTD shall have legislative power over D all subjects in List II, except the excluded subjects provided in Article 239AA(3)(c). 119. The report of the Balakrishnan Committee was referred to in the Statement of Objects and Reasons of 1991 Constitution Amendment. The Statement of Objects and Reasons can only be referred E to the limited extent of understanding the background, the antecedent state of affairs, the surrounding circumstances in relation to the amendment, and the purpose of the amendment.38 In RS Nayak v. AR Antulay39, a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the reports of a committee which preceded the enactment of a legislation, reports of joint parliamentary committees, a report of a commission set up for F collecting information leading to the enactment are permissible external aids to construction. Thus, the report of the Balakrishnan Committee can be relied on by this Court to understand the intent behind the introduction of Article 239AA. However, this Court is not bound by the report of a committee to construe specific phrases. It is for this reason G that the 2018 Constitution Bench construed the text of Article 239AA contextually with reference to the constitutional structure envisaged for NCTD without relying on the Report of the Balakrishnan Committee. 38 State of West Bengal v. Subodh Gopal Bose, AIR 1954 SC 92; Bhaiji v. Sub-divisional Officer Thandla, (2003) 1 SCC 692 H 39 (1984) 2 SCC 183 GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 563 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 120. Moreover, the arguments made in the Balakrishnan Committee A Report against the inclusion of “services” for NCTD have been rejected by this Court. The argument in the Balakrishnan Committee Report that the use of the word ‘State’ in an Entry leads by itself to that Entry not being available to the legislature of a Union Territory has been specifically rejected in the concurring opinion of Justice Chandrachud in the 2018 B Constitution Bench in the following terms: “461. […] The expression “insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories” cannot be construed to mean that the Legislative Assembly of NCT would have no power to legislate on any subject in the State or Concurrent Lists, merely by the use C of the expression “State” in that particular entry. This is not a correct reading of the above words of Article 239-AA(3)(a).” The concurring opinion refers to Entries 38 and 40 of List II which read thus: “38. Salaries and allowances of Members of the legislature of D the State, of the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of the Legislative Assembly and, if there is a Legislative Council, of the Chairman and Deputy Chairman thereof.