A class or category is not exhausted by the enumeration; (4) the general terms follow the enumeration; and (5) there is no indication of a different legislative intent”. If the subjects of enumeration belong to a broad based genus as also to a narrower genus, there is no principle that the general words should be confined to the narrower genus.” B 74. In the context of Explanation 3(b) to Section 32(1) of the Act, this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax, Kolkata v. SMIFS Securities Limited21, held as follows: “8. We quote hereinbelow Explanation 3 to Section 32(1) of C the Act: “Explanation 3.—For the purposes of this sub-section, the expressions ‘assets’ and ‘block of assets’ shall mean— (a) tangible assets, being buildings, machinery, plant or furniture; D (b) intangible assets, being know-how, patents, copyrights, trademarks, licences, franchises or any other business or commercial rights of similar nature.” Explanation 3 states that the expression “asset” shall mean an intangible asset, being know-how, patents, copyrights, trademarks, E licences, franchises or any other business or commercial rights of similar nature. A reading of the words “any other business or commercial rights of similar nature” in clause (b) of Explanation 3 indicates that goodwill would fall under the expression “any other business or commercial right of a similar nature”. The F principle of ejusdem generis would strictly apply while interpreting the said expression which finds place in Explanation 3(b). 9. In the circumstances, we are of the view that “goodwill” is an asset under Explanation 3(b) to Section 32(1) of the Act.” 75. In Rohit Pulp and Paper Mills Limited v. Collector of G Central Excise, Baroda22, the Court was dealing with an exception clause in an exemption notification and considered the applicability of the Principle of Noscitur a Sociis, to the facts: 21 (2012) 13 SCC 488 H 22 (1990) 3 SCC 447 M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 587 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “12. The principle of statutory interpretation by which a generic A word receives a limited interpretation by reason of its context is well established. In the context with which we are concerned, we can legitimately draw upon the “noscitur a sociis” principle. This expression simply means that “the meaning of a word is to be judged by the company it keeps.” Gajendragadkar, J. explained B the scope of the rule in State of Bombay v. Hosptial Mazdoor Sabha [(1960) 2 SCR 866 : AIR 1960 SC 610 : (1960) 1 LLJ 251] in the following words: (SCR pp. 873-74) “This rule, according to Maxwell, means that, when two or more words which are susceptible of analogous meaning are coupled together they are understood to be used in their cognate C sense. They take as it were their colour from each other, that is, the more general is restricted to a sense analogous to a less general. The same rule is thus interpreted in “Words and Phrases” (Vol. XIV, p. 207): “Associated words take their meaning from one another under the doctrine of noscitur a D sociis, the philosophy of which is that the meaning of a doubtful word may be ascertained by reference to the meaning of words associated with it; such doctrine is broader than the maxim ejusdem generis”.