Our attention is drawn to Section 45: “45. Unbecoming conduct. Any officer, junior commissioned officer or warrant officer who behaves in a manner unbecoming C his position and the character expected of him shall, on conviction by court-martial, if he is an officer, be liable to be cashiered or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned; and, if he is a junior commissioned officer or a warrant officer, be liable to be dismissed or to suffer such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned.” D (8) She further draws our attention to Section 63: “63. Violation of good and discipline. Any person subject to this Act who is guilty of any act or omission which, though not specified in this Act, is prejudicial to good and military E discipline shall, on conviction by court- martial, be liable to suffer imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years or such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned.” (9) Finally, she drew our attention to Section 69: 69.Civil offences. Subject to the provisions of section 70, any person F subject to this Act who at any place in or beyond India commits any civil offence shall be deemed to be guilty of an offence against this Act and, if charged therewith under this section, shall be liable to be tried by a court-martial and, on conviction, be punishable as follows, that is to say,- G (a) if the offence is one which would be punishable under any law in force in India with death or with transportation, he shall be liable to suffer any punishment, other than whipping, assigned for the offence, by the aforesaid law and such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned; and H JOSEPH SHINE v. UNION OF INDIA 589 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (b) in any other case, he shall be liable to suffer any punishment, A other than whipping, assigned for the offence by the law in force in India, or imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, or such less punishment as is in this Act mentioned. (10) She would immediately point out that in the light of the of this Court in Joseph Shine (supra), since Section 497 IPC B has been struck down as unconstitutional and it being a civil offence within the meaning of Section 69 of the 1950 Act, it may not be open to the authorities to proceed against an officer under Section 69. However, it is the further case that it will not preclude the authorities from invoking Section 45 and/or Section 63 of the 1950 Act. There are similar provisions C also in the Navy Act and in the Air Force Act. It is her submission that the words adulterous acts would bear the meaning which is assigned to it in the dictionary. So also the word promiscuous. They need not be found integrally connected with Section 497 IPC as such. D (11) The members of Armed Forces, according to her, are a class apart.