He was indicted for advocating the overthrow and upending of the organized government. G The majority opinion reiterated that it is a fundamental principle, long established, that the freedom of speech and of the press which is secured by the Constitution does not confer an absolute right to speak or publish, 57 274 US 357 (1926) 58 268 US 652 (1925) H 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A without responsibility. a State may punish utterances endangering the foundations of organized government and threatening its overthrow by unlawful means. These imperil its own existence as a constitutional State. Freedom of speech and press does not protect disturbances to the public peace or the attempt to subvert the government. The constitutionality of the statute and conviction of the appellant was upheld. Justice Holmes B observed that: “It is manifest that there was no present danger of an attempt to overthrow the government by force on the part of the admittedly small minority who shared the defendant’s views. It is said that this manifesto was more than a theory, that it was an incitement. C Every idea is an incitement. If the publication of this document had been laid as an attempt to induce an uprising against government at once, and not at some indefinite time in the future, it would have presented a different question. …. but the indictment alleges the publication, and nothing D more.” 46. In Terminiello v. Chicago59, the Petitioner was charged with violation of an ordinance forbidding any “breach of the peace”.While reversing his conviction, the Supreme Court of the United States of America held that a function of free speech under our system of E government is to invite dispute. It may indeed best serve its high purpose when it induces a condition of unrest, creates dissatisfaction with conditions as they are, or even stirs people to anger. The Court observed that “..speech is often provocative and challenging.” 47. In De Jonge v. Oregon60, the Appellant was charged on the F basis that he assisted in the conduct of a meeting which was called under the auspices of the Communist Party, an organization advocating criminal syndicalism. The Supreme Court of the United States of America while considering the Criminal Syndicalism Law of Oregon held that “none of our decisions goes to the length of sustaining such a curtailment of the right of free speech and assembly as the Oregon statute demands in its G present application.” Reliance was placed on the abovementioned decisions in Gitlow (supra) and Whitney (supra). 59 337 US 1 (1948) 60 299 US 353 (1936) H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 579 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] Conclusions A 48. The abovementioned decisions are in contradistinction to the scenario in question in India. The American decisions primarily involve indictment on the basis of membership of political organizations or incidents of free speech advocating overthrow of the government. However, under Indian law, it is not membership of political organizations etc. or free B speech or criticism of the government that is sought to be banned, it is only those organizations which aim to compromise the sovereignty and integrity of India and have been notified to be such and unlawful, whose membership is prohibited.