This part involves generating companies entering into PPA(s) with procuring entities or licensees. Tariff fixation is a statutory function. Yet, by virtue of Section 42, it is subject to open access determination of the price of power, and subject to Section 63 wherever it involves open bidding. In the facts of this case, the PPA C incorporated a tariff between the respondents and Gujarat Urja constituted the tariff fixed by the State Regulatory Commission in the exercise of its statutory powers. The issue and sale of RECs, constituted an important part of that bargain, between the two parties, based on the assessment of their commercial interest. D 56. The important feature of the REC Mechanism is that in it, WPDs (i.e. respondents) had to sell power to distribution licensees at a mutually agreed price, not exceeding the Average Power Purchase Cost (‘APPC’) of the DISCOMs, (such as Gujarat Urja). The WPDs were entitled to the additional benefit of Renewable Energy Certificates issued to it which could be traded in Power Exchange for a price. The E consideration payable to WPDs consisted of firstly, a mutually agreed power Component and secondly a green component through RECs traded in the Exchange. The alternative to the WPDs was to sell to licensees at a preferential tariff, determined by the state commission. In the latter event, WPDs were not entitled to the additional benefit of F the green component, which was the tradable RECs the sale of which would have led to increased revenues. The respondent WPDs chose the REC mechanism, while entering into PPAs in these cases, with Gujarat Urja. The PPAs entered by WPDs provided for the fixed tariff of 2.64/kWh for the entire term (25 years), as mutually agreed (Article 5.2 of PPA). WPDs were entitled to and were trading RECs in the power G exchange, deriving extra monetary benefits: which, at the relevant period was 1.50/kWh (floor price at the time of signing of PPA). The Preferential Tariff determined by the state commission, for WPDs not opting for the REC Mechanism was 3.56/kWh. The WPDs were not entitled to any additional REC benefits, had they adopted the preferential H tariff route. GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 709 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 57. The respondents successfully complained before the State A Commission, and APTEL, that the PPA, which they had entered into with Gujarat Urja, whereby the tariff was fixed at 2.64/kWh (with the price of RECs sold by them) was, in the long run, less beneficial than 3.56/kWh. During the hearing, it was sought to be urged that the cost of RECs in the exchange, had been decreasing, whereas the preferential B tariffs had risen. On this aspect, Regulation 9 of the REC Regulations 2010 prescribes the price determination mechanism for RECs in the power exchange. Proviso to Regulation 9 (1) of the REC Regulations 2010 empowers the central commission, in consultation with the Central Agency and the Forum of Regulators, to provide the floor price and forbearance price separately for solar and non-solar certificates.