A case and omits or defaults to file a charge-sheet within the time prescribed, the accused would be entitled to be released on bail and the passed to that effect under Section 167(2) would be an under Section 437(1) or (2) or Section 439(1) of the Code. Since Section 167 does not empower cancellation of the bail, the power to cancel the bail can only be traced to Section B 437(5) or Section 439(2) of the Code. The bail can then be cancelled on considerations which are valid for cancellation of bail granted under Section 437(1) or (2) or Section 439(1) of the Code. The fact that the bail was earlier rejected or that it was secured by the thrust of proviso (a) to Section 167(2) of the Code C then recedes in the background. Once the accused has been released on bail his liberty cannot be interfered with lightly i.e. on the ground that the prosecution has subsequently submitted a charge-sheet. Such a view would introduce a sense of complacency in the investigating agency and would destroy the very purpose of instilling a sense of urgency expected by Sections 57 and 167(2) D of the Code. We are, therefore, of the view that once an accused is released on bail under Section 167(2) he cannot be taken back in custody merely on the filing of a charge- sheet but there must exist special reasons for so doing besides the fact that the charge- sheet reveals the commission of a non-bailable crime. The ratio E of Rajnikant case [(1989) 3 SCC 532] to the extent it is inconsistent herewith does not, with respect, state the law correctly. 15. Even where two views are possible, this being a matter belonging to the field of criminal justice involving the liberty of an individual, the provision must be construed strictly in favour of F individual liberty since even the law expects early completion of the investigation. The delay in completion of the investigation can be on pain of the accused being released on bail. The prosecution cannot be allowed to trifle with individual liberty if it does not take its task seriously and does not complete it within the time allowed by law. It would also result in avoidable difficulty to the accused if G the latter is asked to secure a surety and a few days later be placed behind the bars at the sweet will of the prosecution on production of a charge-sheet. We are, therefore, of the view that unless there are strong grounds for cancellation of the bail, the bail once granted cannot be cancelled on mere production of the H charge- sheet. The view we are taking is consistent with this THE STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION V. T. 753 GANGI REDDY @ YERRA GANGI REDDY [M. R. SHAH, J.] Court’s view in the case of Bashir [(1977) 4 SCC 410] and A Raghubir [(1986) 4 SCC 481] but if any ambiguity has arisen on account of certain observations in Rajnikant case [(1989) 3 SCC 532] our endeavour is to clear the same and set the controversy at rest.” 9.1 Justice K. Ramaswamy (as he then was) in his concurring B has observed in paragraphs 39 and 40 as under:- “39.