In Gamini Bala Koteswara Rao Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh2 it has been held by this Court as under: G “14. We have considered the arguments advanced and heard the matter at great length. It is true, as contended by Mr. Rao, that interference in an appeal against an acquittal recorded by the trial court should be rare and in exceptional circumstances. It is, 2 AIR 2010 SC 589 H 412 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A however, well settled by now that it is open to the High Court to reappraise the evidence and conclusions drawn by the trial court but only in a case when the of the trial court is stated to be perverse. The word “perverse” in terms as understood in law has been defined to mean “against the weight of evidence”. We have to see accordingly as to whether the of the trial B court which has been found perverse by the High Court was in fact so. The Appellate court may reverse the of acquittal in the exercise of its powers and there is no indication in the Code of any limitation or restriction having placed on the High Court in exercise of its C power as an Appellate court. No distinction can be drawn as regards the power of the High Court in dealing with an appeal, between an appeal from an of acquittal and an appeal from a conviction. The Code of Criminal Procedure does not place any fetter on exercise of the power to review at large the evidence upon which the of acquittal was D founded, and to reach the conclusion that upon that evidence the of acquittal should be reversed. In the case of Sheo Swarup v King Emperor3, it has been held by the Privy Council as under: But in exercising the power conferred by the Code and E before reaching its conclusions upon fact, the High Court should and will always give proper weight and consideration to such matters as: 1) The views/opinion of the trial judge as to the credibility of the witnesses; F 2) The presumption of innocence infavour of the accused; 3) The right of the accused to the benefit of any doubt; and 4) The slowness of an appellatecourt in disturbing a finding of fact arrived at by a judge who had the advantage of seeing the G witnesses. 14. This Court has time and again reiterated the powers of the Appellate Court while dealing with the appeal against an of acquittal H 3 AIR 1934 PC 227 SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 413 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] and laid down the general principles in the matter of Chandrappa and A Others Vs. State of Karnataka4 to the following effect: “42. From the above decisions, in our considered view, the following general principles regarding powers of the Appellate court while dealing with an appeal against an of acquittal emerge: B (1) An Appellate court has full power to review, reappreciate and reconsider the evidence upon which the of acquittal is founded.