This, according to the State Commission, was in line of the decision of this Court in Malay Kumar Ganguly v. Sukumar Mukherjee (Dr.): [2009] CPJ 17 (SC). The State Commissionobserved and directed as under: - E “30. In fact reliance of the judgement referred to in the preceding paragraph against the same Ops, would be apt and best suited since against the same builder and involving similar facts In the facts and circumstances of the case, the possession of the unit having already been sold, is not possible to be handed over putting F the complainant to a position where she had nothing to fall back upon, the Ops/respondents are directed to refund relying on the judgement in the matter of Manjit Kaur Monga versus K.L. Suneja and ors (Supra) decided by the hon’ble Compat and upheld by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, the deposited amount plus G compound interest at the rate of 14% from the date of deposit. This would be in line with the principles set out by the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India, in the matter of Malay Kumar Gangully versus Sukumar Mukherjee (Dr.) as reported in III [2009] CPJ 17 (SC) providing that a person is entitled to damages/ compensation as nearly as possible sum of money which would H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1113 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] have been if he had not sustained the wrong. This would meet the A ends of justice. 31. ed accordingly leaving the parties to bear the cost. 32. FA-122/2014 and FA-123/2014 being on the same lines bearing the same facts and on the common point of law are also disposed B of accordingly with directions to the Ops as contained in para 30 of this .” Approval by the National Commission 7. In the revision petitions preferred by the appellants against the and dated 12.03.2020 so passed by the State Commission, C the National Commission, after rejecting other contentions of the appellants, found that the facts of Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case were almost identical in relation to the flats booked by the respondent in the same project of the appellants. The National Commission took note of the observations of this Court in Dr. Monga’s case and rejected the contentions of the appellant in seeking to avoid the application of the D said decision, inter alia, in the following words: - “32. From the bare reading of this provision, it is clear that the proceedings continuing under MRTP Act before its repeal had been saved under Section 66(1)(A). The argument of learned counsel for the Opposite Party that the of Dr. Manjeet Kaur E Monga’s case (supra) had been passed under a repealed Act and therefore is not applicable in this case, has no force and that the argument is totally misconceived and misdirected. Also, the in Dr. Monga’s case (supra) was passed in the year 2015 after the repeal of MRTP Act which was challenged before the Hon’ble F Supreme Court and the Hon’ble Supreme Court passed its in 2018.