Under Section 30 the subject matter of F dispute can be: (i) the apportionment of the amount of compensation or any part thereof, (ii) the persons to whom the amount of compensation or any part thereof is payable. Though the expression employed in Section 18 is ‘the amount of compensation’ while the expression employed in Section G 30 is ‘the amount of compensation or any part thereof’, this distinction in legislative drafting is immaterial and insignificant and a dispute as to entitlement or apportionment of part of the compensation would also be covered by Section 18 of the Act on the principle that the whole includes a part too. Thus, H VINOD KUMAR & ORS. v. DISTRICT MAGISTRATE MAU & 405 ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] at the first blush, it seems that Section 30 overlaps Section 18 A in part; but as will be seen shortly hereinafter, it is not so. 24. Dr. G.H. Grant Vs. State of Bihar (supra) is a three-Judge Bench decision of this Court wherein the scheme of the Act by reference to the power vesting in the Collector to make a reference came up for the consideration of the Court. The B three-Judge Bench by a majority of 2:1 laid down the following principles : (i) There are two provisions in the Act under which the Collector can make a reference to the Court, namely, Section 18 and Section 30. The powers under the two C sections are distinct and may be invoked in contingencies which do not overlap. A person shown in that part of the award which relates to apportionment of compensation who is present either personally or through a representative or on whom notice is issued under Section 12(2), must, if he D does not accept the award, apply to the Collector to refer the matter to the Court under Section 18 within the time prescribed thereunder. But a person who has not appeared in the acquisition proceedings before the Collector may, if he is not served with notice of filing, raise a dispute as to apportionment or as to the persons to whom it is payable E and apply to the Court for a reference under Section 30, for determination of his right to compensation which may have existed before the award, or which may have devolved upon him since the award. For a reference under Section 30, no period of limitation is prescribed. F (ii) It is not predicated of the exercise of the power to make a reference under Section 30 that the Collector has not apportioned the compensation money by his award. (iii) The award made by the Collector under Section 11 is not the source of the right to compensation. An award is G strictly speaking only an offer made by the Government to the person interested in the land notified for acquisition; the person interested is not bound to accept it and the Government can also withdraw the acquisition u/s 48. It is only when possession of the land has been taken by the H 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.