We further fi nd the eyewitness testimony to also be rendered questionable, since the weapons, which the accused were holding, and were subsequently recovered at their instance, do not correspond to the injuries found on the body of the deceased, as borne out from the cross-examination of PW1, reproduced supra. 25. The next aspect is the recovery of the alleged weapons, we have noted the particulars thereof while discussing the fi ndings of the Trial Court. Such recoveries were discarded by the trial court stating that the clubs were recovered from a place accessible to the public and, the chopper and the rods were recovered from a house where other persons were also residing which compromises the sanctity of such recovery and takes away from the veracity thereof. 26. Further discovery made, to be one satisfying the requirements of Section 27, Indian Evidence Act it must be a fact that is discovered as a consequence of information received from a person in custody. The conditions have been discussed by the Privy Council in Pulukuri Kotayya v. King Emperor38 and the position was reiterated by this Court in Mohd. Inayatullah v. State of Maharashtra39, in the following terms:- “12…It will be seen that the fi rst condition necessary for bringing this section into operation is the discovery of a fact, albeit a relevant fact, in consequence of the information received from a person accused of an off ence. The second is that the discovery of such fact must be deposed to. The third is that at the time of the receipt of the information the accused must be in police custody. The last but the 38 1946 SCC OnLine PC 47 39 (1976) 1 SCC 828 MANJUNATH & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 757 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] most important condition is that only “so much of the information” as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered is admissible. The rest of the information has to be excluded. The word “distinctly” means “directly”, “indubitably”, “strictly”, “unmistakably”. The word has been advisedly used to limit and defi ne the scope of the provable information. The phrase “distinctly relates to the fact thereby discovered” is the linchpin of the provision. This phrase refers to that part of the information supplied by the accused which is the direct and immediate cause of the discovery…” (Emphasis supplied) 27. Prima facie, in the present facts, the 3 conditions above appear to be met. However, the Trial Court held, given that the discoveries made were either from a public place or from an area where other persons also resided, reliance thereupon, could not be made. We fi nd this approach of the trial court to be correct. 27.1 This court has, in various s, clarifi ed this position. Illustratively, in Jaikam Khan v. State of U.P40 it was observed: – “One of the alleged recoveries is from the room where deceased Asgari used to sleep. The other two recoveries are from open fi eld, just behind the house of deceased Shaukeen Khan i.e.