G As discussed in preceding paragraphs, such conditions can lawfully be stipulated in light of the overall scheme of the 1910 Act and the 1948 Act. Such terms and conditions stipulated in accordance with Section 49 of the 1948 Act have a statutory character. H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 751 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 247. On 23 July 2002, the High Court passed an confirming A the sale in favour of the appellant on the terms and conditions mentioned in the . The terms and conditions of the auction sale show that the property was sold on an “as is where is” basis to the appellant. The appellant has relied on Condition 10 to argue that it was only liable to pay charges accrued after the date of winding up . It has been further B averred by the appellant that the arrears are for a period before the date of winding up , which is 10 August 1998. The facts of the case make it evident that the appellant requested supply of electricity by a letter dated 12 August 2002. In the present case, the payment of electricity dues, being statutory in nature, cannot be waived. The auction conditions are subservient to the statutory demand made under Condition 2(j) of C the Conditions of Supply. Therefore, we uphold the impugned of the High Court. 248. Before parting, we would like to highlight that by an dated 18 November 2011, this Court directed the appellant to deposit Rs. 25 lakhs with the respondent and secure the balance principal amount D by giving a bank guarantee of a nationalised bank in the name of the respondent within a period of eight weeks from the date of the to obtain a fresh electricity connection. The relevant part of the said is reproduced below: “The principal amount claimed by Paschim Gujarat Vij Company E Limited is to the tune of Rs. 1.26 crores. The applicant-petitioner has applied for grant of fresh electricity connection which is being denied on the ground that arrears, referred to above, have not been paid by the previous owner [consumer]. The petitioner is an auction purchaser. Pending further s, we direct the petitioner F to deposit Rs. 25 lakhs with Respondent No. 1 and secure balance principal amount by giving a Bank Guarantee of a Nationalised Bank in the name of Paschim Gujarat Vij Company Limited - Respondent No. 1 within a period of eight weeks from today, without prejudice to their rights and contentions. Upon compliance of above conditions, electricity connection shall be granted.” G 249. This Court has been informed that the appellant chose not to get the fresh connection in terms as set out by this Court. Through an Interlocutory Application, the appellant has indicated that it is impossible for them to pay the total accumulated dues amounting to Rs. 578 lakhs with interest and other charges. Therefore, the appellant seeks the benefit H 752 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.