15. An identical question came to be considered by the Bombay High Court in the case of Eskays Construction Pvt. Ltd. (supra). Before H M/S SIDHA NEELKANTH PAPER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. 569 PRUDENT ARC LIMITED & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] the Bombay High Court, it was the case on behalf of the borrower that A though as per Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act, no appeal filed by the borrower can be entertained by the DRAT unless the borrower deposits with the DRAT 50% of the amount of “debt due” from him, as claimed by the secured creditor or as determined by the DRT, whichever is less, however, that does not mean that in a case where the properties of the B borrower are sold and the entire dues of the bank are recovered from that sale, the borrower still has to deposit 50% as contemplated under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act. While negativing the said submission, the Bombay High Court considered the purpose and object of the SARFAESI Act in paragraph 14 as under: C “14. We have heard the learned counsel for the parties at length and perused the papers and proceedings in the Writ Petition along with the annexures thereto. Before we deal with the rival contentions, it would be necessary to set out the purpose and object for which the SARFAESI Act was brought into force. The statements of object and reasons of the SARFAESI Act indicate D that the financial sector, being one of the key drivers in India’s efforts to achieve success in rapidly developing its economy, did not have a level playing field as compared to other participants in the financial markets of the world. There was no legal provision for facilitating securitisation of financial assets of banks and E financial institutions, and unlike international banks, the banks and financial institutions in India did not have the power to take possession of securities and sell them. The Legislature felt that our existing legal framework had not kept pace with the changing commercial practices and financial sector reforms, which resulted in delays in recovery of defaulting loans. This in turn had the F effect of mounting levels of non-performing assets of banks and financial institutions. In to bring the Indian Banking Sector on par with International Standards, the Government set up two Narasimhan Committees and the Andhyarujina Committee for the purposes of examining banking sector reforms. These Committees G inter alia suggested enactment of a new legislation for securitization and empowering banks and financial institutions to take possession of the securities and to sell them without the intervention of the Court. Accepting these recommendations, the SARFAESI Act was brought into force w.e.f. 21-06-2002. There have been several amendments to the SARFAESI Act, the latest being an amendment H 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of 2016 that received the assent of the President on 12 August, 2016 and was published in the Official Gazette dated 16 August, 2016. It is called the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Act, 2016.