….Generally speaking, however, be it noted that the issue G of grant of injunction is to be looked at from the point of view as to whether on refusal of the injunction, the plaintiff would suffer irreparable loss of injury keeping in view the strength of the parties’ case. Balance of convenience or inconvenience is also another requirement but no fixed rules or notions ought to be had in the H 1170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A matter of grant of injunction and the relief being always flexible depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case. The justice of the situation ought to be the guiding factor …..” 21.4. In Surya Nath Singh (supra), this Court held that though the grant of injunction was a matter of discretion, the same must be on B settled principles of law to advance the cause of justice; and it is subject to correction by the Appellate Court. This Court said: - “2.…..Though the grant of injunction is discretionary, the same must be exercised on settled principles of law to advance the cause of justice. It is subject to correction by the appellate C court….” 21.5. In the case of Dunlop India Ltd. (supra), though expositing in relation to the matters of public revenue, this Court explained the requirements of due consideration of the questions relating to balance of convenience and irreparable injury in the following terms: - D “5. We repeat and deprecate the practice of granting interim which practically give the principal relief sought in the petition for no better reason than that a prima facie case has been made out, without being concerned about the balance of convenience, the public interest and a host of other relevant considerations. …..…..There are, of course, cases which demand that interim E s should be made in the interests of justice. Where gross violations of the law and injustices are perpetrated or are about to be perpetrated, it is the bounden duty of the court to intervene and give appropriate interim relief. In cases where denial of interim relief may lead to public mischief, grave irreparable private injury F or shake a citizen’s faith in the impartiality of public administration, a court may well be justified in granting interim relief against public authority. But since the law presumes that public authorities function properly and bona fide with due regard to the public interest, a court must be circumspect in granting interim s of far-reaching dimensions or s causing administrative, G burdensome inconvenience or s preventing collection of public revenue for no better reason than that the parties have come to the court alleging prejudice, inconvenience or harm and that a prima facie case has been shown. There can be and there are no hard and fast rules. But prudence, discretion and circumspection H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1171 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] are called for. There are several other vital considerations apart A from the existence of a prima facie case.