The property of the waqf, we must remind ourselves, in law vests in the Almighty. D The Mutawalli acts merely as the manager. For the purposes of Section 10 of the Limitation Act, no doubt, he is treated as a trustee. A plea of adverse possession undoubtedly requires the requisite intention, viz., animus possidendi. This is besides actual possession for the required period. Does the beneficiary occupy a fiduciary capacity qua the waqf property, which would prevent him from advancing a claim of adverse E possession? What in the context do the words ‘fiduciary capacity’ convey? A beneficiary would be entitled to receive benefits in terms of the waqf deed. Does he have any obligation in regard to the waqf property? Is there a duty in other words which he must perform by virtue of the fact that he is constituted a beneficiary under the waqf? Is the assertion of F hostile title, an indispensable requirement to constitute adverse possession irreconcilable and incompatible with the position of the beneficiary? In the case of adverse possession, since a requirement is that the possession must be hostile to the real owner and since the real owner is the Almighty, the requirement would be that such a person must has the necessary animus to hold contrary to the title of God. In the case of a co-owner G while mere assertion of title in himself may hardly suffice as the possession of a co-owner is taken to be possession on behalf of all co- owners a case of ouster being successfully established would entitle the co-owner to succeed. H 984 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 57. We may notice the following statement from Mulla on “Principles of Mohammadan Law” (22nd Edition): “207. Power of mutawalli to sell or mortgage. A mutawalli has no power, without the permission of the Court, to mortgage, sell or exchange waqf property or any part thereof, unless he is expressly B empowered by the deed of waqf to do so.” 58. The learned Author thereafter refers to Section 51(1) of the Act under which a sale could no doubt be effected after obtaining prior sanction of the Board. The change brought about by the Amending Act of 2013 by the insertion of sub-section (1A) in Section 51 of the Act by C which a sale inter alia has been declared void is also noticed. The embargo against sale unless it is expressly authorised by the waqf deed is dealt with under the caption “Unauthorised alienation and limitation” and it reads as follows: “the law as regards the period of limitation for a suit to follow waqf property in the hands of a mutawalli and to set aside D unauthorized transfers of such property, and to recover possession thereof from the transferee, was amended and altered by Act 1 of 1929. The amendments consist of an addition of para 2 to s. 10 of the original Act (Limitation Act, 1908), and of the insertion of new articles, being Arts.