[2023] 10 S.C.R. 1083 : 2023 INSC 621 1083 MATHEW ALEXANDER A v. MOHAMMED SHAFI AND ANR. (Criminal Appeal No. 1931 of 2023) JULY 13, 2023 B [B. V. NAGARATHNA AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 : s. 482 – Quashing of final report – Motor accident matter – Rash and negligent driving C – Appellant’s son was driving a car which collided with the gas tanker lorry – Death of appellant’s son and five others travelling in the car – Claim petition by the respondent no. 1 and the legal representative of the deceased passengers – Claim petition also filed by the appellant against the driver and the insurer of the tanker lorry, and against the owner – FIR against the appellant’s son u/s. D 279 and 304 A, however, abatement of charges against him on his death – Submission of the final report by police that the incident was an unavoidable accident, not attributable to negligence on the part of the appellant’s son – Two years later, petition u/s. 482 by the respondent no. 1 for quashing of the final report – High Court E quashed the final report – On appeal, held : Opinions expressed by the High Court which are in the nature of findings while considering the correctness of the final report and thereby quashing the same was, not a correct and proper approach adopted by the High Court – passed by the High Court is set aside – Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 279, 304 A. F Motor Vehicles Act, 1988: Motor accident – Claim for compensation – Negligence – Burden of proof – Held : Motor accident matter has to be considered on the basis of preponderance of the possibilities and not on the basis of proof beyond reasonable doubt – On facts, in a claim petition by the appellant alleging G negligence on part of the driver of the tanker lorry and the pick up van in causing the accident resulting in the death of his son and five others travelling with him, alleged negligence on the part of the driver of the tanker lorry and pickup van in causing the accident has to be proved – It was for the appellant to establish negligence H 1083 1084 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A on the part of the driver of the tanker lorry – Opinion in the final report that the incident was an unavoidable accident, not attributable to negligence on the part of the appellant’s son, would not have a bearing on the petition – In the claim petitions filed by the dependents of the other deceased passengers, they have to similarly establish the negligence in accordance with law. B Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The High Court made observations which are in the nature of findings while considering the correctness or otherwise of the final report impugned before the High Court. C Further, the observations of the High Court to the effect that the car driven by the appellant’s son, was being driven rashly; that the car had gone astray to the wrong side; that the possibility that the driver of the car had driven the car after consuming alcohol cannot be ruled out; that rashness and negligence on the part of the driver of the car is patent and that this is a clear case D in which the principle of res ispa loquitor applies, are in the nature of findings which were wholly unnecessary to be made while considering the correctness or otherwise of the final report submitted on further investigation of the case.