The court noted that Heading 33.04 of CETA (dealing with beauty or make-up preparations and preparations for skin care) specifically excluded medicaments and medicinal preparations used to treat certain complaints, meant to be under Heading 30.03 (medicaments) or 30.04 (products containing pharmaceutical substances used for the medical, surgical, dental E or veterinary purpose). This court held that the product is a medicament classifiable under Heading 30.03 (medicament) and not a cosmetic preparation. 44. In Wockhardt Life Sciences Ltd (supra) the products were an “Iodine Cleansing Solution USP” and “Wokadine Surgical F Scrub”. This court rejected the revenue’s argument that they were cosmetics, and held that products, comprising two or more constituents which were compounded together either for therapeutic or prophylactic uses, were”Medicaments”. The products in question were primarily used for the external treatment of human-beings for the purpose of prevention G of disease. The court said that Medicaments are products which can be used either for therapeutic or prophylactic usage. As the productswerebasically and primarily used for prophylactic uses, their 25[2005] 4 SCC 15 H 26[1996] 9 SCC 413 HEINZ INDIA LIMITED v. THE STATE OF KERALA 451 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] classification was proper under chapter sub-heading 3402.90 and, the A classification under chapter sub-heading 3003 was not correct. 45. In Pappu Sweets and Biscuits (supra), the issue was whether “toffees” were “sweetmeats” in the context of an exemption notification. The court ruled that having regard to the object of the notification and the application of the common parlance test, the term “sweetmeats” B had to be seen in the context, as confections available in sweetmeat shops and that toffees were not products to be found in such premises, as they were produced on an industrial scale.InPuma Ayurvedic Herbal,several products were considered, of which neem facial pack (Neemal), anti-pimple herbal powder (Pimplex), herbal facial pack C (Herbaucare), herbal remedy for facial blemishes, hair tonic powder (Sukeshi), anti-dandruff oil (Dandika), shishurakshantelandneem tulsiwere held to be medicinal whereas other products were cosmetic.InMuller & Phipps (India) Ltd (supra), the product was Johnson’s prickly heat powder. The revenue contended that it was a cosmetic falling under Chapter 33, CETA; the assessee contended that it was a drug or D medication, under Chapter 30. This court went by the official opinion of the drug administration (“when throughout the meaning given to products in question not only by the department itself but also by other departments like Drug Controller and the Central Sales Tax authorities is that the product in question is a medicinal preparation E should be accepted”). Also, the HSN classification was largely influential in the outcome of the case. 46. In Ponds India Ltd.(supra), the question was whether petroleum jelly, under the brand “Vaseline” was held to be a drug, as it was used for various skin diss, and not a cosmetic, as contended F by the state. This court noted the previous litigation history and ruled that the consistent classification of the same product, for a number of years, was as a drug, and not a cosmetic, and the revenue’s conduct in trying to change the classification without any reason, was unjustified.