It is thus an established fact that both were similarly situated. E Thereafter, nothing appears to have happened which may justify the differential treatment. Thus, the Corporation cannot put forth financial loss as a ground only with regard to a limited category of employees. It cannot be said that the Corporation is financially sound insofar as granting of revised pay scales to other employees is concerned, but finds financial constraints only when it comes to F dealing with the respondents who are similarly placed in the same category….” 14.4. In the case of Punjab State Cooperative Agricultural Development Bank Ltd. (supra), this Court held that non-availability of financial resources could not be a defence by an agency or instrumentality G of the Government in taking away vested right accrued to the employees. This Court said as follows: - “57. In our view, non-availability of financial resources would not be a defence available to the appellant Bank in taking away the vested rights accrued to the employees that too when it is for H 1074 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A their socio-economic security. It is an assurance that in their old age, their periodical payment towards pension shall remain assured. The pension which is being paid to them is not a bounty and it is for the appellant to divert the resources from where the funds can be made available to fulfil the rights of the employees in protecting the vested rights accrued in their favour.” B 15. A close look at the decisions aforesaid makes it clear that the principles therein, though hardly requiring reiteration, are not of any application to the present case. 15.1. It is evident that in all such cases where this Court frowned C upon denial of pension, the right to receive the same was found flowing from the applicable rules and the service conditions. The said decisions cannot be weighed to mean that pension is required to be granted as a matter of right even if prescription to the contrary is found in the rules and/or service conditions. 15.2. In the present case, it remains indisputable that the D Regulations of 1960 governing the service conditions of the employees of the Board specifically contain the stipulation in Regulation 52 that they shall not be entitled to pension. The cited decisions on behalf of the respondents cannot be read as overriding the said Regulation 52. 15.3. So far as the questions relating to financial constraints are E concerned, true it is that in the communications exchanged between the Board and the Government as also in the decisions communicated, financial constraints had also been indicated on behalf of the State Government as being one of the reasons for not acceding to the request for retrospective amendment of Regulation 52. The question is as to F whether the Government could not have at all referred to the financial constraints as one of the reasons for not acceding to such a prayer for amendment. 15.4. In our view, a reference to financial constraints by the Government while denying the prayer for retrospective amendment of G Regulation 52 cannot be disapproved with reference to the decisions aforesaid.