The lease deed may be G executed in favour of such transferee for the remaining period of lease may be executed in favour of such transferee for the remaining period of lease. The transferee shall pay 50% excess amount of the yearly lease rent mentioned in rule 5 on such transfer. H 246 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (iii) Provide also that in case an industrial plot is proposed to be divided or sub-divided for any purpose, whatsoever, prior permission of the State Government in the Revenue Department shall be obtained by the allotting authority. (iiia) Provide also that if any industrial plot is divided or sub- B divided without obtaining prior permission of the State Government, the lessee shall apply for permission of division or sub-division to the allotting authority along with a copy of the challan depositing an amount of Rs.3000/-. The allotting authority, with prior approval of the State Government, may regularise the division or sub-division. C (iv) Provide also that, in case of sick unit as per RBI guidelines, the lessee with the prior permission of the State Government, may transfer his right or interest in the leased land sub- divided under the above proviso on the following conditions:- (a) That NOC from Financial Institutions/Bank shall be D obtained, in case land is mortgaged. (b) that the conditions of lease shall remain unchanged. (c) that the transferee shall pay additional 100 percent excess amount of the proportionate yearly lease rent E applicable from the date of transfer of right or interest in leased land. (d) that the transferee shall use the land for the industrial purpose only. (e) that in case of government land allotted under these F rules, the transferee shall pay 50% of prevailing market price of land after deducting allotment price charged under rule 3A. (v) Provided also that no permission of transfer under the above proviso, shall be allowed in case of a Government land unless G the unit is declared sick by Board of Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR). (vi) Provided also that in case of any doubt of any kind the allotting authority shall refer the matter to the State Government in the Revenue Department whose decision H shall be final. BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 247 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] Provided also that the developer of micro, small and medium A enterprises clusters, as per approved plan, may transfer his right or interest in the whole land, so leased out to entrepreneurs. The conditions of lease remaining unchanged. The transferee shall pay 50% excess amount of the yearly lease rent mentioned in rule 5 on such transfer.” B 7. The first lease deed of 11.08.1967 which governed the terms and conditions of allotment of land to JKSL, contained, amongst others, the following conditions:- “xxx xxx xxx C NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS: … iv) The lessee shall set up on the said plot of land Nylon industry for which land has been leased to him by the lessor within a period of two years from the date of talking over the possession of the D land as above mentioned and in case of his failure to do so the said plot shall revert to the lessor unless the period of two years is extended by the lessor on valid grounds.