The said price should not be subject to any condition or consideration that could prevent the value from being determined under Rule 4(1). Where the Department has reason to doubt the truth or accuracy of a declared value, it may ask the importer to provide further explanation to the eff ect that the declared value represents the total amount actually paid or payable for the imported goods. If the declared value is lower than the declared value of similar goods imported by other buyers at or about the same time, it can constitute “reason to doubt” the truth or accuracy of the declared value indicated in the commercial invoice (see Rule 10-A). Under Rule 8(2)(i) no value shall be determined based on the selling price of the goods produced in India. In cases where the Department fails to establish circumstances mentioned in Rule 4(2), the transaction value declared by the assessee cannot be rejected and the price mentioned in the invoice should be held to represent the transaction value. 39. The dispute involved in South India Television (P) Ltd. (supra), was as regards the assessable value of ceramic capacitors and diodes imported by the importer from the foreign supplier at Hongkong. The price declared by the importer was not accepted by the customs authority on the basis of overseas investigation report whereafter Rule 8 of the Customs Valuation Rules was invoked. This court examined and analysed Section 2(41) and Section 14(1) of the Customs Act in the following manner: 10. We do not fi nd any merit in this civil appeal for the following reasons. Value is derived from the price. Value is the function of the price. This is the conceptual meaning of value. Under Section 2(41), “value” is defi ned to mean value determined in accordance with Section 14(1) of the Act. Section 14 of the Customs Act, 1962 is the sole repository of law governing valuation of goods. The Customs Valuation Rules, 1988 have been framed only in respect of imported goods. There are no rules governing the valuation of export goods. That must be done based on Section 14 itself. In the present case, the Department has charged the respondent importer alleging misdeclaration regarding 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the price. There is no allegation of misdeclaration in the context of the description of the goods. In the present case, the allegation is of under invoicing. The charge of under invoicing has to be supported by evidence of prices of contemporaneous imports of like goods. It is for the Department to prove that the apparent is not the real. Under Section 2(41) of the Customs Act, the word “value” is defi ned in relation to any goods to mean the value determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 14(1). The value to be declared in the bill of entry is the value referred to above and not merely the invoice price. 11. On a plain reading of Section 14(1) and Section 14(1-A), it envisages that the value of any goods chargeable to ad valorem duty has to be the deemed price as referred to in Section 14(1).