In addition, a copy of the shall also be forwarded to IBBI for its records. Further, the IRP above C named be also furnished with copy of this forthwith by the Registry, who will also communicate the initiation of the CIRP in relation to the Corporate Debtor to the Registrar of Companies concerned.” CoC Meetings and ancillary proceedings D 12. CIRP in relation to the corporate debtor having thus been initiated, various steps were taken in terms of the requirements of the Code and the CIRP Regulations, including the meetings of CoC which ultimately led to the approval of the resolution plan in question. Some of those steps carry their own relevance in these appeals in view of the E issues raised by the parties. We may briefly take note of the relevant steps/proceedings in their feasible chronology as follows: 12.1. Pursuant to the initiation of CIRP, IRP issued a public announcement in Form A on 08.05.2020 inviting claims from various stakeholders in the corporate debtor. Further, for conducting the first F meeting of the committee of creditors on 22.06.2020, IRP issued a notice on 18.06.2020. The said meeting was attended by all the members of the CoC including the promoter and erstwhile director of the corporate debtor. 12.2. In the second CoC meeting conducted on 06.08.2020, the G proposal of IRP in relation to information memorandum and to seek EOI by publication of Form G was approved. Two sets of valuators were engaged as registered valuators by IRP for all the three categories of assets, being Mr. Vikas Agarwal, Mr. Anil Kumar Saxena and Mr. Anubhav Aggarwal (one set); and Future Value Advisors India (P) Ltd, H 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A a registered valuer entity registered with the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India18. Their fees were also approved by the CoC. 12.3. On or about 17.08.2020, the IRP published Form G under Regulation 36A of the CIRP Regulations, inviting expression of interest from prospective resolution applicants to submit resolution plans. B 12.4. Thereafter, in the third CoC meeting held on 04.09.2020, a resolution was adopted to appoint Mr. Radhakrishnan Dharmarajan as the resolution professional. It was in the same meeting that the list of fifteen EOIs received from the prospective resolution applicants and placed by IRP, was approved by CoC. It was further informed to CoC in C the said meeting by IRP that the valuation was in process and the valuers may visit the premises of corporate debtor. On 26.09.2020, the IRP published the final list of prospective resolution applicants. It may be observed in this regard that pursuant to publication of provisional list and upon preliminary scrutiny, thirteen of the EOIs received were initially found eligible, of which, one had withdrawn and the other namely, Sri D Balaji Vidyapeeth (of which the successful resolution applicant was the managing trustee), was declared ineligible since a charitable trust cannot run a profit-making entity. Hence, the final list of eleven prospective resolution applicants was submitted before the CoC on 26.09.2020.