The appointment of the Vice-Chancellor can only be done in accordance with the procedure as laid therein and the central legislation fully occupies the issue. j. The reappointment was based on the request of the State Government and not on any independent evaluation. Such a request is wholly unwarranted as the State Government has no say in the appointment or reappointment of the Vice-Chancellor. k. The initial appointment of the respondent No. 4 as the Vice- Chancellor was also contrary to the provisions of the UGC Regulations 2010 more particularly Clause 7.3, which stipulates that the appointment shall be made after following the due process of identifi cation of 3 to 5 names by the Search-cum-Selection DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 399 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Committee. However, the minutes of the Search-cum-Selection Committee dated 20.11.2017 indicates that only one single name, i.e., the name of respondent No. 4, was recommended. Hence, the initial appointment itself being void ab initio, the reappointment is also void. 14. With a view to fortify the aforesaid submissions the learned Senior Counsel placed reliance on the following decisions: (i) S.P. Gupta v. Union of India (First Judges Case), 1981 Supp SCC 87, (ii) State of West Bengal v. Anindya Sundar Das, 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1382, (iii) State of Himachal Pradesh v. Kailash Chand Mahajan, 1992 Supp (2) SCC 351, (iv) Gambhirdan K. Gadhvi v. State of Gujarat, (2022) 5 SCC 179, (v) Professor (Dr.) Sreejith P.S. v. Dr. Rajasree M.S., 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1473, (vi) D r. L.P. Agarwal v. Union of India and Others, (1992) 3 SCC 526, (vii) Dept. of Commerce v. US House of Representatives, 1999 SCC OnLine US SC 10, 15. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned Senior Counsel prayed that there being merit in the appeal, the same may be allowed and the Notifi cation reappointing the respondent No. 4 as the Vice-Chancellor of the Kannur University be set aside. E. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF RESPONDENT NO. 2 - THE STATE OF KERALA 16. Mr. K.K. Venugopal, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the State of Kerala made the following submissions: a. The seminal issue which arises in the present case is the confl ict between the provisions of the UGC Regulations, which is a subordinate legislation made under Section 26(1)(e) and (g) 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. respectively of the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 (‘UGC Act’), and the State laws made under Entry 25 of List III dealing with education. b. The UGC Regulations make express provisions for the manner in which a selection has to be made for the appointment of a Vice-Chancellor through a Search-cum-Selection Committee consisting of persons of eminence in the sphere of higher education and who are not connected in any manner with the University concerned or its colleges. The Visitor/Chancellor shall appoint the Vice-Chancellor out of the Panel of three-fi ve names recommended by the Search-cum-Selection Committee. c. The diff erent state laws made under Entry 25 of List III dealing with the same subject have provisions which give a dominant status to the State Governments, and do not provide for the identical procedure provided for by the UGC Regulations.