Lall & Ors., 2010 (4) SCC 256. 10. The rival contentions noted above were essentially the case put forth by the parties before the NCDRC since the facts referred to by the NCDRC in the impugned would refer to the same. In that background, at the outset, it would be apposite to note the conclusion reached by the NCDRC. The relevant portions read as hereunder; 968 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “Despite knowing the stand taken by the insurance company viz. the damage which took place during the term of the fi rst policy had not been reported to ABS, no eff ort was made by the complainant to produce any evidence from ABS before this Commission to prove that the aforesaid damage, including the fact that the crankshaft and connecting rods had not been replaced, was duly reported to them by the complainant. In these circumstances, it would be diffi cult for us to reject the report of the surveyor, who specifi cally stated that he had met the Principal Surveyor Mr. Ashok and Country Manager, Mr. R.C. Bhavnani of ABS to enquire whether they were informed of the damage to the port main engine of the vessel, which had occurred on 22.02.2006 and the temporary repairs carried out as per their recommendations and they were quite surprised to learn about such serious damage to the port main engine of the vessel. According to Mr. Basheer they clearly told him that they were not aware of the aforesaid damage nor had the owner of the vessel intimated any such incident to them. They also told the surveyor that when they had inspected the vessel, no damage to the port main engine had been reported to them. Mr. R.C. Bhavnani told the surveyor that if a vessel sustains any damage to either HULL or machinery and the same is not reported to them, then the Class was deemed to be automatically suspended. Reliance in this regard was placed on the rules of the ABS and relevant rule has been extracted in the report of the surveyor and reproduced hereinabove.” “There is no dispute that the vessel was actually classed with ABS for the period from 30.03.2006 to 03.12.2006; the issue before us is that the aforesaid Classifi cation was obtained by concealing vital information with respect to the damage to the vessel, from the Classifi cation Society. We are therefore, satisfi ed that had the complainant disclosed to ABS that the vessel had met with a serious accident on 22.02.2006 and only temporary repairs to the port main engine had been carried out whereas the crankshaft and connecting rods were yet to be replaced, the requisite Class Certifi cate would not have been issued by the ABS in respect of the vessel in question. The Class Certifi cate obtained by the complainant, therefore, has to be excluded from consideration, the same having been obtained by concealment of material facts from the Classifi cation Society. Consequently, the vessel shall be deemed HIND OFFSHORE PVT.