When the levy of IGST on imported goods was treated like E the levy of BCD, there was no reason why the unconditional exemption of BCD granted to license holders under the scheme could not be extended to the IGST exemption available for goods imported under the same scheme. This differential treatment meted out to the IGST benefit when compared to the BCD exemption under the original Notification No. 18 / 2015-Customs was not justified and failed the test of F reasonable classification under Article 14 of the Constitution. There was no intelligible differentia between the two in denying the benefit for IGST while granting exemption for BCD. There was also no rationale behind the classification IGST and BCD for exemption, at par with the objectives under the scheme. G 35. Learned counsel for the respondents relied on Union of India (UOI) and Ors. vs. N.S. Rathnam & Sons23 which held that grant of different exemption based on unintelligible differentia between two categories of assesses for payment of customs duty was discriminatory and 23 2015 (8) SCR 751. H 208 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A unreasonable. Learned counsel also cited MRF Ltd., Kottayam v. Asst. Commissioner (Assessment) Sales Tax & Ors.24 to submit that imposing the ‘pre-import’ stipulation in respect of two levies was arbitrary and unreasonable. 36. Reliance was also placed upon the decision of this court in the B case of Vasu Dev Singh v. Union of India25, for the proposition that the nature of delegated legislation could be broadly classified as rule- making power and grant of exemption from the operation of a statute. In the latter category, the scope of judicial review would be wider as the statutory authority while exercising its statutory power must show that the same had not only been done within the four corners thereof but C otherwise fulfilled the criteria laid down by this court in P. J. Irani v. State of Madras26. The court held that if by a notification, the Act was effaced, it was liable to be struck down. 37. It was submitted that the entire AA scheme was effaced by virtue of the ‘pre-import condition’ and therefore, such condition was D required to be struck down. Reliance was placed upon Laxmi Khandsari (supra), where the court held that in imposing restrictions, the State ought to adopt an objective standard amounting to social control by restricting the rights of the citizens ·where the necessities of the situation demand. When the validity of a law placing E restrictions upon the exercise of fundamental rights in Article 19(1)(g) is challenged, the onus of proving to the satisfaction of the court that the restriction is reasonable lies upon the State. It was submitted that this is not a case of first-time exemption. As the Union sought to place restrictions, it had to show that the conditions were remedial and necessary. It was hence contended that as there was no rationale behind F introducing the ‘pre-import condition’ (which had no nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the AA scheme), it violated Article 19(1) (g) of the Constitution, and was accordingly set aside.