The appeal under Section 374 is essentially against the of conviction because the of sentence is merely consequential thereto; albeit even the of sentence can be independently challenged if it is harsh and disproportionate to the established guilt. Therefore, when an appeal is preferred under Section 374 of the Code the appeal is against both the conviction and sentence and therefore, we see no reason to place a narrow interpretation on Section 389(1) of the Code not to extend it to an of conviction, although that issue in the instant case AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 993 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] recedes to the background because High Courts can exercise inherent jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code if the power was not to be found in Section 389(1) of the Code. We are, therefore, of the opinion that the Division Bench of the High Court of Bombay was not right in holding that the Delhi High Court could not have exercised jurisdiction under Section 482 of the Code if it was confronted with a situation of there being no other provision in the Code for staying the operation of the of conviction. In a fi t case if the High Court feels satisfi ed that the of conviction needs to be suspended or stayed so that the convicted person does not suff er from a certain disqualifi cation provided for in any other statute, it may exercise the power because otherwise the damage done cannot be undone; the disqualifi cation incurred by Section 267 of the Companies Act and given eff ect to cannot be undone at a subsequent date if the conviction is set aside by the Appellate Court. But while granting a stay of (sic or) suspension of the of conviction the Court must examine the pros and cons and if it feels satisfi ed that a case is made out for grant of such an , it may do so and in so doing it may, if it considers it appropriate, impose such conditions as are considered appropriate to protect the interest of the shareholders and the business of the company.” (emphasis supplied) 14. Navjot Singh Sidhu v. State of Punjab8, cited on behalf of the appellant, had the occasion to deal with an argument that in to maintain purity and probity in public bodies, criminalisation of politics has to be stopped and persons who have been convicted of any off ence should not be allowed to enter Parliament; and that irrespective of quantum of sentence, if a person is convicted for an off ence referred to in sub-section (1) of section 8 where the punishment imposed may only be a fi ne, a person will incur the disqualifi cation from the date of conviction which will remain for a period of 6 (six) years, thus evincing the intention of the framers of law that a convict should not enter the precincts of Parliament or the Legislature of a State. The contention raised was rejected holding that the RoP Act is a complete code providing not only the eligibility and qualifi cation for membership of the 8 (2007) 2 SCC 574 994 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.