In the latter case, it is necessary that the statute creates a special right or liability and provides procedure for the determination of the right or liability and further lays down that all questions about the said right or liability shall be determined by the tribunal so constituted and whether remedies are normally associated with the action in civil courts or prescribed by the statutes or not. Therefore, each case requires examination whether the statute provides right and remedies and whether the scheme of the Act is that the procedure provided will be conclusive and thereby excludes the jurisdiction of the civil court in respect thereof. After the advent of independence, land reforms was one of the policies of the Government abolishing feudal system of land tenures and conferment of the ryotwari patta on the tiller of the soil. Thereby, the land reform laws extinguish pre- existing rights and create new rights under the Act. The Act confers jurisdiction on the tribunals in matters relating thereto and hierarchy of appeals/revisions are provided thereunder giving fi nality to the s passed thereunder. Thereby, by necessary implication, the jurisdiction MUMTAZ YARUD DOWLA WAKF v. M/S BADAM 1005 BALAKRISHNA HOTEL PVT. LTD. & ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] of the civil court to take cognizance of the suits of civil nature covered under the land reform laws stands excluded giving not only fi nality to the decisions of the tribunal but also ensuring expeditious, inexpensive and simple procedure for disposal of the matters by the tribunal and make the ryotwari patta granted to the tiller of the soil conclusive. Under the normal course of civil procedure, the jurisdiction of the trial of the civil suits in relation to the matters covered under the Acts being time-consuming and tardy the lack of fi nancial support or otherwise incapacity in defending or working the rights in the civil courts and by hierarchy of appeals defeat justice. Obviously, therefore, the civil suits by necessary implication stand excluded unless the fundamental principles of procedure are not followed by the tribunals constituted under the land reform laws. In this case, the Act concerned extinguishes the pre-existing right, creates new rights under the Act and requires tribunals to enquire into the rival claims and a form of appeal has been provided against the of the primary authority. Thereby the right and remedy made conclusive under the Act are given fi nality by the s passed under the Act. Thereby, by necessary implication, the jurisdiction of the civil court stands excluded.” (emphasis supplied) 21. Every case is a journey towards truth. A procedural law, as repeatedly settled by this Court, is a handmaid of justice. There is an inherent sense of equity and fair play in the proceedings of the Court. When a lis is entertained it is the paramount duty of the Court to check on itself and satisfy the existence of jurisdiction, despite being not raised by the parties. Such an exercise would not only prevent injustice but will also take care of a party taking advantage of its own wrong.