7086- 7087 of 2009. From the and dated 02.05.2008 of the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad in CR Nos. 595 and 596 of 2003. H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 943 OTHERS Salman Khushid, Sr. Adv., Irshad Ahmad, Ms Lubna N, A Ms. Kamna Singh, Anurag Rawat, Shaik Mohd Haneef, Aman Khullar, Ms. Sommya Chaturvedi, Khan, Advs. for the Appellant. P.S. Patwalia, S.R. Singh, Sr Advs., Gaurav Agrawal, Ejaz Maqbool, Ms. Akriti Chaubey, Ms. Tanya Shree, Ms. Harshika Verma, Saif Zia, Syed Mohd. Muztaba, Pradeep Misra, Mangal Prasad, Prateek B Yadav, Prithavi Yadav, Mitr Rao, Gaurav, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by K. M. JOSEPH, J. 1. The Appeals are lodged against the passed by the High C Court of Allahabad in Civil Revision Nos. 595 and 596 of 2003. The Revisions, in turn, were directed against the passed by the Waqf Tribunal on an Appeal filed by the first respondent before us. The first respondent again, in turn, put in issue the passed by the Collector, Bulandshahar. The passed by the Collector was passed under Section 52(2) of the Waqf Act, 1995 (hereinafter referred to as the D ‘Act’). Finally, we must point out at this stage that the Collector was acting on the basis of a requisition given by the Controller of Waqf Board to obtain and deliver possession of the land in dispute to the Waqf Board. The requisition was made under Section 52(1) of the Act. 2. By the passed by the Tribunal, it had set aside the E passed by the Collector on various grounds. By the impugned passed by the High Court in the Revisions filed against the aforesaid by the appellants, the High Court has affirmed the passed by the Tribunal, however, on the ground that the first respondent, in the Appeals, had perfected title by adverse possession. F 3. We have heard Shri Salman Khurshid, learned Senior Counsel on behalf of the Appellant and Shri P.S. Patwalia, learned Senior Advocate on behalf of the first respondent and Shri S.R. Singh, learned Senior Advocate on behalf of the second respondent-the Assistant Survey Commissioner, Waqk, Bulandshehar and the fourth respondent-the G Collector, Wakf, Bulandshehar. FACTS 4. We begin by setting out the following genealogical chart: H 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A B C 5. Parties are Shia Muslims. Mohd. Akbar Ali khan purported to create a waqf-alal-aulad by a deed dated 26.07.1934. He appointed himself as a first Mutawalli. However, he purported to execute a sale deed in the year 1948 in respect of a tube well and some adjoining land. Qasim Ali Khan, one of the sons of Akbar Ali Khan, filed OS No. 1 of 1950 impugning the sale deed. The trial court decreed the said suit and D the decree was affirmed by the High Court by its rendered on 11.07.1962. The High Court in the course of its Judgement did hold that, Akbar Ali Khan had created a valid and effective waqf as required of a Shia Muslim which he was.