Likewise, sub-rule (2) mandates that input tax directly relating to sale of goods shall be deductible. On the other hand, sub- rule (3) covers those cases where input tax is not directly relatable to exempt goods and taxable goods. It is therefore, applied in those cases where input tax relating to both sale and taxable goods and exempt goods is known. In that situation, formula is given under this sub-rule to work out the partial deduction. The High Court has neither take note of nor discussed sub-rule (3). xxx xxx xxx 32. On literal interpretation of Section 17 it can be gathered that it does not distinguish between by-product, ancillary product, intermediary product or fi nal product. The expressions used are ‘goods’ and ‘sale’ of such goods is covered under Section 17. Both these ingredients stand satisfi ed as de-oiled cakes are goods and the respondent assessee had sold those goods for 8 (1993) Supp 4 SCC 536 9 (2015) 15 SCC 125 Civil Appeal Nos. 15049-15069/2017 valuable M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 771 COMMERCIAL TAX UP [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] consideration. We may point out there that the assessing authorities recorded a clear fi nding, which was accepted by the Tribunal as well, that records and statement of accounts of the respondent assessee clearly stipulates that after solvent extraction is completed, 88% of de-oiled cake remains and only 12% remains is the oil which is further refi ned in the refi nery. This clearly shows that major outcome (88%) of the solvent extraction plant is de-oiled cake which in itself is a marketable good having market value.” (Emphasis supplied) 57. In the case of M.K. Agro Tech (supra), this Court held that only partial ITC was permitted to the assessee as they were making taxable and exempted sales from the dutiable raw materials procured by them. In Para 28, this Court has elaborated on the scheme under the Karnataka VAT Act, to emphasise that the provision which allows partial rebate is made applicable on the ‘sales’ of taxable goods and goods exempt under Section 5. It refers to ‘sale’ of ‘goods’, taxable as well as exempt, and is not relatable to the ‘manufacture’ of the goods. Further elaboration has been made to hold that upon the ‘sale’ of goods exempted under Section 5 of the Karnataka VAT Act, partial rebate shall only be admissible. 58. This Court in the said case, permitted only partial ITC as the wordings of the provision relates only with ‘sale’ and not ‘manufacture. This distinction has also been acknowledged. 59. In such circumstances as aforesaid, we are of the view that the decision of M.K. Agro Tech (supra), is not applicable to the case on hand as the provisions under the Karnataka VAT Act are quite diff erent compared to that of the UP VAT Act in regard to the scheme of ITC. 60. Section 11 of the Karnataka VAT Act reads thus: “11. Input tax restrictions. – (a) Input tax shall not be deducted in calculating the net tax payable in respect of — tax paid on purchases attributable to sale of exempted goods exempted under Section 5, except when such goods are sold in the course of export out of the territory of India;” 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.