Such kind of procedural failure amounts to material irregularity F and goes to the root of the matter, making the plan void and non- est in law, as it is trite law that where the law permits a thing to be done in a particular manner if the same is not done in that manner, the same is non-est in the eyes of the law.” 19.6. As regards the issue of non-consideration of Section 12-A G IBC application of the promoter of the corporate debtor, the Appellate Tribunal observed that the consideration of settlement offer was essential and that the settlement offer could not have been rejected without consideration by the CoC. It was further held that CoC, in its commercial wisdom, had full liberty to either accept or reject the settlement offer H 832 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A but, consideration of the settlement offer was indispensable. In regard to this aspect, the Appellate Tribunal observed and held as under: - “140. Based on the pleadings of the parties, it is clear that the COC meeting was not called for consideration of the 12 A application. Since ‘Form FA’ has to be submitted only by the B Applicant Financial Creditor after the proposal floated by the promoters is considered, and only after the proposal has been accepted by 90% of the Committee of Creditors, the Applicant Financial Creditor has to file the proposal as per Form FA. Thus, it is clear that the Resolution Professional cannot disregard the proposal for conducting a meeting of C the CoC on such an untenable and superficial ground. 141. It appears that based on the settlement offer, the appellant sent a letter to the Financial Creditor Tourism Finance Corporation of India that an investor has expressed its willingness to infuse funds of 350 crores to settle the secured Financial Creditors in D full within 30 days. This amount will be deposited in the current account. Regarding the claims made by other Unsecured Financial Creditors, Operational Creditors, implies, and other stakeholders, it will be settled after discussion with them and out of the generation of funds from the company’s operation. In the circumstances, the E appellant requested to accept the settlement so that the 12 A application may be submitted before the NCLT. The term sheet of the Deutsche Bank was also annexed with the settlement offer. 142. It is also necessary to mention that when the appeal was filed, then on the 1st date of admission of the Appeal, i.e. 30 July 2021, the learned counsel for the appellant made a statement in F the court that the appellant would deposit ¹ 450 crores. Therefore, he requires 2 or 3 days. Since the total Resolution Plans amount was 423 crores, the Appellant contended that assets of the corporate debtor are worth over rupees for 1600 crores. It is also contended that the 12 A application was pending, but it was not G considered and voted. Considering all the situations and bona fides of the appellant, this Appellate Tribunal granted an interim stay on implementing the impugned .