Into this region have also come people from the Kashmir Valley, as settlers. Another interesting tribe in the area is the Gujjar tribe which leads a semi-nomadic life, moving its herds and fl ock from Jammu to Kashmir, depending on the weather of the local region. 6. An overwhelming majority of the people in the Valley professed Islam, which started its advent in the Valley during the 14th century, apart from the presence of the Kashmiri Pandits and the Sikh population. Both the Shia and Sunni sects fi nd their presence in the Muslim population.11 The State, in its pre-independence era, did not have historical boundaries in the same form as those of other princely States, but these disparate territories were brought under a single State only in the 19th century. The unifi ers vol. 1 (M.D. Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, 1994) 16. 8 P.N.K Bamzai, Culture and Political History of Kashmir: Ancient Kashmir, vol. 1 (M.D. Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, 1994) 1-2. 9 P.N.K Bamzai, Culture and Political History of Kashmir: Ancient Kashmir, vol. 1 (M.D. Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi, 1994) 10. 10 P.N.K Bamzai, Culture and Political History of Kashmir: Ancient Kashmir, vol. 1 (M.D. Publications Pvt. Ltd., New Delhi 1994) 10. 11 Walter R. Lawrence, The Valley of Kashmir (Oxford University Press 1895) 284, 296, 300, 302. 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. were a clan of Dogra Rajputs from Jammu, who conquered Ladakh in the 1830s and acquired the Valley of Kashmir from the British in the 1840s for a consideration of Rs.75 lakh, moving into the Gilgit area by the end of the century.12 7. The people of Kashmir have many resemblances in their dressing style, social customs and ceremonies, across followers of the two diff erent faiths. The sacred shrines of both the communities are situated close together and often fairs at these shrines are also held on the same date, with the participation of one community in the celebrations of the other.13 8. The State had dual capitals - Srinagar and Jammu, with the ‘Darbar’ moving from one place to the other for a period of six (6) months giving them political sanctity. Srinagar, in the Valley, stands on the banks of Vitasta, and its history dates back to the time of Asoka, who is credited with having founded it during his visit to Kashmir. In view of its numerous canals and the Dal Lake, it is aptly called the ‘Venice of the East’.14 9. Originally, the population of Kashmir is stated to be Brahmin, but with other sects namely, Nishads, Khashas, Darads, Bhauttas, Bhikshas, Damaras, Tantrins, etc, also prevalent.15 This was prior to the advent of Islam in the 14th century, when the Zoji-la Pass acted as a route for successful invasions of Kashmir. The early 14th century saw the forays of the Turk Dulca and Bhautta Rincana. About two centuries later, Mirza Haider Dughlat, with his small Mughal force, successfully fought his entrance into Kashmir, in 1533 AD.16 Interaction, however, was not restricted to these invasions.