This evolves the principle that a non-signatory party could be subjected to arbitration provided these transactions were with group of companies and there was a clear intention of the parties to bind 67 SukanRya Holdings v. Jayesh H Pandya (2003) 5 SCC 531 [2003 INSC 230]. 68 Indowind Energy Ltd v. Wescare (India) Ltd (2010) 5 SCC 306 [2010 INSC 246]. 69 Chloro Controls (supra), para 71. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 735 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] both, the signatory as well as the non-signatory parties. In other words, “intention of the parties” is a very signifi cant feature which must be established before the scope of arbitration can be said to include the signatory as well as the non-signatory parties. 73. A non-signatory or third party could be subjected to arbitration without their prior consent, but this would only be in exceptional cases. The court will examine these exceptions from the touchstone of direct relationship to the party signatory to the arbitration agreement, direct commonality of the subject-matter and the agreement between the parties being a composite transaction. The transaction should be of a composite nature where performance of the mother agreement may not be feasible without aid, execution and performance of the supplementary or ancillary agreements, for achieving the common object and collectively having bearing on the dispute...” (emphasis supplied) 39. In his opinion, the learned Chief Justice has considered the concern of Justice Surya Kant about an apparent contradiction between the above-referred paragraphs 72 and 73, and has correctly reconciled the two paragraphs. I am in agreement with the same. 40. In this context, it is critical to emphasize that the Court in Chloro Controls was interpreting Section 45, in Part II of the Act, in particular, the phrase “claiming through or under”. The conclusion to include non- signatories to the arbitration agreement pivoted on their derivative claim to being a party to the arbitration agreement. The Group of Companies doctrine thus found recognition in the interpretation of the phrases of Section 45 of the Act. Further, for the derivative action to pass muster, “a clear intention” of the signatories and non-signatories had to be ascertained, through the circumstances delineated by the Court, i.e., i) direct relationship with the party to the agreement, ii) commonality of subject matter, iii) composite nature of transaction, and iv) interlinked performance of the contract. 41. In 2015, the Law Commission of India’s 246th Report acknowledged this interpretation of Section 45 to the Act. In the pursuant amendments, Section 8 in Part I of the Act was amended to mirror the language of Section 736 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 45;70 thus, parties in domestic arbitrations could also petition for reference to arbitration in a derivative capacity. 42. We will now examine the application of the Group of Companies doctrine in the subsequent cases. In Duro Felguera, S.A. v. Gangavaram Port Ltd,71 the application of the doctrine as recognised in Chloro Controls (supra) was not applied on the facts of that case.