P-37 Panchnama, nothing was found. However, a later search with the aid of Brijesh Yadav led to the seizure of two mobile phones from a trunk in one of the rooms of Om Prakash Yadav’s house. As to why these phones were not found during the fi rst search is not explained. That apart, Shaival @ Bambam (PW-9), a witness to the seizure of the phones, claimed that there were no SIM cards in the mobiles but candidly admitted that they did not open the mobiles and look inside. He said that they did not try to operate the mobiles or see the numbers inside and that both the phones were turned off . The self-contradictory deposition of this witness does not aid the dubious investigative process adopted by the police. As regards the call data and the ransom calls, we may note that Santosh Jadhav, Assistant Nodal Offi cer, Reliance Communication, was examined as PW-17 and spoke of the call data of mobile number 8305620342 from which the ransom calls were made. According to him, the SIM card with the said mobile number was given to one Bhuraji, son of Deepu, whose address was House No. 433, Sanjay Gandhi Ward, Tehsil Jabalpur. He produced Bhuraji’s ‘Customer Application Form’ along with his attached Election ID card. These documents were marked as Ex. D6. The call data of 28.03.2013 showed that this SIM card was used on the mobile handset with IMEI No. 358327028551270. He marked in evidence Ex. P35 in that regard. Therefore, the mobile number from which ransom calls were made 15 (2023) 2 SCC 353 24 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. was in the name of one Bhuraji, s/o Deepu, and his address was available. However, the police did not even attempt to contact Bhuraji or examine him to fi nd out how and why his SIM card was used for making the ransom calls. Even more startling is the fact that, though PW-17 placed on record actual proof of the allotment of this mobile number to Bhuraji (Ex. D6), no such steps were taken by the police to establish the link between Om Prakash Yadav and mobile number 9993135127, which was attributed to him. PW-15 baldly stated that the said mobile number was allotted to Om Prakash Yadav but did not mark in evidence any document in proof thereof. Surprisingly, he had stated in his deposition that he had brought the certifi ed copy of the application form and the ID used when this SIM card was allotted to the subscriber, Om Prakash Yadav, but the same were not marked. In eff ect, no palpable connection is established between the said mobile number and Om Prakash Yadav. In the absence of such a tangible link, the call data report (Ex. P31) and the contents thereof are practically useless in establishing the prosecution’s case that the ransom calls were made from Om Prakash Yadav’s mobile phone handset by inserting Bhuraji’s SIM card, with mobile number 8305620342, therein.