It would always depend upon several relevant considerations:— What is the nature of the infi rmity or error on which a plea for a review and revision of the earlier view is based? On the earlier occasion, did some patent aspects of the question remain unnoticed, or was the attention of the Court not drawn to any relevant and material statutory provision, or was any previous decision of this Court bearing on the point not noticed? Is the Court hearing such plea fairly unanimous that there is such an error in the earlier view? What would be the impact of the error on the general administration of law or on public good? Has the earlier decision been followed on subsequent occasions either by this Court or by the High Courts? And, would the reversal of the earlier decision lead to public inconvenience, hardship or mischief? These and other relevant considerations must be carefully borne in mind whenever this Court is called upon to exercise its jurisdiction to review and revise its earlier decisions.” Conclusion: 43. In view of the above discussion, we arrive at the following conclusions: (i) The of this Court in Cawnpore Club cannot be treated as a precedent within the meaning of Article 141 of the Constitution of India as the said does not declare any law and the appeals fi led by the revenue as against Cawnpore Club were disposed of without going into the larger question as to whether Cawnpore Club could be taxed on the interest income earned on fi xed deposits made by it in the banks, or whether the principle of mutuality would apply to the said income. (ii) The of this Court in Bangalore Club does not call for reconsideration even when viewed in light of the previous of this Court in Cawnpore Club. Consequently, we hold that the principle of mutuality would not apply to interest income earned on fi xed deposits made by the appellant Clubs in the banks irrespective whether the banks are corporate members of the club or not. SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1033 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (iii) In view of the above, we hold that the in Bangalore Club is not per incuriam although, the earlier passed by a Coordinate Bench of this Court in the case of Cawnpore Club is not noticed in Bangalore Club. (iv) We also hold that the of the Division Bench of the Karnataka High Court in Canara Bank must be restricted to apply to the facts of the said case alone and cannot be a precedent for subsequent cases. This is because the of another Division Bench of the said High Court in the case of Bangalore Club was not brought to the notice of the Division Bench, which rendered the in the case of Canara Bank. Further, it is the of the Division Bench of the said High Court in Bangalore Club that has been sustained by a Coordinate Bench of this Court by a detailed reasoning.