The incident of snatching must have been over in seconds. Therefore, it is very diffi cult to accept that in such a large mob gathered around the auto-rickshaw, the witness could remember the face of only one accused and recognise him after a lapse of about two years from the date of the incident. 7. In a given case, the conviction can be based on the testimony of only one eyewitness. The law has been laid down on this behalf by a Bench of three Hon’ble Judges of this Court in the case of Vadivelu Thevar & Anr. v. State of Madras1. In paragraphs 10,11 and 12 of the said decision, this Court held thus: 1 AIR 1957 SC 614 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. “10. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. On a consideration of the relevant authorities and the provisions of the Evidence Act, the following propositions may be safely stated as fi rmly established: (1) As a general rule, a court can and may act on the testimony of a single witness though uncorroborated. One credible witness outweighs the testimony of a number of other witnesses of indiff erent character. (2) Unless corroboration is insisted upon by statute, courts should not insist on corroboration except in cases where the nature of the testimony of the single witness itself requires as a rule of prudence, that corroboration should be insisted upon, for example in the case of a child witness, or of a witness whose evidence is that of an accomplice or of an analogous character. (3) Whether corroboration of the testimony of a single witness is or is not necessary, must depend upon facts and circumstances of each case and no general rule can be laid down in a matter like this and much depends upon the judicial discretion of the Judge before whom the case comes. 11. In view of these considerations, we have no hesitation in holding that the contention that in a murder case, the court should insist upon plurality of witnesses, is much too broadly stated. Section 134 of the Indian Evidence Act, has categorically laid it down that “no particular number of witnesses shall, in any case, be required for the proof of any fact”. The legislature determined, as long ago as 1872, presumably after due consideration of the pros and cons, that it shall not be necessary for proof or disproof of a fact, to call any particular number of witnesses. In England, both before and after the passing of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, there have been a number of statutes as set out in Sarkar’s Law of Evidence — 9th Edn., at pp. 1100 and 1101, forbidding convictions on the testimony of a single witness. The Indian Legislature has not insisted on laying down any such exceptions to the general rule recognized in Section 134 quoted above. The section enshrines the well recognized maxim that “Evidence has to be weighed JAVED SHAUKAT ALI QURESHI v. STATE OF GUJARAT 227 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.]