The three-judge bench decision was subsequently affirmed by five judges in Konkan Railways Corpn v. Mehul Construction B Co46 (for short “Konkan Railways (II)”). This Court held therein that the power exercised by the Chief Justice or ‘any person or institution’ designated by him under section 11 is not adjudicatory. Following a detailed review of the precedents, it was held that the function of the Chief Justice or his designate under Section 11 is to only “fill the gap left” and appoint an arbitrator for expeditious constitution and commencement of C arbitration proceedings. 44. The seven judges of this Court in SBP (supra) overturned the decision in Konkan Railways(II) (supra). It was held therein that deciding an application for appointment is an exercise of ‘judicial’ power, as opposed to an ‘administrative’ power and that the Court is also authorized D to record evidence: “39. …. [f]or the purpose of taking a decision on these aspects, the Chief Justice can either proceed on the basis of affidavits and the documents produced or take such evidence or get such evidence recorded” E 45. However, Justice C.K. Thakker dissented from the majority opinion and came to the conclusion that it was an administrative power in the following passage: “85. …There is […] no doubt in my mind that at that stage, the satisfaction required is merely of prima facie nature and the Chief F Justice does not decide lis nor contentious issues between the parties. Section 11 neither contemplates detailed inquiry, nor trial nor findings on controversial or contested matters.” 46. The four main reasons behind the dissent can be summarised as under: G “111. ….Firstly, the function of the Court is to interpret the provision as it is and not to amend, alter or substitute by interpretative process. Secondly, it is for the legislature to make a law applicable H 46 (2002) 2 SCC 388 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 451 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] to certain situations contemplated by it and the judiciary has no A power in entering into ‘legislative wisdom’. Thirdly, as held by me, the ‘decision’ of the Chief Justice is merely prima facie decision and sub-section (1) of Section 16 confers express power on the arbitral tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction. Fourthly, it provides that remedy to deal with situations created by the passed by B the arbitral tribunal. The sheet anchor of his dissent is that in the guise of interpreting a statute, judicial legislation is not permissible.” 47. In the dissenting opinion in Paragraph 95 & 96, Justice Thakkar further held as under: “95. Now, let us consider Section 16 of the Act. This section is C new and did not find place in the old Act of 1940. Sub-section (1) of that section enables the Arbitral Tribunal to rule on its own jurisdiction. It further provides that the jurisdiction of the Tribunal includes ruling on any objections with respect to existence or validity of the arbitration agreement.