Further, the CoI too, after examining all witnesses and their statements and evidence, observed that not only the documents pertaining to blood transfusion and screening of blood were not available with the 171 MH but also observed that blood was properly screened prior to being transfused to the appellant. 38. It was further argued that the appellant failed to show any causation between the blood transfusion and his eventually being infected with the virus. There was a ‘novus actus interveniens’ that led to the appellant being infected with the HIV virus. To substantiate this, the ASG urged that even when the appellant was admitted to the hospital on 31.04.2002 (i.e., before blood transfusion), he showed symptoms of ‘macrocytic anaemia’ and even in February 2014, when he was admitted to the Military Hospital, Ahmedabad, symptoms of ‘macrocytic anemia’ were present. Relying on research papers in the fi eld36, it was submitted that anemia is the most frequent and common abnormality associated with HIV, which the appellant had in 2002, even before he was admitted to the hospital for blood transfusion and thus, it cannot be ascertained with conviction that appellant acquired HIV due to blood transfusion and not from any other source. 39. It was further submitted that no adverse inference against the respondent can be drawn from the non-availability of the appellant’s medical reports with the respondents as the same have been weeded out. Additionally, 36 Including – “Haematological changes in HIV infection with correlation to CD4 cell count” published in Australasian Medical Journal and a Lancet Article titled “Prevalence of anemia among people living with HIV: A systematic review and meta analysis”. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 623 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the respondents are not required to maintain the appellant’s medical record beyond a period of three years as per IMC Professional Conduct Regulations and there is no obligation to preserve the said medical documents beyond this period specially when 171, Military Hospital itself is a temporary hospital. Regulation 1.3 of the IMC Professional Conduct Regulations reads as: “Section 1.3 Maintenance of medical records: 1.3.1 Every physician shall maintain the medical records pertaining to his/her indoor patients for a period of 3 years from the date of commencement of the treatment in a standard proforma laid down by the Medical Council of India and attached as Appendix 3.” 40. Learned counsel also placed reliance on communication dated 24.05.201637, wherein legal opinion of the case was provided by Command Judge Advocate (CJA). The opinion states that the appellant is wrong in blaming the organization for his divorce as the Family Court passed the divorce decree with the mutual consent of both the parties under Section 13B of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 and the same cannot be attributed to the respondent authorities. 41. Learned ASG further contended that the consumer complaint fi led by the Complaint before the Commission is grossly time barred and he has failed to demonstrate any suffi cient cause for condoning the delay.