40. So far as the applicant is concerned, his claim of juvenility E based on his date of birth in the school certificate would not vary based on definitions of juvenile, “juvenile in conflict with law” or “child in conflict with law” under the 1986 Act, 2000 Act or the 2015 Act. For applying the procedure for determining his claim, of juvenility or of being a child, in our opinion, the law applicable at the time of undertaking that F exercise by the concerned statutory body would prevail. Hence, in his case, we have tested his claim on the basis of the provisions of Section 9 read with Section 94 of the 2015 Act. 41. Under the 2015 Act the date of birth certificate ought to be the main factor for determination of juvenility. In the case of Rishipal Singh Solanki (supra), the two-Judge Bench of this Court has laid down G the principle that an inquiry initiated under Section 9 (2) of 2015 Act would be similar to that contained in Section 94 of thereof. We accept this view. We have called for the source of the date of birth certificate, which recorded the applicant’s birth date at the time of his entry into the school which was in the year 1986. So far as the inconsistent dates of H 1112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A birth mentioned in the other documents, none of them is specified to be taken into consideration for undertaking the process of age determination as laid down in Section 94 (2) of the said statute. Once the applicant has discharged his onus, in support of his claim of juvenility by producing the date of birth certificate from the school, the State had to come up with any compelling contradictory evidence to show that the recordal of his B date of birth in the admission register was false. The State, in this case, has not come up with any such compelling evidence which would render such certificate to be unreliable or false. The State and the complainant have sought to disprove the applicant’s case on the basis of materials disclosed by him only, apart from the electoral roll. Here, we cannot C indulge in any guesswork to doubt the entry in the school register. No evidence has been led to contradict the basis of the age of the applicant reflected in the aforesaid document. The certificate of date of birth as evidence of age having been provided in the statute itself, we shall go by that. The other factor which has crossed our mind is as to whether a boy of 12 years could commit such a gruesome crime. But though this factor D shocks us, we cannot apply speculation of this nature to cloud our adjudication process. We possess no knowledge of child psychology or criminology to take into account this factor while examining the report of the Inquiring Judge. Moreover, the age of the applicant revealed in the ossification test keeps the age of the applicant as claimed by him, E within the range specified in the report.