We have already discussed hereinabove as to there being no nexus for the deceased to self-immolate herself on account of such demand having preceded immediately before her death. As such we have opined that convicting the accused/appellants under Section 304B was improper or the prosecution had failed to establish that the death had occurred and soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by the appellants. 20. It has been held in Dinesh Seth’s (Supra) Case “24. Section 498-A was added to IPC by amending Act 46 of 1983 in the backdrop of growing menace of dowry related cases in which the women were subjected to cruelty and harassment and were forced to commit suicide. This section lays down that if the husband or his relative subjects a woman to cruelty, then he/she is liable to be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable to fi ne. Explanation appended to this section defi nes the term “cruelty” to mean any wilful conduct which is of such a nature as is likely to drive the woman to commit suicide or to cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) of the woman; or harassment of the woman where such harassment is PARANAGOUDA AND ANOTHER v. THE STATE OF 939 KARNATAKA AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] with a view to coercing her or any person related to her to meet any unlawful demand for any property or valuable security or is on account of failure by her or any person related to her to meet such demand. 25. After three years, Section 304-B was inserted by amending Act 43 of 1986 to deal with cases involving dowry deaths occurring within seven years of marriage. Sub-section (1) of Section 304-B IPC lays down that where the death of a woman is caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurs otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage and it is shown that soon before her death she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband or any relative of her husband for, or in connection with, any demand for dowry, such death shall be called “dowry death”, and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death. By virtue of Explanation appearing below sub-section (1), the word “dowry” used therein carries the same meaning as is contained in Section 2 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. 26. The ingredient of cruelty is common to Sections 304-B and 498-A IPC, but the width and scope of the two sections is diff erent, inasmuch as Section 304-B deals with cases of death as a result of cruelty or harassment within seven years of marriage, Section 498-A has a wider spectrum and it covers all cases in which the wife is subjected to cruelty by her husband or relative of the husband which may result in death by way of suicide or cause grave injury or danger to life, limb or health (whether mental or physical) or even harassment caused with a view to coerce the woman or any person related to her to meet unlawful demand for property or valuable security.” 21.