The illustration clarifies the formula by way of an hypothetical case, where the secured creditors and workmen’s dues are both Rs.1 lakh. The amount of the debts due from the company to the secured creditors E is hypothetically taken as Rs. 3 lakhs. Accordingly, the aggregate amount transferred to and vested in the workmen, all amount due in respect of any compensation or liability for compensation under the said Act in respect of the death or disablement of any workman of the company; F (iv) all sums due to any workman from the provident fund, the pension fund, the gratuity fund or any other fund for the welfare of the workmen, maintained by the company; (c) “workmen’s portion”, in relation to the security of any secured creditor of a company, means the amount which bears to the value of the security the same proportion as the amount of the workmen’s dues bears to the aggregate of the amount of workmen’s dues and the amount of the debts due to the secured creditors. G Illustration The value of the security of a secured creditor of a company is Rs. 1,00,000. The total amount of the workmen’s dues is Rs. 1,00,000. The amount of the debts due from the company to its secured creditors is Rs. 3,00,000. The aggregate of the amount of workmen’s dues and the amount of debts due to secured creditors is Rs. 4,00,000. The workmen’s portion of the security is, therefore, one-fourth of the value of the security, that is Rs. 25,000. H 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A due towards workmen’s dues and the amount of debts due to the secured creditors is Rs. 4 lakhs. In this background, when the value of the security of the secured creditors is Rs. 1 lakh, one-fourth of the value of the security, i.e. Rs.25,000/- would be the workmen’s portion. To this extent, there is no difficulty or dispute. As noticed below there is hardly any difference in the said hierarchy and the waterfall mechanism under the B Code. 11. However, the proviso to sub-section (1) to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 states that in case of winding up of the company, the sums referred to in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) to clause (b) of the Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013, which are C payable for a period of two years preceding the winding up or such other period as may be prescribed, shall be paid in priority to all other debts, including debts due to secured creditors. This payment is to be made within a period of thirty days from the sale of assets and shall be subject to such charge over the security of the secured creditors. D Sub-clause (i) to clause (b) of the Explanation to Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 refers to all wages or salary, including wages payable for time or piece work and salary earned wholly or in part, etc. under any provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947.