It is prior in point of time to SICA. 23.Wherever any inconstancy (sic inconsistency) is seen in the provisions of the two Acts, SICA would prevail. SICA C furthermore is a complete code. It contains a non obstante clause in Section 32. 24. SICA is a special statute. It is a self-contained code. The jurisdiction of the Company Judge in a case where reference had been made to BIFR would be subject to the provisions of SICA.” D (emphasis supplied) 283. The 2003 Act also contains a provision similar to Section 32 of SICA. Section 174 of the 2003 Act provides that the provisions of the said Act will have overriding effect notwithstanding anything contained E in any other law for the time being in force. It therefore becomes evident that both SICA and 2003 Act are special laws in their respective field. 284. In LIC v. D J Bahadur,104 this Court was confronted with the question as to whether the LIC Act is a special legislation or a general legislation with respect to the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. Justice V R F Krishna Iyer(supra) held that in determining whether a particular statute is general or special, the focus has to be on the principal subject matter and the particular perspective. On the basis of the observation that a legislation may be general for some purposes and special for other purposes it was held that the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 being a special law, prevails over the LIC Act. It was held: G “52. In determining whether a statute is a special or a general one, the focus must be on the principal subject-matter plus the particular perspective. For certain purposes, an Act may be general 103 (2008) 7 SCC 619 H 104 (1981) 1 SCC 315 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 765 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] and for certain other purposes it may be special and we cannot A blur distinctions when dealing with finer points of law. In law, we have a cosmos of relativity, not absolutes — so too in life.” 285. In UP State Electricity Board v. Hari Shankar Jain,105 a three-judge Bench of this Court was called upon to determine whether the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act, 1946 is a special B legislation and overrides the 1948 Act in regard to the age of superannuation. Justice O Chinnappa Reddy, speaking on behalf of the Bench held that the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Act, 1946 is a special legislation dealing with the conditions of service of workmen in industrial establishments. On the other hand, the 1948 Act is an act to C coordinate the development of electricity, and does not seek to regulate the conditions of services of the employees of the State Electricity Board. The Court held that the 1948 Act is a special legislation in regard to the subject of development of electricity. It was observed: “7. [...] The Electricity Supply Act does not presume to be an Act D to regulate the conditions of service of the employees of State Electricity Boards.