The learned Single Judge, vide its dated 22nd February 1991, held Rule 14 of the 1960 Rules being ultra vires to the Constitution of C India and also beyond the powers of the rule-making authority. 80. The said of the learned Single Judge came to be challenged by the Chandigarh Administration before this Court in the case of Chandigarh Administration (supra). It will be relevant to refer to Ground ‘G’ of the said appeal, which reads thus: D “G. That the Punjab Capital (Development and Regulation) Rules are framed under Section 22 of the Punjab (Development and Regulation) Act, 1952. The provisions of Section 22 are constitutional and do not suffer from any excessive delegation of legislative power. It specifically provides that the rules shall be E made for carrying out the purposes of the Act and further lays down the subject matter which the rules have to provide. The aims and objects with which the Act is enacted is to vest in the State Government the legal authority to regulate the sale of building sites and to frame building rules on the pattern of Municipal Bye-laws and for the planned development of the town. The entire F Act was purposefully directed to provide a reasonable social control of the urbanization visualized by the creation of an altogether new capital city for the State from scratch. The pre-eminent ideas underlying the same were:- (i) The need and incentive to create an altogether new places G where non existed. (ii) That too within the shortest possible time, and (iii) Further to ensure that it conformed to an ideal concept of a planned city as against the haphazard urbanization of the mushroom growth of slums which in the ultimate analysis H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 645 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] can even strangulate an existing town to extinction. It was A to effectuate these purposes that the rules have provided a ban on fragmentation of sites and hence is a reasonable restriction on the right of property. Keeping in view the object and the preamble of the Act and the Rules framed thereunder, the same have to be viewed din a broader B prospective. The fundamental right under Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution are not absolute rights. The Constitution itself has imposed reasonable restrictions on its exercise in the interest of general public. Consequently, the restriction imposed by Rule 14 in furtherance of the object of the Act has to be judged as a reasonable C restriction.” 81. This Court, vide dated 24th November 1992 passed in the case of Chandigarh Administration (supra), observed thus: “Leave granted. D In the present case, the respondents did not want the partitioning of the plot by metes and bounds. All that they wanted was the partitioning of the building and additions and alterations therein to make separate living units in the same building. Even this partition as well as addition was to be done by them with the E approval of the Chandigarh Administration according to its building bye-laws.