The High Court thus fi nds a discrepancy in the statement of PW-2 made under section 161 Cr.PC and her examination-in-chief, which it believes to be suffi cient to discredit this witness. 17. As we have already stated this particular witness i.e. PW-2 is an injured witness and wife of the deceased, who has given her clear and unambiguous statement in her examination-in-chief and though she was cross-examined at length this witness stood her ground. Moreover, it is her husband who has been killed by the assailants. Why should she be accusing BIRBAL NATH v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS 93 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] wrong persons? The High Court discredits the star witness of the prosecution due to her so called discrepancies between her statement under Section 161 Cr.PC and in her examination-in-chief. It then holds that it was not a pre-meditated attack at all and therefore no case of common intention or common object of unlawful assembly is made out nor will it be a case for Section 302 or 307. This is what was said :-- “First and foremost , the question which we require to look into is whether the beginning of the story, as given by the prosecution, is reliable or not. According to the eye witness’ account the accused arrived at the scene of occurrence and they assaulted the deceased on his head and he fell down by the head injuries caused by Jeth Nath and then the other accused persons caused injuries. Jeth Nath having been assigned an axe and there being no axe injury, the beginning of the story as given by the prosecution witness, PW/2 Rami injured eye witness, does not appear to be correct. In that view or the matter, if we consider the contradiction in her statement that in her police statement she has stated that things started with the handling or the thorn fencing on the boundary wall, it was a case where both the parties got enraged on the spur of the moment and there was no pre-meditation . If there was no pre-meditation, then there was no pre-motive to kill the deceased before the incident started, then it is diffi cult to conclude that there was a common object to eliminate the deceased. If there was no common object then conviction under sections 302/149 IPC is not made out and in that view of the matter, the conviction and sentence of accused persons deserves to be set aside.” 18. Statement given to police during investigation under Section 161 cannot be read as an “evidence”. It has a limited applicability in a Court of Law as prescribed under Section 1622 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr.P.C.). 2 Section 162. Statements to police not to be signed: Use of statements in evidence. (1) No statement made by any person to a police offi cer in the course of an investigation under this Chapter, shall, if reduced to writing, be signed by the person making it; nor shall any such statement or any record thereof, whether in a police diary or otherwise, or any part of such statement or record, be used for any purpose, save as hereinafter provided, at any inquiry or trial in respect of any off ence under investigation at the time when such statement was made: 94 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.