and reiterated in several decisions of this Court as well as English courts, is that “all statutes other than those which are merely declaratory or which relate only to matters of procedure or of evidence are prima facie prospective” 11 (2007) 9 SCC 665 12 (1976) 1 SCC 906 304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. and If the enactment is expressed in language which is fairly capable of either interpretation, it ought to be construed as prospective only.” (Emphasis supplied) 25. A Constitution Bench of this Court in CIT v. Vatika Township (P) Ltd.13 reiterated this principle that the amendments that create rights and obligations are generally prospective in nature. It is a well-established principle of law that clarifi cation or Explanation must not have the eff ect of imposing an unanticipated duty or depriving a party of an anticipated benefi t. 26. Hence, in our considered view, the Explanation inserted in Article 23 of Schedule I-A contained in the Act creates a new obligation for the party and, therefore, cannot be given retrospective application. Thus, it will not aff ect the agreement(s) executed prior to such amendments. 27. The object of the Stamp Act is to collect proper stamp duty on an instrument or conveyance on which such stamp duty is payable. Section 35 is a provision to cater for the instruments not being properly stamped and, as such, not being admissible in evidence. A document not duly stamped cannot be admitted for any purposes. To impose the bar of admissibility provided under this section, the following twin conditions are required to be fulfi lled: (i) Instrument must be chargeable with duty; (ii) It is not duly stamped. 28. If the documents sought to be admitted are not chargeable with duty, Section 35 has no application. Thus, in the present case, since the document was dated 04.02.1988, the instrument was not chargeable with duty. It follows therefrom that when such document(s) are not required to be stamped, then no bar could be imposed due to it being not duly stamped. ISSUE II& III 29. Plaintiff claims in the application that after executing the document, Defendant kept the original copy, and a photocopy of the same was given 13 (2015) 1 SCC 1 VIJAY v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 305 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] to Plaintiff . However, as per the averments made in the application, the Defendant had stated in an affi davit that the documents were not with her but with her counsel. 30. Before proceeding with the discussion, it is imperative to reproduce the relevant provisions of the Evidence Act and discuss the law relating to secondary evidence: “Section 61- Proof of contents of documents- The contents of documents may be proved either by primary or by secondary evidence. Section 63-Secondary evidence.-Secondary evidence means and includes- (1) certifi ed copies given under the provisions hereinafter contained; (2) copies made from the original by mechanical processes which in themselves insure the accuracy of the copy, and copies compared with such copies; (3) copies made from or compared with the original; (4) counterparts of documents as against the parties who did not execute them; (5) oral accounts of the contents of a document given by some person who has himself seen it.