It is submitted that in the G present case the High Court in the impugned and has observed and held that while considering the pre-deposit under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act, interest component is to be ignored. It is submitted that the same is contrary to Section 2(ha) of the SARFAESI Act. H 564 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 7.3 It is further submitted that as the borrower has challenged the notice under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act and has also challenged the auction sale, adjustment of the amount recovered from sale of the secured assets against the pre-deposit under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act, could not be permitted. Reliance is placed on the decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Eskays Construction Pvt. B Ltd. v. Soma Papers & Industries Limited & Others, 2016 SCC OnLine Bom. 9827, against which a special leave petition was filed and dismissed. It is submitted that even the proviso to Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act does not provide for any such adjustment. It is averred that therefore in the present case, the High Court has erred in allowing C adjustment of the amount recovered from sale of secured assets, the amount which has been deposited by the auction purchaser and not borrower while considering pre-deposit under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act. Rival submissions in Civil Appeal Nos.8972 to 8974 of 2022 D 8. Shri Vinay Navare, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the auction purchaser, in addition, has vehemently submitted that the requirement of deposit under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act is not for the purpose of securing payment of the creditor. That the objective is to require the borrower to prove his bona fides and to discourage frivolous E litigation from being initiated by the borrower. It is submitted that therefore, this Court in the case of Axis Bank v. SBS Organics Private Limited, (2016) 12 SCC 18 has held that the amount of pre-deposit is refundable to the borrower after disposal of appeal. 8.1 It is next submitted that the language of Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act is very clear and unambiguous. It says that the F “borrower shall deposit”, which means such amount is required to be brought in by the borrower and the amount standing with creditor through auction sale cannot be for the benefit of the borrower. That the borrower can take benefit of the amount received by the creditor in an auction sale only if he unequivocally accepts the sale. It is submitted that if the G borrower wants to question the sale, then he cannot claim the amount of deposit for his benefit. The borrower cannot be allowed blow hot and cold. 8.2 Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the matter of M/s Shilpa Shares and Securities v. National Cooperative Bank H Ltd., (S.L.P (Civil) No. 14717/2022, decided on 21.11.2022) wherein M/S SIDHA NEELKANTH PAPER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. 565 PRUDENT ARC LIMITED & OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.]