8 to 10, Shri Renjith B. Marar, learned amicus curiae and Shri Sumeer Sodhi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-State. F 8. Shri Upadhyay submits that the names of accused Nos. 8 to 10, i.e., Nand Lal, Bhagwat and Ramdular, have not been mentioned in any of the contemporaneous documents like the merg panchnama, inquest panchnama and spot panchnama. He submits that, whereas the names of all other accused have been specifically mentioned in the aforesaid documents, there is no mention of the names of accused Nos. 8 to 10 in G these documents. It is for the first time that the names of these three accused appear in the FIR. The learned counsel submits that though the incident had occurred at 08.30 PM on 3rdNovember 2006, the FIR was alleged to have been lodged at 03.10 AM on 4thNovember 2006, which creates a doubt that the FIR is a fabricated document and the original H 282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A FIR has been suppressed by the prosecution. He further submits that the inordinate delay in registering the FIR has also not been explained by the prosecution. The learned counsel submits that all the three witnesses i.e., Mangtin Bai (PW-2), Khomlal (PW-9) and Purnima Bai (PW-13) are interested witnesses. It is further submitted that the evidence of these three witnesses is also inconsistent. The learned Counsel, therefore, B submits that the conviction was purely on the basis of such interested witnesses, whose testimony is not cogent and trustworthy, and is not sustainable unless there is some corroboration of their testimony. 9. Shri Upadhyay submits that, in any case, all the three eye witnesses, i.e., Mangtin Bai (PW-2), Khomlal (PW-9) and Purnima Bai C (PW-13) have made only omnibus allegations against the appellants herein and no specific overt act attributable to the present appellants is mentioned. The learned counsel further submits that the incident happened at night and it is also admitted that there was a power cut. As such, the testimonies of all the three witnesses that they had seen the incident in D the moonlight and in the light of a lamp cannot be said to be trustworthy. It is further submitted that, since PW-9 himself had admitted that he had hidden himself in a grain-store (kothi), it is improbable that he has witnessed the incident. 10. Shri Marar submits that as a matter of fact, Naresh Kumar, E accused No. 11 has received grievous injuries. It is submitted that PW- 14, IO has admitted that Naresh Kumar, accused No. 11 had injuries on his head, ankle of left leg and the middle finger of his right hand. He submitted that even the Trial Court has found that accused No.11 Naresh Kumar had received grievous injuries and that he had gone to Police Station, Suhela to lodge the report. He lodged the report at the said F Police Station and, thereafter, he was sent to Bhatapara Hospital for treatment. It is submitted that the prosecution has not explained the injuries received by accused No.