The High Court dismissed the case fi led by the appellant-convict thereby confi rming the death reference under Section 366 of the CrPC. CASE OF THE PROSECUTION 4. FAMILY CHART 794 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 5. The appellant-convict was married twice. The fi rst marriage was with a lady by name Ishrat, who was the daughter of his uncle Mohammad Yunus (PW-1). His second marriage was solemnised with a lady named Afsana. One son by name Islamuddin (deceased) was born in wedlock with Ishrat. The convict had two brothers, namely, Irshad (deceased) and Naushad (deceased), who lived along with him and his sister Soni (PW-4). Another brother by name Shanu alias Shahnawaz (PW-2) of the convict lived in the neighbourhood. 6. It is the case of the prosecution that the three deceased persons more particularly Islamuddin (convict’s son) was highly opposed to the second marriage of his father, i.e., the appellant-convict. Islamuddin (deceased) was even once beaten by the appellant-convict as he had off ered lot of opposition to the second marriage of his father. Islamuddin was also threatened by the appellant-convict that he would be thrown out of the house. Deceased Naushad (appellant-convict’s brother) was in Saudi Arabia. He had just returned to Bijnore from Saudi Arabia on 04.08.2014. 7. Few days before the date of the incident, the appellant-convict had beaten his son (deceased Islamuddin) and at that point of time, Naushad and Irshad (deceased persons) had intervened to save Islamuddin. On 05.08.2014, at around 05.30 pm, PW-2 Shanu (convict’s brother) went to see deceased Naushad and had dinner with PW-4 (convict’s sister), Islamuddin and Irshad. The PW-2 also invited the appellant-convict IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 795 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] for dinner. The appellant-convict lived in the same house as PW-4 and Naushad, but on a diff erent fl oor. 8. On 05.08.2014, at around 10.00 pm, after the dinner was over, PW- 4 asked the PW-2 to stay overnight as it was too late. Naushad and Islamuddin slept in one room. As Irshad wanted to sleep on the roof, the appellant-convict advised him to sleep inside the room, as the weather was bad. Thus, all the three deceased persons ended up sleeping in one room. 9. PW-2 claims that the door of the room in which, the three deceased were sleeping, was open. However, according to the PW-4, it was locked from inside. The PW-2 lived at a distance of 200 metres from the place of the incident. It is pertinent to note that the High Court disbelieved the presence of the PW-2 at the place of occurrence, i.e., the house. 10. On 06.08.2014, at around 12.30 am, the PW-2 is said to have woken up to see fl ames and smoke coming from the room, where the deceased persons were sleeping. The PW-2 and his sister Soni (PW-4) claim to have seen the appellant-convict setting the room on fi re and thereafter, fastening the door latch from outside and running away.