By the aforesaid , Criminal Revision Petition was filed by the respondent No.2 challenging the dated 15.03.2017 whereby the application filed under Section 319 Cr.P.C. for summoning the present appellant, was dismissed. 2. The High Court, vide impugned had quashed the F dated 15.03.2017 and remanded the matter back to the Trial Court for fresh examination. 3. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that the appellant established his business of manufacture of tools in the year 2003. A complaint was filed by respondent no.2 regarding murder of his brother G Bachchu Prasad. It was mentioned therein that he used to work in the appellant’s firm. On the basis of the aforesaid complaint, FIR No. 480/2013 was registered against unknown persons. Nearly two months after the complaint, wife of the deceased gave a complaint to the Superintendent of Police, Ghaziabad making false allegations against H 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the appellant. The appellant was given notices by the Investigating Officer. Entire information sought was furnished by him. During investigation, the police found an eye witness namely Rajesh Kumar to the alleged murder whose statement was recorded under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The aforesaid fact was concealed by the complainant while making complaint against the appellant. After B completion of investigation, the police filed chargesheet against two accused persons namely Pannelal @ Panna Lal and Ombeer Singh. The appellant was listed as a prosecution witness. During trial, statements of various witnesses were recorded. Even the appellant was examined as PW-6. None of the witnesses stated anything against the appellant. C After the statement of the appellant (PW-6) was recorded, the complainant filed an application under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. to summon the appellant as accused solely on the basis of certain vague oral allegation by PW-1, PW-2 and PW-3. After hearing arguments, the Trial Court dismissed the aforesaid application vide dated 15.03.2017. It is the aforesaid , which is under challenge in the D present appeal before this Court. 4. The argument raised by learned counsel for the appellant is that the approach of the High Court in sending matter back for examination afresh was not right as the material which was available in the form of statements of various witnesses could very well be appreciated to find E out as to whether any case was made out against the appellant for summoning under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. It is not mere suspicion on the basis of which an additional accused could be summoned. Only where strong and cogent evidence is available against a person from the evidence produced before the Court, which could lead to his conviction, F that such a power could be exercised. It could not be exercised in a casual and cavalier manner. 5. In the absence thereof, the impugned passed by the High Court deserves to be set aside and the passed by the Trial Court, dismissing the application should be upheld. In support of his arguments, G reliance was placed on s of this Court in Hardeep Singh and Ors.