530 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 4E PSO.CR.RT.S 530 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A UDAY PRATAP THAKUR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF BIHAR AND ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 3155 of 2023) B APRIL 28, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Service Law : Work Charged Establishment Revised Service Conditions (Repealing) Rules, 2013 : r. 5(v) – Pensionary benefits – Computation of, of work charged employees, whose services were C subsequently regularized – Counting of the period of work charged services – Entire service rendered as work charged under the work charged establishment, if to be counted and/or considered for the determination of the amount of pension – Held: Work charged employees are not appointed on a substantive post – They are not D appointed after due process of selection and as per the recruitment rules – Thus, the services rendered as work charged cannot be counted for the purpose of pension / quantum of pension – However, at the same time, after rendering of service as work charged for number of years and thereafter when their services have been regularized, they cannot be denied the pension on the ground that E they have not completed the qualifying service for pension – Thus, the service rendered as work charged after their services have been regularized under the regularization scheme, would be counted for the purpose of qualifying service for pension only as per r. 5(v) of the 2013 Rules. F Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 Rule 5(v) of the Work Charged Establishment Revised Service Conditions (Repealing) Rules, 2013 as such can be said to be beneficial to such work charged employees, whose services have been regularized subsequently. As per Rule 5(v), G even if the minimum requirement of 10 years of service (qualifying service) for pension is not met, in that case also, the service rendered as a work charged to be added for qualifying service for pension. Therefore, the efforts have been made by the State Government to see that after rendering services for number of H 530 UDAY PRATAP THAKUR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF BIHAR 531 years as work charged, and thereafter, their services have been A regularized, they may not be denied the pension on the ground that they have not completed the qualifying service for pension. It also further provides that the benefits like pension & gratuity shall be counted by giving one year advantage against the five years services as work–charged employee. Therefore, Rule 5(v) B is beneficial also in favour of such work charged employees, whose services have been regularized subsequently, and they may not be deprived of the pension on the ground that they have not completed the qualifying service for pension. The denying of pension after rendering service as work charged for number of years on the ground that they have not completed the qualifying C service can be said to be unfair and illegal and can be said to be exploitation. Therefore, to make such work charged employees eligible for pension, Rule 5(v) provides that if any work charged employee, whose services have been regularized under the Rules, 2013, is short of qualifying service, to the extent of such shortage D of qualifying service, the services rendered as work charged to be counted for the purpose of qualifying service for pension.