Therefore, even on that ground we do hold that a writ of Habeas Corpus is not maintainable as the arrest and custody have already been upheld by way of rejection of the bail application. 83. The arguments of the learned Senior Advocates on the interpretation of Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973 cannot be accepted as the law has been quite settled by this Court in Deepak Mahajan (supra). One cannot say that while all other safeguards as extended under Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973 would be available to a person accused but nonetheless, the provision regarding remand cannot be applied. Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973 merely complements and supplements Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002. We do not fi nd any inherent contradiction between these two statutes. Obviously, an arrest under Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002 can only be made after the compliance of much more stringent conditions than the one available under Section 41 of the CrPC, 1973. 84. The interplay between an investigation and inquiry conferring the same meaning is only for the usage of common materials arising therefrom. Such materials are to be utilized for both the purposes. This is the basis upon which they are read together, giving the same meaning at a particular V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 929 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] stage. In Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) it was in the context of a challenge to the enactment, particularly in the light of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, 1872. 85. Shri Kapil Sibal, learned Senior Advocate, in his inimitable style once again placed reliance upon Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) to press home his view that an authorised offi cer under the PMLA, 2002 is not a police offi cer as declared in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra). As stated, an offi cer is expected to perform as per the statute. In the process of investigation, he has been given certain powers. One shall not confuse such powers conferred under the statute with the police power, however, when it comes to application of Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973 such an authority has to be brought under the expression “such custody” especially when the words “police custody” are consciously omitted. Therefore, the ratio laid down in Vijay Madanlal Choudhary (supra) has to be understood contextually, in its own perspective. 86. Much arguments have been made on the basis of Anupam J. Kulkarni (supra). As rightly submitted by the learned Solicitor General, the facts are diff erent and therefore distinguishable. In the case on hand, there is no custody in favour of the respondents, a fact even acknowledged by the appellant earlier through the arguments of his advocates. The learned Solicitor General is right in his submission that apart from the fact that the word “custody” is diff erent from “detention”, it can only be physical. As pointed out by him even the High Court has observed that the appellant continues to be in judicial custody.