As a result, the dated 27th June, 2000, issued by the respondent No. 1 – University retiring the appellant from service on 30th June, 2000, was quashed and set aside and since he had already been retired in the year 2002, the respondents were directed to pay emoluments and other benefi ts including retiral benefi ts to the appellant as if he had continued in service up to the age of 62 years. 2.5 Aggrieved by the aforesaid decision, the respondents fi led a writ appeal1 which was originally registered as a Letters Patent Appeal and subsequently re-registered as a Writ Appeal1 under Section 2 of the Uchha Nyalaya (Khand Nyaypeeth Ko Appeal) Adhiniyam, 2005. By the impugned judgement, the Division Bench allowed the writ appeal fi led by the respondents and observed that Statute 32 recognizes only professors, associate professors, assistant professors as teachers and looking at the job profi le of the appellant, he does not fall under the defi nition of a teacher. For holding so, the Division Bench cited the decision of a three Judges Bench of this Court in State of Madhya Pradesh and Others v. Ramesh Chandra Bajpai9 and opined that the decision of a two Judges Bench of this Court in P.S. Ramamohana Rao’s case (supra) relied on by the appellant, having been duly noted in Ramesh Chandra Bajpai’s case (supra) that was decided subsequently, the proposition laid down by the two Judges Bench should not be automatically extended to other cases where employees are governed by a diff erent set of rules. 8 (1997) 8 SCC 350 9 (2009) 13 SCC 635 960 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 2.6 Observing further that the defi nition of the word ‘teacher’ in Section 2(n) of the Andhra Pradesh Act, 196310 which was the subject matter of consideration in P.S. Ramamohana Rao’s case (supra) was an expansive one and could not apply to the employees of the respondent No. 1 – University who are governed by the Statute under the Act and the Regulations made thereunder, the Division Bench held that passed by the learned Single Judge was unsustainable. Resultantly, the of retirement passed by the respondent No. 1 – University in respect of the appellant, retiring him on attaining the age of 60 years, was upheld. Dissatisfi ed with the aforesaid decision, the appellant has preferred the present appeal. 3. For deciding as to whether a PTI/Sports Offi cer falls within the expression “teacher” and if so, whether the appellant herein would have been entitled to continue in the service of the respondent No.1 – University as a PTI till he completed the age of 62 years, at par with other teachers of the Vishwavidyalaya, we may fi rst examine the relevant provisions of the Act, the Statute and the Regulations. 3.1 Following is the defi nition of ‘Teacher’ of the Vishwa Vidyalaya, as prescribed in Section 2(x) of the Act: “2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- …… (x) “Teacher of the Vishwa Vidyalaya” means a person appointed or recognised by the Vishwa Vidyalaya for the purpose of imparting instructions and/or conducting and guiding research and/or extension programmes and includes a person who may be declared by the Statutes to be teacher” As can be gleaned from the above defi nition, the word “teacher” has not been stated precisely.