2. Notwithstanding the fact that ‘urban land’ or any regulatory measures in relation thereto fall within the exclusive domain of a State Legislature in terms of Entry 18 of List II—State List under the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, the Ceiling Act was enacted by Parliament, in exercise of its powers under Article 252 of the Constitution for which as 726 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. many as 11 States passed a Resolution authorising the Parliament to enact a law imposing a ceiling on urban property, more so after the imposition of a ceiling on agricultural lands in most of the States. The Ceiling Act was, consequently, enacted to provide, inter alia, imposition of a ceiling on ‘vacant land’ in urban agglomeration, the acquisition for such lands in excess of the ceiling limit, to regulate the construction of buildings on such lands and also to prevent the concentration of urban land in the hands of a person etc. Legislative Scheme of the Ceiling Act: 3. Section 3 provides that ‘on and from the commencement of this Act’, no person shall be entitled to hold any ‘vacant land’ in excess of the ceiling limit in the territories to which the Act applies under Section 1(2) thereof. Section 4 provides distinct ceiling limits for diff erent urban agglomerations falling within categories A to D in Schedule I. Section 6 of the Ceiling Act obligates the person holding ‘vacant land’ in excess of ceiling limit to fi le statement whereupon the Competent Authority would prepare a draft statement under Section 8 of the Act and after considering any objection received against it, Section 9 contemplates a fi nal statement determining the vacant land held by the person concerned. Such ‘vacant land’ shall then be notifi ed under Section 10 of the Act and would be acquired by the State Government. Once, the ‘vacant land’ is notifi ed as excess land, the competent authority under sub-Section (3) would issue a declaration whereupon the ‘vacant land’ shall be deemed to have vested absolutely in the State Government free from all encumbrances. The person in possession of the ‘vacant land’ on receipt of the notice in writing under sub-section (5) must surrender or deliver possession thereof to the State Government and in the event of his refusal or failure to comply with such , the Competent Authority is authorised under sub-section (6) to take possession of the vacant land by use of force as may be necessary. 4. The land owner who has been expropriated of the ‘vacant land’ would receive `payment’ as may be determined on receipt of his claim in accordance with Section 11 of the Ceiling Act. 5. Section 20 nevertheless empowers the State Government either on its own motion or otherwise to exempt such ‘vacant land’ from the provisions of the Ceiling Act if it is found to be necessary or expedient in the public M/S. KEWAL COURT PVT. LTD. AND ANR. v. THE STATE 727 OF WEST BENGAL AND ORS.