11. Two legal questions now arise for consideration: (i) Whether the power of forfeiture was exercised by the Authorized Officer in an arbitrary manner? H AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1079 C. NATARAJAN & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] (ii) Whether the High Court was justified in its interference A with the forfeiture on the ground assigned in the impugned and ? 12. Sale of a secured asset, which is an immovable property, is regulated by rule 9 of the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002 (for brevity “the Rules”, hereafter). Sub-rules (2), (3), (4) and (5) thereof B are relevant for answering the first question. The same read as under: “(2) The sale shall be confirmed in favour of the purchaser who has offered the highest sale price in his bid or tender or quotation or offer to the authorised officer and shall be subject to confirmation by the secured creditor: C Provided that no sale under this rule shall be confirmed, if the amount offered by sale price is less than the reserve price, specified under sub-rule (5) of rule 8: Provided further that if the authorised officer fails to obtain a price higher than the reserve price, he may, with the D consent of the borrower and the secured creditor effect the sale at such price. (3) On every sale of immovable property, the purchaser shall immediately, i.e., on the same day or not later than next working day, as the case may be, pay a deposit of twenty-five E per cent of the amount of the sale price, which is inclusive of earnest money deposited, if any, to the authorised officer conducting the sale and in default of such deposit, the property shall be sold again. (4) The balance amount of purchase price payable shall be F paid by the purchaser to the authorised officer on or before the fifteenth day of confirmation of sale of the immovable property or such extended period as may be agreed upon in writing between the purchaser and the secured creditor, in any case not exceeding three months. G (5) In default of payment within the period mentioned in sub- rule (4), the deposit shall be forfeited [to the secured creditor] and the property shall be resold and the defaulting purchaser shall forfeit all claim to the property or to any part of the sum for which it may be subsequently sold.” H 1080 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 13. Bare perusal of the aforesaid provisions reveals an ordainment in sub-rule (4) that on mutual agreement, the time for making deposit of the balance amount of sale price can be extended for a period not exceeding ninety days; but, extension beyond ninety days is not permissible on any count. Since grant of extension for intermittent periods so that the duration of such periods taken together does not exceed B ninety days would suggest some element of discretion being reserved unto the authorized officer of a secured creditor under sub-rule (5) of rule 9.