It has further been argued that though the appellants were produced during the course of the trial through video conference from the jail, but there is no evidence that the prosecution’s witnesses identified these appellants during the course of the trial. E Learned Additional Public Prosecutor opposing appellants’ prayer for bail has submitted that since the appellants are the main assailants, as disclosed in the First Information Report, which has been substantiated by all the eye-witnesses during the course of the trial, who have been consistent in their depositions and political rivalry between F the deceased and these appellants, being an admitted fact, such animosity adds credence to the deposition of the eye- witnesses. We have perused the impugned and of the trial court. We have given our anxious consideration to G rival submissions advanced on behalf of the parties. We have perused the original copy of the First Information Report available with the lower court records from which it is manifest that there have been over-writings as regards the date when the said written report of the informant (P.W.-7) was submitted in the police station. H 152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A It is the prosecution’s case, as disclosed in the First Information Report as also set up at the trial, that the occurrence had taken place at 03:00 pm on 13.08.2018 in the Block office. The deceased was Pramukh of the said block. It has been asserted in the First Information Report that B when the informant and the deceased were about to enter into his (deceased’s) chamber in the Block office, appellant Jai Shankar Chaudhary and Abhay Kumar opened fire on the instigation of accused Ram Babu Sahani. The informant and others are said to have taken the deceased, in injured condition, to a private hospital, where he was declared dead. C The dead body of the deceased was thereafter taken to Sadar hospital, where the inquest report was prepared by the police officer and post-mortem was also carried out on the same date, i.e., 13.08.2018. In the aforesaid background, we find substance in the submission made on behalf of the appellants D that there was no cogent explanation for the informant to have filed his written statement on the next day at 01 :00 pm, implicating these appellants as the main assailants. Further, the informant (P.W.-7) does not prima facie appear to be truthful, particularly in view of the evidence of the prosecution witnesses to the effect that the body of the deceased was taken E by villagers to the hospital and not by the informant. In the abovementioned peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, in our view, inordinate delay in filing of the written report leading to registration of First Information Report appears to be a valid ground for doubting the case of the F prosecution, for the purpose of exercise of discretion under Article 389(1) of the Criminal Procedure Code. Considering the facts and circumstances as noted above, the prayer made on behalf of the appellants for their release on bail is allowed.