78 Sampat Prakash Vs State of Jammu and Kashmir 1969 2 SCR 365, “This clause clearly envisages that the article will continue to be operative and can cease to be operative only if, on the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State, the President makes a direction to that eff ect…. “This makes it very clear that the Constituent Assembly of the State did not desire that this article should cease to be operative and, in fact, expressed its agreement to the continued operation of this article by making a recommendation that it should be operative with this modifi cation only.” Written Submissions of Mr. Dushyant Dave, Senior Advocate. 79 Rejoinder on behalf Of Mr. Kapil Sibal Sr. Advocate. 80 Outline of Submissions on Behalf of the Petitioners by Raju Ramachandran, Senior Advocate. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 45 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] f. Unlike other states which acceded to the Constitution of India, the State of Jammu and Kashmir had a separate Constitution and had not merged with the Union. It had acceded to India only on the terms agreed to by way of the IoA. CO 273 has invalidated the IoA81; g. CO 273 (along with CO 272) amounts to the destruction of the basis of Article 370 by a unilaterally reneging by the Union of India, of the compact made with the people of Jammu and Kashmir82 ; and h. The Respondents argue that since the Constituent Assembly was dissolved, recourse to the proviso to Article 370(3) was not possible and the maxim lex non cogit ad impossibilia (that is, law does not compel the doing of impossibilities) justifi es the impugned actions without recommendations from the Constituent Assembly. This is not tenable in view of the above arguments based on Article 370(2) and the diff erence between the Constituent and Legislative Assembly.83 33. The Reorganization Act is unconstitutional for the following reasons: a. The Presidential Proclamation issued under Article 356 suspended the fi rst proviso to Article 3 of the Constitution to the extent that it relates to the reference by the President to the Legislature of the state for its views and the whole of the Second proviso to Article 3 as it applies to the State of Jammu and Kashmir by which a Bill under Article 3 could be initiated only with the consent of the Legislature of the State. A law which brings permanent changes cannot be brought into force by temporarily suspending the provisos to Article 3. Since the Proclamation under Article 356 itself was void (for reasons mentioned above), the suspension of Article 3 was similarly void. Even otherwise, the suspension of the provisos to Article 3 was neither an incidental nor consequential 81 Submissions by Mr Zaff ar Shah, Senior Advocate. 82 Written Submissions of Mr. Gopal Subramanium, Senior Advocate on behalf of the Petitioner; Rejoinder on behalf Of Mr. Kapil Sibal Sr. Advocate. 83 Rejoinder on behalf Of Mr. Kapil Sibal Sr. Advocate. 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.