Claim was fi led by BEEL and reply/counter claim was fi led by HPCL, to which rejoinder with supporting documents and sur-rejoinders were fi led. In all about 14 hearings were held before the arbitral tribunal between the period 12.03.1998 and 07.01.1999 and oral arguments were addressed. Ocular evidence was not led. The learned arbitrator had conducted a site inspection on 24.12.1997. 5. The arbitral award dated 23.03.1999, substantially allows the Claims Nos. 1,2, and 4 of the BEEL. The relevant portion of the award dealing with the claims of the BEEL, reads: “A. Claims of the Claimants: Claim No.1 – Compensation for loss of Overhead and profi t and also profi tability: Rs.3,38,38,460.00 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. The claim is forwards loss of Overheads and profi t/profi tability calculated on the basis of 48 months delay as of 27.08.1997. The Claimants have considered 10% of the Contract value towards Overheads and another 10% towards profi t/profi tability to arrive at the above fi gure, after taking into account the same percentages from the payments already received by them. My fi nding is that the Owner Respondents are fully responsible for the huge delay that occurred by not taking proper and timely action in removing the various impediments and obstacles that stood in the way of completing the project in the given span of 18 months. The party had been tied down to a project, which was allowed to drift aimlessly, with the owner-respondents showing hardly any interest in completing it in time. Even the basic approval for the Electrical scheme, with numerous revisions was kept pending, till the end without any decision. The Claimants could not have expected to complete the project without these clearances. The Respondents have thus evaded their own responsibilities and committed breach of contractual obligations. As admitted by the Respondents, even the arrangement with MCGB for the supply of Sewage water for purifi cation has not yet been fi nalised. This, as advised by the Respondents, is awaiting the intervention of the Chief Minister. It is any body’s guess when this arrangement will be fi rmed up the necessary pumping station and underground pipelines etc. will be ready so that sewage water will fl ow to the plant being built for purifi cation by the claimant. This is proof that the Respondents were not serious enough in implementing the project. For reasons given above, I consider that the claimants are legitimately entitled for compensation towards both loss of Overheads and profi t/profi tability. In arriving at the compensation, the period upto 30.03.1996, when the claimants discontinued the work is being considered. The total period works out to 49 months. The original contract period being 18 months, the extended period comes to 31 months. The claimants had stated in their claim statement that they had provided for 22 months overheads in their estimate. I am allowing 3 months for internal administrative process of the Owner- BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 447 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.]