Clause 8.12.5 of the Master Directions on Frauds provides that banks have to satisfy themselves of the involvement of third parties and provide them with an F opportunity of being heard before reporting them to Indian Banks’Association. We are unable to accept this argument of the borrowers in light of the fact that the borrowers and the third parties stand on a different footing because: (i) the borrowers are the main perpetrators of fraud, while the third parties are merely facilitators; and (ii) it is the borrowers who face the significant civil consequences G stipulated under clauses 8.12.1 and 8.12.2, while the third party service providers are merely referred to the Indian Banks’ Association which maintains a caution list of such service providers. However, this view doesnot affect our conclusions in view of the discussion in the preceding paragraphs. H 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A E. Conclusion 81. The conclusions are summarized below: i. No opportunity of being heard is required before an FIR is lodged and registered; B ii. Classification of an account as fraud not only results in reporting the crime to investigating agencies, but also has other penal and civil consequences against the borrowers; iii. Debarring the borrowers from accessing institutional finance under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds C results in serious civil consequences for the borrower; iv. Such a debarment under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions on Frauds is akin to blacklisting the borrowers for being untrustworthy and unworthy of credit by banks. This Court has consistently held that an opportunity of D hearing ought to be provided before a person is blacklisted; v. The application of audi alteram partem cannot be impliedly excluded under the Master Directions on Frauds. In view of the time frame contemplated under the Master Directions on Frauds as well as the nature of the procedure adopted, it E is reasonably practicable for the lender banks to provide an opportunity of a hearing to the borrowers before classifying their account as fraud; vi. The principles of natural justice demand that the borrowers must be served a notice, given an opportunity to explain the F conclusions of the forensic audit report, and be allowed to represent by the banks/ JLF before their account is classified as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds. In addition, the decision classifying the borrower’s account as fraudulent must be made by a reasoned ; and G vii. Since the Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly provide an opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before classifying their account as fraud, audi alteram partem has to be read into the provisions of the directions to save them from the vice of arbitrariness. H STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 529 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 82. In the result, the of the Division Bench of the High A Court of Telangana dated 10 December 2020 is upheld. The s of the High Court of Telangana dated 22 December 2021 and31 December 2021, and of the High Court of Gujarat dated 23 December 2021 are accordingly set aside.