Consequently, where an instrument has been admitted in evidence, such instrument cannot be impounded as it cannot be called in question at any stage of the same suit or proceeding on the ground of insuffi cient stamping. 13. An instrument which is void ab initio or void, cannot be validated by mere consent or waiver, unless consent or wavier undoes the cause of invalidity. On the other hand, Section 36 of the Stamp Act incorporates the doctrine of waiver, estoppel and implied consent. That apart,after due stamping as per the Stamp Act, the unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped 120 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. instrument can be admitted in evidence, or be registered, authenticated or be acted upon by such person or public offi cer. 14. This has long been a recognised position of law, as accepted by this Court in several decisions, which I would like to refer to. 15. In Javer Chand and Others. v. Pukhraj Surana7, way back in 1961, a four Judges’ Bench of this Court had examined the interplay between Sections 35 and 36 of the Stamp Act to hold that Section 36 is categorical in terms that when a document has been admitted in evidence, such admission cannot be called in question at any stage of the suit or proceedings on the ground that the instrument had not been duly stamped. The only exception recognised by Section 36 is the class of cases contemplated by Section 61 of the Stamp Act. Section 36 does not admit of any other exception. It does not matter whether the court has wrongly decided to admit the document in evidence. Section 35 is in the nature of a penal provision which has far reaching eff ects. The parties to the litigation have to be circumspect and have to be alert so as to challenge the admissibility of an instrument before it is admitted in evidence. 16. A fi ve Judges’ Bench in The State of Biharv. M/s Karam Chand Thapar and Brothers Ltd.8, has held that the instrument that can be validated under Section 35 is only the original, when it is unstamped or insuffi ciently stamped. A copy cannot be validated and acted upon,albeit where multiple copies are prepared and signed and sent to respective parties, each one would be an original instrument. 17. In Jupudi Kesava Raov. Pulavarthi Venkata Subbarao and Others9, a two Judges’ Bench of this Court observed that The Indian Evidence Act, 1872 does not purport to deal with admissibility of the documents which are required to be stamped under the provisions of the Stamp Act. Thereafter, it is observed: “13. The fi rst limb of Section 35 clearly shuts out from evidence any instrument chargeable with duty unless it is duly stamped. The second 7 AIR 1961 SC 1655. 8 AIR 1962 SC 110. 9 (1971) 1 SCC 545. IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1201 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [ SANJIV KHANNA, J.]