67. As discussed above, the judicial notice of any fact is generally not taken in criminal matters, but the present matter stands on an altogether diff erent footing in view of what has been noted hereinbefore. It falls in the category of rarest of rare cases and hence, it requires a diff erent approach. This Court, in its considered opinion, fi nds that the judgement in the Habeas Corpus Petition was passed on the basis of notes of the Inspecting Judge of the High Court, the report of Additional Director General of Police, statement of CW-1 Smt. Lalmuni Devi recorded in Court before the Magistrate under the directions of High Court, her affi davit fi led before the High Court, her HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 445 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] statement/disclosure in Bhojpuri before one of Judges hearing the Habeas Corpus petition and several other authoritative materials after giving the opportunity of hearing to the parties, including the accused of the crime in question. In the said judgement, certain inferences, observations and fi ndings arrived at by the Division Bench have a crucial impact on the merit of the present case, as it gives a complete picture as to how the prosecution version in the present case was being demolished brick by brick by using political authority and muscle power with the aid of not only the police administration but also with the aid of Public Prosecutor and unfortunately, the Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court also conducted himself in a manner unbecoming of a Judicial Offi cer, despite directions and continuous vigil by the High Court. 68. The judgement dated 13.03.2007, which is a public document, is well discussed and is based upon authoritative materials and was passed in consonance with the doctrine of audi alteram partem. Moreover, it has a torchbearer eff ect over the facts of the case. Thus, it qualifi es the requirement of law for the purpose of taking judicial notice thereof, and this Court takes judicial notice of the inferences, observations and fi ndings arrived at by the Division Bench and the directions issued in its judgement dated 13.03.2007 to the extent of the subsequent conduct of the accused, deplorable functioning of the Public Prosecutor, Police Administration and the Presiding Offi cer of the Trial Court to extend undesirable favour to the accused. 69. Another Latin Maxim, which means that a judicial decision must be accepted as correct, may be usefully extracted here, “res judicata pro veritate accipitur”. Issue (B): - Conduct of the accused-Section 8: 70. In the case in hand, the conduct of the accused is not only relevant under Section 8 of the Evidence Act but is also one of the major circumstances to arrive at a conclusion about his guilt. Section 8 of the Evidence Act is being reproduced hereinafter: “8. Motive, preparation and previous or subsequent conduct. — Any fact is relevant which shows or constitutes a motive or preparation for any fact in issue or relevant fact.