50,000.00 (Rupees fi fty thousand) in favour of the respondent, payable within four weeks from the date of the fi nal and interest of 9% per annum in case of non-compliance. Findings returned by the learned Single Judge are extracted below: “4. I have gone through the entire Award. The Award … as a loss under this Claim 12. 5. In this view of the … in the arbitration proceedings. 7. *** I accept the objections to the Award and the Award dated 15.7.2002 of the Arbitrator is set aside and the claim of the contractor under Claim 12 will accordingly stand dismissed. In the facts and circumstances of the case, I award costs of Rs.50,000/- in favour of the petitioner and against the respondents… Accordingly, in the facts of the present case, I deem it fi t to award interest on the costs.” e) Dissatisfi ed with the fi ndings of the learned Single Judge, the appellant preferred an appeal before the Division Bench of the M/S UNIBROS v. ALL INDIA RADIO 691 DIPANKAR DATTA, J. High Court under Section 37 of the Act. While dismissing the appeal vide the impugned , the Division Bench was of the view that no evidence was produced on behalf of the appellant to support the plea of loss of profi t during the period when the work was prolonged; fi ndings returned by the Arbitrator are, therefore, contrary to law, more particularly the Contract Act which governs matters related to loss of profi t. Having found no infi rmity or illegality, the of the learned Single Judge was confi rmed, and the appeal was dismissed, being devoid of any merit. SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 5. Taking exception to the decisions of the Single Judge as well as the Division Bench, Mr Sameer Rohatgi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant advanced the following submissions: a) The learned Arbitrator had arrived at a just and reasoned conclusion after carefully perusing the materials and evidence on record and in the absence of any perversity or caprice, the courts cannot interfere with the award. Relying on Associated Builders vs. Delhi Development Authority1, learned counsel submitted that the arbitrator is the sole judge of the quality and quantity of evidence and the High Court, under section 34 of the Act, cannot act as a fi rst appellate or a revisional court by interfering with arbitral awards in the absence of perversity. b) Bharat Cooking Coal Limited vs. L.K. Ahuja2 was placed in support of the contention that the High Court has a limited scope of interference in awards passed by an arbitrator. Learned counsel placed reliance on the specifi c excerpt of this Court’s decision, which is extracted below for facility of reference: “11…When the arbitrator has applied his mind to the pleadings, the evidence adduced before him and the terms of the contract, there is no scope for the court to reappraise 1 (2015) 3 SCC 49 2 (2004) 5 SCC 109 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.