13. We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length and have perused the material placed on record. 14. For what has been noticed hereinabove, the dispute between B appellant OL and respondent No. 1 Nigam, put in a nutshell, is with regard to the rates and taxes for the period between 10.07.1997 (being the date on which the company was ed to be wound up) and 04.07.2003 (being the date on which the sale in favour of the purchaser was confirmed). As noticed, part rejection of the claim of respondent No. 1 Nigam by the appellant OL, in relation to the period aforesaid C between 10.07.1997 to 04.07.2003 was not approved by the Company Court while observing that post-liquidation liabilities were to be treated as part of the costs of winding up of the company in liquidation and such liability would get priority over all other liabilities of the company. The Company Court observed and reiterated that the principle of priority of D certain creditors would be applicable to the liability of the company at the time of passing of the of winding up but, costs and expenses incurred on behalf of the company in winding up were to be paid in full; and the liability of the company to pay rates and taxes would not automatically come to an end with the of winding up. The Company Court yet left it open for the appellant OL to file an appeal under the E provisions of the M.P. Act of 1956 while observing that unless such appeal was filed and demand was reduced, the appellant OL was bound to discharge the tax liability as per the claim of the Nigam even for the post-liquidation period. The contention of appellant before the Division Bench in challenge to the so passed by the Company Court had F essentially been with reference to the terms and conditions of sale and reliance upon the decision in United Bank of India(supra). The Division Bench compared the terms and conditions of sale in the cited decision and the terms and conditions of sale in the present case and observed that the sale notice in the present case was not couched in similar and comprehensive language so as to oblige the respondent No. 3 to make G himself aware about encumbrances, if any, in respect of the assets of the company in liquidation. The Division Bench further observed that Section 530 of the Companies Act had no application in relation to the taxes which might have mounted between the date of the of winding up and the date of sale of assets. Similarly, the Division Bench indicated H 1102 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A inapplicability of Rule 154 of the Rules of 1959, providing for the manner of estimation of claims on the date of the of winding up. The Division Bench summarised its conclusion that the claim in question was that of a post-liquidation liability which the OL was obliged to discharge in absence of a clear provision in the sale notice obliging the intended purchaser to satisfy himself as regards the assets of the company in B liquidation in all respects, including encumbrances.