Such right, as has been commented upon by this Court in Sanjay Dutt [(1994) 5 SCC 410 : 1994 SCC (Cri) 1433] and the other cases cited by the learned Additional Solicitor General, could only be F distinguished (sic extinguished) once the charge-sheet had been filed in the case and no application has been made prior thereto for grant of statutory bail. It is well-established that if an accused does not exercise his right to grant of statutory bail before the charge-sheet is filed, he loses his right to such benefit once such charge-sheet is filed and can, thereafter, G only apply for regular bail. 26. The circumstances in this case, however, are different in that the appellant had exercised his right to statutory bail on the very same day on which his custody was held to be illegal and such an application was left undecided by the Chief H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 55 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Metropolitan Magistrate till after the application filed by the A prosecution for extension of time to complete investigation was taken up and s were passed thereupon. 27. We are unable to appreciate the procedure adopted by the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate, which has been endorsed by the High Court and we are of the view that the appellant B acquired the right for grant of statutory bail on 17-7-2012, when his custody was held to be illegal by the Additional Sessions Judge since his application for statutory bail was pending at the time when the application for extension of time for continuing the investigation was filed by the C prosecution. In our view, the right of the appellant to grant of statutory bail remained unaffected by the subsequent application and both the Chief Metropolitan Magistrate and the High Court erred in holding otherwise.” (Emphasis supplied) D 79. In view of the aforesaid discussion, both the appeals fail and are hereby dismissed. 80. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. E Nidhi Jain Appeals dismissed. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) F G H