Therefore, the exception to Section 300 IPC F was attracted to the facts of this case. 8. It was submitted that the High Court erred in failing to give the benefit of doubt to the appellants, in the manner that it did to the third accused - Soudagar Pradhan. It was contended that the evidence and materials in respect of his alleged involvement were the same as in the G case of the appellants; therefore, they too, were entitled to be treated in a like manner and acquitted. Contentions of the state/respondent 9. It was argued, on behalf of the state, that the concurrent findings of the courts below - as well as the sentence imposed, do not call for H 248 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A interference, as they do not contain any glaring infirmity or error. Learned counsel relied on the depositions by the two doctors and also highlighted that the victim never recovered from his injuries; he was not even in a position to record a statement. It was also argued that for the entire duration that the victim was alive after the incident, he was in the hospital, where he never recovered and died there itself. B 10. It was argued that the credibility of PW1 as an eyewitness cannot be questioned; she was, in fact, also a victim of the attack and had received injuries on her leg, due to an axe blow given by one of the accused/appellants. Likewise, learned counsel stated that PW2, another brother of the deceased, had corroborated the evidence of PW1 on all C material aspects. He had seen both accused, armed in the manner deposed to by PW1, attacking the deceased. Further, PW3, the wife of the deceased also corroborated the testimonies of the other two witnesses. Though she did not witness the actual assault, she had seen the two appellants armed with axes. PW4, sister-in-law of PW3, too, deposed D that Vrindawan was attacked by the accused whilst he was engaged in cleaning near the septic tank and that the two appellants attacked him with axes. 11. Learned counsel argued that the medical examination of the deceased was conducted by Dr. Bhageshwar Patel (PW11), who prepared the medical report (Ex. P-21). The Surgeon, Dr. S.N. E Madhariya (PW15) deposed that the back of the deceased’s skull was broken and was operated upon. Dr. S.K. Bagh (PW14), who conducted post-mortem, clearly stated regarding cause of the death, in the present case, which pointed out to cardio- respiratory failure, due to multiple injuries. In the cross examination, the appellants could not elicit from the F witness that the injury caused to the deceased in the ordinary course of nature was insufficient to cause death or that the death occurred due to surgical complication and not because of injury. 12. Learned counsel for the state relied on this court’s decisions in Sudershan Kumar v. State of Delhi2, State of Rajasthan v. Arjun G Singh & Ors.3, State of Rajasthan v. Kanhaiya Lal4, and State of Rajasthan v. Leela Ram5 to urge that the facts of this case, do not 2 1975 (3) SCC 831 3 2011 (9) SCC 115 4 2019 (5) SCC 639 H 5 2019 (13) SCC 131 PRASAD PRADHAN & ANR.