v. NEERAJA PIPES 935 PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] and whether the service on the appellants’ minor daughter A was in accordance with the procedure prescribed under Section 22 of SAFEMA or not. 17. If the appellants had the knowledge of the passed against them and which they admit to have as per their own admission mentioned above, pursuant to which they filed B appeals, then in our opinion, so-called irregularity in the manner of effecting the service of the on them, etc. was of no consequence and cannot be termed as illegal per se (if found to exist though denied by the Revenue).” In Sri Budhia Swain & Ors. v. Gopinath Deb & Ors.8 similarly, C the court observed as follows: “As already noted the appellants sought for review or recall of the from the O.E.A. Collector solely by alleging that the notice which was required to be published in the locality before settling the land in favour of the respondent No. 1 was D not served in accordance with the manner prescribed by law. The appellants did not plead ‘non-service of the notice’ but raised objection only with regard to ‘the manner of service of the notice’. The High court had called for and perused the record of the O.E.A. Collector and noted that the notice was E issued on 15.12.1963 inviting public objection. The notice was available on record but some of its pages were missing. The O.E.A. Collector had noted in his dated 23.2.1966 as under :- ‘It is only due to missing of some pages of the proclamation- including the last page over which the report of the process F server was there, a scope was available to the objectors to file this petition. Under the above circumstances, it is not necessary to issue another proclamation and entertain further objection since the case is being heard and going to be finalised on 14.3.66.’ G The O.E.A. Collector was satisfied of the notice having been published. Assuming that the notice was not published in the manner contemplated by law, it will at best be a case of 8 [1999] 2 SCR 1189: (1999) 4 SCC 396 H 936 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A irregularity in the proceedings but certainly not a fact striking at the very jurisdiction of the authority passing the . The Appellate Authority, i.e., the ADM has in his noted two other contentions raised by the appellants, viz., (i) the application for settlement by the respondent No. 1 was B not filed within the prescribed time, and (2) the application should have been treated as an application for lease and should not have been treated as a claim case. None of the two pleas was raised by the appellants in their pleadings. None of the two was urged before O.E.A. C Collector. Therefore, there was no occasion to consider those pleas. Still we may make it clear that none of the two pleas could have been a ground for recalling the which was otherwise within the jurisdiction conferred on the O.E.A.