The word ‘Dealer’ has been defined under Section 2(b) of the TST Act and it means any person who sales taxable goods. As observed hereinabove the sale of taxable goods B shall be as per Section 2(g) of the TST Act. Therefore, on combine reading of Section 3 read with Section 2(b) & 2(g) of the TST Act any transfer of the right to use any goods (including the vehicles) shall be deemed to a ‘sale’ and the transferor of the right to use any goods/ vehicles can be said to be a dealer and therefore liable to pay the tax at C the rate of 4% on any transfer of the right to use any goods as per proviso to Section 3(1). Therefore, the liability to pay the tax at the rate of 4% on any transfer of right to use any goods shall be under Section 3(1). Therefore, the submissions on behalf of the respondents – suppliers/ transferers that as there is no sale or transfer of the goods and that they are not registered with the TST Act and therefore, the liability to pay the D tax at 4% does not arise cannot be accepted. As observed hereinabove the liability to pay the tax shall be on the transferer who transfers the right to use any goods as per proviso to Section 3(1) read with Section 2(b) and 2(g) of the TST Act. 9. Now next question which is posed for consideration before this E Court would be whether Rule 3A(2) of the TST Rules and the memorandum issued by the Government to deduct the tax at 4% and the bills to be paid to the transferers can be said to be ultra vires to TST Act is concerned, it appears that the High Court has held the said provision as ultra vires by observing that there is no such provision for tax deduction F at source under the TST Act and therefore, the Rule cannot go beyond the Act. The aforesaid view taken by the High Court is absolutely fallacious. Rule 3A(2) can be said to be a recovery machinery/ mechanism. What Rule 3A(2) provides is only for a machinery/ mechanism where the person buying the goods is required to deduct the tax at source and deposits the same with the Revenue. It does not in any G manner change the chargeability of the tax or liability of the tax which is under Section 3(1) of the TST Act read with Section 2(b) & 2(g) of the TST Act. 9.1 As observed hereinabove the rules are framed in exercise of Rule-making power under Section 44 of the Act and in that view of the H THE STATE OF TRIPURA & ANR. v. CHANDAN DEB & ORS. 1149 [M. R. SHAH, J.] matter and as the liability to pay the tax on transfer of right to use the A goods shall still be continued under proviso to Section 3(1), mere providing for mode of recovery and/or providing for machinery/mechanism to recover the tax to be paid by the transferer/supplier from the person buying the goods deducting the tax at source and depositing the same with the Revenue cannot be said to be ultra vires to TST Act and the B Rules as observed and held by the High Court.