Advs., Jubair Ahmad Khan, Tamim Qadri, Anuroop Chakravarti, Saeed Qadri, Shraveen Kumar Verma, Siddarth Seem, Saahil Gupta, Ms. Udita Singh, Advs. for the Appellant. K.M. Nataraj, A.S.G., Sharan Dev Singh Thakur, A.A.G., Ms. Ruchira Goel, Siddharth Thakur, Ms. Indira Bhakar, Adit Jayeshbhai Shah, Ajay Singh, Ms. Keerti Jaya, Advs. for the Respondent. / OF THE SUPREME COURT SURYA KANT, J. Leave granted. 2. This appeal is directed against the dated 24.07.2023, passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad (hereinafter, ‘High Court’), partially allowing the application fi led by the Appellant under Section 389(1) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter, ‘CrPC’), for the stay on the sentence and conviction, awarded by the Learned Additional Sessions Judge, MP/MLA Court, Ghazipur (hereinafter, ‘Trial Court’) vide judgement and dated 29.04.2023. The High Court, has through the impugned , suspended the Appellant’s sentence and granted him bail but the stay on conviction has been declined. Fਁਃਔਓ: 3. At this juncture, it is imperative to delve into the factual matrix to set out the context of the present proceedings. 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 3.1. The Appellant is a public representative, having served as a Member of the Legislative Assembly in Uttar Pradesh for fi ve consecutive terms, and as a Member of Parliament for two terms. Until the recent disqualifi cation following the rendered by the Trial Court, the Appellant was the incumbent Member of Parliament for the Ghazipur Constituency, since 2019. The Appellant currently holds various positions, including roles in the Ghazipur Standing Committee on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, and Food Processing, as well as the Ghazipur District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee. 3.2. On 19.11.2007, PW-1, who was the Station House Offi cer at the Mohammadabad Kotwali Police Station, received information from anonymous sources during his routine patrol with regards to the operations of a gang led by one Mukhtar Ansari in the area, who was reportedly involved in various illicit activities such as murder, extortion, kidnapping and other criminal acts, carried out for political gain. It was further informed that the said gang had instilled fear and terror in the public, discouraging everyone from opposing their actions. Based on such information, PW-1 prepared a comprehensive gang chart under the Uttar Pradesh Gangsters and Anti- Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 (hereinafter, ‘UP Gangsters Act’) and obtained necessary approvals from the Police authorities and the District Magistrate of Ghazipur. On the very same day, Case Crime No. 1052/2007 was registered under Section 3(1) of the UP Gangsters Act at the Mohammadabad Police Station in the Ghazipur District of Uttar Pradesh (hereinafter, ‘New FIR’). This registration emerged from the earlier Case Crime No. 589/2005, (hereinafter, ‘Old FIR’), which was a murder case, in which the Appellant had been accused of conspiracy but was subsequently acquitted, as explained briefl y hereinafter. 3.3. It is crucial to emphasise at this stage that the Appellant has been found involved in multiple FIRs fi led throughout the State of Uttar Pradesh. To provide a concise overview, a summary of these FIRs is presented below, elucidating their context and signifi cance in relation to the ongoing proceedings: i.