Collections under Section 22A of the AAI Act, this court has ruled, are “dehors the facilities that the embarking passengers get at the existing airports”. There is also a specific finding that there is no contractual relationship between the passengers and the AAI for the funds collected under G Section 22A of the AAI Act. Further, it was highlighted that in the same , it was held that charges under Section 22A: “are not charges or any other consideration for services for the facilities provided by the Airports Authority.” H CENTRAL GST DELHI - III v. DELHI INTERNATIONAL 335 AIRPORT LTD [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] The court decisively held that development fee is “really in the A nature of a cess or a tax for generating revenue for specific purpose.” And, further, that amounts collected are accountable to the AAI, which would ensure that such fee levied and collected are “utilized for the purposes mentioned in Section 22A (a) of the AAI Act.” 23. It was argued that in view of the declaration of law, CESTAT B correctly held that the charges collected by the assesses under Section 22A of the AAI Act cannot be regarded as considered for services rendered. 24. Learned counsel submitted that the decision in Krishi Upaj Mandi Samiti (supra) is distinguishable. In that case, the court was C concerned only with Section 9 (2) of the Rajasthan Agricultural Produce Markets Act, 1961, which was held not to relate to a statutory function but only a discretionary charge, i.e., renting of premises. Rent for immovable property is materially different from a collection under Section 22A of the AAI Act, which, according to this court, is in the nature of cess or tax and a compulsory exaction in Consumer Online Foundation (supra). D 25. The assesses also rely on the decision of this court in Commissioner of Service Tax vs. Bhayana Builders (P) Ltd9, where it was stated that under Section 67 of the Finance Act, 1994,not every amount charged by the service provider is taxable. Upon an analysis of Section 67, it was held that the amount charged should be “for such E service provided” to be taxable. The court emphasized the connection between the service and the amount by stating that: “the Act has provided for a nexus between the amount charged and the service provided”. 26. Counsel pointed out that Consumer Online Foundation (supra) F has ruled that there is no nexus between the amounts charged under Section 22A of the AAI Act and any service provided. In the absence of a nexus between the amount charged as DF/UDF and any service rendered, such amounts cannot be liable to service tax. IV G Analysis and Conclusions 27. In the decision of this court, in Consumer Online Foundation (Supra), the context was the validity of the levy of development fees 9 2018 (1) SCR1128 H 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A and their collection from embarking passengers by lessees of airports, under OMDAs, including the DIAL in this case.