Doubt arises, not only on that count, but even as to the age of the woman in the photographs, going by the witnesses’ depositions. PW 12 had stated that Venkubayamma was about 70 years of age in the year 1970 MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 669 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] itself, whereas Exs. A9 and A10 record her age as 70 years in 1982. Either way, the woman in Exs. A2 to A4 did not look close to those ages. In eff ect, there is no clinching evidence to prove that the woman in the photographs was, in fact, Venkubayamma. 50. The actual ‘giving and taking’ of the child in adoption, being an essential requisite under Section 11(vi) of the Act of 1956, we fi nd that there is no convincing evidence of that ‘act’ also in the case on hand. Interestingly, there are no pictures of the actual ‘giving and taking’ of the child in adoption. In Exs. A2 and A3, the purohit (PW 7) is seen standing or sitting behind the others and the same cannot be taken to be during the ceremony of ‘giving and taking’, as he would have stood/sat in front of them, chanting mantras and incantations as per shastras. Ex. A4 is a group photograph. Further, there are no photographs of the datta homam, though PW 7 claimed that he had performed the same. Even though it is no longer considered an essential ceremony, it is of signifi cance when performed, and would have been captured for posterity by taking pictures. Strangely, though a professional photographer (PW 4) was stated to have been engaged for the purpose of taking pictures at the adoption ceremony, he took only three photographs and no more. This parsimony is not explained. Further, PW 1 producing and marking Ex. A8 receipt, supposedly issued by PW 4 to the temple, with no explanation as to how it came into her possession, also does not inspire confi dence. 51. More importantly, the evidence of the purohit (PW 7), who is stated to have conducted the ceremonies, leads to a doubt as to the very adoption having taken place. The adoption ceremony is stated to have been performed at Sri Sri Raghunadha Swamy Temple at Bhapur in Berhampur but as per PW 7, Raghunadha Swamy Temple is not even in Bhapur but in Chandramanipeta and only Ramalingeswara Swamy and Mukteswara Swamy Temples are at Bhapur. Though, this discrepancy is sought to be explained at this stage, the fact remains that there was no re-examination of PW 7 at that time to clarify this telling aspect. 52. That apart, Ex. A9 Adoption Deed is scribed in English but it does not even contain a recital that the contents thereof were read over and explained in Telugu to the executant. No evidence has been let in for the Court to deduce that Venkubayamma was conversant with English language. 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Further, and more signifi cantly, in the second page of Ex.