However, the only issue that falls for our consideration is whether there is sufficient B evidence against the Appellants to summon them as additional accused? 12. Section 319 Cr.P.C. contemplates that: “….Where, in the course of any inquiry into, or trial of, an offence, it appears from the evidence that any person not C being the Accused has committed any offence for which such person could be tried together with the Accused, the Court may proceed against such person for the offence which he appears to have committed. … …” 13. Illuminating the scope of Section 319 Cr.PC, the Constitution Bench of this Court in Hardeep Singh vs. State of Punjab1 laid down D that : “57. Thus, the application of the provisions of Section 319 CrPC, at the stage of inquiry is to be understood in its correct perspective. The power under Section 319 CrPC can be exercised only on the basis of the evidence adduced before E the court during a trial. So far as its application during the course of inquiry is concerned, it remains limited as referred to herein above, adding a person as an accused, whose name has been mentioned in Column 2 of the charge-sheet or any other person who might be an accomplice.” F x-x-x-x-x- “105. Power under Section 319 CrPC is a discretionary and an extraordinary power. It is to be exercised sparingly and only in those cases where the circumstances of the case so warrant. It is not to be exercised because the Magistrate or G the Sessions Judge is of the opinion that some other person may also be guilty of committing that offence. Only where strong and cogent evidence occurs against a person from the 1 (2014) 3 SCC 92 H 524 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A evidence led before the court that such power should be exercised and not in a casual and cavalier manner. 106. Thus, we hold that though only a prima facie case is to be established from the evidence led before the court, not necessarily tested on the anvil of cross-examination, it requires much stronger evidence than mere probability of his B complicity. The test that has to be applied is one which is more than prima facie case as exercised at the time of framing of charge, but short of satisfaction to an extent that the evidence, if goes unrebutted, would lead to conviction. In the absence of such satisfaction, the court should refrain from C exercising power under Section 319 CrPC. In Section 319 CrPC the purpose of providing if “it appears from the evidence that any person not being the accused has committed any offence” is clear from the words “for which such person could be tried together with the accused”. The words used are not “for which such person could be convicted”. There is, D therefore, no scope for the court acting under Section 319 CrPC to form any opinion as to the guilt of the accused.” 14.