The union is aggrieved by the impugned and has approached this court. II 8. Mr. N. Venkatraman, learned Additional Solicitor General for C the Union (hereafter, “ASG”) submitted that the impugned challenges the fundamental powers of the government to issue a notification under Section 25(1) of the Act which may have serious implications on their exercise of power in future. The ASG further submitted that the assessee cannot claim concessions/exemptions in respect of a commodity as a matter of right as the same falls within the D policy domain of the government. 9. Learned counsel further submitted that the commodities granted exemption under the amended notification relate to technological advancement and modernization of the industrial sector in the country and thus the element of “public interest” is ingrained in the amended E notification. 10. The learned ASG also placed reliance on section 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 to argue that the Union’s power to issue a notification includes the power to withdraw the same. Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 reads as: F “21. Power to issue, to include power to add to, amend, vary or rescind notifications, s, rules, or bye-laws .- Where, by any (Central Act) or Regulations, a power to ( issue notifications) s, rules, or bye-laws is conferred, then that power includes a power, exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like sanction and condition (if any), to add G to, amend, vary or rescind any (notifications), s, rules or bye-laws so (issued).” 11. Learned counsel further submitted that there exists merit in excluding single width two plate machines from exemption as those were manufactured in the country. There was rationale to exclude such H 1120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A machines from the scope of concessions. Moreover, the concession granted was for cold-set web offset Rotary Double Width Four Plate Wide Printing Machines with a minimum speed of 70,000 copies per hour. Thus, considering the indigenous angle and the representations received from the domestic manufacturers of the equipment (i.e. single width two plate machines with 50000 copies per hour speed) it was B necessary to exclude such single width two plate machines, from the scope of concessions. III 12. Mr. Kaushik Murali, learned counsel for the assessee submitted that the Union could not withdraw or amend the First Notification issued C under section 25(1) of the Act without any justification. To support the argument, counsel placed reliance on this court’s decision in Kasinka Trading & Anr. V. Union of India9 (hereafter, “Kasinka”) and urged that though the Union has the power to amend or withdraw an exemption notification granted under section 25(1) of the Act, yet the reasons given D by the revenue for justifying withdrawal of the exemption notification must be “relevant” and “sufficient” to the exercise of the power in “public interest”. In Kasinka (Supra), this court had observed that: “[..] Thus, the Union of India has disclosed the circumstances under which the exemption was initially granted as well as the change of circumstances which warranted the withdrawal E of the exemption notification.