In the aforesaid factual matrix, the review petition was entertained. B (e) In the same context, Lily Thomas vs. Union of India (2000) 6 SCC 224 could be adverted to wherein it has been held that the power to review is not an appeal in disguise but is a creature of statute and not an inherent power. In the said case, the question was with regard to the consideration of a C subsequent event to mould the relief accordingly. It was observed that while exercising its review jurisdiction, the Court can take into consideration a subsequent event for the purpose of rectifying its own mistake. A party cannot be made to suffer on account of an act of the Court which is expressed in the well-recognised maxim of equity, namely, D actus curiae neminem gravabit which means an act of the Court shall prejudice no man. This maxim is founded upon justice and good sense or otherwise a man would be compelled to do what he cannot possibly perform, which the law does not permit (lex non cogit ad impossibilia). The E above proposition would fall within the scope of “any other sufficient reason” when there is a mistake of the Court which has led to injustice. That is a situation which does not take in a situation covered by the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC, which, as already observed, is an exception to XLVII Rule 1 CPC. Hence, the aforesaid does F not apply to the instance cases. 44. The aforesaid cases turn on their own facts and do not fall within the scope of exception which is in the nature of an Explanation. The aforesaid s cannot be a precedent in the instant case where the review petition has been filed in to set at naught the impugned G s following the in Pune Municipal Corporationpassed by this Court which held the field till it was subsequently overruled in Indore Development Authority. Having regard to the Explanation provided in XLVII Rule 1 CPC review in these cases is impermissible. H 248 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 45. A few s of this Court could be referred to at this stage in support of the view that I wish to take in this case: a) In Haridas Das vs. Usha Rani Banik (2006) 4 SCC 78, it has been observed that one of the parameters prescribed in XLVII Rule 1 CPC for allowing the B review petition for rehearing the case is “on account of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record or for any other sufficient reason”. The former part of the rule deals with a situation attributable to the applicant, and the later to a jural action which is manifestly incorrect or on which two conclusions are not possible. Neither of them C postulates a rehearing of the dispute because a party had not highlighted all the aspects of the case or could perhaps have argued them more forcefully and/or cited binding precedents to the Court and thereby enjoyed a favourable verdict.