One of the zones reserved is for open space and recreational use. Sections 36 and 37 only provide for acquisition of land in such zones. Legislative policy is not to acquire land without paying fair market value. Planning G permission cannot result in deprivation of property. The DCR are not the rules made under the Act. The authority is competent only to make regulation under Section 124. In the absence of express power to demand a gift, there cannot be an implied power. The Act is regulatory and not a 26 (2012) 2 SCC 232 H 27 (2008) 8 SCC 765 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1055 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] taxing legislation. The appellants are entitled to restitution. Otherwise, A he adopts the arguments of the Shri Gopal Sankarnarayanan made in C.A. No. 7847 of 2013. He would also in his rejoinder submission point out that support cannot be derived from Section 17 having regard to Section 12. He would reiterate the argument that the State Government also has no power relying on the reported in (2003) 5 SCC B 622. He would contend that the words in Section 122(1) empowering making rules ‘for carrying out the purposes of the act’ is unbridled and it must be understood as meant for regulating the use of land. ANALYSIS 27. We have noticed the facts in the case of Vasanth Apartments C and in the case of Keyaram Hotels. In the case of Vasanth Apartments, the land which was gifted by the owner in compliance with the impugned rule has been sought to be made use as a road. In the case of Keyaram Hotels the pertinent point which must be noticed is that the OSR area is not sought to be so maintained as road but access to the public by having D an entrance to the area through a public road is sought to be projected as being contrary to the very concept of OSR meant for communal purpose, if the word ‘communal’ is to be understood as being confined to benefit the interest of the community which in the context of the case is the community of persons who patronise the hotel and who used the facilities provided in the hotel and its premises. E 28. Whether impugned rule is statutory or it has statutory underpinning? Whether it is law? The argument of the appellants appears to be, that the impugned rule is not a statutory rule. Instead, the further case is that the impugned rule is not a rule made under Section 122 of the Act. Section 123 F contemplates placing of rules made under Section 122 before the legislative assembly. The said procedure has not been followed as regards the impugned rule. Therefore, it is not open to the respondents to claim that the impugned rule is a statutory rule. It is nothing but an executive fiat. If it is merely executive in nature, then it is not open to the G respondents to direct the owners to execute a gift deed of valuable property, and thus, deprive the owners of the rights over their property.