Form A is the statutory Form in which an application is submitted by the debtor. Form C, on the other hand, is the statutory Form in which an application is submitted by a creditor. Form C is required to be fi lled in by the creditor who institutes an application for the initiation of the insolvency resolution process. This includes particulars of the applicant, particulars of the guarantor, particulars of the debt and particulars of the insolvency professional. The creditor who fi lls up Form C would have to furnish such information as lies within the knowledge of the creditor who is the applicant under Section 95(4). When the resolution professional is empowered to seek information or an explanation in connection with the application, such information or explanation must be relevant to and bearing a connection with the nature of the application itself. (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 608 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 78. Even when the resolution professional seeks information from a third party, the information cannot be of a roving nature, but must be relatable to the application which has been fi led under Section 94(1) or, as the case may be, Section 95. Sub-section (3) of Section 99 provides that where a debt for which an application has been fi led by the creditor is registered with an information utility, the debtor shall not be entitled to dispute the validity of the debt. This provision in sub-section (3) operates only in relation to the recommendatory function of the resolution professional. That provision cannot operate to bind the adjudicatory function of the adjudicating authority when it exercises its jurisdiction under Section 100. C. Challenge to the constitutional validity 79. In view of the above analysis, it now becomes necessary to analyse as to whether there is any substance in the challenge to the constitutional validity of the provisions of Sections 95 to 100. We have already indicated that the function of the resolution professional under Section 99 is purely facilitative. The task before the resolution professional is not to adjudicate but to collate and collect information on the application under Section 94 or Section 95 before submitting a report to the adjudicating authority. When interpreting Part II of the IBC, the Courts have inferred the necessity of granting an opportunity to a debtor before initiating the insolvency resolution process against them. This includes the provision of a copy of the application and all relevant documents. Although Section 100 of the IBC does not explicitly mention a hearing for a debtor, the requirement of a hearing has to be read into Section 100. In legal interpretation, when a statute is silent on a specifi c aspect, like a hearing, and there is no explicit prohibition, the courts may imply or read in such a requirement.27 The key point is that the lack of explicit mention of a hearing in a provision does not automatically make it unconstitutional because such a requirement can be read into the statute.