8. For verifi cation of Caste status, the claimant is required to furnish the information mentioned in Rule 16 of the 2012 Rules which specifi es the documents to be furnished as primary information and evidence. Amongst the mentioned documents, the claimant may furnish School Leaving Certifi cate of a relative. She must also indicate proof of permanent residence in the State of Maharashtra, prior to the deemed date i.e., 21.11.1961. 9. Besides other documents, the appellant produced her family tree where the name of her father – Gopal Mulchand and name of her grand- father Mulchand Hemraj Khakhara was shown. That apart the name of one uncle (father’s brother)-Ramavatar Mulchand and another uncle-Rajesh Mulchand was also refl ected together with the name of the appellant’s cousin sister Shraddha [wrongly shown as Sudha]. She also produced the School Leaving Certifi cate issued to the appellant’s uncle Ramavatar Mulchand showing his school entry date as 12.08.1960 and the school leaving Certifi cate of the other uncle-Radheshyam Mulchand showing the school entry date as 18.07.1961. Both School Leaving Certifi cates show admission in the Municipal Corporation Hindi Balak School No. 1, Akola (for short, Municipal School at Akola) before the deemed date of 21.11.1961, mentioned in the 2012 Rules. 10. However, the Scrutiny Committee refused to accept the School Leaving Certificate issued for the uncle-Radheshyam Mulchand by observing that his name is not mentioned in the family tree of the claimant. Surprisingly, no weightage was given for the School Leaving Certifi cate of the other uncle Ramavatar Mulchand by the Scrutiny Committee. 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 11.1 Mr. Kunal Cheema, learned counsel appearing for the appellant would submit that the Scrutiny Committee mis-directed itself by relying on the ratio in Marri Chandra Shekhar Rao vs Dean, Seth G.S. Medical College & Ors. Reported in (1990) 3 SCC 130 as the said is inapplicable for those whose claims are to be considered under the provisions of the 2012 Rules. 11.2 The appellant then argues that when the School Leaving Certifi cate of the uncle Ramavatar was very much available without being questioned by anyone, the Scrutiny Committee could not have rejected the appellant’s claim by placing heavy reliance on the family tree which omitted to mention few relatives. 11.3 The argument of the counsel is that when the relationship of the appellant with her uncle and grand-father is established, her status in the State of Maharashtra should have been determined on the basis of the 2012 Rules. 11.4 Mr. Kunal Cheema, learned counsel contends that the High Court committed a serious error by wrongly observing that the appellant’s grand- father Mulchand Hemraj was not mentioned in the family tree. 12.1 On the other hand, Mr. Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, learned Standing counsel for State would refer to the documents relied upon by the appellant before the Scrutiny Committee to point out that most of them are of dates subsequent to the deemed date of 21.11.1961 mentioned in the 2012 Rules and therefore, can be of no assistance to the appellant.