Therefore, the AO as such has rightly drawn an adverse inference. At this stage, it is required to be noted that as such the assessees did not produce any worthwhile evidence G to prove the genuineness of the commission received. Despite the above, the ITAT reversed the findings of fact recorded by the AO and the CIT(A) by observing that the AO did not proceed further (after issuing the summons/notices) and that since no adverse material has been brought on record the AO could not H have proceeded to draw an adverse inference as the burden was MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 455 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI heavy on the revenue. Once, the AO issued summons to those A who had allegedly paid the commission to the assessees and the summons were issued under Section 131 which were not complied with and it was the assertion on behalf of the respective assessees that they earned the income of commission within Sikkim, the burden to prove the same was upon the assessees. Under the B circumstances, the ITAT wrongly and erroneously shifted the burden upon the AO to prove the contrary. Therefore, in absence of any material on record that the commission was earned only in Gangtok, the assessees cannot be permitted to say that they were liable to pay the tax under the Sikkim Manual, 1948 and not under the Income Tax Act, 1961. It appears that the assessees with C mala fide intention and to evade the payment of tax under the Income Tax Act, 1961 came out with a case that they earned the income within Sikkim, which has not been established and proved. It was a clear attempt on the part of the respective assessees to wriggle out of the clutches of the Income Tax Act, 1961. [Para D 10][492-D-H; 493-A-B] 4. In the case of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala, while dealing with the interest under the provisions of Sections 234A, 234B and 234C of the Income Tax Act, 1961, it is observed and held that the interest contemplated under the said provisions is mandatory E in nature and the power of waiver or reduction has not been expressly conferred on the Commission. The same indicates that insofar as the payment of statutory interest is concerned, the same is outside the purview of the settlement contemplated in Chapter XIX-A of the Act. In the present case also, the levy of interest under Section 234A for default in furnishing the return of income F is mandatory and automatic. Section 234A of the Act provides that where the return of income for any assessment year is furnished after the due date or is not furnished, the assessee shall be liable to pay simple interest. Thus, interest under section 234A is statutory interest leviable and payable and therefore the G decision of this Court in the case of Anjum M.H. Ghaswala shall be applicable with full force. Therefore, when the interest is levied as per the workings mentioned in ITNS 150 which is forming part of the assessment , it is rightly held to be sufficient and good enough to charging interest.