It is submitted that the same was never the case of the plaintiffs when the suit was filed and there was no such amendment prayed in the plaint. 3.7 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of H. Siddiqui H 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A v. A. Ramalingam (2011) 4 SCC 240 (paras 13 & 15) in support of his submission that once the issue of alleged PoA was raised, the High Court ought not to have decided the second issue framed by it in that case without deciding on the first issue, i.e., that of impact of non- production of the PoA and its existence thereof. It is submitted that in the present case, the High Court ought to have decided the issue of non- B production of PoA by the plaintiffs in the first instance and then would have drawn the statutory presumption. 3.8 It is further submitted that in the present case, the learned trial Court also specifically observed that no endorsement was made by the Sub-Registrar on the documents in compliance with Section 26 and C Section 58 of the Registration Act. It is contended that it was neither stated in the deed that the plaintiff has the PoA by which he was empowered to execute the deed in his favour nor was an averment made in the plaint to that effect. It is submitted that the evidence produced by the plaintiffs, i.e., two sale deeds dated 3.9.1968 and 29.9.1968 based D on the purported PoA, has not been proved by production of official records or through the Registrar being examined as a witness. It is urged that the PoA is the fulcrum of the case on which the plaintiffs were claiming their rights, the plaintiffs never produced in any form. It is further urged that it was incumbent on the part of the plaintiffs to produce PoA as the plaintiffs in the suit were having their rights, title or interest through E the PoA which is the basic document. 3.9 Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants has further submitted that Sections 101 to 103 of the Indian Evidence Act provides that a party who avers the title must prove the title and that such a party is not relieved of the onus. It is submitted that in the present F case even the plaintiffs had not discharged their initial burden of proving the title. Reliance is placed upon the decision of this Court in the cases of Anil Rishi v. Gurbaksh Singh (2006) 5 SCC 558; and Sebastio Luis Fernandes v. K.V.P. Shastri (2013) 15 SCC 161. 3.10 It is further submitted that Section 65 of the Indian Evidence G Act provides for circumstances under which secondary evidence may be given without filing primary evidence. It is submitted that in the present case the plaintiffs have failed to prove the primary evidence, i.e., PoA on the basis of which the secondary evidence, i.e., the sale deeds were executed.