[Para 112][799-G-H] C 9.2 The Orissa High Court has established benches which will operate virtually in multiple cities and towns across the state. This negates the appellants’ argument that the Orissa High Court is less accessible than the OAT. In fact, the number of virtual benches of the High Court is greater than the number of benches D of the OAT. Litigants from across the state can access the High Court with greater ease than they could access the OAT. [Para 114][800-E] 9.3 Litigants may therefore approach the Orissa High Court for the resolution of disputes. The abolition of the OAT does not E leave litigants without a remedy or without a forum to adjudicate the dispute in question. It is therefore not violative of the fundamental right of access to justice. [Para 115][800-F] Anita Kushwaha v. Pushap Sudan (2016) 8 SCC 509 : [2016] 9 SCR 560 – relied on. F The State Government did not take advantage of its own wrong 10. The State Government discontinued appointments to the OAT as a result of its decision to abolish the OAT and not vice versa. The State Government based its decision on an G evaluation of the OAT’s functioning in the year 2014, which was prior to its decision to abolish the OAT. Hence, there is no “wrong” which the State Government took advantage of. Similarly, it cannot be said that the Union of India had systematically made the OAT non-functional. [Para 118][801-E-F] H 746 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A Failure of the Union Government to conduct a judicial impact assessment before abolishing the OAT does not vitiate its decision to abolish the OAT 11.1 The direction to conduct a judicial impact assessment in Rojer Mathew’s case was of a general nature. It was not geared B towards proposals to abolish specific tribunals such as the OAT. Rather, a need was felt to analyse the consequences of the restructuring of tribunals by the Finance Act 2017 and a writ of mandamus was issued in this regard to the Ministry of Law and Justice. The judicial impact assessment was also directed to be conducted in to better understand the case load, efficacy, C financial impact, and accessibility of tribunals at large, in addition to the filling of vacancies. Neither the majority opinion authored by Ranjan Gogoi, CJI nor the opinions of Dr. DY Chandrachud, J. or Deepak Gupta, J. contain a direction to the effect that a tribunal shall not be abolished in the absence of a judicial impact D assessment. In the instant case, the Union Government issued the notification dated 2 August 2019 in a valid exercise of its powers under Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. The failure to conduct a judicial impact assessment does not vitiate its decision to abolish the OAT. Nothing in the in Rojer Mathew’s case also indicates the need for the Union Government E to obtain the permission of this Court before abolishing the OAT. [Para 122][802-E-H; 803-A-B] 11.2 However, this is not to say that the Union Government and more specifically, the Ministry of Law and Justice may dispense with the directions of this Court in Rojer Mathew’s case.