39. The scheme which has been prepared in consonance with the provisions of Sections 18(1) and 18(2) then has to be E examined by BIFR in terms of Section 18(3) of SICA 1985 and if BIFR makes any modifications to the scheme, the same draft scheme, in brief, shall be published or caused to be published in such daily newspapers as BIFR may consider necessary, for receipt of suggestions and objections, if any. In the light of the suggestions and objections received in response to such publication, F BIFR may still make further modifications. Also, where the scheme relates to amalgamation of the companies, the procedures specified therein shall be followed. In such cases, the shareholders of the company, other than the sick industrial company, are expected to pass a resolution of approval of the scheme. G 40. The scheme thereafter shall be sanctioned by BIFR and shall come into force on such date as BIFR may specify in this behalf and in exercise of the powers vested in it under Section 18(4) of SICA 1985. This scheme does not attain finality which is unalterable. Once the scheme is sanctioned and comes into force even then, on the recommendation of the operating agency, BIFR H MODI RUBBER LIMITED v. CONTINENTAL CARBON INDIA 1057 LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] can consider further modifications or even prepare a fresh scheme A providing for such measures as the operating agency may consider it necessary and recommended in terms of Section 18(5) of SICA 1985. 41. Section 18(7) of SICA 1985 is an important provision which provides that the sanction accorded by BIFR shall be B conclusive evidence that all the requirements of the scheme relating to reconstruction or amalgamation or any measure specified therein have been complied with and a copy of the sanctioned scheme certified in writing by an officer of BIFR to be a true copy thereof shall be admissible as evidence in all legal proceedings. To resolve C the difficulties that may arise in giving effect to the provisions to the sanctioned scheme, BIFR may, on the recommendation of the operating agency or otherwise, by do anything, not inconsistent with such provisions, which appears to it to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing difficulty in terms of Section 18(9) of SICA 1985. D 42. The role of BIFR does not end here and it may even periodically monitor the implementation of the scheme. Where the scheme relates to preventive, ameliorative, remedial and other measures with respect to any sick industrial company, the scheme may provide for financial assistance by way of loans, advances E or guarantees from the Government or financial institutions. Before any financial institution is called upon to proceed to release the financial assistance to the sick industrial company in fulfilment of the requirements in that regard, the procedure contemplated under the provisions of Section 19 of SICA 1985 has to be followed. F 43. Where BIFR, after making inquiry under Section 16 of SICA 1985, considering all relevant facts and circumstances and giving an opportunity of being heard to all parties concerned, is of the opinion that the sick industrial company is not likely to make its net worth exceed the accumulated losses within a reasonable time while meeting all its financial obligations and that the company G as a result thereof is not likely to become viable in future and that it is just and equitable that the company should be wound up, it may record and forward its opinion to the High Court concerned as per the provisions of Section 20 of SICA 1985 whereafter the company shall be wound up in accordance with the provisions of H 1058 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.