With the enactment of the State of Arunachal Pradesh Act, 1986 and the State of Mizoram Act, 1986, two new States were born. D Section 18 of the former and section 15 of the latter legislation, more or less commonly worded, when read together would evince that a common High Court for the States of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh to be called the Gauhati High Court (the High Court of Assam, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh) came into existence. The common E thread that runs through the developments of 1962, 1971 and 1986, noted above, is that as and when the jurisdiction of the High Court of Assam and thereafter the Gauhati High Court came to be enlarged and extended to States other than Assam, all seven sister States in the North- Eastern part of the country agreed to bear the expenditure in respect of the F salaries and allowances of the Judges of the common High Court as shall be allocated amongst the States in such proportion by an of the President. 22. In view of the provisions of the 1971 Act, till little over a decade back, the Gauhati High Court was the common High Court for the seven sister states. The jurisdiction of the said High Court extended G throughout the territories of Assam, Nagaland, Tripura, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh. 23. However, the 1971 Act came to be amended by the North- Eastern Areas (Re-organisation) and Other Related Laws (Amendment) H 1000 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Act, 2012 (for brevity ‘the Amendment Act’). It established separate High Courts for the States of Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura. Accordingly, the definition of “common High Court” in section 2(d) of the 1971 Act was amended. Apart from insertion of sections 28A to 28K between sections 28 and 29, the Amendment Act, inter alia, also introduced a proviso in sub-section (1) of section 28, reading as follows: B “Provided that on and from the commencement of the North- Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) and Other Related Laws (Amendment) Act, 2012, the common High Court shall be the High Court for the States of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Nagaland and shall cease to have its jurisdiction, powers and C authority for the States of Meghalaya, Manipur and Tripura.” 24. Hence, today, the Gauhati High Court is the common High Court exercising jurisdiction throughout Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh; a fortiori, all Civil Courts in these four States are subordinate to the same High Court, i.e., the Gauhati High Court. Thus, D it is a High Court which earlier exercised its jurisdiction over seven different States and is presently exercising jurisdiction over four different States. This, by itself, is a unique feature which stands unmatched in the judicial annals of the country post-independence. 25. We can take judicial notice that Judges of the Gauhati High E Court in the past have been elevated from amongst advocates and judicial officers hailing from the aforesaid States.