Police and prison offi cials exhibit violence towards the queer community. Research conducted by the National Institute of Epidemiology involving around 60,000 transgender participants revealed that the law enforcement agencies are the largest perpetrators of violence against the transgender community.24 A trans- woman lodged in a prison housing two thousand male inmates recounted the violence that she faced during her imprisonment. She reported that the male prisoners sexually assaulted and mentally harassed her.25 Lesbian and gay couples often approach the police for protection from family violence. However, instead of granting protection to the couple, the police ‘hand 21 Lakshya Arora, ‘PM Bhujang, Muthusamy Sivakami, Understanding discrimination against LGBTQIA+ patients in hospitals using human rights perspective: an exploratory qualitative study’ Sex Reprod Health Matters’ 2022 29(2) https://www. ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC9423841/. 22 Sejal Singh and Laura E. Durso, ‘Widespread discrimination continues to shape LGBT people’s lifes in both subtle and signifi cant ways’ (American Progress , 2 May 2017) https://www.americanprogress.org/article/widespread-discrimination-continues- shape-lgbt-peoples-lives-subtle-signifi cant-ways/ 23 Bindisha Sarang, ‘Why its doubly diffi cult for gay renters to fi nd homes’ , (First Post, November 13, 2013) https://www.fi rstpost.com/living/why-its-doubly-diffi cult-for-gay- renters-to-fi nd-homes-1224225.html 24 International Commission of Jurists, Unnatural Off ences: Obstacles to Justice in India Based on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity (ICJ, 2017) 25 Sukanya Shantha, ‘Misgendering, sexual violence, and harassment: What it is like to be a transgender person in an Indian prison’ (The wire, 11 Feb 2021) https://thewire. in/lgbtqia/transgender-prisoners-india 124 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. over’ the couple to their families.26 In one such case, the police colluded with the family despite court s granting protection to a couple from the queer community. The parents of a cis-woman (who was in a relationship with a trans man) fi led a missing persons case, The couple already had already fi led an affi davit in court that they were in a live-in relationship. However, the police ‘tracked them down’.27 In some instances, the family’s complaint is not recorded by the police. Instead, they try to force persons of the queer community to speak to their family.28 The violence and the discrimination that the queer community is subjected to leads to them being closeted or feeling compelled to imitate the expressive attitudes of heterosexual persons.29 17. This Court in NALSA (supra) declared that the transgender community must not be subsumed within the gender binary and must be treated as a “third gender” in the eyes of the law. This Court also directed the Central and the State governments to take steps to address the stigma and oppression faced by the community and create public awareness about the community and their struggles. Parliament enacted the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act 201930 to protect the rights of the transgender community and provide welfare measures for their betterment. The enactment aims to protect the transgender community from discrimination and includes provisions for providing them with opportunities in the educational and social sectors. However, in spite of the decision of this Court in NALSA (supra) and the provisions of the Transgender Persons Act, members of the transgender community continue to be denied equal citizenship.