If the of the High Court in RFA No.1996 of 2007 was not modified by this Court as per in CA No.52001 of 2009 it would have had the effect of reviving the suit in full and in such eventuality, the suit D should have been deemed to be pending. In that context, it is apposite to refer to paragraph 16 of the decision of this Court in United Bank of India, Calcutta v. Abhijit Tea Co. (P) Ltd. & Ors.4, which reads thus:- “16. But, it is now well settled that an of remand by the appellate court to the trial court which had disposed of the E suit revives the suit in full except as to matters, if any, decided finally by the appellate court. Once the suit is revived, it must, in the eye of the law, be deemed to be pending — from the beginning when it was instituted. The disposing of the suit passed by the Single Judge which is set aside gets effaced altogether and the continuity of the suit in the trial F court is restored, as a matter of law. The suit cannot be treated as one freshly instituted on the date of the remand . Otherwise serious questions as to limitation would arise. In fact, if any evidence was recorded before its earlier disposal, it would be evidence in the remanded suit and if any G interlocutory s were passed earlier, they would revive. In the case of a remand, it is as if the suit was never disposed of (subject to any adjudication which has become final, in the appellate ). The position could have been different H 4 (2000) 7 SCC 357 SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 383 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] if the appeal was disposed of once and for all and the suit A was not remanded.” 22.In view of the subsequent of this Court in Civil Appeal No.5201 of 2009, dated 03.09.2009, directed against the of remand in RFA No.1996 of 2007, the of the High Court got merged in it. As per the same, the scope of proceedings before the trial Court was B confined only to record the additional evidence of defendants and to transmit the same to the High Court so as to enable the High Court to dispose of RFA No.1996 of 2007 afresh. In short, in view of the settled position, the trial Court could not have expanded the scope of the proceedings before it contrary to the of remand and hence, the trial C Court was perfectly correct in rejecting the application for amending the written statement. In this context, the direction of the High Court of Madhya Pradesh in Rukhmanand v. Deenbandh5, assumes relevance. It reads thus:- “It is settled law that when a suit is remanded for a decision D afresh with certain specific directions, the jurisdiction of the trial Court after remand depends upon the terms of the of remand and the trial Court cannot either consider matters other than those specified in the remand , or enter into questions falling outside its limit.