If after careful consideration of the material on record it is found by the court that the admission of evidence collected in search conducted in violation of Section 50 would render the trial unfair then that evidence must be excluded. In R. v. Collins, (1987) 1 SCR 265 (Canada), the Supreme Court of Canada speaking through Lamer, J. (as his Lordship, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Canada then was) opined that the use of evidence collected in violation of the Charter rights of an accused would render a trial unfair and the evidence inadmissible. … x x x x 55. We, therefore, hold that an illicit article seized from the person of an accused, during search conducted in violation of the safeguards provided in Section 50 of the Act, cannot by itself be used as admissible evidence of proof of unlawful possession of the contraband on the accused. Any other material/article recovered during that search may, however, be relied upon by the prosecution in other/independent proceedings against an accused notwithstanding the recovery of that material during an illegal search and its admissibility would depend upon the relevancy of that material and the facts and circumstances of that case.” (Emphasis supplied) 48. This Court ultimately summed up its fi ndings with the following ten conclusions reproduced below:- “57. On the basis of the reasoning and discussion above, the following conclusions arise: (1) That when an empowered offi cer or a duly authorised offi cer acting on prior information is about to search a person, it is imperative for him to inform the person concerned of his right under sub-section (1) of Section 50 of being taken to the nearest gazetted offi cer or the nearest Magistrate for making the search. However, such information may not necessarily be in writing; RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 323 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (2) That failure to inform the person concerned about the existence of his right to be searched before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate would cause prejudice to an accused; (3) That a search made, by an empowered offi cer, on prior information, without informing the person of his right that, if he so requires, he shall be taken before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate for search and in case he so opts, failure to conduct his search before a gazetted offi cer or a Magistrate, may not vitiate the trial but would render the recovery of the illicit article suspect and vitiate the conviction and sentence of an accused, where the conviction has been recorded only on the basis of the possession of the illicit article, recovered from his person, during a search conducted in violation of the provisions of Section 50 of the Act; (4) That there is indeed need to protect society from criminals. The societal intent in safety will suff er if persons who commit crimes are let off because the evidence against them is to be treated as if it does not exist.