It is submitted E that though not permissible, observing and holding that the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra), the Division Bench of the High Court has not followed the decision in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) on the ground that in the case of Raj Kumar (supra), this Court had not considered the decision in the case of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra). It is submitted that the aforesaid is factually incorrect. It is F submitted that as such while passing the and in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) this Court had taken into consideration at least in more than 8-9 paragraphs the decision of this Court in the case of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra) (paragraphs 13, 42, 43, 47, 50-52, 61 & 64). It is submitted that therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court has G seriously erred in not following the binding decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra). 3.1 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that as such in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) while dealing with and considering the pari materia provisions of DSE H 954 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Act, namely, Section 8 of the DSE Act, this Court has specifically observed and held that before terminating an employee even in case of a non- aided institution, the prior approval of the Director of Education is mandatory. It is submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that while holding so this Court did consider the decision of this Court in the case of T.M.A. Pai Foundation (supra). It is submitted B that therefore, the Division Bench of the High Court has materially erred in taking the contrary view than the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) and the Division Bench of the High Court has materially erred in relying upon the Larger Bench’s /decision in the case of Central Academy Society (supra) and taking the view that C in case of termination followed by the disciplinary proceedings/enquiry, Section 18 requiring the prior approval of the Director of Education shall not be applicable. 3.2 It is submitted that even in the case of Marwari Balika Vidyalaya Vs. Asha Srivastava; (2020) 14 SCC 449 after following D the decision of this Court in the case of Raj Kumar (supra), it is observed and held that before terminating/dismissing an employee, the prior approval of the Direction of Education is required/mandatory. 3.3 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that the decision in the case of Raj Kumar (supra) E has been subsequently followed by the Delhi High Court in the case of Mangal Sain Jain Vs. Principal Balvantray Mehta Vidya Bhawan & Ors. [W.P. (C) No. 3415/2020] against which the Special Leave Petition filed by the management has been dismissed by this Court in the case of Principal Balvantray Mehta Vidya Bhawan Vs. Mangal Jain vide dated 11.01.2021.