… that the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act merely prohibits a secured creditor from proceeding further with the transfer of the secured asset by way of lease, assignment or sale; a restriction 72 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property is not exactly the same as the equity of redemption available to the mortgagor, the payment of the amount mentioned in Section 13 (8) of the SARFAESI Act ties the hands of the mortgagee (secured creditor) from exercising any of the powers conferred under the Act; that redemption comes later; extinction of the right of redemption comes much later than the sale notice; and the right of redemption is not lost immediately upon the highest bid made by a purchaser in an auction being accepted. We also hold that such a right would continue till the execution of a conveyance i.e. issuance of sale certifi cate in favour of the mortgagee. A similar view has been taken by this Bench in Hoshiarpur Roller Flour Mill Private Limited V/s Punjab National Bank (CWP No. 14440 of 2021, decided on 10.12.2021). 97. It would, therefore, certainly be available to the petitioners herein before the issuance of sale certifi cate in favour of respondents No. 2 and 3. Point (a) is answered accordingly in favour of the petitioners and against the respondents.” l. The said also considered and distinguished the of this Court in Shakeena and Anr. v. Bank of India and Ors., (2021) 12 SCC 761, holding that the said case did not consider the concept of redemption under Section 60 of the Act 1882. The observations in para 30 of Shakeena are in the nature of obiter dicta as in the said case the auction had concluded prior to the amendment of Section 13(8) and in any event the sale certifi cate had already been issued. Thus, the question of interpretation of Section 13(8) was not directly in issue. m. A perusal of the Report (the report of Joint Committee on the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debt Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Bill, 2016), more particularly para 24, indicates that the proposed amendment to Section 13(8) of the Act was intended to deal with: - “Provisions to stop secured creditor to lease or assignment or sale in the prescribed conditions”. The important thing to note is also that the report does not indicate that the Committee had considered the eff ect of Section 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, which is a general law regarding redemption of mortgage vis-a-vis the provisions of SARFAESI. CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 73 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] n. The focus of the Committee in the said report is on the obligations of the Mortgagee to not create third party rights up to a certain time-period, but it is silent on the rights of the Mortgagor to exercise its redemption for which Section 60 of the Act 1882 is the relevant provision.