The regular Court would consider such anticipatory bail, on its own merits and shall decide such anticipatory bail application. Therefore, it could be easily said that transit bail is a temporary relief which an accused gets for a certain period PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 567 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Case Name High Court Outcome and Reasoning of time. The High Court concluded that there is no fetter on the part of the High Court in granting a transit anticipatory bail to enable the applicants to approach the Courts including the High Court within whose jurisdiction the off ence is alleged to have been committed and the case is registered. 16. Manda Suresh Bombay High The High Court granted transit anticipatory Parulekar Court regarding bail with respect to an FIR registered in vs. State of off ence registered Tardeo, Goa. Without adjudicating the Goa, 2023 in the State of merits of the case, upon considering the SCC OnLine Goa. factual aspects of the case, protection Bom 1568 was granted for a period of four weeks (Manda Suresh to enable the applicants to approach the Parulekar) concerned Court for appropriate reliefs. 18. The above table is a testament to the rich jurisprudential discussion that has arisen out of the limited legislative guidance regarding the expression ‘the High Court or the Court of Session.’ The analysis of the above case law is as under: a. The Patna High Court in Syed Zafrul Hassan stressed on the plain meaning of Section 438 of CrPC to hold that ‘the High Court’ or ‘the Court of Session’ cannot mean “any” High Court or Court of Session. Therefore, it held that the application for direction under Section 438 of CrPC was not maintainable at Patna Bench of the Patna High Court because the FIR was registered at the Jhinkpani police station which falls in the district of Singhbhum. The matter thus came squarely within the jurisdiction of the Bench of the Patna High Court at Ranchi. The High Court stressed on the principle that a criminal Court takes cognizance of the off ence and not of individual off enders, vide Raghubans Dubey. Therefore, the High Court emphasized upon the practical diffi culties if the jurisdiction of criminal Court was determined by ‘the shady or evasive movements of the off ender’, there would be ‘judicial 568 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. chaos and an inherent confl ict betwixt the comity of Courts.’ The High Court cautioned that if the application for anticipatory bail was maintainable outside the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court, ‘a fugitive off ender may well move from Court to Court ad infi nitum and if he fails in one jurisdiction then on to another until he secures relief in the last.’ b. Calcutta High Court in Sadhan Chandra Kolay relied upon Article 214 of the Constitution which states that there shall be a High Court for each State and had categorically held that the Sessions Judge has got no authority to exercise the power or jurisdiction under Section 438 of CrPC beyond the local limits of the territorial jurisdiction of the Sessions-Division.