It is the decision on an issue, and not a mere fi nding on any Incidental question to reach such decision, which operates as res judicata….” (Emphasis Applied) 43. By now it’s a globally settled principle of common law jurisprudence that only determinations which are fundamental would result in the application of the doctrine of res judicata.15 Only those fi ndings, without which the Court cannot adjudicate a dispute and also form the vital cog in the reasoning of a defi nite conclusion on an issue on merits, constitute res judicata between the same set of parties in subsequent proceedings. However, in the process of arriving at a fi nal conclusion, if the Court makes any incidental, supplemental or non-essential observations which are not foundational to the fi nal determination, the same would not tie down the hands of courts in future. 44. The principle in respect of fundamental determination has been explicitly discussed by this Court in Sajjadanashin Sayed Md. B.E. Edr. v. Musa Dadabhai Ummer16 through the following paragraph:– “16. Spencer Bower and Turner on The Doctrine of Res judicata (2nd Edn., 1969, p. 181) refer to the English and Australian 14 Pawan Kumar Gupta v. Rochi Ram Nag Deo (1999) 4 SCC 243.D 15 Justice KR Handley, Spencer Bower, Turner and Handley: The Doctrine of Res judicata (3rd edn, LexisNexis Butterworths, 1996) pages 103-107. 16 Sajjadanashin Sayed Md. B.E. Edr. v. Musa Dadabhai Ummer (2000) 3 SCC 350. 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. experience and quote Dixon, J. of the Australian High Court in Blair v. Curran [(1939) 62 CLR 464, 553 (Aus HC)] CLR at p. 553 to say: “The diffi culty in the actual application of these conceptions is to distinguish the matters fundamental or cardinal to the prior decision on , or necessarily involved in it as its legal justifi cation or foundation, from matters which, even though actually raised and decided as being in the circumstances of the case the determining considerations, yet are not in point of law the essential foundation of a groundwork of the .” The authors say that in to understand this essential distinction, one has always to inquire with unrelenting severity — is the determination upon which it is sought to fi nd an estoppel so fundamental to the substantive decision that the latter cannot stand without the former. Nothing less than this will do. It is suggested by Dixon, J. that even where this inquiry is answered satisfactorily, there is still another test to pass: viz. whether the determination is the “immediate foundation” of the decision as opposed to merely “a proposition collateral or subsidiary only, i.e. not more than part of the reasoning supporting the conclusion”. It is well settled, say the above authors, “that a mere step in reasoning is insuffi cient. What is required is no less than the determination of law, or fact or both, fundamental to the substantive decision”. (Emphasis Applied) 45. The effective test to distinguish between a fundamental or collateral determination is hinged on the inquiry of whether the concerned determination was so vital to the decision that without which the decision itself cannot stand independently.