Section 92 of the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution envisages a mandatory maximum period of six months of Governor’s rule, which cannot be extended any further. Successive imposition of the President’s rule after Governor’s rule defeats the scheme of Section 92 and amounts to a fraud on the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution and the Indian Constitution.13 The manner in which the Union Government has acted and the decisions of the Governor and the President were all political stratagems to achieve outcomes that are unconstitutional.14 21. The President’s Proclamation under Article 356 dated 19th December 2018 is void ab initio for the following reasons: a. After the Proclamation under Section 92, the Proclamation under Article 356 was issued by the President. This was also without basis as the report of the Governor showing the failure of constitutional machinery was not placed before Parliament15. The debates in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha show that the motion approving the Proclamation was passed without debate and without the Governor’s report16; and b. A unilateral exercise of the powers under Article 356 sets a dangerous precedent and raises the apprehension that such a treatment can be extended to any other state of the country in the exercise of emergency powers under the Constitution. It renders the federal structure susceptible to the whims of the political party in power. It can also be used to undermine the 11 Written Submissions of Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, Senior Advocate. 12 Written Submissions on behalf of Mr. Kapil Sibal, Senior Advocate. 13 Submissions By Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, Senior Advocate. ; Rejoinder on behalf Of Mr. Kapil Sibal Sr. Advocate. 14 Rejoinder on behalf of Mr. Kapil Sibal Sr. Advocate. 15 Written Submissions of Mr. Dushyant Dave, Senior Advocate; S.R. Bommai vs Union of India (1994) 3 SCC 1. 16 Submissions By Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, Senior Advocate. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 31 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] special provisions under the Constitution designated for the special interests of the North-Eastern States of India.17 22. The impugned actions taken when the Proclamation issued under Article 356 was in force are void. There are limits on the exercise of power by the President after the issuance of a Proclamation for the following reasons: a. Once the Legislative Assembly of the State is dissolved, as was the case in the state, after the Proclamation of Governor’s rule, there was no occasion for the President to exercise the power under Article 356. This renders the Proclamation dated 19 December 2018 and all consequential actions – the impugned COs and suspension of the second proviso to Article 3 applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir void ab initio18; b. The purpose of Article 356 is to restore governance in the State.19 Article 356 is housed in Part XVIII of the Constitution of India- which deals with ‘Emergency provisions’. The President must be satisfi ed that the government cannot be carried out in accordance with “this Constitution”. The emphasis on “this” indicates the nature of the power.