[2023] 14 S.C.R. 28 : 2023 INSC 854 CASE DETAILS M/S PAUL RUBBER INDUSTRIES PRIVATE LIMITED v. AMIT CHAND MITRA & ANR. (Civil Appeal No. 6149 of 2023) SEPTEMBER 25, 2023 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE AND VIKRAM NATH, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: To what extent the Court can take cognizance of a clause, relating to purpose for which a lease is granted, contained in an unregistered deed of lease for immovable property stipulating its duration for a period of fi ve years. Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – ss.106, 107 – Unregistered lease deed for a period of fi ve years – Inadmissibility – Purpose of lease – If for ‘manufacturing purpose’ – Burden to prove – Tenancy of “month to month” character: Held: The subject agreement had a duration of fi ve years with a provision for renewal for a further period of fi ve years – Hence, under the fi rst part of s.107, for the said lease agreement to be admissible, registration of the same would have been necessary – That is the mandate of s.107 and ss.17 and 49, 1908 Act – The Court cannot admit it in evidence – This is a prohibition for the Court to implement and even if the Trial Court has taken it in evidence, the same cannot confer legitimacy to that document for being taken as evidence at the appellate stage – The parties cannot by implied consent confer upon such document its admissibility – Further, the lease was for use by the predecessor of the appellants “for the purpose of his business and/or factory” – The property was described in the schedule to be estimated 16 cottahs of land “with a factory shed/godown space” – Such description would not be suffi cient to establish that the same was for manufacturing purpose – In the absence of a registered instrument, the courts are not precluded from determining the factum of tenancy from other evidence on record as well as the purpose of tenancy – In this case, 28 M/S PAUL RUBBER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. AMIT 29 CHAND MITRA factum of creation of tenancy has been established – But the purpose of tenancy, so as to attract the six months’ notice period u/s.106 cannot be established by such evidence as in such a situation, registration of the deed would have been mandatory – Burden of proving that the lease was for manufacturing purpose lies on the party who claims it to be so – Onus was on the appellant-defendant to establish that manufacturing activity was being carried on from the demised premises – A mere statement by DW-1 or the purpose of lease as specifi ed in the lease agreement would not be suffi cient to demonstrate the purpose of lease to be for manufacturing – This could be proved by explaining what kind of work was being carried on in the factory shed however, in such a situation also, the registration of the deed would have been necessary – In absence of such registration, tenancy would have been of “month to month” character – High Court did not err in dismissing the appellant’s appeal – Lease – Registration Act, 1908 – ss.17, 49.