However, this deeming fiction is limited for the purposes of Sub-sections (1) to (5) of Section 308 C of the Code. [Para 65][51-A, B] 3.2 When the Special Court chooses to take cognizance, the question of the approver being examined as a witness in the Court of the Magistrate as required by Section 306 (4)(a) does not arise. [Para 76][57-D] D 3.3 The object of examining an approver twice, is to ensure that the accused is made aware of the evidence against him even at the preliminary stage, so as to enable him to effectively cross examine the approver during trial, bring out contradictions and show him to be untrustworthy. The said object stands fulfilled in E the instant case, since the confession statement of the approver before the Metropolitan Magistrate was enclosed to the Charge Sheet. The approver was examined as PW-16 during trial and he was cross examined on the contents of the confession statement. The Magistrate who recorded the confession was examined as F PW 17 and the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate who granted pardon was examined as PW-18. The proceedings before the Metropolitan Magistrate, the petition under section 306 of the Code and the proceedings on tender of pardon were marked respectively. All the accused were given opportunity to cross examine these witnesses both on the procedure and on the G contents. There was no violation of the procedure prescribed by Section 306(4)(a) of the Code. [Paras 78, 79][57-G; 58-A-D] 4.1 The trial court and the High Court came to the conclusion that the names of two big companies were included in H 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Exhibit P-26 chit only to lend credibility to the process adopted. But it was on record through the statement of PW-4, Manager of L&T Company that a tender enquiry was received by them from the PSU. If the inclusion of the names of those two companies were intended to be a make belief affair, A-1 would not have taken the risk of sending the letter and that too to a company like L&T. B Therefore, the evidence of PW-16 was not worthy of credit; that even assuming that it has some credibility, his statement that “he recommended the contract to be given to A-5 not because of A-1’s interest”, made the whole edifice upon which the case of the prosecution was built, collapse; and that there was no other C evidence to connect A-1 with the commission of these offences. [Para 102][64-G-H; 65-A, B] 4.2 The only person found by both the courts to be guilty of the offence under Section 120B was A-1. Therefore, an argument was advanced that a single person cannot be held guilty of criminal D conspiracy. But this contention was repelled by the courts on the ground that PW-16 was the second person with whom A-1 had entered into a conspiracy. In other words, the reasoning adopted by the trial court and the High Court was that only A-1 and PW- 16 were part of the conspiracy.