As in other unconstitutional conditions cases in which someone refuses to cede a constitutional right in the face of coercive pressure, the impermissible denial of a governmental benefit is a constitutionally C cognizable injury.” xxxx xxxx xxxx “(13) …We agree with respondent that, so long as a permitting authority offers the landowner at least one alternative that would satisfy Nollan and Dolan, the landowner has not been subjected D to an unconstitutional condition.” 133. It is noteworthy to begin with that in India there is no provision similar to the Takings clause in the 5th amendment to the US constitution. It is in fact true that Article 31(2) did provide that a person could not be deprived of his property except after payment of compensation. Article E 31 stands deleted by the Forty-FourthAmendment. In Article 300A, what has been inserted by the same amendment is only the first limb of Article 31, viz., no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law. The ambit of this Article has been discussed in the decision in K.T. Plantations (supra). F 134. Even under the Takings clause, we may only notice Nollan- Dolan (supra) and as interpreted by the majority in Koontz (supra) it is open to the government to consider how the permit applicant must mitigate the impacts of a proposed development and what is required to make State action legitimate is that the conditions imposed must bear an essential nexus and a rough proportionality to the impacts perceived. G ENTRY 42 OF LIST III OF THE SEVENTH SCHEDULE 135. Is the impugned Rule/Regulation, a case where it would be said that Entry 42 in List III to the Seventh Schedule applies? In other words, is there acquisition of land and is it a case of exercise of eminent domain by the state? Is it a case where the impugned provisions are H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1139 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] more relatable to the exercise of police power? Does the impugned A provision constitute deprivation of property within the meaning of Article 300A? Since we have held that the impugned provision in the case of the rule is law, would not the Rule be a law which provides for deprivation of property, and therefore, there is no violation involved at all. Does the impugned Rule bring about deprivation and for which compensation must B be paid, failing which it cannot but perish by placing it side by side with Article 300A? 136. We have noticed that right from 1975 onwards with the promulgation of DCR along with a master plan, and subsequently, in the year 2008, with the enactment of the regulations, and still, what is more, in supersession of the Regulations by the Rules of 2019,the Law Giver C has put in place the requirement of making available 10 percent of land excluding roads for the purpose of communal and recreational purposes, when the layout exceeds 10000 square meters.