On the strength of the State Act, the Jorhat Medical Institute, was established to provide a Diploma Course in Medicine E and Rural Healthcare, without prior permission of the Central Government which is an incurable defect. Thus, the setting up of the Jorhat Medical Institute and commencement of the diploma course is contrary to IMC Act, 1956 and, therefore, unlawful on the ground that it was contrary to F Section 10A(1)(a) of the Central Act of 1956. v. Reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in Chintpurni Medical College & Hospital vs. State of Punjab, (2018) 15 SCC 1, (“Chintpurni Medical College & Hospital”) and Prof. Yashpal vs. State of Chhattisgarh, (2005) 5 SCC 420, (“Prof. Yashpal”)to contend that the G State Government does not have the power to enact the Assam Act and that the States are denuded of the legislative power to legislate on medical education. vi. That the Central Act, namely, IMC Act, 1956, in pith and substance, falls under Entry 66 of List I and occupies the H 936 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A entire field insofar as establishment of new medical colleges is concerned which deals with coordination and determination of standards, inter alia, in medical education. Therefore, the State Legislature is denuded of its power under Entry 25 of List III to enact a law providing for the establishment of a medical college contrary to the provisions B of the Central Act. vii. That the provisions of the Central Act hold the field of medical education and no medical college or course, including the impugned course can be commenced without the permission of the Central Government as mandated C under Section 10A of the said Act. Also, the Doctrine of ‘Occupied Field’ would apply in the present case. Learned counsel for Respondent No. 1 placed reliance on Thirumuruga Kirupananda Variyar Thavathiru Sundara Swamigal Medical Educational and D Charitable Trust vs. State of Tamil Nadu, (1996) 3 SCC 15, (“Thirumuruga Kirupananda Variyar Thavathiru Sundara Swamigal Medical Educational and Charitable Trust”) wherein it was held that under section 10A of the Indian Medical Council Act, the Parliament has evinced an intention to cover the whole field relating to the E establishment of new medical colleges in the Country and by virtue of Section 10A, the Parliament has made a complete and exhaustive provision covering the entire field governing establishment of new medical colleges in the Country. No further scope is left for the operation of any F State Legislation in the said field which is fully covered by the law made by the Parliament. viii. That the Assam Act is repugnant to the provisions of the Central Act as no Presidential Assent was obtained as required under Article 254 of the Constitution, to overcome G such repugnancy. ix. Learned counsel for Respondent No. 1 further contended that the students who graduate on completion of the diploma course would be ill-equipped as doctors and this would pose risk to patients who require quality medical assistance and treatment.