20. He would submit that there is no good reason to doubt the G ocular version of the eyewitnesses, which has come on record. He further submitted that was no good reason for the eyewitnesses to falsely implicate the appellants herein in the alleged crime. 21. The learned counsel submitted that no case is made out to bring the case within the ambit of Exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC. H BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 865 MAHARASHTRA [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] He vehemently submitted that as many as nine injuries were inflicted on A the body of the deceased by dangerous weapons like sickle and sword. The appellants herein can be said to have taken undue advantage and acted in a cruel manner. 22. In the last, the learned counsel appearing for the State submitted that the discovery of the weapons points towards the conduct of the B accused persons and such conduct is a relevant fact under Section 8 of the Act 1872 which taken together with the ocular version supports the case of the prosecution in toto. 23.In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel appearing for the State prayed that there being no merit in the present C appeal, the same may be dismissed. ANALYSIS 24. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is whether the High Court committed any D error in passing the impugned and . APPRECIATION OF ORAL EVIDENCE 25. The appreciation of ocular evidence is a hard task. There is no fixed or straight-jacket formula for appreciation of the ocular evidence. E The judicially evolved principles for appreciation of ocular evidence in a criminal case can be enumerated as under: “I. While appreciating the evidence of a witness, the approach must be whether the evidence of the witness read as a whole appears to have a ring of truth. Once that impression is formed, it F is undoubtedly necessary for the Court to scrutinize the evidence more particularly keeping in view the deficiencies, drawbacks and infirmities pointed out in the evidence as a whole and evaluate them to find out whether it is against the general tenor of the evidence given by the witness and whether the earlier evaluation of the evidence is shaken as to render it unworthy of belief. G II. If the Court before whom the witness gives evidence had the opportunity to form the opinion about the general tenor of evidence given by the witness, the appellate court which had not this benefit will have to attach due weight to the appreciation of evidence by the trial court and unless there are reasons weighty and formidable H 866 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A it would not be proper to reject the evidence on the ground of minor variations or infirmities in the matter of trivial details. III. When eye-witness is examined at length it is quite possible for him to make some discrepancies.