The beneficent provision contained in Section 438 must be saved, not jettisoned. No doubt can linger after the decision in Maneka Gandhi [Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, (1978) 1 SCC 248], that in to meet 2 (1980) 2 SCC 565 H 1174 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the challenge of Article 21 of the Constitution, the procedure established by law for depriving a person of his liberty must be fair, just and reasonable. Section 438, in the form in which it is conceived by the legislature, is open to no exception on the ground that it prescribes a procedure which is unjust or unfair. We ought, at all costs, to avoid throwing it open to a Constitutional challenge B by reading words in it which are not to be found therein.” 20. This Court in Mahesh Candra vs. State of U.P.3 was dealing with a case where the relevant high court had directed payment of Rs.2,000/- (Rupees two thousand) to be made to the victim (daughter- in-law) as a condition for grant of anticipatory bail. It was ruled by this C Court as follows: “3. As a condition for grant of anticipatory bail, the High Court has recorded the undertaking of the petitioners to pay the victim daughter-in-law a sum of Rs 2000 per month and failure to do so would result in vacation of the granting bail. […] We fail to D understand how they can be made liable to deposit Rs 2000 per month for the maintenance of the victim. Moreover, while deciding a bail application, it is not the jurisdiction of the court to decide civil disputes as between the parties. We, therefore, remit the matter to the High Court to consider the bail application afresh on E merit and to pass an appropriate without imposing any condition of the nature imposed by the impugned .” 21. This Court in Munish Bhasin (supra), referred to by counsel for the appellant, had the occasion to observe as follows: “10. It is well settled that while exercising discretion to release an F accused under Section 438 of the Code neither the High Court nor the Sessions Court would be justified in imposing freakish conditions. There is no manner of doubt that the court having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case can impose necessary, just and efficacious conditions while enlarging an accused on bail under Section 438 of the Code. However, the G accused cannot be subjected to any irrelevant condition at all. *** 12. While imposing conditions on an accused who approaches the court under Section 438 of the Code, the court should be extremely H 3 (2006) 6 SCC 196 RAMESH KUMAR v. THE STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 1175 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] chary in imposing conditions and should not transgress its jurisdiction A or power by imposing the conditions which are not called for at all. There is no manner of doubt that the conditions to be imposed under Section 438 of the Code cannot be harsh, onerous or excessive so as to frustrate the very object of grant of anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the code.