G 5. On an appeal being preferred by the respondent insured before the National Commission, the question arose as to whether the insurance policies taken by a commercial unit could be held to be hiring of services for commercial purpose and are hereby excluded from the provisions of the Act, 1986 after revisiting the provisions of the Act, 1986 and the H 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A definition of the terms “consumer” and “service” as defined under Section 2(1)(d) and 2(1)(o) of the Act, 1986, respectively the Commission recorded a finding that the expression used “for any commercial purpose” would mean that the goods purchased or services hired should be used in any activity directly intended to generate profit and profit is the main aim of commercial purpose, but in a case where goods purchased or B services hired in an activity which is not intended to generate profit, it would not be a commercial purpose and held that a person who takes the policy of insurance to cover the envisaged risk, for indemnification of actual loss sufferedis not ordinarily intended to generate profits and accordingly held that the respondent/complainant was a “consumer” C under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986 and complaint filed at its instance is to be examined/decided by the State Commission on its own merits under the impugned dated 3rd December, 2004, is a subject matter of challenge in appeal before this Court at the instance of the appellant insurance company. D 6. While the notices were issued by this Court on 15th April, 2005, the operation and effect of the impugned was stayed. In consequence thereof, the complaint filed at the instance of the respondent has not been examined by the State Commission on merits so far. 7. The other batch of appeals which were heard along with Civil E Appeal No(s).5352-5353 of 2007 (National Insurance Co. Ltd. v. Harsolia Motors and Others) arising from the of the National Commission, placing reliance on the impugned dated 3rd December, 2004, applying the self-same principles are also challenged at the instance of the appellant insurer before us. F 8. The seminal issue that emanates for our consideration is whether the insurance policy taken by the respondent (commercial enterprises) insured amounts to hiring of services for “commercial purpose” thereby excluded from the purview of the expression”consumer” as defined under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986. G 9. Learned counsel for the appellant submits that there cannot be a blanket inclusion of all insurance matters within the purview of Act, 1986 and if that is being taken at the face value, it would render the provisions of the Commercial Courts Act, 2015 (hereinafter “Act, 2015”) nugatory and submits that Section 2(1)(XX) of the Act,2015 includes insurance and re-insurance within the ambit of commercial disputes. H NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS 455 AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 10. Learned counsel further submits that law on the subject has A been examined by this Court in Laxmi Engineering Works v. P.S.G.