They have further sought a direction to the respondents to extend the exemption granted under Section 10 (26AAA) of I.T. Act, 1961 to persons such as the petitioners herein. The petitioners have sought a declaration that they are also entitled to exemption from B payment of income tax under Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961. In other words, they have sought a direction to extend the benefit of the said provision to the petitioners herein. Another direction that is sought against respondent No. 2 is to furnish a list of applicants who have submitted applications seeking income tax exemption pursuant to the Public Notice dated 22nd September, 2018. C Similar prayers have been sought by the petitioners in W.P. (C) No. 59 of 2013 which is the earlier of the two writ petitions. 4. It is the case of the petitioners that they were ordinarily resident in the former Kingdom of Sikkim prior to its merger with India and they have an ethnic identity in Sikkim. Now, they are citizens of India. The D persons ordinarily resident in the former Kingdom of Sikkim comprised of: (a) a major population of ‘Sikkimese Nationals’/’Sikkim Subjects’ recognized as ‘Persons of Sikkimese origin’; and (b) a minor population of ‘British Indian Subjects’ of Undivided E India/’Indian Nationals’ of Independent India recognized as ‘Persons of Indian origin’ ordinarily residing in the former Kingdom of Sikkim for the purpose of trade, commerce and Government employment/s under the ‘Sikkim Darbar ‘. F 5. The ordinarily resident ‘Sikkimese Nationals/Subjects’ or ‘Persons of Sikkimese origin’ of the former Kingdom of Sikkim comprised of persons recognized as having the following ethnicity: (i) ‘Sikkimese Bhutia’ - meaning persons who could be from among the native ‘Bhutia’ and the ‘Chumbipa’, ‘Dopthapa’, G ‘Dukpa’, ‘Kagatey’, ‘Sherpa’, ‘Tibetan’, ‘Tromopa’, ‘Yolmo’ Communities which got recognised and notified as the Scheduled Tribes by ‘The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Tribes 1978’ (ii) ‘Sikkimese Lepcha’ - meaning persons who could be from the aboriginal Lepcha Community which got recognised and H 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A notified as the Scheduled Tribes by ‘The Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Tribes , 1978’. (iii) ‘Sikkimese Nepali’ - meaning persons who could be from among the Castes or Classes that included the following: (a) the ‘Damai’, ‘Kami’/’Lahar’, ‘Majhi’, and ‘Sarki’ Communities B which got recognised as the Scheduled Castes by the Constitution (Sikkim) Scheduled Castes , 1978; (b) the ‘Limbu’ and ‘Tamang’ Communities (earlier notified under ‘Central List of Other Backward Classes ‘ in the year 1995) which got recognised and notified as the Scheduled Tribes in the year C 2003 by the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes s (Amendment) Act 2002; (c) the Communities which got recognised and notified for inclusion in the ‘Central List of Other Backwards Classes’ in the year 1995, namely, ‘Bhujel’, ‘Gurung’, ‘Manger’, ‘Kirat Rai’, ‘Sunuwar’, D and in the year 1999 namely ‘Sanyasi’, and in the year 2000 namely ‘Jogi’; and (d) the ‘Bahun’, ‘Chettri’ and ‘Newar’ Communities which got recognized and notified in the ‘State List of Other Backward Classes of Sikkim in the year 2014.