Before theft can amount to ‘robbery’, the off ender must have voluntarily caused or attempted to cause to any person death or hurt or wrongful restraint, or fear of instant death or of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint. The second necessary ingredient is that this must be in to the committing of the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft. The third necessary ingredient is that the off ender must voluntarily cause or attempt to cause to any person hurt etc., for that end, that is, in to the committing of the theft or for the purpose of committing theft or for carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft. It is not suffi cient that in the transaction of committing theft, hurt, etc., had been caused. If hurt, etc., is caused at the time of the commission of the theft but for an object other than the one referred to in Section 390, IPC, theft would not amount to robbery. It is also not suffi cient that hurt had been caused in the course of the same transaction as commission of the theft. 15. The three ingredients mentioned in Section 390, IPC, must always be satisfi ed before theft can amount to robbery, and this has been explained in Bishambhar Nath v. Emperor, A.I.R. 1941 Oudh 476, in the following words:- “The words “for that end” in sec.390 clearly mean that the hurt caused by the off ender must be with the express object of facilitating 336 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the committing of the theft, or must be caused while the off ender is committing the theft or is carrying away or is attempting to carry away the property obtained by theft. It does not mean that the assault or the hurt must be caused in the same transaction or in the same circumstances.” 16. In Karuppa Gounden v. Emperor, A.I.R. 1918 Madras 821, which followed two Calcutta cases of Otaruddi Manjhi v. Kafi luddi Manjhi, (1900-01) 5 C.W.N. 372, and King Emperor v. Mathura Thakur, (1901-02) 6 C.W.N. 72, it has been observed at page 824 as follows:- “Now it is our duty to give eff ect to the words “for that end”. It would have been open to the legislature to have used other words which would not raise the diffi culty that arises here. The Public Prosecutor has been forced to argue that “for that end” must be read as meaning ‘in those circumstances’. In my opinion we cannot do that in construing a section in the Penal Code. Undoubtedly, words ‘in those circumstances’ would widen the application of the section and we are not permitted to do that. The matter has been considered in two s of the Calcutta High Court one of which is reported as Otaruddi Manjhi v. Kafi luddi Manjhi (1900-01) 5 C.W.N. 372. Their Lordships put the question in this way: “It seems to us that the whole question turns upon the words “for that end”.