BACKGROUND OF THE CASE: 2. When the aforesaid suit was still at infancy stage the sole-plaintiff expired on 18.05.2007. One Mr. Manoj Kumar Jain fi led an application to substitute him as her legal heir, by placing reliance on the Will dated 19.05.1999 and claiming to be a legatee under the said registered Will. He also fi led an affi davit stating thereunder that Mr. Yashpal Jain (hereinafter referred to as ‘appellant’ for the sake of convenience) was a witness to the said registered Will. The defendants objected to the said application contending inter alia that the appellant herein was the adopted son of late Urmila Devi by relying upon the adoption deed dated 06.01.1973 duly registered in the offi ce of the Sub-Registrar. In the said proceedings, the present appellant also fi led an affi davit stating thereunder that he was a witness to the Will dated 19.05.1999 executed by Urmila Devi in favour of Manoj Kumar Jain. The application fi led by Manoj Kumar Jain came to be allowed by dated 24.02.2010. 2.1 Being aggrieved by the said the legal heirs of the fi rst defendant namely, legal heirs of Mangal Singh, fi led a Civil Revision No.2 of 2010 before the District Judge which came to be allowed by setting aside the of the Trial Court on the ground that applicant had stated during the course of the revisional proceedings that he would not press the said application and as such directed the Trial Court to consider the application fi led by Yashpal Jain-appellant herein and permitted him to fi le an application seeking condonation of delay along with the application to bring on record the legal representatives of the sole plaintiff , since he had failed to do so earlier. Accordingly, revision application came to be allowed by dated 02.12.2011 and Mr. Yashpal Jain fi led an application before the Trial Court for condoning the delay in fi ling such application and also prayed 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. for abatement of suit to be set aside. The learned Trial Judge vide dated 09.05.2012 allowed the application by setting aside the abatement and permitted Yashpal Jain to be substituted as legal representative of late Urmila Devi. 3. At this juncture, we would like to point out that a careful perusal of the application and the s passed by the courts below would indicate that the parties and the courts below seem to have proceeded on the footing that they were to adjudicate the rights of a legal heir which if seen in the light of expression used in the Code of Civil Procedure (hereinafter referred to as ‘CPC’) is impermissible, as it is not referable to ‘legal heir’ but ‘legal representative’ as defi ned under Section 2 (11) which reads: “Legal representative” means a person who in law represents the estate of a deceased person, and includes any person who intermeddles with the estate of the deceased and where a party sues or is sued in a representative character the person on whom the estate devolves on the death of the party so suing or sued.