That alone did not make it a revenue expenditure. Therefore, the question raised was answered in favour of the Revenue and the appeals fi led were dismissed. b) In Southern Switch Gear Ltd., this Court affi rmed the decision of the Madras High Court, wherein royalty payable was apportioned and 25% 426 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. thereof was treated as capital payment or expenditure on the ground that the right to manufacture certain goods exclusively in India should be taken as an independent right secured by the assessee from the foreign company and this right was of enduring nature. (c) In Best and Co., the respondent assessee therein was carrying on business and had innumerable agencies and compensation was received on account of cancellation of one agency and the question was, whether, the said compensation was capital or revenue receipt in nature; whether by the termination of an agency the asseessee therein had lost an earning asset and the compensation paid for the destruction of such an asset was a capital receipt and therefore not liable to tax. K. Subba Rao. J. (as the learned Chief Justice then was) speaking for a three-Judge Bench observed that the question, as to, whether, the compensation received by an assessee for the loss of agency is a capital receipt or a revenue receipt depends upon the circumstances of each case. This is because many questions have to be asked and answered, particularly, whether the loss of an agency was an ordinary incidence in the course of business or did it amount to loss of an enduring asset causing an unabsorbed shock dislocating the entire or a part of the earning apparatus or structure. It was held that if a loss of a particular agency was incidental to the business, compensation received would be a revenue receipt but if it was compensation received for the loss of an enduring asset, then it would be a capital receipt. But for this, the previous history of the business and relative importance of the agency lost and the position of the business after the loss of the said agency have to be scrutinized by the department. While considering the said issue, on the facts of the said case, it was held that the asseessee therein was a well-established and long standing company in South India which had taken up innumerable agencies in diff erent lines and one such agency had been taken from the Imperial Chemical Industries (Exports) Limited, Glasgow. When there was no material to show that the loss of the said agency was so large that the business of the agency was dislocated, on considering the facts of the said case, this Court observed that the loss of the said agency by the assessee was only a normal trading loss and the income it received was revenue receipt. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 427 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Another question which was considered was whether compensation received by the assessee in lieu of a restrictive covenant was a capital receipt.