12. Turning to the case in hand, the Appellant was convicted on the basis of a gang chart that hinged solely on an Old FIR, where the Appellant had already been acquitted vide judgement dated 03.07.2019. Thereafter, the New FIR was registered, in which the Appellant had been convicted by the Trial Court under Section 3(1) of the UP Gangster Act. The sequence of events, beginning from the registration of the New FIR until the rejection of the Appellant’s plea for suspension of conviction by the High Court, is beset with some fundamental misconceptions and, therefore deserves closer legal scrutiny. 13. Upon careful consideration of the judgement of the Trial Court and the passed by the High Court, it appears to us that, fi rstly, the impugned suggests that there is no cogent evidence to establish that the Appellant has been indulging in anti-social activities and crimes such as murder or ransom. Secondly, the Appellant’s role in the Old FIR, which stood as the singular reference point in the gang chart in the New FIR, had already resulted in his acquittal. Thirdly, the impugned also indicates the absence of corroborative evidence supporting the contention that the Appellant had been responsible for infl uencing witnesses in retracting their statements. Lastly, the High Court in its impugned has meticulously highlighted that in the various FIRs that had been registered against the 5 Ravikant S. Patil v. Sarvabhouma S. Bagali, (2007) 1 SCC 673, para 15 and 16.5. 980 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Appellant, either he was not chargesheeted or the investigating agencies had exonerated him. 14. The High Court has further held that owing to the age of the Appellant and the extensive backlog of pending cases, the prospects of a prompt hearing of the First Criminal Appeal were low. It thus came to the conclusion that the refusal to suspend the sentence might render the very appeal otiose. Although the High Court stayed the execution of the sentence and granted bail to the Appellant, it refused to suspend the conviction itself. The High Court justifi ed such a recourse, after making reference to a multitude of s from this Court. While the impugned remains largely sound in its approach to aff ording relief in terms of bail and staying the sentence, we are unable to agree, partly, with its approach in declining the suspension of conviction, for those very reasons. 15. This Court has on several occasions opined that there is no reason to interpret Section 389(1) of the CrPC in a narrow manner, in the context of a stay on an of conviction, when there are irreversible consequences. Undoubtedly, Ravikant Patil v. Sarvabhouma S. Bagali,6 holds that an granting a stay of conviction should not be the rule but an exception and should be resorted to in rare cases depending upon the facts of a case. However, where conviction, if allowed to operate would lead to irreparable damage and where the convict cannot be compensated in any monetary terms or otherwise, if he is acquitted later on, that by itself carves out an exceptional situation.