C 10. We are clearly of the opinion that this Court, while exercising power of judicial review cannot issue a writ of certiorari quashing the recommendation, or mandamus calling upon the Collegium of the Supreme Court to reconsider its decision, as this would be contrary to the ratio and dictum of the earlier decisions of this Court referred to D above, which are binding on us. To do so would violate the law as declared, as it would amount to evaluating and substituting the decision of the Collegium, with individual or personal opinion on the suitability and merits of the person. 11. The decision of this Court in Shri Kumar Padma Prasad v. E Union of India and Others7, was a case relating to eligibility of a person, in whose favour the warrant for appointment as a judge of the High Court had been issued, but who was not qualified to be appointed as a judge of the High Court. The ratio of this cannot be extended to apply the power of judicial review to examine the suitability or merit F of a candidate. 12. We may also state that the person in question has been elevated as an Additional Judge of the High Court of Judicature at Madras. On taking oath the person pledges to work as a judge to uphold the Constitution G and the laws. Article 51A8 of the Constitution casts an obligation on every citizen, and more so on every judge, to promote harmony, spirit of common brotherhood among all transcending religious, linguistic, regional 6 See N. Kannadasan v. Ajoy Khose and Others, (2009) 7 SCC 1. 7 (1992) 2 SCC 428 8 Part IV-A- Fundamental Duties. H 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A or sectional diversities. Principle of secularism and dignity of every individual – regardless of the religion, caste or creed, is the foundation of Rule of Law and equal protection of laws. Not only is the conduct and s delivered considered at the time of confirmation, a judge is judged everyday by the lawyers, litigants and the public, as the courts B are open and the judges speak by giving reasons in writing for their decisions. 13. For the aforesaid reasons, we do not find any merit in the present writ petitions and, thus, we are not inclined to entertain and issue notice. C 14. The writ petitions are dismissed at the admission stage. Devika Gujral Writ petitions dismissed. D E F G H