The allegation that they are in charge of the company is neither here nor there and by no stretch of the imagination, on the basis of such averment, one cannot conclude that the allegation of the second respondent is that the appellants were also responsible to the company for the conduct of the business. Only by saying that a person was in charge of the company at the time when the off ence was committed is not suffi cient to attract sub-section 1 of Section 141 of the NI Act.” SIBY THOMAS v. M/S. SOMANY CERAMICS LTD. 831 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 16. Thus, in the light of the dictum laid down in Ashok Shewakramani’s case (supra), it is evident that a vicarious liability would be attracted only when the ingredients of Section 141(1) of the NI Act, are satisfi ed. It would also reveal that merely because somebody is managing the aff airs of the company, per se, he would not become in charge of the conduct of the business of the company or the person responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company. A bare perusal of Section 141(1) of the NI Act, would reveal that only that person who, at the time the off ence was committed, was in charge of and was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company alone shall be deemed to be guilty of the off ence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished. In such circumstances, paragraph 20 in Ashok Shewakramani’s case (supra) is also relevant. After referring to the Section 141(1) of NI Act, in paragraph 20 it was further held thus: “20 On a plain reading, it is apparent that the words “was in charge of” and “was responsible to the company for the conduct of the business of the company” cannot be read disjunctively and the same ought be read conjunctively in view of use of the word “and” in between.” 17. The upshot of the aforesaid discussion is that the averments in the complaint fi led by the respondent are not suffi cient to satisfy the mandatory requirements under Section 141(1) of the NI Act. Since the averments in the complaint are insuffi cient to attract the provisions under Section 141(1) of the NI Act, to create vicarious liability upon the appellant, he is entitled to succeed in this appeal. We are satisfi ed that the appellant has made out a case for quashing the criminal complaint in relation to him, in exercise of the jurisdiction under Section 482 of Cr.PC. In the result the impugned is set aside and the subject Criminal Complaint fi led by the respondent and pending before Ld. CJ (JD) JMIC, Bahadurgarh, in the matter titled as M/s. Somany Ceramics v. M/s. Tile Store etc. vide COMA- 321-2015 (CNRNO: HRJRA1004637-2015), stand quashed only in so far as the appellant, who is accused No. 4, is concerned.