v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 365 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] things, rules of succession in the case of male and female Hindus, the of succession, and the principles governing the distribution of property. Between 1956, when the HSA was enacted and 2005 when Section 6 came to be substituted, many State amendments conferred equal rights to daughters of coparceners by recognizing that they would become coparceners in their own right by birth and would have the same rights in the coparcenary property as were granted to sons. Parliament brought about uniformity by the Amending Act of 2005 by recognizing that the daughter of a coparcener would become a coparcener at birth in the same manner as a son and would have the same rights in the coparcenary property as if she has been a son while being subject to the same liability. The next major change which was brought about by the Amending Act of 2005 was that the devolution of the interest of a Hindu in an HUF governed by Mitakshara law would take place by testamentary or intestate succession and not by survivorship as was originally stipulated in Section 6 at the time of the enactment of the legislation. These statutory developments indicate that Parliament has recognized the existence of the institution of the Hindu Undivided Family governed by Mitakshara law, the concepts of a coparcenary, coparceners, and coparcenary property. As a statutory measure to facilitate a more gender-equal society in recognition of the objects of Article 15 of the Constitution, Parliament has stepped in to provide rights to daughters by recognizing their position as coparceners so as to have rights in coparcenary property on an equal footing with sons. The amendments that have been made by Parliament have redefi ned the ambit of the coparcenary in a Hindu Undivided Family governed by Mitakshara law by specifi cally conferring rights upon daughters. Section 6(1) which confers a right on the daughter of a coparcener to become a coparcener by birth in her own right and in the same manner as the son and to have the same rights in the coparcenary property provides abundant statutory material to indicate that the legislature did not abolish the basic concepts of a HUF, coparcenary, and coparcenary property. The legislature brought about a signifi cant reform by recognising the rights of daughters to become coparceners at par with sons. Prior to the amendment, a son would become a coparcener by birth but after the amendment, the right of a daughter to become a coparcener by birth has been recognised. The acquisition of a right by birth both of a son and daughter which fi nds statutory recognition in sub-section (1) of Section 6 is clearly demonstrative 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of the fact that the legislature, while accepting the concept of a coparcener has brought about a signifi cant measure of reform. The amendments have built upon the structure of the HUF and calibrated it to facilitate the legislative intent of bringing about gender equality within the fold of the institution.