We are not going into the law on the point. However, we have just recorded this fact and it may have some relevance or bearing while considering the other links of the chain of circumstances. 17. We now deal with the theory of last seen. In the first information given by Arjun Das (PW-7) in the morning to the police station, there is D no mention that Kaushik left his house along with the appellant and ‘juvenile K’. Arjun Das (PW-7) has only stated that his nephew Kaushik had left in the evening on the motor bike and had not returned. Although in his statement before the Trial Court he stated that Kaushik had gone with the appellant and juvenile ‘K’ but when confronted with his statement E under Section 161 CrPC and also about the entry in the police records, he had no explanation for the same. 18. PW-25 is the main witness of the last seen. She is mother of Kaushik. She has stated that when she returned from the office around 5 PM on 19.06.2007, she saw Kaushik going out on the motor bike of his F father. When she inquired from him, he said he was going to Fatikroy with the appellant and juvenile ‘K’. She further stated that she followed her son upto the gate and saw the appellant and ‘juvenile K’ standing at the gate. This witness in her cross-examination when confronted with her statement under Section 161 CrPC said that no such statement is there, although according to her, she had told the Investigating Officer G that she had seen the appellant and ‘juvenile K’ at her gate. 19. The conviction is based upon, apart from the prosecution witnesses, on the extra-judicial confession of the appellant as also ‘juvenile 4 (2018) 1 SCC 296 5 (2004) 12 SCC 521 H 148 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A K’. According to both the confessions, the appellant as also ‘juvenile K’ were waiting at a culvert near the Fatikroy bazar where Kaushik Sarkar came on his bike at about half past 5. From there all three of them left on the bike. However, near the circuit house he stopped the bike and wanted to check whether his mother has come home from office. Both of them waited near the circuit house and Kaushik Sarkar after checking at home B again came back to circuit house from where they left for Kumarghat. If the extra-judicial confession is to be accepted, the statement of last seen theory given by the mother (PW-25) becomes difficult to be given any credibility. However, even if we ignore the extra-judicial confession, the statement of PW-25 appears to be an improvement only to develop C the last seen theory. Inasmuch as neither in the telephone call of Arjun Das (PW-7) recorded at the police station refers to Kaushik leaving in the evening along with the appellant and juvenile ‘K’ nor do the statements of PW-7 and PW-25 under Section 161 CrPC mention the name of the appellant and juvenile ‘K’ having been seen leaving with Kaushik from his residence.