Taking into consideration D the delay in lodging the FIR, with the circumstance of their names not being mentioned in the contemporaneous documents, the possibility of the said accused being falsely implicated cannot be ruled out. In our view, the conviction of these accused purely on the basis of oral testimony of the interested witnesses, without sufficient corroboration, would not be sustainable. E 36. The prosecution has examined Baliram Sahu (PW-3), Inder Sahu (PW-5), Jeewan Lal (PW-6) and Budheram (PW-8), none of whom have supported the prosecution case. According to PWs 2, 9 and 13, it was the witness Baliram Sahu (PW-3) who had arranged for the tractor to take the injured persons to Baloda Bazar. However, he has stated that F though Mangtin Bai (PW-2) came to his place to inform him about the incident, she had not informed him as to which of the accused had assaulted the deceased and the injured persons. In our view, therefore, the said appellants would also be entitled to benefit of doubt. 37. We are, therefore, of the considered view that the appellants G Nand Lal, Bhagwat, Ramdular and Naresh Kumar are entitled to benefit of doubt. 38. In the result, we pass the following : (i) The appeals are allowed; H 292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (ii) The and dated 11th November 2014 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court of Chhattisgarh at Bilaspur, and the and dated 24th May 2008 passed by the trial court are quashed and set aside; and (iii) The appellants are acquitted of the charges charged with B and are directed to be set at liberty forthwith, if not required in any other case. 39. Pending application(s), if any, shall stand disposed of. 40. Before we part with the , we must place on record our appreciation for the valuable assistance rendered by Shri Vikas C Upadhyay, learned counsel appearing on behalf of accused Nos. 8 to 10 and Shri Sumeer Sodhi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-State. A special mention needs to be made of the painstaking efforts taken by Shri Renjith B. Marar, learned counsel, who was appointed through the Supreme Court Legal Services Authority as an amicus curiae for accused No. 11. D Nidhi Jain Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Shashwat Jain, LCRA) E F G H