150 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 3P OS.RCT.RS. 150 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A ROYDEN HAROLD BUTHELLO & ANR. v. STATE OF CHHATTISGARH & ORS. (Criminal Appeal No.634 of 2023) B FEBRUARY 28, 2023 [A. S. BOPANNA AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] Criminal Law – Investigation by CBI – When cannot be directed – Appellant no.1 accused of indulging in sale of psychotropic NDPS substance – It is the case of the appellant no.1 C that while he was travelling with regard to his business, he was illegally abducted, detained and a case under NDPS was foisted on him – Appellant no.1 and his father-appellant no.2 filed writ petition before High Court inter alia seeking direction to transfer the investigation to the CBI, which was declined – Revision petition D filed by the appellant against framing charges was also dismissed – On appeal, held: Power to transfer the investigation is an extraordinary power – It is to be used very sparingly and in an exceptional circumstance where the Court on appreciating the facts and circumstance arrives at the conclusion that there is no other option of securing a fair trial without the intervention and E investigation by the CBI or such other specialized investigating agency – In the present case, there is no issue of public importance which requires investigation by the CBI – Contention of the appellant that the offence alleged against him to have been committed on 21.10.2020 could not have been committed by him inasmuch as he F was abducted from a different State and was already in illegal detention of the police on 20.10.2020, would be the defence in the criminal trial – Other aspects contended by the appellants could be established through evidence in trial before the competent court – Appellants would have the further remedy of the legal course available to them if they are dissatisfied – Thus, when the issue G raised is only a matter of evidence to be considered in the judicial proceedings to arrive at a conclusion, a direction to the CBI to hold an investigation would be unjustified – Impugned s not interfered with – NDPS Act – ss.29 r/w ss.22(b), (c), 25, 27 – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.313. H 150 ROYDEN HAROLD BUTHELLO & ANR. v. STATE OF 151 CHHATTISGARH & ORS. Dismissing the appeals, the Court A HELD: 1.1 Though there is no inflexible guideline or a straightjacket formula laid down, the power to transfer the investigation is an extraordinary power. It is to be used very sparingly and in an exceptional circumstance where the Court on appreciating the facts and circumstance arrives at the conclusion B that there is no other option of securing a fair trial without the intervention and investigation by the CBI or such other specialized investigating agency which has the expertise. In that background, there is no issue of public importance which requires to be unearthed by an investigation to be conducted by the CBI. C Even from the facts noted and the allegations made against the police, though the Court is sensitive to the sentiment of the appellants herein, the contention ultimately is that the offence alleged against him to have been committed on 21.10.2020 could not have been committed by him inasmuch as he had been abducted from a different State and was already in the illegal D detention of the police on 20.10.2020 itself.