This document is unsigned and has been recovered from the laptop one of the co-accused. Hence, at this prima facie stage we cannot presume that Anand T. i.e. the Appellant received Rs. 90,000/ - from Surendra Gadling as argued by NIA. We are afraid to state that we cannot agree with NIA’s contention.” C (emphasis added) 28. Here we must point out that there is also a request made to Surendra from an unnamed person to ask AF to manage the financial expenses of “these cases”. The name of another Arun, with the surname D Bhelke has surfaced in Annexure “R-19” to the NIA’s counter-affidavit in AF’s case. This is a copy of a witness statement. In absence of any form of corroboration at the prima facie stage it cannot be presumed that it was the same Arun (i.e., AF) who had received money from Darsu. The prosecution has also not produced any material to show that actual money was transmitted. The communication dated 5th November E 2017 (“R-5”), purportedly addressed by Surendra to Prakash does not speak of any payment being made to AF. The rationale applied by the Bombay High Court in the above-quoted passage of the in the case of Dr. Anand Teltumbde (supra), which has been sustained by this Court, ought to apply in the case of AF as well. F 29.We have already observed that it is not possible for us to form an opinion that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation against the appellant of committing or conspiring to commit terrorist act is prima facie true. The witness statements do not refer to any terrorist act alleged to have been committed by the appellants. The G copies of the letters in which the appellants or any one of them have been referred, record only third-party response or reaction of the appellants’ activities contained in communications among different individuals. These have not been recovered from the appellants. Hence, these communications or content thereof have weak probative value or quality. That being the position, neither the provisions of Section 18 nor H 906 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 18B can be invoked against the appellants, prima facie, at this stage. The association of the appellants with the activities of the designated terrorist organisation is sought to be established through third party communications. Moreover, actual involvement of the appellants in any terrorist act has not surfaced from any of these communications. Nor there is any credible case of conspiracy to commit offences enumerated B under chapters IV and VI of the 1967 Act. Mere participation in seminars by itself cannot constitute an offence under the bail-restricting Sections of the 1967 Act, with which they have been charged. 30. So far as application of Section 20 of the 1967 Act is concerned, the Bombay High Court in the case of Dr. Anand Teltumbde (supra) C construed the said provision in the following manner:- “52. Section 20 cannot be interpreted to mean that merely being a member of a terrorist gang would entail such a member for the above punishment.