However, the SLP came to be dismissed by this Court. (iii) Since by virtue of the said interim passed in the said writ petition, the possession of the lands in question continued with the appellant- trust, and though an award was declared under Section 11 of the Act, the amount awarded remained with respondent no. 2, considering the hardship caused to both the parties, the appellant (the petitioner in the said petition) and the respondent no. 1- Agricultural Produce Market Committee (the respondent no. 4 in the said writ petition) arrived at a Settlement on 20.10.1997 and requested the High Court to dispose of the said writ petition in terms of the consent terms arrived at between the parties. (iv) The High Court disposed of the said Writ Petition No. 607 of 1996 by passing the following on 20th October, 1997: - “By consent of Parties Petition taken up for fi nal hearing on board today. The consent terms between the petitioner and 4th Respondent taken on record. Perused the Consent Terms. The same are just, fair, and equitable and hence are accepted. In view of the above, this shall be an in terms of Consent Terms and it is hereby directed as under: (a) It is directed that the relevant date for determining market value of suit land would be 1 & 1/2 year after the publication of (illegible) Notifi cation under Section 6 i.e., 17.06.1993 and consequently both parties agree and admit that Market Value be determined as on 17.12.1994 date. 598 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (b) It is further directed that the petitioner shall hand over vacant and peaceful possession to the 4th Respondent through 2nd respondent within 4 weeks from the date of this and that the petitioner Trust shall be paid the amount determined under the Award under section 11 by the 2nd respondent at the time of handing over possession. (c) It is further directed that the Petitioner Trust shall within 4 weeks fi le an Application to 2nd respondent under section 18 of the Land Acquisition Act and that the 2nd Respondent is directed to send the reference to District Court, Nasik within 4 weeks from the date of receipt. It is further directed that the District Court after hearing the reference shall determine the Market Value as on 17.12.1994 dated as agreed between the parties hereto. (d) The parties are at liberty to challenge the decision regarding valuation given in Reference in the District Court, in accordance with law. (e) The compromise & decision so arrived fi nally, should not be treated as a precedent. In view of the above, petition shall stand disposed of. No as to cost.” (v) Pursuant to the said passed by the High Court, the payment was made to the appellant on 17.11.1997 and the possession of lands was handed over by the appellant. The appellant thereafter submitted an application on 03.12.1997 to respondent no. 2– Collector seeking reference to the District Court. The respondent No.