A CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.4072 of 2022. From the and dated 03.11.2021 of the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam in RFA No.63 of 2009. M. K. S. Menon, Ms. Usha Nandini V., Biju P. Raman, M. S. B Vishnu Sankar, Ravi, Advs. for the Appellant. Raghenth Basant, Ms. Rashmi Nandakumar, Ms. Roopali Lakhotia, Shankar Narayanan, Advs. for the Respondents. The s of the Court were delivered by C M. R. SHAH, J. 1. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and dated 03.11.2021 passed by the High Court of Kerala at Ernakulam in Regular First Appeal No. 63 of 2009, by which the High Court has allowed the said appeal preferred by the original defendants D and has set aside the and decree dated 18.08.2008 passed by the learned trial Court in Original Suit No. 205/2006, decreeing the suit for specific performance, the original plaintiff has preferred the present appeal. 2. That the plaintiff and the defendants entered into an agreement E to sell dated 07.08.2005 under which the defendants agreed to sell the land in question for a consideration of Rs. 8,750/- per cent. The plaintiff paid an amount of Rs. 10,000/- as advance towards the part sale consideration amount. The balance consideration was agreed to be paid by the plaintiff within six months from the date after measuring the property provided the defendants make available the documents of title F including the purchase certificate under the Kerala Land Reforms Act. 2.1 That thereafter, the plaintiff served a legal notice dated 02.11.2006 upon the defendants to execute the sale deed to which the defendants sent reply and refused to execute the sale deed and cancelled the agreement to sell. Therefore, the appellant herein – original plaintiff G instituted a Suit being Original Suit No. 205/2006 before the learned trial Court for specific performance of agreement to sell and in the alternative return of the plaintiff’s amount with interest. 2.2 The said suit was resisted by the defendants by filing written statement. It was denied that the plaintiff was ever ready and willing to H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 253 KURUP [M. R. SHAH, J.] perform his part of the contract. It was also submitted that the suit was A filed after one year from the date of expiry of the agreement. It was the case on behalf of the defendants that defendant No.1 was a heart patient and he had undergone the surgery on which huge amount was spent which was borrowed from others and therefore to clear off the said liability, the defendants agreed to sell the property in question. It was B also the case of the defendants that even though the defendants had approached the plaintiff to pay some more money, he was not prepared for the same, thereby defendants had been compelled to sell the gold ornaments and clear the liabilities. It was submitted that the defendants were always ready and willing to perform their part of the agreement.