This doctrine is called into question purportedly on the ground that it interferes with the established legal principles such as party autonomy, privity of contract, and separate legal personality. The challenge before this Court is to fi gure out whether there can be a reconciliation between the group of companies doctrine and well settled legal principles of corporate law and contract law. 3. A Bench of three Judges of this Court, while considering an application under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act and Conciliation 19961, sought to reexamine the validity of the group of companies doctrine in the Indian context on the ground that it is premised more on economic effi ciency rather than law. The Bench of three judges (speaking through the majority opinion authored by Chief Justice N. V. Ramana (as he was then), and the concurring opinion by Justice Surya Kant) doubted the correctness of the application of the doctrine by the Indian courts. 4. Chief Justice Ramana criticised the approach of a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Chloro Controls India (P) Ltd v. Severn Trent Water Purifi cation Inc2 of relying upon the phrase “claiming through or under” in Section 45 of the Arbitration Act to adopt the group of companies doctrine. He noted that the subsequent decisions of this Court established the doctrine in Sections 8 and 35 without adequately examining the interpretation of the phrase “claiming through or under” appearing in those provisions. These decisions include: Cheran Properties Ltd v. Kasturi and Sons Ltd3, Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd. v. Canara Bank4, and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd v. Discovery Enterprises Pvt. Ltd.5 He also observed that economic concepts such as tight group structure and single economic unit alone cannot be utilized to bind a non-signatory to an arbitration agreement in the absence of an express consent. Consequently, he 1 “Arbitration Act” 2 (2013) 1 SCC 641 3 (2018) 16 SCC 413 4 (2020) 12 SCC 767 5 (2022) 8 SCC 42 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. referred the matter to the larger Bench to seek clarity on the interpretation of the phrase “claiming through or under” appearing under Sections 8, 35, and 45 of the Arbitration Act by formulating the following two questions: a. Whether the phrase ‘claiming through or under’ in Sections 8 and 116 could be interpreted to include the ‘Group of Companies’ doctrine; and b. Whether the ‘Group of Companies’ doctrine as expounded by Chloro Controls Case (supra) and subsequent s is valid in law. 5. In a concurring opinion, Justice Surya Kant observed that the decisions of this Court before Chloro Controls (supra), rendered in Sukanya Holdings (P) Ltd v. Jayesh H Pandya7 and Indowind Energy Ltd v. Wescare (I) Ltd,8 adopted a “rigid” and “restrictive” approach by placing undue emphasis on formal consent. Justice Surya Kant traced the evolution of the group of companies doctrine to observe it had gained a fi rm footing in Indian jurisprudence. However, he opined that that this Court adopted inconsistent approaches while applying the doctrine in India, which needed to be clarifi ed by a larger Bench.