In A v. The United Kingdom75, the ECHR held that there must always be ‘equality of arms’ between the parties. The court held that if procedural guarantees are restricted, E then the limitation must be sufficiently counterbalanced. In Secretary of State for the Home Department v. AF76the House of Lords while interpreting the of the ECHR in A (supra) held that there is a ‘core irreducible minimum’ of procedural guarantees which cannot be infringed. The House of Lords observed that the ‘essence of the case against the applicant’ is a core irreducible minimum which has to be F disclosed. We are in agreement with the observations of the House of Lords and ECHR in AF (supra) and A (supra) respectively. MHA by not disclosing the reasons for denying security clearance has rendered MBL’s procedural guarantees otiose. The summary of reasons for denying security clearance constitute the ‘core irreducible minimum’ of the G procedural guarantees under Article 14. By not disclosing the summary of reasons, the MHA has undertaken an unreasonable and arbitrary means to fulfil its purpose. 74 Aharon Barak (n 38) 305 75 Application no. 3455/05 H 76 2009] UKHL 28, (paras 62-65, 81)) MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 671 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] G. 3 (c) Least restrictive means A 103. The of the majority in Justice KS Puttaswamy (5J) (supra) adopted the ‘moderate interpretation of necessity’ that was propounded by David Bilchitz.77 The author sought to draw a middle ground between strong and weak forms of the necessity prong. The sub-components of the necessity prong as devised by Bilchitz are as B follows:78 (a) Whether there are other possible means which could have been adopted by the State; (b) Whether the alternative means identified realise the C objective in a ‘real and substantial manner’; (c) Whether the alternative identified and the means used by the State impact fundamental rights differently; and (d) Whether on an overall comparison (and balancing ) of the measure and the alternative, the alternative is better suited D considering the degree of realising the government objective and the impact on fundamental rights. 104. In Charkaoui v. Canada(Citizenship and Immigration)79, the Canadian Supreme Court held that the procedure for detention prescribed under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act 200180 E suffered from procedural infirmities. Under the 2001 Act, a person may be deprived of some or all of the information on the basis of which the detention was ed. The Canadian Supreme Court held that the provisions of the 2001 Act unjustifiably violate Section 7 of the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedom81 because State action is judicially reviewed based on secret material without devising any means to protect F the affected person’s procedural rights. The court referred to the system of special advocates in the United Kingdom and observed that this system 77 David Bilchitz, ‘Necessity and Proportionality: Towards a Balanced Approach? in Liora Lazarus et al (eds), Reasoning Rights: Comparative Judicial Engagement (Hart 2014) 49. G 78 ibid, p. 51.