A WAPCOS report, the second report was commissioned ironically through the very same consultant. There is no case, whatsoever, that having made attempts to draw water in terms of the first WAPCOS report and having found that such an effort failed, they were compelled to seek recourse to a second study albeit by the same body. No reasons are forthcoming as to what inspired the first respondent to commission the B second study. Secondly, this is not a case where the procurers brought about any change in law in the study on their own or they persuaded or compelled the first respondent to change the corridor for the route for laying of the pipeline. The first respondent did not even involve the procurers in the second study. There is no intimation given that the first C respondent was commissioning a new study. There is no basis forthcoming as to what prompted the first respondent to commission a fresh study. What is stated is only that it wished to confirm the availability of water in terms of the first water intake study. In other words, we must sum up as follows: D (67) Even in terms of the case built around Part II of Schedule 2 to the PPA under which the performing of the task mentioned in Article 3.1.2A within the time provided was to be treated as a deemed initial consent, the consequence of failure to do that have been expressly spelt out as we have already noticed. At best or at worst, it could have empowered the first respondent to rescind the contract. That apart, we E are not in a position, for the reasons which we have indicated already, to come to the conclusion that it would amount to change in law. While on change in law, we may notice another aspect of the matter. (68) Article 13.3.1 reads as follows: “13.3.1 If the Seller is affected by a Change in Law in accordance F with Article 13.2 and wishes to claim a Change in Law under this Article, it shall give notice to the Procurers of such Change in Law as soon as reasonably practicable after becoming aware of the same or should reasonably have known of the Change in Law.” (69) Thus, the PPA contemplates that if the seller is affected by G change in law and wishes to claim change in law, it has to notify the procurers of the change in law as soon as is reasonably practicable after becoming aware of the same. It may be true that on the basis of the request made by the first respondent apparently based on the second WAPCOS report that the first respondent has taken steps for acquiring H HARYANA POWER PURCHASE CENTRE v. SASAN POWER 51 LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the land needed for laying the pipeline. It may be true that the said A pipeline had to cross a greater distance. It is not as if it was on the basis that the procurers rendered themselves liable in law or held themselves liable in law to make good the escalation in cost.