However, this Court decided to adjudicate the disqualification petitions in view of the following peculiar facts and circumstances: (i) the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly in that case failed to decide the question of disqualification in a time-bound manner; (ii) the Speaker decided the issue of whether there was a split E in the party without deciding whether the MLAs in question were disqualified; and (iii) the necessity of an expeditious decision in view of the fact that the disqualification petitions were not decided by the Speaker for more than three years and the term of the Assembly was coming to an end. In view of the above facts and circumstances, this Court was of F the opinion that remanding the disqualification proceedings to the Speaker would lead to them becoming infructuous. 80. This Court should normally refrain from deciding disqualification petitions at the first instance, having due regard to constitutional intendment. The question of disqualification ought to be adjudicated by G the constitutional authority concerned, namely the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly, by following the procedure prescribed. Disqualification of a person for being a member of the House has drastic consequences for the member concerned and by extension, for the citizens of that constituency. Therefore, any question of disqualification H 24 "BSP” SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 913 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] ought to be decided by following the procedure established by law. In A Kshetrimayum Biren Singh (supra), a three-Judge Bench of this Court set aside the of the Speaker disqualifying MLAs under Paragraph 2(1)(a) for not granting an opportunity to them to lead evidence and present their case. The Speaker was directed to decide the disqualification petitions afresh by complying with the principles of natural justice. Even B in cases where the Speaker decides disqualification petitions without following the procedure established by law, this Court normally remands the disqualification petitions to the Speaker. Therefore, absent exceptional circumstances, the Speaker is the appropriate authority to adjudicate petitions for disqualification under the Tenth Schedule. C 81. The petitioners have urged that in view of the facts and circumstances, this Court should not remand the disqualification proceedings to the Speaker of the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly, on the ground that he has demonstrated himselfto be incapable of acting fairly and impartially. Before addressing the petitioner’s submission, it is necessary to refer to the status of the Speaker under the Constitution. D Article 178 provides that the Legislative Assembly shall, as soon as may be, choose two members of the Assembly to be the Speaker and Deputy Speaker. The procedure for the election of Speaker and the Deputy Speaker is generally provided by the relevant rules of the Legislative Assembly. E 82. In a parliamentary democracy, the Speaker is an officer of the Assembly. The Speaker performs the function of presiding over the proceedings of the House and representing the House for all intents and purposes. In Kihoto Hollohan (supra), it was contended that the Speaker does not represent an independent adjudicatory machinery since F they are elected by the majority of the Assembly.