48% higher as compared to the pay-out under the initial Resolution Plan submitted by the appellant. At this juncture, it was also pointed out that the RP had also got two reports prepared by two approved/registered valuers: (a) BDO India LLP’s Report dated 11.02.2019 with regard to assets of ACIL which indicated fair market value to be Rupees one hundred thirty- fi ve crores and ten lacs with liquidation value as Rupees one hundred eight crores and fi fty-seven lacs; whereas the Report of (b) Adroit Technical Services Limited dated 14.02.2019 indicated fair market value of Rupees one hundred twenty-fi ve crores and eighty-fi ve lacs and liquidation value of Rupees ninety-four crores and eighty-seven lacs. Thus, it was submitted that after taking care of all the statutory procedural requirements and on the basis of such reports and proper examination of the materials on record and having exercised its commercial wisdom, the CoC-approved Resolution Plan was put up before the NCLT for approval, but the NCLT, exceeding its jurisdiction and without ascertaining any reason for such course of action, passed the direction for revaluation. 8. Learned senior counsel in this connection submitted that there was no occasion for the NCLT to embark upon a totally alien procedure of getting the OL involved in such valuation, for which a mechanism is already provided under the Code and which, as per him, was strictly adhered to in the present case. It was contended that the NCLT had limited power of judicial review given the supremacy of the CoC under the Code. At best, learned senior counsel contended, that it could have disapproved the Resolution Plan on cogent ground(s) relevant for doing so after testing whether it complies with the requirements of Section 30(2) of the Code, but it could not have acquired jurisdiction, where no such residuary or equity based jurisdiction is available under the Code by interfering with the CoC’s decision without pointing out any non-conformity with the provisions of the Code and the Regulations thereunder. For such proposition, he relied upon the decision of this Court in Pratap Technocrats Private Limited v Monitoring Committee of Reliance Infratel Limited, (2021) 10 SCC 623, the relevant being at Paragraphs 25, 26 and 44, where it has been held that the jurisdiction conferred upon the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT in regard to the approval of a Resolution Plan is statutorily structured by Sub-Section 1(1) of Section 31 of the Code and such jurisdiction is limited to determine whether the requirements which are specifi ed in Sub-Section (2) of Section RAMKRISHNA FORGINGS LTD v. RAVINDRA LOONKAR, 681 R. P. OF ACIL LTD.[AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 30 of the Code have been fulfi lled. Further, it has been explained that such jurisdiction which is statutorily defi ned, recognised and conferred, cannot be equated with the jurisdiction in equity that operates independently of the provisions of the statute for the reason that the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT, which is a body owing its existence to the Code, must abide by the nature and extent of its jurisdiction as defi ned therein.