Rule 3(1) of the said Rules reads as under: C “3. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 67 of the Act and rule 2A of the Service (Determination of Value) Rules, 2006, the person liable to pay service tax in relation to works contract service shall have the option to discharge his service tax liability on the works contract service provided or to be provided, D instead of paying service tax at the rate specified in section 66 of the Act, by paying an amount equivalent to two per cent of the gross amount charged for the works contract. Explanation. - For the purposes of this rule, gross amount charged for the works contract shall not include Value Added Tax (VAT) E or sales tax, as the case may be, paid on transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of the said works contract.” 4.6 It is submitted that the sub-rules came to be amended vide Notification No.23/2009 – ST dated 07.07.2009 and further amended by Notification 1/2011 – ST dated 01.03.2011. F 4.7 It is submitted that Section 67 of the Act, 1994 deals with valuation of taxable services reads as under: “67. Valuation of taxable services for charging Service Tax -1) Subject to the provisions of this Chapter, service tax chargeable on any taxable service with reference to its value shall, - G (i) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration in money, be the gross amount charged by the service provider for such service provided or to be provided by him; H 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A (ii) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration not wholly or partly consisting of money, be such amount in money, with the addition of service tax charged, is equivalent to the consideration; (iii) in a case where the provision of service is for a consideration B which is not ascertainable, be the amount as may be determined in the prescribed manner. (2) Where the gross amount charged by a service provider, for the service provided or to be provided is inclusive of service tax payable, the value of such taxable service shall be such amount C as, with the addition of tax payable, is equal to the gross amount charged. (3) The gross amount charged for the taxable service shall include any amount received towards the taxable service before, during or after provision of such service. D (4) Subject to the provisions of sub-sections (1), (2) and (3), the value shall be determined in such manner as may be prescribed. Explanation-For the purposes of this section, - (a) “consideration” includes E (i) any amount that is payable for the taxable services provided or to be provided; (ii) any reimbursable expenditure or cost incurred by the service provider and charged, in the course of providing or agreeing to provide a taxable service, except in such circumstances, and F subject to such conditions, as may be prescribed.