To the contrary, a firm whether registered or not is a person D who can always invoke the jurisdiction of the Act, 1986 provided it falls within the scope and ambit of the expression “consumer” as defined under Section 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986. 37. Applying the above principles to the present case, what needs to be determined is whether the insurance service has a close and direct E nexus with the profit generating activity and whether the dominant intention or dominant purpose for the transaction was to facilitate some kind of profit generation for the purchaser and/or their beneficiary. The fact that the insured is a commercial enterprise is unrelated to the determination of whether the insurance policy shall be counted as a commercial purpose within the purview of Section 2(1)(d) of the Act. F 38. In the case of Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation and Another v. Ashok Iron Works Private Limited7, this Court while answering the question in the affirmative observed : “17. It goes without saying that interpretation of a word or expression must depend on the text and the context. The resort to G the word “includes” by the legislature often shows the intention of the legislature that it wanted to give extensive and enlarged meaning to such expression. Sometimes, however, the context 6 (2022) 5 SCC 42 H 7 (2009) 3 SCC 240 NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS 467 AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] may suggest that word “includes” may have been designed to A mean “means”. The setting, context and object of an enactment may provide sufficient guidance for interpretation of the word “includes” for the purposes of such enactment. 18. Section 2(1)(m) which enumerates four categories, namely, B (i) a firm whether registered or not; (ii) a Hindu Undivided Family; (iii) a cooperative society; and (iv) every other association of persons whether registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (21 of 1860) or not C while defining “person” cannot be held to be restrictive and confined to these four categories as it is not said in terms that “person” shall mean one or other of the things which are enumerated, but that it shall “include” them. D 19. The General Clauses Act, 1897 in Section 3(42) defines “person”: “3. (42) ‘person’ shall include any company or association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not;” 20. Section 3 of the 1986 Act upon which reliance is placed by E learned counsel for KPTC provides that the provisions of the Act are in addition to and not in derogation of any other law for the time being in force. This provision instead of helping the contention of KPTC would rather suggest that the access to the remedy provided to (sic under) the Act of 1986 is an addition to F the provisions of any other law for the time being in force. It does not in any way give any clue to restrict the definition of “person”. 21. Section 2(1)(m), is beyond all questions an interpretation clause, and must have been intended by the legislature to be taken into G account in construing the expression “person” as it occurs in Section 2(1)(d).