The powerful processes of criminal law can then be perverted for achieving extraneous ends. Attendant upon such investigations, when the police are not free agents within their sphere of duty, is a great amount of inconvenience, harassment and humiliation that can even take the form of the parading of a respectable person in handcuff s, apparently on way to a Court of justice. The foul deed is done when an adversary is exposed to social ridicule and obloquy, no matter when and whether a conviction is secured or is at all possible. It is in to meet such situations, though not limited to these contingencies, that the power to grant anticipatory bail was introduced into the Code of 1973. 10.8. Despite the inclusion of the provision for anticipatory bail in the CrPC after the acceptance of the aforesaid recommendation, the expression “anticipatory bail” remained undefi ned in the CrPC. This Court in Balchand Jain observed that “anticipatory bail” means “bail in anticipation of arrest.” This Court has exposited that an application for anticipatory bail could be made by the accused either at a stage before an FIR is fi led or at a stage when an FIR is registered but the charge sheet has not been fi led, and the investigation is underway. Alternatively, it can be moved after the completion of investigation. The stage of investigation 552 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. has a bearing on the conditions to be imposed while granting the relief of anticipatory bail. 10.9. A crucial diff erence between the pre-arrest bail under Section 438 of CrPC and the bail under Sections 437 and 439 of CrPC is the stages at which the bail is passed. 11. Greater clarity on the contours of judicial discretion in the grant of pre-arrest bail emerged out of the judgement of the Full Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibia vs. State of Punjab, 1977 SCC OnLine P&H 157. The Full Bench of the Punjab and Haryana High Court had rejected the application for bail while furnishing the reasons that the power under Section 438 of CrPC is of an extraordinary character and must be exercised sparingly in exceptional cases. The said was carried in appeal before this Court. Thereafter, the law on anticipatory bail was further crystallized by the Constitution Bench of this Court in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia, where it disagreed with the reasoning of the Full Bench of Punjab and Haryana High Court. 11.1. It was observed that since the denial of bail amounts to deprivation of personal liberty, the Court should lean against the imposition of unnecessary restrictions on the scope of Section 438 of CrPC, especially when not imposed by the legislature in terms of the Section. It was observed that Section 438 of CrPC is a procedural provision which is concerned with the personal liberty of the individual, who is entitled to the benefi t of the presumption of innocence since he is not, on the date of his application for anticipatory bail, convicted of the off ence in respect of which he seeks bail.