But the fact remains that to the extent of the deposit, no further interest is payable thereon to C the decree holder and there is no question of the decree holder claiming a re-appropriation when it is found that more amounts are due to him and the same is also deposited by the debtor. In other words, the scheme does not contemplate a reopening of the satisfaction to the extent it has occurred by D the deposit. No further interest would run on the sum appropriated towards the principal. As an illustration, we can take the following situation. Suppose, a decree is passed for a sum of Rs. 5,000/- by the trial court along with interest and costs and the E debtor deposits the same and gives notice to the decree holder either by approaching the executing court under XXI Rule 2 of the Code or by making the deposit in the execution taken out by the decree-holder under XXI Rule 1 of the Code. The decree holder is not satisfied with the decree of F (c) how the money remitted is to be adjusted, that is to say, whether it is towards the principal, interest or costs; (d) the number of the execution case of the Court, where such case is pending; and (e) the name and address of the payer. (4) On any amount paid under clause (a) or clause (c) of sub-rule (1), interest, if any, shall cease to run from the date of service of the notice referred to in sub-rule (2). (5) On any amount paid under clause (b) of sub-rule (1), interest, if any, shall cease to G run from the date of such payment: Provided that, where the decree-holder refuses to aceept the postal money or payment through a bank, interest shall cease to run from the date on which the money was tendered to him, or where he avoids acceptance of the postal money or payment through bank, interest shall cease to run from the date on which the money would have been tendered to him in the ordinary course of business of the postal authorities or the bank, as the case may be.” H K. L. SUNEJA & ANR. v. DR. (MRS.) MANJEET KAUR 1095 MONGA (D) THROUGH HER LR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the trial court. He goes up in appeal and the appellate court A enhances the decree amount to Rs. 10,000/- with interest and costs. The rule in terms of XXI Rule 1, as it now stands, in the background of XXIV would clearly be, that the further obligation of the debtor is only to deposit the additional amount of Rs. 5,000/- decreed by the appellate B court with interest thereon from the date the interest is held due and the costs of the appeal. The decree holder would not be entitled to say that he can get further interest even on the sum of Rs. 5,000/- decreed by the trial court and deposited by the debtor even before the enhancement of the C amount by the appellate court or that he can re-open the transaction and make a re-appropriation of interest first on Rs.