It is A contended that by the impugned regulations there is expropriation of the private property of the petitioner’s members Association. Reliance is placed on the in Chet Ram Vashist (Dead) by LRs v. Municipal corporation of Delhi1. Support is drawn from Article 300A. It is sought to be contended that allowing use of the OSR Area amounts to a blatant B exercise of the power of eminent domain. Transfer of property of the petitioner is sought to be achieved through the impugned regulation. In fact, in ground (i), it is submitted that expropriation of land is possible at best by way of plenary legislation and the impugned regulation not being such a legislation, it is vulnerable. The impugned regulation is contrary to the Act. The Act regulates the land use. The authorities under the Act C cannot change the user of a land. In other words, the point is that allowing use of area meant for recreational purpose by the members of the general public is expropriatory and contrary to the Act. It is also contended that the impugned regulation is unreasonable and disproportionate. 13. We have heard Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned Senior D Counsel on behalf of the appellants in C.A. No. 7847 of 2013. We also heard Shri N Subramaniyan, learned counsel on behalf of M/s. Keyaram Hotel Pvt. Ltd. (C.A. No. 7334 of 2013). We further heard Smt. V. Mohana learned senior counsel on behalf of the writ petitioner (writ petition no. 591 of 2015). We also heard the learned counsel on behalf of E the appellants in C.A. No. 1890-91 of 2010. We further heard the learned counsel Shri K.S. Suresh on behalf of Association of Vasanth Apartments’ Owners which has in C.A. No. 7848 of 2013 challenged the rejecting the review petition filed in the writ petition unsuccessfully challenging the rule. 14. We heard Shri Sanjay R. Hegde learned senior counsel on F behalf of the corporation of Chennai and heard Shri Amit Anand Tiwari, AAG on behalf of the Government of Tamil Nâdu and also the CMDA. We finally heard Shri JayanthMuth Raj, learned Senior Counsel on behalf of the appellants in Writ Appeal no. 478 of 2007 who are the persons residing in the area and whose writ appeal stood allowed by the High G Court. SUBMISSIONS OF APPELLANTS/PETITIONER 15. In Civil Appeal Nos. 7847 of 2013, Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan would contend that a compelled gift attracted the 1 (1995) 1 SCC 47 H 1044 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A wrath of Article 300A of the Constitution. There was clearly deprivation of property. It was without the authority of law. It was without the authority of law because ‘DCR’ was not statutory in nature, having been made by the CMDA without any provision enabling it to make statutory rules. The power to make rules was vested with the State Government under Section 122 of the Tamil Nadu Town & Country B Planning Act, 1971 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘Act’).