[2023] 15 S.C.R. 443 : 2023 INSC 919 CASE DETAILS X v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. (Miscellaneous Application No. 2157 of 2023) In (Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1137 of 2023) OCTOBER 16, 2023 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI, J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Petition under Article 32 fi led for directions to the respondents to permit a medical termination of the Petitioner’s ongoing pregnancy. Relief sought, if can be granted; and the nature of the jurisdiction under which this Court is adjudicating this case. Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971 – ss.3(2B), 5 – According to the Petitioner, she did not discover that she was pregnant until after twenty weeks of the pregnancy had elapsed because she had lactational amenorrhea as a result of which breastfeeding women do not menstruate – On undergoing an ultrasound scan, the pregnancy was estimated to be around twenty-four weeks at that time – Attempts to medically terminate the pregnancy failed – Writ petition fi led – Petitioner was directed to appear before a Medical Board constituted by the AIIMS, New Delhi – Report submitted – Petition allowed, medical termination of the pregnancy permitted by this Court vide dtd.09.10.2023 – However, a doctor from AIIMS (who was a member of the Medical Board) emailed Ms. ‘AB’, ASG, stating that the foetus has a strong chance of survival and sought directions from this Court as to whether a foeticide should be carried out – Application for recall of the dtd.09.10.2023 fi led by ASG, heard by the same bench which had heard the petition earlier – Split verdict – Petition listed before the present three judge 443 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Bench – A further report called from AIIMS on certain specifi c issues – Report submitted: Held: Length of the pregnancy has crossed twenty-four weeks – It is now approximately twenty-six weeks and fi ve days – A medical termination of the pregnancy cannot be permitted as having crossed the statutory limit of twenty-four weeks, the requirements in either of s.3(2B) or s.5 must be met; there are no “substantial foetal abnormalities” diagnosed by a Medical Board, in terms of s.3(2B) – A second medical report was called from AIIMS to ensure that the facts of the case were accurately placed before this Court and no foetal abnormality was detected; and neither of the two reports submitted by the Medical Boards indicate that a termination is immediately necessary to save the life of the Petitioner, in terms of s.5 – Under Article 142, this Court has the power to do complete justice – However, this power may not be attracted in every case – If a medical termination were to be conducted at this stage, the doctors would be faced with a viable foetus – One of the options before this Court, which the email from AIIMS had fl agged, was for it to direct the doctors to stop the heartbeat – This Court is averse to issuing a direction of this nature – Petitioner, too, did not wish for this Court to issue such a direction – In the absence of a direction to stop the heartbeat, the viable foetus would be faced with a signifi cant risk of lifelong physical and mental disabilities – Prayer for the medical termination of the pregnancy not acceded to– Application for recall of the dtd.