Even where an of discharge looks innocuous, but on a close scrutiny, by looking behind the curtain if any material exists of misconduct and which is the foundation of passing of the of discharge, or such could be reasonably inferred, then it leaves no room for doubt that any consequential , even of discharge, would be construed as THE STATE OF PUNJAB AND OTHERS v. 833 JASWANT SINGH [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] stigmatic. The decision in Sukhwinder Singh [(2005) 5 SCC 569 : 2005 SCC (L&S) 705] was given by a three-Judge Bench and in view of that decision in 2005, there is no scope for this Court to take a diff erent view. We are squarely bound by the said decision.” 18. In view of the principles as reiterated in various s by this Court, if we examine the facts of the case in hand leading to the of discharge, then it is crystal clear that respondent-plaintiff was appointed as a constable and joined the duties on 12.11.1989 on probation. During probation, while he was on training, he along with other trainee constables was deputed for law and duty in Amritsar District on 24.11.1990. Respondent-plaintiff and other recruits were relieved from the said duty and reported back at the Training Centre, except respondent-plaintiff , who remained on prolonged absence without any intimation to the Training Centre. The S.P., Training Centre, vide memorandum dated 21.02.1991, made a recommendation to S.S.P. that the respondent-plaintiff had not shown any interest in the training and lacks sense of responsibility, further recommending that he is unlikely to prove himself as a good and effi cient police offi cer, hence, he may be discharged under Rule 12.21 of PPR. From perusal of the said Rule, it is apparent that in case a probationary constable is found unlikely to prove an effi cient police offi cer, he may be discharged by the Senior Superintendent of Police at any time within three years from the date of enrolment. The S.S.P. relying upon the recommendation of the supervising offi cer (S.P., Training Centre) formed an opinion that the probationary constable is found unlikely to prove an effi cient police offi cer owing to his demeanour as reported and discussed herein above. 19. In our considered view, all the three Courts misconstrued Rule 12.21 of PPR and decreed the suit fi led by the respondent-plaintiff . Looking to the contents of the of discharge, in the considered opinion of this Court, there is no foundation of misconduct alleged in the and it is an of simpliciter discharge of a probationer constable. The in the case of Ratnesh Kumar Choudhary (supra) relied upon by the respondent is of no help for the simple reason that in that case, the initial appointment was alleged to be illegal based on a vigilance report which was on record. Thereafter, notice was issued on the anvil of the said vigilance report which contained serious allegations and in the said 834 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.