The presence of strong organizational links and fi nancial links between the signatory and non-signatory parties is only one of the factual elements that the court or tribunal may consider to determine the legal relationship between the signatory and non-signatory parties. We accordingly clarify that the principle of “single economic entity” cannot be used as a sole basis to invoke the group of companies doctrine. 115. In case of multiple parties, the necessity of a common subject- matter and composite transaction is an important factual indicator. An arbitration agreement arises out of a defi ned legal relationship between the parties with respect to a particular subject matter. Commonality of the subject matter indicates that the conduct of the non-signatory party must be related to the subject matter of the arbitration agreement. For instance, if the subject matter of the contract underlying the arbitration agreement pertains to distribution of healthcare goods, the conduct of the non-signatory party should also be connected or in pursuance of the 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. contractual duties and obligations, that is, pertaining to the distribution of healthcare goods. The determination of this factor is important to demonstrate that the non-signatory party consented to arbitrate with respect to the particular subject matter. 116. In case of a composite transaction involving multiple agreements, it would be incumbent for the courts and tribunals to assess whether the agreements are consequential or in the nature of a follow-up to the principal agreement. This Court in Canara Bank (supra) observed that a composite transaction refers to a situation where the transaction is interlinked in nature or where the performance of the principal agreement may not be feasible without the aid, execution, and performance of the supplementary or ancillary agreements. 117. The general position of law is that parties will be referred to arbitration under the principal agreement if there is a situation where there are disputes and diff erences “in connection with” the main agreement and also disputes “connected with” the subject-matter of the principal agreement.97 In Chloro Controls (supra), this Court clarifi ed that the principle of “composite performance” would have to be gathered from the conjoint reading of the principal and supplementary agreements on the one hand, and the explicit intention of the parties and attendant circumstances on the other. The common participation in the commercial project by the signatory and non- signatory parties for the purposes of achieving a common purpose could be an indicator of the fact that all the parties intended the non-signatory party to be bound by the arbitration agreement. Thus, the application of the group of companies doctrine in case of composite transactions ensures accountability of all parties who have materially participated in the negotiation and performance of the transaction and by doing so have evinced a mutual intent to be bound by the agreement to arbitrate. 118. The participation of the non-signatory in the performance of the underlying contract is the most important factor to be considered by the courts and tribunals.