We are anxious, Sir, that the preparation of the electoral rolls and the conduct of elections should be entrusted to people who are free from political bias and whose impartiality can be relied upon in all circumstances. But, by leaving a great deal of power in the hands of the President we have given room E for the exercise of political influence in the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the other Election Commissioners and officers by the Central Government. The Chief Election Commissioner will have to be appointed on the advice of the Prime Minister, and, if the Prime Minister suggests the F appointment of a party-man, the President will have no option but to accept the Prime Minister’s nominee, however unsuitable he may be on public grounds.” 97. He warned thus: “If the electoral machinery is defective or is not efficient or is G worked by people whose integrity cannot be depended upon, democracy will be poisoned at the source; nay, people, instead of learning from elections how they should exercise their vote, how by a judicious use of their vote they can bring about changes in the Constitution and reforms in the administration, will learn only how parties based on intrigues can be formed and what unfair H methods they can adopt to secure what they want.” ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 215 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 98. Dr Ambedkar agreed with the points made by Saksena and A Kunzru, and said: “...with regard to the question of appointment I must confess that there is a great deal of force in what my Friend Professor Saksena said that there is no use making the tenure of the Election Commissioner a fixed and secure tenure if there is no provision in B the Constitution to prevent either a fool or a knave or a person who is likely to be under the thumb of the Executive. My provision—I must admit—does not contain anything to provide against nomination of an unfit person to the post of the Chief Election Commissioner or the other Election Commissioners…” C 99. The solution which Dr Ambedkar gave was that the Constituent Assembly should adopt as “Instrument of Instructions to the President”, which may consist of the guidelines according to which the President has to make the appointments. He said: “The Drafting Committee had paid considerable attention to this D question because as I said it is going, to be one of our greatest headaches and as a viamedia it was thought that if this Assembly would give or enact what is called an Instrument of Instructions to the President and provide therein some machinery which it would be obligatory on the President to consult before making any appointment, I think the difficulties which are felt as resulting… E may be obviated and the advantage which is contained therein may be secured.” 100. He, however, added that since he was unsure whether the Assembly would adopt his suggestion of Instrument of Instructions, he suggested an amendment to the effect that “The appointment of the F Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners shall, subject to the Provisions of any law made in this behalf by Parliament, be made by the President.” This is incorporated currently in Article 324(2).