7. The plaintiff s were thus compelled to initiate legal proceedings. They issued a legal notice through their counsel on 29.04.1991, which despite being served, no reply was given. In October 1991, the plaintiff s instituted a suit for declaration as the absolute owners of the suit properties and also for consequential relief of permanent injunction on the ground that there was misrepresentation in the General Power of Attorney. This was registered as Original Suit No. 839 of 1991 in the Court of the District Munsiff at Palani. Krishnasamy, the father, was arraigned as defendant no. 1, Rajamani, the Attorney, was arraigned as defendant no. 2 and Sakthivelu was arraigned as defendant no. 3. Defendant nos. 1 and 2 only fi led their written statements while Defendant no. 3 chose not to contest the suit, and no written statement was fi led on his behalf. 8. Both the parties led evidence, both documentary as well as oral. The Trial Court, vide and dated 06.01.1998, dismissed the suit relying upon the contents of the Power of Attorney to be genuine. It did not accept the plea of the plaintiff s that defendant no. 2 had misrepresented and played mischief by incorporating the power to sell and other clauses of transfer of Patta etc., which according to the plaintiff s they had never authorised. 9. The plaintiff s preferred a First Appeal before the Sub-Court at Palani which was registered as A.S. No. 28 of 1998. During the pendency of the appeal, the fi rst plaintiff died and his legal heirs were brought on record. The First Appellate Court framed points for consideration including the point of non est factum and after due analysis and appreciation of the evidence, both oral and documentary, it came to the conclusion, that the contents of Power of Attorney had been fraudulently incorporated without any due RAMATHAL AND ORS. v. K. RAJAMANI (DEAD) 353 THROUGH LRS. AND ANR. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] authorisation only to deprive plaintiff s of their valuable rights. The appeal was allowed and the suit was decreed. The First Appellate Court recorded following fi ndings: (i). The contents of the two sale deeds executed by the Attorney on the day of the registration of the Power of Attorney is a relevant fact against the defendants and showed their conduct to be malicious. (ii). The sale deeds had been undervalued and did not refl ect the market value. Even the guideline value was not refl ected as a result of which the sale deeds were impounded. (iii). The defi cient stamp duty was paid in 1995 and 1997 to get the sale deeds regularised and be released, which was after nine and eleven years respectively from the date of its execution. This was also much later than institution of the suit by the plaintiff s in 1991. (iv). The sale consideration refl ected in the sale deeds was also much less than the guideline value, and even if it was paid to the plaintiff s, it was not a reasonable consideration for the land in suit.