Since initiation of prosecution is a serious matter, we are minded to say that it would be the duty of the Magistrate to prevent false and frivolous complaints eating up precious judicial time. If the complaint warrants dismissal, the Magistrate is statutorily mandated to record his brief reasons. On the contrary, if from such materials a prima facie satisfaction is reached upon application of judicial mind of an “off ence” having been committed and there being suffi cient ground for proceeding, the Magistrate is under no other fetter from issuing process. Upon a prima facie case being made out and even though much can be said on both sides, the Magistrate would have no option but to commit an accused for trial, as held in Chandra Deo Singh (supra). The requirement of recording reasons at the stage of issuing process is not the statutory mandate; therefore, the Magistrate is not required to record reasons for issuing process. This is also the law M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 253 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] declared by this Court in Jagdish Ram v. State of Rajasthan25. Since it is not the statutory mandate that reasons should be recorded in support of formation of opinion that there is suffi cient ground for proceeding whereas dismissal of a complaint has to be backed by brief reasons, the degree of satisfaction invariably must vary in both situations. While in the former it is a prima facie satisfaction based on probability of complicity, the latter would require a higher degree of satisfaction in that the Magistrate has to express his fi nal and conclusive view of the complaint warranting dismissal because of absence of suffi cient ground for proceeding. 45. In the context of a complaint of defamation, at the stage the Magistrate proceeds to issue process, he has to form his opinion based on the allegations in the complaint and other material (obtained through the process referred to in section 200/section 202) as to whether ‘suffi cient ground for proceeding’ exists as distinguished from ‘suffi cient ground for conviction’, which has to be left for determination at the trial and not at the stage when process is issued. Although there is nothing in the law which in express terms mandates the Magistrate to consider whether any of the Exceptions to section 499, IPC is attracted, there is no bar either. After all, what is ‘excepted’ cannot amount to defamation on the very terms of the provision. We do realize that more often than not, it would be diffi cult to form an opinion that an Exception is attracted at that juncture because neither a complaint for defamation (which is not a regular phenomenon in the criminal courts) is likely to be drafted with contents, nor are statements likely to be made on oath and evidence adduced, giving an escape route to the accused at the threshold. However, we hasten to reiterate that it is not the law that the Magistrate is in any manner precluded from considering if at all any of the Exceptions is attracted in a given case; the Magistrate is under no fetter from so considering, more so because being someone who is legally trained, it is expected that while issuing process he would have a clear idea of what constitutes defamation.