In Cheviti Venkanna Yadav vs. State of Telangana, (2017) 1 SCC 283, this Court considered a question relating to the validity of an amendment with retrospective eff ect after a provision of the Act was struck down by the Court- When does it not amount to the statutory overruling of a by the legislature? This Court held that the legislature has the power to legislate including the power to retrospectively amend laws, thereby removing causes of ineff ectiveness or invalidity of laws. Further, when such correction is made, the purpose behind the same is not to overrule the decision of the court or encroach upon the judicial turf, but simply enact a fresh law with retrospective eff ect to alter the foundation and meaning of the legislation and to remove the base on which the is founded. The of the High Court, inter alia, holding that the amended provisions did not usurp the judicial power was upheld. vii. In Madras Bar Association vs. Union of India, (2022) 12 SCC 455, L. Nageswara Rao J., speaking for the majority (2:1) laid down the following principles, as regards the permissibility of abrogation, to remove the basis of a : NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 39 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] “43. The permissibility of a legislative override in this country should be in accordance with the principles laid down by this Court in the aforementioned as well as other s, which have been culled out as under: a) The eff ect of the s of the Court can be nullifi ed by a legislative act removing the basis of the . Such law can be retrospective. Retrospective amendment should be reasonable and not arbitrary and must not be violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution. (Lohia Machines Ltd. and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors., (1985) 2 SCC 1987). b) The test for determining the validity of a validating legislation is that the pointing out the defect would not have been passed, if the altered position as sought to be brought in by the validating statute existed before the Court at the time of rendering its . In other words, the defect pointed out should have been cured such that the basis of the pointing out the defect is removed. c) Nullifi cation of mandamus by an enactment would be impermissible legislative exercise (See: S.R. Bhagwat and Ors. v. State of Mysore, (1995) 6 SCC 16). Even interim directions cannot be reversed by a legislative veto (See: Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, 1993 Supp (1) SCC 96 and Medical Council of India v. State of Kerala and Ors., (2019) 13 SCC 185). d) Transgression of constitutional limitations and intrusion into the judicial power by the legislature is violative of the principle of separation of powers, the Rule of law and of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.” viii. In a recent of this Court in the case of Dr. Jaya Thakur vs. Union of India, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 813, this Court held that a writ of mandamus could not be nullifi ed by a subsequent legislation made by the legislator.