The proposition does not relate to the powers of the Court under Article 142, but only to what is or is not ‘complete justice’ of a cause or matter and in the C ultimate analysis of the propriety of the exercise of the power. No question of lack of jurisdiction or of nullity can arise.” 11.Whether this ratio is in conflict with the earlier decisions20 of this Court, including Prem Chand Garg and Another v. The Excise Commissioner, U.P. and Others21, wherein five judges of the D Constitution Bench had held that this power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India cannot be employed to make an plainly inconsistent with the express statutory provision or substantive law, much less inconsistent with any Constitutional provisions, was examined by another five judges’ bench of this Court in Supreme Court Bar E Association v. Union of India and Another22, to observe that there was no conflict of ratios as elucidated in Union Carbide Corporation (supra) and other cases. It is one thing to state that prohibitions or limitations cannot come in the way of the exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to do ‘complete justice’ between F 20 A.R. Antulay v. R.S. Nayak and Another, (1988) 2 SCC 602; Delhi Judicial Service Association, Tis Hazari Court, Delhi v. State of Gujarat and Others, (1991) 4 SCC 406; and Mohammed Anis v. Union of India and Others, 1994 Suppl. (1) SCC 145. In Mohammed Anis , this Court, while elucidating and unfolding the aspect of public policy and when it would operate to limit the power of the Supreme Court, observes that given the nature of power conferred by the Constitution of India on this Court under Article 142 of the Constitution of India, which is of a different quality and level, G prohibitions or limitations on provisions contained in ordinary laws cannot ipso facto act as prohibitions or limitations on the Constitutional power under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. The decision observes that mere reference to a larger bench does not prohibit this Court in a given case from its exercise of powers conferred under Article 142 of the Constitution of India. 21 AIR 1963 SC 996. 22 (1998) 4 SCC 409. H 186 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A the parties in the pending ‘cause or matter’ arising out of that statute, but quite a different thing to say that, while exercising jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, this Court can altogether ignore the substantive provisions of the statute dealing with the subject and pass s concerning an issue which can be settled only through a mechanism prescribed in the statute.23 These observations were in the B context of the powers conferred on the State Bar Councils under the Advocates Act, 1961, which, at the first instance, is empowered to decide whether an advocate is guilty of professional misconduct depending on the gravity and nature of his contumacious conduct. This Court, in Supreme Court Bar Association (supra), has highlighted that the C jurisdiction of the Supreme Court in contempt, and the jurisdiction of the State Bar Councils under the Advocates Act, 1961 are separate and distinct, and are exercisable by following separate and distinct procedures.