H 26 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 5.1 In the present case, it is not in dispute that large chunk of area measuring 46.49 acres was acquired as far as back on 21.04.1987. Such a large chunk of land was acquired for the development and utilization of land as residential and commercial area in Sector 11, Kurukshetra by the Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA). Out of 46.49 acres of land acquired vide notification under Section 4, 10.83 acres of land B came to be excluded from acquisition at the stage of notification under Section 5 A. Out of remaining 35.66 acres of land, 1.05 acres of land was released between Section 6 notification and the award. Thereafter, out of remaining 34.61 acres of land, 26.83 acres of land came to be released after award dated 12.04.1990. Therefore, the balance land C remained to the extent of 7.78 acres only, out of which even at present approximately 6 acres of land acquired is under litigation. Therefore, the land with respect to the original writ petitioners of CWP No. 16346/2013 is only small plots of the land which remained. If the map produced on record is considered except the present small portion/plot in question, all other major chunk of the land, the particulars of which are given as D above, have been released either by the State on its own and/or pursuant to the (s) passed by the High Court which were never challenged by the State and it seems that the State was happy with the decision of the High Court directing to release the lands from acquisition. In the earlier passed by this Court in Civil Appeals No. 3235-3237/2015 E with respect to the lands acquired by the very notification, it appears that this Court took note of the release of the lands by the State Government upon refund of compensation. This Court took note of the fact that several land owners whose lands were acquired filed writ petitions challenging the notification, which writ petitions were however, withdrawn with liberty to file representations with the State Government F and thereafter, the representations were answered in favour of the writ petitioners by ing release of the land after refund of compensation. Therefore, this Court in the case of Vipin Jindal (supra) also relegated/ permitted the said land owner to file a representation by observing that somewhat inconsistent stand has been taken on the part of the G Government. That thereafter, the representation of Vipin Jindal has been considered favourably and his land has been released from acquisition. 5.2 Even from the and passed by the High Court in CWP No. 11377/1988, by which, the High Court allowed the said writ petition and quashed the acquisition with respect to some of the lands H STATE OF HARYANA & ORS. v. NIRANJAN SINGH & ORS. 27 ETC. [M. R. SHAH, J.] acquired by the said notification, it appears that what weighed with the A High Court was after the notification under Section 6 of the Act, the Government withdrew from acquisition some of the area which belonged to the then Speaker of the Haryana Vidhan Sabha and another portion belonging to the Radha Swami Satsang, Kurukshetra.