The appellants alleged that they continued to pay the rent, in accordance with the decree of the District Judge, in their interpleader suit, i.e., CS 147/2001. The appellants preferred a petition under Section 482 of the Cr. PC before the Kerala High Court alleging that they could not be D treated as “encroachers” and were lawful occupants, whose eviction was sought, in civil proceedings, and seeking quashing of those proceedings. By the impugned , the High Court rejected the petition. 8. In the impugned , the High Court, after extracting the definition of “encroacher” and noticing Section 52A, held: E “4. When the tenancy has been terminated by the Board in this particular case, the petitioners have become ‘encroacher’ within the meaning of Section 3(ee) of the Act. In such case, the offence under Section 52A(1) can be attracted, if its ingredients are proved. As per Section 52A (3) of the Act, no court shall take cognizance of any offence under this section F except on a complaint made by the Board or any officer duly authorised by the State Government in this behalf. Therefore, this is not a matter wherein an investigation by the police is called for. Cognizance can be taken only on a complaint by the Board or any officer duly authorised by the State G Government in that behalf. Here, a complaint has been filed by the Kerala State Wakf Board represented by its authorised officer. Presently, there is absolutely nothing to have a premature termination of the prosecution proceedings against the petitioners.” H 7 ST No. 369/2015 dated 08.05.2013 P. V. NIDHISH & ORS. v. KERALA STATE WAKF BOARD & 555 ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] II A 9. Mr. R. Basant, learned senior counsel argued that it is a fundamentalprinciple of criminal jurisprudence that penal provisions cannot be applied with retrospective effect. The newly inserted provision, i.e., Section 52A makes “taking possession of waqf properties”a punishable offence. However, in this case, possession was taken in 1916, B i.e., concededly much before the enactment of the Wakf Act and the amendment. Accordingly, the newly inserted provision would not apply to the facts of this case. 10. It was argued that Parliament never intended that those who held properties under prior leases and arrangements, upon their expiry, C were to be treated as “encroachers”. Learned counsel contended that aside from the fact that the amendment cannot be construed as operating retrospectively, the respondents cannot validly contend that those who were in possession and occupation of the premises, as tenants for a century became encroachers, upon enactment of the 2013 Act. Counsel D pointed out that the provision which enables the Wakf Board to deal with encroachers, is Section 54; it provides for eviction. No proceedings were taken out against the appellants, who were straightaway sought to be dealt with as encroachers and prosecuted. Learned counsel relied upon Article 20 (1) of the Constitution of India and submitted that the appellants’ conduct cannot be treated as an offence, even if Section E 52A were to be applicable.