4.4 It is submitted that even the appellant passed on some instructions to the respondent, received on 24.04.2019, asking her to F apply for leave through Director CAIR, DRDO and the respondent applied for 3 months’ leave from 13.02.2019 to 28.06.2019. It is submitted that in fact the respondent had clarified that she had sought Earned Leave from 13.02.2019 to 28.06.2019. 4.5 It is submitted that the respondent chose to attend the Promotion G Board as she was directed to do so and she had no choice in the matter. She attended without preparation at an extremely short notice of one day; as failure to do so could have invited disciplinary action. It is submitted that until resolution of her grievance against the NTRO dated 12.09.2019, which she had formally conveyed to her superiors orally and in writing, the respondent was bound to obey every Government H issued to her. NATIONAL TECHNICAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATION v. 377 DIPTI DEODHARE [M. R. SHAH, J.] 4.6 It is submitted that in her bio-data submitted to the Promotion A Board, she specifically stated that she was attending the Board while on leave. It is submitted that in the said bio-data it was stated by her that she received a letter from CAIR on 29.03.2019, stating that she has been appointed to the post of Scientist G at CAIR, DRDO. This was only a statement of fact and the same cannot be said to be construed as B the respondent’s acceptance of DRDO’s invalid appointing her as Scientist-G. 4.7 It is further submitted that having worked as Scientist-H with the NTRO, which was a direct recruitment, she could not have reverted/ repatriated as Scientist-G to her parent department – DRDO. C 4.8 Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the appellant on her lien having continued with the DRDO is concerned, it is submitted that the said provision is in favour of the respondent and it is the respondent/ employee, who had the discretion to continue the lien. It is submitted that there cannot be any automatic lien, that too, at the instance of the D employer and/or subsequent employer. It is submitted that the lien is a right of a Government employee and the same is at the option of respondent and respondent cannot be forced to exercise her lien. 4.9 Relying upon the decisions of this Court in the case of State of Rajasthan and Anr. Vs. S.N. Tiwari and Ors., (2009) 4 SCC 700 E (paras 17 and 19) and Ramlal Khurana (Dead) By LRs. Vs. State of Punjab and Ors., (1989) 4 SCC 99 (para 8), it is vehemently submitted that as observed and held by this Court, a lien is entirely at the discretion of the employee. It is submitted that therefore, an employer cannot thrust a lien upon an employee, as it will have a detrimental impact on the employee’s position and prospects. F 4.10 It is further submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent that even otherwise, the respondent is entitled to pension on the last pay drawn as Scientist-H.