the appointment of the arbitrator after August 1997, whereas BEEL had abandoned the contract more than a year ago in March 1996. The amount awarded is merely on ipsi dixit without giving any reasons and basis for awarding the amount. 30. The scope and ambit of the court’s power to review the awards under Section 34 of the A&C Act has been contentious viz., on the interpretation to the expression ‘in confl ict with the public policy of India’. There have been legislative interventions as well as judicial pronouncements. In the context of the present case, we are required to interpret the provisions as they existed on the date on which the objections to the award were fi led i.e., on 21.06.1999. Accordingly, the amendment introduced to Section 34 of the A&C Act vide Act No. 3 of 2016 with retrospective eff ect from 23.10.2015 and the s of this Court examining the amended Section 34 of the A&C Act need not be examined. 31. Post award interference and the extent of the second look by the courts under Section 34 of the A&C Act has been a subject matter of perennial parley . The foundation of arbitration is party autonomy. Parties have the freedom to enter into an agreement to settle their disputes/claims by an arbitral tribunal, whose decision is binding on the parties.23 It is argued that the purpose of arbitration is fast and quick one-stop adjudication as an alternative to court adjudication, and therefore, post award interference by the courts is un-warranted, and an anathema that undermines the fundamental edifi ce of arbitration, which is consensual and voluntary departure from the right of a party to have its claim or dispute adjudicated by the judiciary. The process is informal, and need not be legalistic24. Per contra, it is argued that party autonomy should not be treated as an absolute defence, as a party despite agreeing to refer the disputes/claims to a private tribunal consensually, does not barter away the constitutional and basic human right to have a fair and just resolution of the disputes. The court must exercise its powers when the award is unfair, arbitrary, perverse, or otherwise infi rm in 23 See Vidya Drolia and Others v. Durga Trading Corporation and Others, (2021) 2 SCC 1, which examines arbitrability and non-arbitrability of subject matters and claims, which aspect will not be examined in this case. 24 The expression “judicially”, does not equate arbitration with formal/court proceedings, and would include a just and fair decision. BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 467 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] law. While arbitration is a private form of dispute resolution, the conduct of arbitral proceedings must meet the juristic requirements of due process and procedural fairness and reasonableness, to achieve a ‘judicially’ sound and objective outcome. If these requirements, which are equally fundamental to all forms of adjudication including arbitration, are not suffi ciently accommodated in the arbitral proceedings and the outcome is marred, then the award should invite intervention by the court.