v. UNION 1297 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] she was an adult. Another petitioner in the same case grew up in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh and states that she knew that she was a lesbian from a young age; b. One of the p etitioners hails from Muktsar, Punjab and happens to be OBC. Another petitioner in the same case happens to be Dalit. They come from working class backgrounds; c. Another petitioner was born in Mumbai to Catholic parents. She attempted to die by suicide and later had to beg on the streets in to survive; d. Some petitioners before this Court are transgender persons and activists. One of them is a public personality – Akkai Padmashali. She hails from a non-English speaking, working class background. At a young age, she left home. She worked as an assistant in a shop selling ceramics but quit because she unable to hide her true gender identity. Circumstance forced her to become a sex worker to sustain herself. Later, she was awarded the Karnataka Rajyotsava Award, Karnataka’s second highest civilian award, for her contribution to social service. e. Yet another petitioner who is a transgender person was born in a family of farmers who grew coconuts and betel leaves. She later worked in a factory. In her case, too, circumstance forced her to become a sex worker. She is now a social activist; and f. One of the petitioners is a lesbian who lives in Vadodara, Gujarat. 87. Ruth Vanita, an academician, studied the history of queer marriage in India in her scholarly works. She narrates that she married a Jewish woman in 2000 with both Hindu and Jewish ceremonies.84 Her book titled Love’s Rite: Same-Sex Marriage in India and the West85 records numerous instances of queer unions and partnerships in India: 84 Ruth Vanita, ‘’Wedding of Two Souls”: Same-Sex Marriage and Hindu Traditions’ 2004 Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion, Vol 20(2) 85 Ruth Vanita, Love’s Rite: Same-Sex Marriage in India and the West (Palgrave Macmillan, 2005) 129 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. a. Two young women who were classmates fell in love. One of them underwent a sex reassignment surgery in 1989. The two then married each other but one of their fathers (a wireless operator) opposed their union. He fi led a complaint stating that the partner of his child had abducted her. When the young woman was produced in court, she stated that she wished to live with her husband. She was then released and the couple proceeded to live together; b. In 1993, two women in Faridabad married each other in a Banke Bihari temple, with a priest offi ciating; c. Two men, one Indian and the other American, married according to Hindu rites in a ceremony in New Delhi in 1993; d. In 2004, a twenty-four year old Dalit woman and a twenty-two year old Jat woman travelled to Delhi and performed the rites of marriage in a temple. Their families opposed the union; e. Two young women, whose parents were construction workers in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, lived in a slum.