Orally, we permitted the application to be filed for being taken into consideration at an appropriate time. 44. The application, which has since been filed on 20th January, D 2023, refers to certain newspaper reports and WhatsApp messages/ chats exchanged allegedly between important functionaries of the Government of Chhattisgarh and based thereon it has been the contention that there exists conclusive material in public domain establishing that the FIR against AS and YS has been registered at the behest of one Sri Anil Tuteja and other high- ranking public officials in the State, at the E instance of the present Chief Minister. Since the materials brought on record by such application are sufficient to drive home the conclusion that political vendetta is the real cause for registration of the FIR, to tarnish the reputation of AS and YS, it has been urged that all the evidence ought to be summoned by this Court for just disposal of the present F proceedings. Such application contains the following prayers: “PRAYER In the facts and circumstances stated hereinabove, this Hon’ble Court may graciously be pleased to: a) Direct to take on record the new facts and materials, as has G emerged from the news report dated 18.01.2023 (titled “The Chhattisgarh Files: Docs, Chats show how prime accused was himself ‘managing’ NAN scam investigation, Baghel issued hitlist’ to implicate Raman Singh, others’) in the web news portal www.opindia.com and direct further hearing in the present H 150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A case; and/or b) Direct to summon the records pertaining to the ‘WhatsApp’ Chats relating to the conspiracy to implicate the Respondent Nos. 1 & 4 from the Enforcement Directorate; and/or c) Direct to summon the records of the Preliminary Enquiry bearing B No. 35 of 2019 initiated by the Petitioner- State’s EOW/ACB in respect to the complaint made by Respondent No. 2 on 11.10.2019; and/or d) Direct to tag the present special leave petition with W.P. (Crl) No. 506 of 2021 titled ‘Directorate of Enforcement v. Anil Tuteja C & Ors.’ Pending before this Hon’ble Court; and/or e) Pass such other or further (s) as may be deemed fit and appropriate by this Hon’ble Court in the facts and circumstances of the present case.” 45. We have heard the parties, perused the materials on record, D and considered the decisions cited at the bar. 46. The High Court, upon perusal of the FIR and consideration of the arguments advanced by the parties as well as the decisions cited at the Bar, recorded in the impugned , inter alia, as follows: - E “49. From bare perusal of the FIR, the allegation of disproportionate income is made out or not, it is expedient for this Court to examine whether from bare perusal of the contents of FIR, offence said to have been committed is made out or not, then only the FIR can be quashed by this Court. Therefore, whether the prima facie case is made out or not, has to be seen.