But he may apply for an to set the dismissal aside, and if he satisfies the Court that there was sufficient cause for his non-appearance when the suit was called on for hearing, the Court shall make an setting aside the dismissal upon such terms as to cost B or otherwise as it thinks fit, and shall appoint a day for proceeding with the suit. (2) No shall be made under this rule unless notice of the application has been served on the opposite party.” 52. IX Rule 9 bars fresh suit in respect of the same cause C of action in case the earlier suit was dismissed as indicated in IX Rule 8 of the CPC. The term “same cause of action” assumes significance in as much as the bar under IX Rule 8 of the CPC applies to a later suit only in respect of the very same cause of action. In case the cause of action in the later suit was altogether different, which has nothing to do with the cause of action in the earlier suit, the statutory bar has no D application to such later suits. It was only with a view to curb the tendency of filing multiple suits, on the basis of the very same cause of action, successively even after the dismissal of the earlier suit that such a provision has been introduced. It was not the intention of the Legislature to bar the subsequent suits between the parties and the same was evident E by the qualifying words, “same cause of action”. Therefore, everything depends upon the cause of action and in case the subsequent cause of action arose from a totally different bunch of facts, such suit cannot be axed by taking shelter to the provision of IX Rule 9 of CPC. 53. This Court in The Gaya Municipality v. Ram Prasad Bhatt F and Anr. in Civil Appeal No. 29 of 1965 decided on 8th September, 1967, explained the scope of IX Rule 9 of the CPC thus: “In our view, the present suit is not barred by O. IX r. 9, C.P.C. The principles for determining whether the causes of action in two suits are different or not were laid down by the Privy G Council in Mohammad Khalil Khan v. Mahbub Ali Khan A.I.R. (1949) P.C. 78 and referred to with approval by this Court in Suraj Rattan Thirani v. Azamabad Tea Company A.I.R. (1965) S.C. 295. The only question is whether applying these principles the High Court was right in holding that the cause H 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of action was different in the present suit from that in the 1941 suit. It seems to us that if the two plaints are analysed closely it would appear that in the first suit the cause of complaint was a threat by the defendant municipality to interfere with the alleged rights of the plaintiff by constructing stalls immediately to the south of his house.