82. Respondent No. 1 has heavily relied upon the Rules of Business E to urge that failure to comply with the procedure provided therein would lead to invalidation of the government decision. This Court’s earlier pronouncement in MRF (Supra) was cited in support of this contention. The relevant extract of the addressing this aspect of the matter is to the following effect: F “67… In the case on hand, we are required to examine the contentions of the appellants on this issue with reference to the Business Rules framed by Governor of Goa under Article 166(3) of the Constitution of India. 68. Rule 7(2) of the Business Rules of the Government of Goa G states, that, no proposal which requires previous concurrence of Finance Department under the said Rule, but in which Finance Department has not concurred, may not be proceeded with, unless the Council of Ministers has taken a decision to that effect. The wordings of this Rule are different from the provisions of Rule 9 of the Business Rules of Maharashtra H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 299 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] and have to be read in context with the provisions of Rule 3 A of the Business Rules of Government of Goa which states that the business of the Government shall be transacted in accordance with the Business Rules. Under Rule 7(2) thereof, the concurrence of the Finance Department is a condition precedent. B 69. Likewise Rule 6 of the Business Rules states, that, the Council of Minister shall be collectively responsible for all executive s passed by any Department in the name of the Governor or contract made in exercise of the power conferred on the Governor or any other officer subordinate C to him in accordance with the Rules, whether such s or contracts are authorized by an individual minister on a matter pertaining to the Department under his charge or as the result of discussion at a meeting of the Council of Minister or otherwise. This Rule requires that an executive issued from any department in the name of the Governor of the State D should be known to the Council of Ministers so as to fulfil the collective responsibility of the Council of Ministers. 70. Further Rule 7 of the Business Rules requires that no Department shall without the concurrence of the Finance Department issue any which may involve any E abandonment of revenue or involve expenditure for which no provisions have been made in the Appropriation Act or involve any grant of land or assignment of revenue or concession, grant, lease or licence in respect of minerals or forest rights or rights to water, power or any easement or F privilege or otherwise have a financial implications whether involving expenditure or not. 71.From a combined reading of the provisions of Rules 7, 3 and 6 of the Business Rules of the Government of Goa the conclusion would be irresistible that any proposal which is G likely to be converted into a decision of the State Government involving expenditure or abandonment of revenue for which there is no provision made in the Appropriation Act or an issue which involves concession or otherwise has a financial implication on the State is required to be processed only after H 300 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.