M/S OM GURUSAI CONSTRUCTION COMPANY v. 385 M/S V.N. REDDY & ORS. [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] 15. The admitted facts are that after the declaration of the appellant being the L1 bidder (successful bidder) on 12.03.2021, the additional performance security was to be submitted within two days of opening of the fi nancial bid. Admittedly, 12.03.2021 being a Friday, 13.03.2021 was a Saturday and 14.03.2021 was a Sunday. Both these days were bank holidays. Even the fi rst respondent herein has no case that the additional performance security could have been given on these days. 16. The High Court, in the impugned , noticed the communication of the Branch Manager, Bank of Maharashtra – the appellant’s Bank, which had not disputed the fact that on 15.03.2021 and 16.03.2021 there was a strike of bank employees due to which there was no banking transaction on these days. It was also not disputed at the Bar that there was indeed a bank employees strike of the nationalised banks on those two days. The argument was only that scheduled banks were open and one M/s Sai Aniruddh Construction had submitted the additional performance security for another work, under the same tender notice through a scheduled bank. 17. The appellant countered this point in his reply fi led before the High Court as well as in the grounds before us in the appeal, by stating that the appellant did not maintain any account in any scheduled bank. It was averred that the appellant was maintaining the account with the Bank of Maharashtra. To reinforce their submission, the appellant had also submitted that, in Form-I of the tender document which stated about the basic information of the bidder, the appellant had mentioned the bank name and the address along with the details of its bank account. It was further submitted that the Undertaking IV of the tender booklet had stated that, the bidder had to give undertaking in respect of depositing the earnest money deposit and performance security, through the bank account owned by the bidder. It was averred that as such the appellant could not use any other account to perform the bank transaction. 18. The fact that there was a strike among the employees of the nationalised banks is also not in dispute. It is also not disputed that the account of the appellant was in Bank of Maharashtra and it was that account which was disclosed as part of the basic information, furnished with the tender document. It is also not disputed that the bidders have given an undertaking that earnest money deposit and performance security would be paid through the bank account owned by the bidder. They could not 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. have done it through any other bank. From the records of the Appeal, it is also clear that on a complaint made by the fi rst respondent herein to the Superintending Engineer, the Superintending Engineer had written a letter on 12.04.2021 to the Executive Engineer asking for his comments on the complaint.