G 5. Having regard to the said evidence, which has been also appreciated by the Sessions Court and High Court, there remains no shadow of doubt that the deceased was subjected to the harassment at the instance of the appellants-accused and that the prosecution had successfully brought home the charges levelled against them so far as H 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the offenceunder Section 498A read with Section 34 of IPC was concerned. However, the next question that falls for consideration before this Court is whether the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt the charge levelled against the appellant with regard to the offence punishable under Section 306 read with Section 34 of IPC. B 6. At this juncture, it would be beneficial to reproduce the relevant provision contained in Section 306 IPC pertaining to Abetment of suicide. “306. Abetment of suicide.- If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punishable with imprisonment of either description for a term which may C extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.” 7. What is “Abetment of a thing” has been described in Section 107 which reads as under: - “107. A person abets the doing of a thing, who— First. —Instigates any person to do that thing; or D Secondly. —Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in to the doing of that thing; or E Thirdly. —Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing. Explanation 1. —A person who, by willful misrepresentation, or by willful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or F procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing.” 8. From the bare reading of the said provisions, it clearly transpires that in to convict a person for the offences under Section 306 IPC, the basic constituents of the offence namely where the death was suicidal G and whether there was an abetment on the part of the accused as contemplated in Section 107 IPC have to be established. 9. In M. Mohan Vs. State Represented by the Deputy Superintendent of Police1, this Court has elaborately dealt with the 1 (2011) 3 SCC 626 H KASHIBAI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF KARNATAKA 179 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] provisions contained in Section 306 read with Section 107 IPC, and after A discussing various earlier decisions has observed as under: - “41. This Court in SCC para 20 of Ramesh Kumar [(2001) 9 SCC 618 : 2002 SCC (Cri) 1088] has examined different shades of the meaning of “instigation”. Para 20 reads as under : (SCC p. 629) B “20. Instigation is to goad, urge forward, provoke, incite or encourage to do ‘an act’. To satisfy the requirement of instigation though it is not necessary that actual words must be used to that effect or what constitutes instigation must necessarily and specifically be suggestive of the consequence.