Act. Since there was substantial book profi t of the assessee, net book profi t being Rs.1,11,43,36,230.00, income tax was levied under Section 115 JB of the Act at the rate of 7.5 per cent along with surcharge and interest. 7.1. The return of income fi led by the assessee was processed by the assessing offi cer under Section 143 (1) of the Act. After such processing, certain refund was made to the assessee. Thereafter, the case was selected for scrutiny following which statutory notices under Section 143 (2) and 142 (1) of the Act were issued calling upon the assessee to furnish details for clarifi cation which were complied with by the assessee. During the assessment proceedings, the issue relating to deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act came up for consideration. Assessee had claimed deduction under the said provision of a sum amounting to Rs.80,10,38,505.00. The deduction claimed under Section 80 IA related to profi ts of the power generating units of the assessee. It was noticed that the assessee had shown a substantial amount of profi t in its power generating units. The power generated was used for its own consumption and also supplied to the State Electricity Board in the State of Chhattisgarh and prior to the creation of the State of Chhattisgarh, to the State Electricity Board of the State of Madhya Pradesh. The electricity generated by the assessee in its captive power plants at Raigarh (Chhattisgarh) was primarily used by it for its own consumption in its manufacturing units; while the additional/surplus electricity was supplied to the State Electricity Board. Assessee had entered into an agreement on 15.07.1999 with the State Electricity Board as per which assessee had supplied the surplus electricity to the State Electricity Board at the rate of Rs.2.32 per unit. Thus, for the assessment year under consideration, the assessee was paid at the rate of Rs.2.32 per unit for the surplus electricity supplied to the State Electricity Board. 7.2. It was further noticed by the assessing offi cer that the assessee had supplied power (electricity) to its industrial units for captive consumption at the rate of Rs.3.72 per unit. Assessing offi cer took the view that the assessee had declared infl ated profi ts by showing supply of power at the rate of Rs.3.72 per unit to its sister units i.e., for captive consumption. According to the assessing offi cer, there was no justifi cation to claim electricity charge at the rate of Rs.3.72 per unit for supply to its own industrial units when the assessee was supplying power to the State Electricity Board at the rate COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 491 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] of Rs.2.32 per unit. Assessing offi cer observed that the profi t calculated by the assessee (power generating units) at the rate of Rs.3.72 per unit was not the real profi t; the price per unit was infl ated so that profi t attributable to the power generating units could qualify for deduction from the taxable income under the Act.