Sameer Abhyankar, D. Kumanan, Mrs. Deepa S, Harish Pandey, Ajay Pal, Mayank Dahiya, Ms. Sugandh Rathor, Ms. Madhumita Bhattacharjee, Ms. Urmila Kar Purkayastha, Ms. Srija Choudhury, D. L. Chidananda, Mahfooz Ahsan Nazki, Polanki Gowtham, T Vijaya Bhaskar Reddy, Ms. Rajeswari Mukherjee, K V Girish Chowdary, Sri Harsha Peechara, Duvvuri Subrahmanya Bhanu, Ms. Pallavi, Ms. Kriti Sinha, Rajiv Kumar Choudhry, Dr. Joseph Aristotle S., Nirnimesh Dube, Siddhesh Shirish Kotwal, Tejasvi Gupta, Pawan Upadhyay, Nitin Lonkar, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Sourav Singh, Aditya Krishna, Suvendu Suvasis Dash, Ms. Swati Vaibhav, Ms. Shruti Vaibhav, Priyonkoo Anjan Gogoi, Mrs. Padhmalakshmi Iyengar, Milind Kumar, Vishal Meghwal, Ms. Neha Kapoor, Advs. for the Respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT 1. The petitioner invokes the jurisdiction of this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution seeking directions for the better functioning of the State Information Commissions1 under the Right to Information Act, 2005.2 It is stated that the SICs, along with the Central Information Commission,3 play a pivotal role in the proper implementation of the RTI Act. However, most of the SICs are located in the capital cities of the States and conduct proceedings physically. The petitioner asserts that this imposes prohibitive costs on applicants and appellants, especially those living in the remote areas, as they have to travel long distances to approach the SICs. Such bottlenecks in the functioning of the SICs deprive applicants and appellants from eff ectively exercising their right to information. Therefore, the petitioner urges that the SICs should allow the option of virtual hearings along with physical hearings. 2. The petitioner asserts that it is the legislative intention of Parliament in enacting the RTI Act to provide information to applicants at a reasonable expense. Virtual hearings further this legislative intention as they provide 1 “SIC” 2 “RTI Act” 3 “CIC” KISHAN CHAND JAIN v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 481 access to information to an applicant in a cost-eff ective manner. It has been further asserted that most SICs do not have the facility of online fi ling of RTI appeals and complaints similar to the CIC. Moreover, the petitioner urged that the SICs should adopt a user-friendly digital portal to make the functioning of the SICs more eff ective and productive. 3. On the basis of the averments, the petitioner has sought the reliefs as summarized below: (i) SICs should hear complaints as well as second appeals by giving the option of both, physical and virtual hearing through a digital platform and the State Governments must support the SICs fi nancially and technically to conduct virtual hearings; (ii) SICs must update and have self-contained digital portals with online facilities for: (a) fi ling RTI complaints and appeals; (b) showing the case status of pending/decided matters; (c) uploading daily s and s; (d) uploading cause lists; and (e) uploading annual reports under Section 25 in line with Section 4(2). (iii) SICs must be directed to dispose of the complaints within a fi xed time frame, preferably within four months; (iv) Norms be set up for disposal of a stipulated number of cases per working day by every Information Commissioner; (v) SICs should prepare annual reports on the implementation of the provisions of the 2005 Act and provide them to the State Government under Section 25(1); and (vi) SICs should ensure the imposition and recovery of penalties from erring information offi cers according to Section 20(1).