Even an example has also been given, namely, a Senior Grade Assistant or Assistant Grade-I, if transferred shall be appointed as junior- most Assistant Grade-II. The previous service is not to be counted towards seniority. The only protection given is regarding the pay drawn by such H 860 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A employee. Such higher pay was to be treated as personal pay. The relevant Statute No. 14A of Chapter 4 of Kerala University First Statutes applicable for inter-university transfer is extracted below: “14A. Posting of employees on transfer from other B Universities: The Syndicate may, on request from the employees concerned, sanction, posting of employees on transfer from other Universities in the State subject to the following conditions: (1-2) x x x x x x x x x C (3) A person transferred from another University shall take his rank below the junior-most in the entry grade of the category concerned. (eg. A Senior Grade Assistant or Assistant Grade I if transferred shall be appointed as Junior most Assistant Grade II). D (4-5) x x x x x x x x x (6) The person transferred shall be entitled to protection from drop of emoluments. His pay on such appointment shall be fixed at the minimum of the scale of pay he was drawing in the parent University, is less than minimum. In E case he was drawing under the parent University pay above the minimum and equal to a stage in the scale of pay of the post in this University service, his pay will be fixed at that stage and if the pay he was drawing under his parent University is not a stage in the scale of pay of the post in F this University service, it will be fixed at the next lower stage, the difference being treated as personal pay to be absorbed in future increases of pay.” (emphasis supplied) 9. The issue arose when the transferred employees were promoted G in the transferee University. Their pay was fixed in terms of the normal rule granting higher pay on promotion. Audit objection was raised regarding wrong fixation of pay of the appellants. In the case in hand undisputed fact is that the appellants had already got three promotions before they got themselves transferred to Kerala University. The salary H drawn by them of the higher post was protected. It was more than what SMT. SASIKALA DEVI. P v. THE STATE OF KERALA AND 861 ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] was due to Assistant Grade-I, the post on which they were promoted A even after being placed as Assistant Grade-II at the bottom of the seniority. Any promotion of a transferred employee from Assistant Grade-II to Assistant Grade-I will not entitle her of any benefit of higher scale or even increment, which is applicable to the employees normally promoted for the reason that these special class of employees were already drawing B salary of the higher post which in terms of the policy for inter-university transfer was protected, though they were placed at the bottom of the seniority at the entry level.