It does not extend to search of a vehicle or a container or a bag or premises. (See Kalema Tumba v. State of 340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Maharashtra, State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh and Gurbax Singh v. State of Haryana). The language of Section 50 is implicitly clear that the search has to be in relation to a person as contrasted to search of premises, vehicles or articles. This position was settled beyond doubt by the Constitution Bench in Baldev Singh case. Above being the position, the contention regarding non-compliance with Section 50 of the Act is also without any substance. 12. In the case at hand, the contraband articles were suspected to be hidden in the blue suitcase of the accused, and was not in his physical possession. The suitcase was put on the screening machine. This cannot be equated with a recovery made from the person of the accused by a personal search.” Test of item being inextricably linked to person 76. This Court gave another interpretation, wherein it said that the items such as bags or containers which are “inextricably linked” to the person of the accused should be included within the ambit of Section 50. As a result, a wider meaning was given to the word “person”. 77. In Namdi Francis Nwazor v. Union of India reported in (1998) 8 SCC 534, the luggage of a foreign national was searched on the basis of some information. Nothing incriminating was recovered from the hand bags, but narcotics were recovered from the check-in baggage. Accordingly, he was charged under the NDPS Act. The petitioner therein pleaded that there was non-compliance with Section 50 while searching his baggage. This Court while dismissing the appeal held that as the bag was not in the immediate possession of the accused, there was no requirement to comply with Section 50. However, this Court went on to elaborate that had the contraband been recovered from the handbags, which were on the person of the accused at the time of the search, Section 50 would have to be complied with. The relevant observations made by the three-Judge Bench are as under:- “3. On a plain reading of sub-section (1) of Section 50, it is obvious that it applies to cases of search of any person and not search of any article in the sense that the article is at a distant place from where the off ender is actually searched. This position becomes clear when we RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 341 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] refer to Sub-section (4) of Section 50 which in terms says that no female shall be searched by anyone excepting a female. This would, in eff ect, mean that when the person of the accused is being searched, the law requires that if that person happens to be a female, the search shall be carried out only by a female. Such a restriction would not be necessary for searching the goods of a female which are lying at a distant place at the time of search.