Sub-Section (1) of Section 100 of the Code provides that whenever any place liable to search or inspection is closed, any person residing in, or being in charge of, such place, shall, on demand of the offi cer or other person executing the warrant, and on production of the warrant, allow him free ingress thereto, and aff ord all reasonable facilities for a search therein. Sub- Section (3) provides that where any person in or about such place is reasonably suspected of concealing about his person any article for which search should be made, such person may be searched and if such person is a woman, the search shall be made by another woman with strict regard to decency. Sub-section (7) of Section 100 further provides that when any person is searched under sub-section (3) a list of all things taken possession of shall be prepared and a copy thereof shall be delivered to such person. This would also be clear if we refer to search and seizure, procedure provided under Sections 42 and 43 of the building, conveyance or place. Hence, in our view, Section 50 of the NDPS Act would be applicable only in those cases where the search of the person is carried out.” (Emphasis supplied) 72. In Beckodan Abdul Rahiman v. State of Kerala reported in (2002) 4 SCC 229, the contraband had been recovered from a polythene bag hidden in the folds of the dhoti, which the accused was wearing. The Court 338 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. acquitted the accused as Section 50 was not complied with while searching the accused. It was held as under:- “3. … After referring to a host of s, the Constitution Bench of the Court held that the provisions of Sections 42 and 50 are mandatory and their non- compliance would render the investigation illegal. It was reiterated that severer the punishment, greater the care to be taken to see that all the safeguards provided in the statute are scrupulously followed. The safeguards mentioned in Section 50 are intended to serve a dual purpose ─ to protect the person against false accusation and frivolous charges as also to lend credibility to the search and seizure conducted by the empowered offi cer. If the empowered offi cer fails to comply with the requirements of the Section, the prosecution is to suff er for the consequences. The legitimacy of the judicial process may come under the cloud if the court is seen to condone acts of lawlessness conducted by the investigating agency during search operations and may also undermine respect for the law and may have the eff ect of unconscionably compromising the administration of justice. x x x x 5. … Similarly the provisions of Section 50 have not been complied with as the accused has not been given any option as to whether he wanted to be searched in presence of a gazetted offi cer or the Magistrate. The compliance of Section 50 is held to have been fulfi lled on his (PW 1) asking the accused “whether I should search him in the presence of senior offi cers or gazetted offi cer”.