6.3 It is further submitted that the department’s argument before the High Court was that amendment in Section 158BD vide Finance Act, 2002, introducing the requirement of issuing notice under Section C 158BC to the “other person”, applied even to pending proceedings is erroneous and against the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in the case of Commissioner of Income Tax (Central)-I, New Delhi Vs. Vatika Township Private Limited – 2015 (1) SCC 1 (Para 28), wherein the Constitution Bench has clearly laid down that the D presumption is that every amendment is prospective and the amendment applies from the assessment year in which it is introduced. 6.4 It is further submitted that in any event, consequence of the said argument will be that the entire block assessment (not just levy of interest) would be rendered non-est inasmuch as this Court in the E aforesaid decision has laid down that where a section requires issuance of notice such notice is a jurisdictional pre-requisite and in the absence of such notice, the entire proceedings are liable to be quashed. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Assistant Commissioner of Income Tax and Anr. Vs. Hotel Blue Moon, (2010) 3 SCC 259 (Para 22). It is submitted that in other words if the F amendment applied retrospectively, then issuance of notice under Section 158BC was mandatory even to the “other person” (being the assessee herein) and in the absence thereof the entire block assessment would fail. 6.5 It is submitted that even the submission on behalf of department G that issuance of notice under Section 158BC is a mere formality and that no notice under Section 158BC is required to be issued to “other person” even after the amendment to Section 158BD vide Finance Act, 2002, is concerned, it is submitted that the said submission is also erroneous for the following reasons : H K.L. SWAMY v. THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX & 699 ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] “(i) The said argument goes against the specific mandatory A language of section 158BD as it stands now namely. “…..and that Assessing Officer shall proceed [under section 158BC] against such other person …….” {As submitted above, in view of the of this Hon’ble Court in Hotel Blue Moon, the issuance of a notice under the B specified section, would be a jurisdictional pre-requisite, and hence the entire block assessments would be rendered non- est.} (ii) Furthermore, the argument renders otiose the specific amendment in section 158BD adding the words “under Section C 158BC” vide Finance Act, 2002. If the Department’s contention is correct then this amendment was unnecessary. (iii) In any event, this argument does not answer the contention of the assessee that section 158BFA on a plain reading, applies only where a return “as required by a notice under clause (a) D of section 158BC” has not been furnished within time. In the present case we are concerned with the limited issue of levy of interest under section 158BFA.