6. In the trial court as well as before the High Court, the defence of the appellant was that he is not at all guilty of burning his wife. She had the suicidal tendency and had tried to immolate herself on one earlier occasion and had once even tried to cut her veins. She herself had poured kerosene upon herself and set herself on fi re. The appellant had simply tried to douse the fi re by pouring water from the bucket. 7. The defence so set up by the appellant was not accepted by either of the courts below in view of the overwhelming evidence on record regarding their frequent quarrel and the harassment meted out to the deceased wife. The ocular evidence of the witnesses clearly proved that on the date of the incident, there was again a quarrel between both of them though on a petty matter but the deceased wife, in to avoid torture at the hands of the appellant and to deter him, went inside the kitchen and poured kerosene on herself. Thereafter, the appellant took advantage of the situation and set her on fi re. 8. We had heard the learned counsel for the parties. 9. Learned counsel for the appellant had argued that the appellant had no premeditated mind to kill the deceased wife and that he had no intention even to kill her. Therefore, the provisions of Section 302 IPC are not applicable and at best he can be charged under Section 304 Part-II of IPC. 10. The above submission has been strongly opposed on the ground that the appellant had burnt the deceased wife with a matchstick fully knowing that she was drenched in kerosene oil and that lightning of matchstick and throwing it upon her would certainly cause her death. 11. In the case at hand, admittedly, there are multiple dying declarations on record. The fi rst dying declaration is in the form of the statement Ext.P1. This statement of the deceased wife before her death was made before the Judicial First Class Magistrate, Ernakulam, i.e. PW5. The said statement clearly reveals the cause and circumstances of the death of the deceased wife. ANIL KUMAR v. THE STATE OF KERALA 177 [PANKAJ MITHAL, J.] 12. The other statement which can be read as a dying declaration is Ext.P10 recorded by PW16, Head Constable, Kuruppampady Police at General hospital, Ernakulam, wherein also the deceased wife repeated the same narration as in Ext.P1 in relation to the incident of her death. 13. Both the above statements, if read together, would reveal that on the fateful day, the appellant had assaulted the deceased wife under the infl uence of alcohol. He even struck a blow on her chest and pushed her. At the time of the said incident, the children were playing in the courtyard. When the assault of the appellant became unbearable, she took the cane of kerosene from kitchen and poured it on her body whereupon her husband lighted a matchstick and burnt her.