And, over a 4-month period when the entire sample was surveyed, the impact of demonetization reduced to a loss of about 3 million jobs. He submits that an article in the Indian Express dated 17th January 2017 based on a study conducted by the All India Manufacturers’ Organisation (AIMO), indicated that the manufacturing sector suffered from considerable job loss post-demonetization. H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 47 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 50. Learned Senior Counsel also submits that in the absence of a A specific study with regard to the effect of demonetization on the Indian economy, the decision of the Central Government for demonetizing about 86.4% of the total currency in circulation will have to be held to be vitiated on account of manifest arbitrariness. It is submitted that the impugned notification is also liable to be set aside applying the test of B proportionality. Applying the classical equality test, he submits that it will have to be held that the decision of demonetization had no nexus to the objectives to be achieved. Learned Senior Counsel relies on the of theConstitution Bench of this Court in the case of K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and another (Aadhaar) (supra) in this regard. 51. Shri Divan lastly submits that the right to life also includes the C right to live with dignity. Relying on the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India13, he submits that the right to live with dignity also includes the right to travel abroad, especially to visit the son of the petitioner/applicant in the USA. He, therefore, submits that when the applicant/petitioner had gone to the D USA to visit his son during the period wherein the currency notes could have been exchanged, he will be deprived of his right under Article 21 of the Constitution of India if he is not granted an opportunity now to exchange the demonetized notes with the new notes. IV. SUBMISSIONS OF UNION OF INDIA E 52. Shri R. Venkataramani, learned Attorney General (“A.G.” for short), at the outset, submits that the action taken vide the impugned notification stands ratified by the 2017 Act. It is, therefore, submitted that with the executive action being validated by the will of Parliament, the challenge to the same would not survive. 53. The learned A.G. submits that the word “any” appearing before F the words “series of bank notes” in sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act should be construed as “all”. Learned A.G. relies on the following s of this Court in support of his submission that the word “any” will have to be construed to be “all”. (i) The Chief Inspector of Mines and another v. Lala Karam G Chand Thapar etc.14 (ii) Banwarilal Agarawalla v. The State of Bihar and others15 13 (1978) 2 SCR 621 14 (1962) 1 SCR 9 15 (1962) 1 SCR 33 H 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A (iii) Tej Kiran Jain and others v. N. Sanjiva Reddy and others16 (iv) Lucknow Development Authority v. M.K.