The NTPC has adopted a transparent procedure by holding a written examination and has amended the rules also and this Court does not find any fault with the decision taken by the NTPC in setting aside the E Notification dated 15.05.2015 and by issuing a fresh Notification on 12.03.2017. Even if it is assumed that the NTPC has earlier held the process of interview, the process of recruitment was not finalised and no appointments were made by the NTPC pursuant to the advertisement dated 15.05.2015 and it is a well settled proposition of law that inclusion in the selection list does not confer F a right upon an individual for appointment. The reasons for cancelling the earlier advertisement dated 15.05.2015 are cogent and valid reasons and as the NTPC is now adopting a transparent process, the impugned passed by the learned Single Judge is set aside. The NTPC is directed to conclude G the entire process of subject recruitment within a period of two months from today issue consequential appointment s. With the aforesaid, the writ appeals stand allowed. The miscellaneous applications pending, if any, shall stand closed. There shall be no as to costs.” H 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Learned Solicitor General submitted that having regard to the directions issued by the High Court to conclude the entire process of recruitment within a period of two months from that day and to make the consequential appointment s, the process of appointment was taken forward, the select list has also been made. However, the appointment s have only been provisionally issued in view of the B Contempt Petition initiated by the respondents herein. He submitted that this is a case where this Court may interfere in the matter and pass an appropriate . 12. Learned counsel Mr. Arun K. Sinha submitted that the reasons C as to why the respondents were constrained to file the Contempt Petition was on account of the fact that the respondents were the land oustees who are entitled to be considered for appointment and in fact their names were earlier found in the select list of 2015. However, no appointments were made and therefore they were constrained to file the Contempt Petition. He, however, submitted that the reasons for not accepting the D unconditional apology tendered by the appellants herein by the High Court may be considered and appropriate s may be made in the Contempt Petition. He further submitted that the appellants may be directed to consider the case of the respondents herein for appointment in the appellants’ company. E 13. On perusal of the dated 17.12.2021, it does not emerge that it barred the appellants from issuing a fresh notification so as to complete the process of recruitment. The said only directed that the process of recruitment be completed within a period of two months and appointment s be issued to the successful candidates. Whether the recruitment was to be concluded in pursuance of the F notification of 2017, or by way of issuing a fresh notification, was not specified in the said and therefore, in our view, this aspect of the matter was left to the discretion of the appellants.