The appellant stated that in accordance with Clause 5.9 of the PPA, the fi rst respondent failed to obtain the appellant’s approval before entering into the GSA/GTA with GAIL. As such, the declaration of capacity on RLNG was stated to be unilateral and arbitrary and in violation 9 “GSA”/”GTA”. 10 “RLNG” 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of the terms of Clause 5.9 of the PPA which mandated prior approval from the appellant. Therefore, the appellant stated, that it stood absolved of the liability to pay capacity charges in accordance with the PPA. Letters were exchanged between the appellant and the fi rst respondent from 17 December 2011 to 01 March 2012. 10. In to resolve the above issue of non-payment of fi xed charges, the fi rst respondent fi led a petition under Section 79 of the Electricity Act 2003 seeking the resolution of the issue of shortfall of domestic gas, the reservations of the benefi ciaries to allow it to enter into alternate contractual arrangements for fuel i.e. RLNG. The petition additionally sought the revision of the NAPAF and directions to the benefi ciaries to pay outstanding fi xed charges. CERC DATED 30 JULY 2023 AND APTEL JUDGEMENT AND FINAL DATED 22 APRIL 2015. 11. CERC allowed the above petition and held the appellant liable to pay fi xed capacity charges under the PPA. It held that (i) Clause 4.3 of the PPA permits the use of LNG/Natural gas or RLNG as a ‘primary fuel’; (ii) the fi rst respondent is permitted to use even liquid gas, albeit with the consent of the appellant; (iii) the terms of the PPA do not injunct the fi rst respondent from declaring capacity based on RLNG; (iv) the benefi ciaries have the option to dispatch or refuse to dispatch the capacity on natural gas, RLNG, or liquid fuel; (v) in the event they choose to refuse the dispatch, they cannot repudiate the liability to pay fi xed charges citing the transmission company’s failure to obtain approval; (vi) such consent or approval is not necessary for declaring capacity based on the contractually designated primary fuels, including RLNG; (vii) the requirement of seeking the appellant’s approval under Clause 5.9 is not a mandatory pre-requisite for making capacity declarations under Clause 4.3; (viii) the fi xed tariff s are payable on declared capacity; (ix) since the fi rst respondent was unable to obtain domestic gas due to a country-wide shortage, they made arrangements for RLNG; (x) the appellant’s decision to not schedule the supply based on RLNG has a bearing on variable charges and not on the fi xed charges; and (xi) the appellant was thus liable to pay the fi xed charges based on capacity declarations made on RLNG by the fi rst respondent. MSEDCL. v. RATNAGIRI GAS AND POWER PVT. LTD. 767 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 12. APTEL upheld the above in the following terms: a. The need to obtain the consent of the distribution licensee arises only when the power generation company makes arrangements based on liquid gas.