Neither Section 14 nor Section 31 of the IBC can produce such a result. The binding effect contemplated by Section 31 of the IBC is in respect of the assets and management of the corporate debtor. No clause in the resolution plan even if accepted by the adjudicating authority/appellate tribunal can take away the power and jurisdiction of the criminal court to conduct and G dispose of the proceedings before it in accordance with the provisions of the CrPC. 49. It is true that by virtue of Section 238 of the IBC, the provisions of the CrPC shall have effect notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or any H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1031 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] instrument having effect by virtue of any such law. But, no provision of A the IBC bars the continuation of the criminal prosecution initiated against the directors and officials. 50. It is equally true that once the corporate debtor comes under the resolution process, its erstwhile managing director(s) cannot continue to represent the company. Section 305(2) of the CrPC states that where B a corporation is the accused person or one of the accused persons in an inquiry or trial, it may appoint a representative for the purpose of the inquiry or trial and such appointment need not be under the seal of the corporation. Therefore, it is only the Resolution Professional who can represent the accused company during the pendency of the proceedings C under IBC. After the proceedings are over, either the corporate entity may be dissolved or it can be taken over by a new management in which event the company will continue to exist. When a new management takes over, it will have to make arrangements for representing the company. If the company is dissolved as a result of the resolution process, obviously proceedings against it will have to be terminated. But even D then, its erstwhile directors may not be able to take advantage of the situation. This is because, this Court in Aneeta Hada(supra), even while overruling its decision in Anil Hada v. Indian Acrylic Ltd. reported in (2000) 1 SCC 1, as not laying down the correct law in so far as Anil Hada (supra) states that the director or any other officer can be E prosecuted without impleadment of the company, proceeded to hold that the matter would stand on a different footing where there is some legal impediment as the doctrine of lex non cogit ad impossibilia gets attracted. It was specifically observed that the decision in Anil Hada (supra) is overruled with the qualifier as stated in para 51. Considering the same, the ratio of the decision of this Court in Ajit Balse F (supra) upon which strong reliance is placed on behalf of the appellant is of no avail. 51. What follows from the aforesaid is that for difficulty in prosecuting the corporate debtor under Section 138 of the NI Act after the approval of the resolution plan under the IBC, we need not let the G natural persons i.e., the signatories to the cheques/directors of the corporate debtor escape prosecution.