B xxiv) It is submitted that in Pasupuleti Venkateswarlu v. Motor & General Traders, (1975) 1 SCC 770, this Court held that a proceeding may not be maintainable by reasons of a post filing event. This Court observed “If a fact, arising after the lis has come to court and has a fundamental impact on the right to relief C for the manner of moulding it, is brought diligently to the notice of the tribunal, it cannot blink at it or be blind to events which stultify or render inept the decrotal remedy.” xxv) It is submitted that in the present case although BSR resigned after the filing of the 140(5) petition, the resignation rendered the D petition infructuous since the reliefs sought for could no longer be granted under Section 140(5) and indeed the purpose underlying Section 140(5) stood accomplished by such resignation. xxvi) It is submitted that reading in an implied prohibition against an auditor from resigning after the commencement of proceedings E under Section 140(5) would be contrary to the plain language of the section and would require it to be re-written. Such an implied provision would also be contrary to the object of Section 140(5) as it would mean that the provision ensures that an auditor against whom allegations of fraud have: been made continues as auditor and is not permitted to resign. This would lead to an anomalous F situation of compelling the continuance of an auditor, despite him having committed a fraud until the NCLT passes a final or an interim under the first proviso to Section 140(5). xxvii) It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners that Section 140(5) is G excessive and manifestly arbitrary as it provides unguided and untrammelled powers to NCLT and that too in a summary proceeding, for determination of a serious offence of fraud and consequence of mandatory disqualification with grave consequences akin to civil death. It is submitted that the penalty H in the form of automatic disqualification of auditors and of the UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 997 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] entire firm including partners who may be entirely unconnected A and innocent for a pre- determined period envisaged under Section 140(5) is highly disproportionate and not the least invasive method. It is submitted that Section 140(5) creates an automatic penalty of disqualification, upon summary adjudication, when such a penalty has already been provided for under section 141(3)(h) of B the Act after following due process of trial under Sections 435 to 446 of the Act. The same results in contravention of the principles of double jeopardy and violation of Article 20(2) of the Constitution. It is submitted that disqualification akin to “civil death” under Section 140(5) impinges upon BSR and its partners’ fundamental right to carry on its profession, as guaranteed under Article 19(1)(g) C of the Constitution. The same, being unreasonable, does not fall within the protection of Article 19(6) of the Constitution of India.