Even partisanship by itself is not a valid ground for discrediting or rejecting sworn testimony. It cannot be laid down as an invariable rule that interested evidence can only form the basis of conviction if corroborated to a material extent in material particulars by independent evidence. All that is necessary is that the evidence of interested witnesses should be subjected to careful scrutiny and accepted with caution. Suppose on such scrutiny, the interested testimony is found to be intrinsically reliable or inherently probable. In that case, it may, by itself, be suffi cient, in the circumstances of the particular case, to base a conviction thereon. 25. Further, in Pulicherla Nagaraju alias Nagaraja Reddy v. State of Andhra Pradesh22, while dealing with the liability of interested witnesses who are relatives, a two-judge Bench observed that it is well settled that evidence of a witness cannot be discarded merely on the ground that he is either partisan or interested or close relative to the deceased if it is otherwise found to be trustworthy and credible. The said evidence 21 (1981)3 SCC 675(3-Judge Bench) 22 (2006) 11 SCC 444 (2-Judge Bench) 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. only requires scrutiny with more care and caution so that neither the guilty escapes nor the innocent is wrongly convicted. If, on such careful scrutiny, the evidence is found to be reliable and probable, then it can be acted upon. If it is found to be improbable or suspicious, it ought to be rejected. Where the witness has a motive to falsely implicate the convict- appellant, his testimony should have corroboration regarding material particulars before it is accepted. 26. DD-IV is the statement of the mother (who is not a resident of Delhi and would have only reached Delhi upon being informed of such an incident) wherein the deceased had disclosed specifi c facts about the occurrence to her mother. When making the declaration, there is nothing on record to indicate a) further deterioration in condition and b) non- availability of a third party, such as a doctor before whom such a statement could be recorded. The Convict-appellant has assailed the statement’s veracity on the ground that, being the mother of the deceased, PW5 is an interested witness. The general rule for appreciation of evidence rendered by an interested witness is that the same should be corroborated by other independent evidence. Considering the nature of the statement made by the deceased to the mother, independent corroboration is diffi cult. Keeping in view the two factors enumerated above and the lack of independent corroboration, particularly when the person making the statement is the mother of the deceased, the court cannot rule out, to a positive degree, the role played by a sense of loss and possibly even anger, to rely on such statement. Had there been some sort of corroboration with other persons being present, the same could have been relied on. However, in the absence thereof, reliance on the same would prejudice the convict-appellant, and therefore, the same cannot be justifi ed.