Some of the clauses contained in the second deed of Power of Attorney empowering appellant No.2 to seek additional TDR read as follows:- D “2. To apply for getting the permission from the authorized department of the Corporation for the construction of the Recreation Ground in accordance to the plans/specifications as approved by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay. 4. To carry out, from time to time, construction of the E Recreation Ground or such other construction/development as may be required by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay in phase/phases, in terms of the plans approved by the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay. 11. To appoint, from time to time, architects, engineers, F surveyors, contractors, R.C.C. Consultants and other professionals, designers and other persons for preparing the plans for construction of the Recreation Ground and sign and submit any and all such plans, designs and specifications with or without applications as the occasion may require to G the Competent Authorities, Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay and all other appropriate authorities like the Maharashtra State Electricity Board and Aviation Authorities, etc., for approval. 17. To apply for and obtain from time to time , the amenity Transferable Development Rights/ Development Right Certificate H of the Recreation Ground so constructed, and to submit the GODREJ AND BOYCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY LTD. THR. ITS 83 CONSTITUTED ATTORNEY v. THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER MUMBAI [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Development Right Certificate so issued for the amenity TDRs/ A DRC to the Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay, for transferring and/or endorsement of the same in the name of our Attorneys and /or in the name of such nominee/nominees and/or such person/persons as our Attorneys may decide for an area amounting to 2,710 square metres equivalent to 29,170.175 sq.ft.” B 41.To be precise, all activities undertaken by appellant No.1 through their Architects till the handing over of possession of the land were not towards the development of amenity and for the grant of Additional TDR. All those works were undertaken as part of the effort to make the Corporation accept the surrender of land and to grant TDR. C 42.It is only after the entry of Mayfair Housing into the picture, first with a letter of request dated 20.11.1996 to the Corporation to develop and maintain the Recreation Ground and then with the execution of the Power of Attorney by appellant No.1 on 24.12.1996 that the idea of developing an amenity and seeking additional TDR had cropped up. D But unfortunately, the Corporation made it clear to Mayfair Housing represented by appellant No.2 herein that he will not be entitled to Additional TDR, for the development of Recreation Ground. In the letter dated 23.01.1998 it was made clear to Mayfair Housing that no TDR will be given to them. E 43. It is relevant to point out here that when Mayfair Housing sent a letter dated 20.11.1996 to the Corporation seeking permission to develop and maintain the RG, they had nothing to do with the surrendered land.