The observations made by this Court in Panchu Gopal (supra) in paras 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 respectively, are also relevant. The observations read as under: F “10. In West Riding of Yorkshire County Council v. Huddersfield Corpn. [(1957) 1 All ER 669] the Queen’s Bench Division, Lord Goddard, C.J. (as he then was) held that the Limitation Act applies to arbitrations as it applies to actions in the High Court and the making, after a claim G has become statute-barred, of a submission of it to arbitration, does not prevent the statute of limitation being pleaded. Russel on Arbitration, 19th Edn., reiterates the above proposition. At page 4 it was further stated that the parties to an arbitration agreement may provide therein, if they wish, that an arbitration must be commenced within a shorter period than that allowed H M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 639 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] by statute; but the court then has power to enlarge the time so A agreed. The period of limitation for commencing an arbitration runs from the date on which the cause of arbitration accrued, that is to say, from the date when the claimant first acquired either a right of action or a right to require that an arbitration takes place upon the dispute concerned. B 11. Therefore, the period of limitation for the commencement of an arbitration runs from the date on which, had there been no arbitration clause, the cause of action would have accrued. Just as in the case of actions the claim is not to be brought after the expiration of a specified number of years C from the date on which the cause of action accrued, so in the case of arbitrations, the claim is not to be put forward after the expiration of the specified number of years from the date when the claim accrued. 12. In Russell on Arbitration, at pages 72 and 73 it is stated D thus: “Disputes under a contract may also be removed, in effect, from the jurisdiction of the court, by including an arbitration clause in the contract, providing that any arbitration under it must be commenced within a certain time or not at all, and E going on to provide that if an arbitration is not so commenced the claim concerned shall be barred. Such provisions are not necessarily found together. Thus the contract may limit the time for arbitration without barring the claim depriving a party who is out of time of his right to claim arbitration but leaving open a right of action in the courts. Or it may make F compliance with a time-limit a condition of any claim without limiting the operation of the arbitration clause, leaving a party who is out of time with the right to claim arbitration but so that it is a defence in the arbitration that the claim is out of time and barred. Nor, since the provisions concerned are G essentially separate, is there anything to prevent the party relying on the limitation clause waiving his objection to arbitration whilst still relying on the clause as barring the claim.” At page 80 it is stated thus: H 640 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.