9. It would thus be misconceived to claim that non-heterosexual unions are only a facet of the modern social milieu. The objective of penning down this section is to provide perspective on the existence of 4 Ruth Vanita and Saleem Kidwai, Same-sex love in India: Readings from Literature & History (Palgrave, 2001), p. 15. 5 Ruth Vanita and Saleem Kidwai (Supra), p. 68. 6 Devdutt Pattnaik, The Man who was a Woman & Other Queer Tales (Routledge, 2002). 7 Ruth Vanita and Saleem Kidwai (supra), p. 115. 8 Manjari Shrivastava, Lesbianism in Nineteenth Century Erotic Urdu Poetry “Rekhti”, Proceedings of the Indian History Congress, 68, 965. 9 Stephanie Coontz, Marriage, a History: How Love Conquered Marriage (Penguin, 2005), p. 3-5. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1423 UNION OF INDIA [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] non-heterosexual unions, despite continued eff orts towards their erasure by the heteronormative majority. 10. Non-heterosexual unions are entitled to protection under our Constitutional schema. In Maqbool Fida Husain, I had observed: “Our Constitution by way of Article 19(1) which provides for freedom of thought and expression underpins a free and harmonious society. It helps to cultivate the virtue of tolerance. It is said that the freedom of speech is the matrix, the indispensable condition of nearly every other form of freedom. It is the wellspring of civilization and without it liberty of thought would shrivel.”10 The necessity of recognizing civil unions 11. The of the Hon’ble Chief Justice notes that the right to form unions is a feature of Articles 19 and 21 of the Constitution. Therefore, the principle of equality enumerated under Articles 14 and 15 demands that this right be available to all, regardless of sexual orientation and gender. Having recognized this right, this Court has taken on board the statement of the Learned Solicitor General to constitute a Committee to set out the scope of benefi ts available to such unions. I agree with the Hon’ble Chief Justice. 12. The Petitioners’ submissions demand that the Special Marriage Act, 187211 be tested on the touchstone of Part III of the Constitution, i.e., whether they are discriminatory on the basis of sex and thus violative of Articles 14 and 15 of the Constitution. It is now settled law that Article 14 contemplates a two-pronged test: (i) whether the classifi cation made by the SMA is based on intelligible diff erentia; and (ii) whether the classifi cation has a reasonable nexus to the objective sought to be achieved by the State.12 The fi rst prong, i.e., intelligible diff erentia implies that the diff erentia should be clear and not vague. Section 4 of the SMA is clear in so far as it contemplates a marriage between a male who has completed the age of twenty-one years and a female at the age of eighteen years. In defi ning the degrees of prohibited relationships, Section 2(b) of the SMA exclusively applies to a relationship between a man and a woman. Thus, by explicitly referring to marriage in heterosexual relationships, the SMA by implication 10 Maqbool Fida Husain (supra).