In appropriate cases, the courts may grant a direction requiring the authority to follow the promised procedure or established practice.” Substantive Legitimate Expectation 19.An expectation entertained by a person may not be found to be legitimate due to the existence of some countervailing consideration of policy or law. [ H.W.R. Wade & C.F. Forsyth, Administrative Law (Eleventh Edn., Oxford University Press, 2014).] Administrative policies may change with changing circumstances, including changes in the political complexion of Governments. The liberty to make such changes is something that is inherent in our constitutional form of Government. [Hughes v. Department of Health and Social Security, 1985 AC 776, 788 : (1985) 2 WLR 866 (HL)] 20.The decision-makers’ freedom to change the policy in public interest cannot be fettered by applying the principle of substantive legitimate expectation. [Findlay, In re, 1985 AC 318 : (1984) 3 WLR 1159 : (1984) 3 All ER 801 (HL)] So long as the Government does not act in an arbitrary or in an unreasonable manner, the change in policy does not call for interference by judicial review on the ground of a THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. v. 17 SHARWAN KUMAR KUMAWAT ETC. ETC [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] legitimate expectation of an individual or a group of individuals being defeated.” (emphasis supplied) Legal Malice 21.Though it is contended by the learned Advocates appearing for the Respondents that the impugned Rules have been brought forth only to nullify the eff ect of the s, as discussed, we do not think so. The Appellants have duly complied with the s passed. Even otherwise, law is quite settled that basisof a can be removed and a decision of the court cannot be treated like a statute, particularly when power is available to act and it is accordingly exercised in public interest. In such view of the matter, we do not fi nd any legal malice in the amendments.We wish to quote Kalabharati Advertising v. Hemant Vimalnath Narichania, (2010) 9 SCC 437, “Legal malice 25. The State is under obligation to act fairly without ill will or malice— in fact or in law. “Legal malice” or “malice in law” means something done without lawful excuse. It is an act done wrongfully and wilfully without reasonable or probable cause, and not necessarily an act done from ill feeling and spite. It is a deliberate act in disregard to the rights of others. Where malice is attributed to the State, it can never be a case of personal ill will or spite on the part of the State. It is an act which is taken with an oblique or indirect object. It means exercise of statutory power for “purposes foreign to those for which it is in law intended”. It means conscious violation of the law to the prejudice of another, a depraved inclination on the part of the authority to disregard the rights of others, which intent is manifested by its injurious acts. (Vide ADM, Jabalpur v. Shivakant Shukla [(1976) 2 SCC 521 : AIR 1976 SC 1207] , S.R.