For example, the power to abolish or create a Legislative Council in a State is conferred on Parliament under Article 169 as such a law has national consequences, such as for the election of the President. However, it is also a power that would directly impact the constitutional governance within the concerned State. Thus, despite Parliament and the Rajya Sabha possessing Members from the concerned State, the Constitution provides an extra layer of federal representation to the State. Article 169 states that no law for the creation of a Legislative Council in a State can be passed by Parliament without the Legislative Assembly of the State fi rst passing a resolution by a 2/3rds majority. This ensures that the constitutional governance of the State cannot be overridden by national considerations. 221. A few of the constitutional (or non-law making) powers held by the Legislature of the State are: (a) the power of the State legislatures to ratify an amendment199; (b) election of the President by elected members of the Legislative Assemblies of the State200; (c) election of the representatives of each State to the Rajya Sabha by the elected members of the Legislative Assembly of the State201; and (e) the Houses of Legislatures in two or more States passing a resolution to the eff ect that Parliament must legislate upon certain matters in those states, matters it otherwise does not have the power to legislate upon202. 222. As we have noted above, Article 356(1)(b) does not make a distinction between legislative and constitutional powers. Clause (b) of 199 First proviso to Article 368(2) 200 Article 54 201 Article 80(4) 202 Article 252 136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Article 356(1) unlike clause (a) of Article 356(1) also does not make a distinction between “all or any” powers. Clause (b) states that the President shall by a Proclamation make a declaration that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament. 223. Article 357 provides the scope of the power which can be exercised by Parliament upon a declaration being made under Article 356(1) (b). Article 357(1) is extracted below: “357. Exercise of legislative powers under Proclamation issued under Article 356 (1) Where by a Proclamation issued under clause ( 1 ) of Article 356, it has been declared that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament, it shall be competent: (a) for Parliament to confer on the President the power of the Legislature of the State to make laws, and to authorise the President to delegate, subject to such conditions as he may think fi t to impose, the power so conferred to any other authority to be specifi ed by him in that behalf; (b) for Parliament, or for the President or other authority in whom such power to make laws is vested under sub clause (a), to make laws conferring powers and imposing duties, or authorising the conferring of powers and the imposition of duties, upon the Union or offi cers and authorities thereof; (c) for the President to authorise when the House of the People is not in session expenditure from the Consolidated Fund of the State pending the sanction of such expenditure by Parliament.” 224.