This may be followed up by another dying declaration which is diametrically opposed to the fi rst dying declaration. In fact, in that scenario, it may not be a question of an inconsistent dying declaration buta dying declaration which is completely opposed to the dying declaration which is given earlier. There may be more than two.” 15 (2019) 8 SCC 779 (2-Judge Bench) 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 8.7. In Uttam v. State of Maharashtra,16 this court observed: “15. In cases involving multiple dying declarations made by the deceased, the question that arises for consideration is as to which of the said dying declarations ought to be believed by the court and what would be the guiding factors for arriving at a just and lawful conclusion. The problem becomes all the more knotty when the dying declarations made by the deceased are found to be contradictory. Faced with such a situation, the court would be expected to carefully scrutinise the evidence to fi nd out as to which of the dying declarations can be corroborated by other material evidence produced by the prosecution. Of equal signifi cance is the condition of the deceased at the relevant point in time, the medical evidence brought on record that would indicate the physical and mental fi tness of the deceased, the scope of the close relatives/family members having infl uenced/tutored the deceased and all the other attendant circumstances that would help the court in exercise of its discretion.” 9. Having considered various pronouncements of this court, the following principles emerge, for a Court to consider when dealing with a case involving multiple dying declarations: 9.1 The primary requirement for all dying declarations is that they should be voluntary and reliable and that such statements should be in a fi t state of mind; 9.2 All dying declarations should be consistent. In other words, inconsistencies between such statements should be ‘material’ for its credibility to be shaken; 9.3 When inconsistencies are found between various dying declarations, other evidence available on record may be considered for the purposes of corroboration of the contents of dying declarations. 16 (2022) 8 SCC 576 (2-Judge Bench) ABHISHEK SHARMA v. STATE (GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI) 903 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 9.4 The statement treated as a dying declaration must be interpreted in light of surrounding facts and circumstances. 9.5 Each declaration must be scrutinized on its own merits. The court has to examine upon which of the statements reliance can be placed in for the case to proceed further. 9.6 When there are inconsistencies, the statement that has been recorded by a Magistrate or like higher offi cer can be relied on, subject to the indispensable qualities of truthfulness and being free of suspicion. 9.7 In the presence of inconsistencies, the medical fi tness of the person making such declaration, at the relevant time, assumes importance along with other factors such as the possibility of tutoring by relatives, etc. 10. We must also notice certain s of this court where the extent of burn injuries sustained by the deceased was considered.