Noticing the uncertainty about the prospect, however, it was and to allay the F apprehensions voiced by both Professor Saxena and Pandit Kunzru, that Article 324(2), as it presently obtains, came to be proposed by way of the amendment to the amendment of the original Article. In other words, before the words ‘be made by the President’, the words ‘subject to provisions of any law made in this behalf by Parliament’. came to be inserted. G 32. We understand the historical perspective, and the deliberations of the Fundamental Rights Sub-Committee, the Drafting Committee and the other Sub-Committees and, finally, of the Constituent Assembly itself, to be as follows: H A golden thread runs through these proceedings. ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 55 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] All the Members were of the clear view that election must be A conducted by an independent Commission. It was a radical departure from the regime prevailing under the Government of India Act, 1935. The Members very well understood that providing for appointment of Members of the Election Commission by the President would mean that the President would be bound to appoint the Election Commissioner solely B on the advice of the Executive, which, in a sense, was understood as on the advice of the Prime Minister. The model of appointment prevailing in the United States was deliberated and not approved. Though, Shri K. M. Munshi was not in favour of giving complete independence to the Election Commission and felt that it should be an ally of the Government, it clearly did not represent the views of the predominant majority of the C Members. Right to Vote was, to begin with, considered so sacrosanct that it was originally contemplated as a Fundamental Right. However, finally, as we have already noticed, it was found more appropriate that it should be contained in a separate part of the Constitution, which is the position obtaining under the Constitution. It is equally clear that the D Members of the Committees, including the Constituent Assembly, wanted the appointment to the Election Commission not to be made by the Executive. The uncertain prospect of an instrument of instructions, finally led the Assembly to adopt the amendment suggested by Dr. Ambedkar, which, as we have noticed, was initially the suggestion made by Pandit Kunzru, and what is more, even seconded by Shri K. M. Munshi. In E short, what the Founding Fathers clearly contemplated and intended was, that Parliament would step-in and provide norms, which would govern the appointment to such a uniquely important post as the post of Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners. In this regard, we notice the final words of Dr. Ambedkar in regard to the debate F surrounding Article 324, was that he felt sorry that he did not have time to circulate the amendments. 33. It is important that we understand that when the Founding Fathers, therefore, inserted the words ‘subject to the provisions of any law to be made by Parliament’, it was intended that Parliament would G make a law.