41. In Jai Singh vs. Shakuntala19, this Court noted the statutory presumption envisaged by Section 16 of the Act of 1956 and observed that though the legislature had used ‘shall’ instead of any other word of lesser signifi cance, the inclusion of the words ‘unless and until it is disproved’ appearing at the end of the statutory provision makes the situation not that rigid but fl exible enough to depend upon the evidence available on record in support of the adoption. This Court further noted that it is a matter of grave signifi cance by reason of the factum of adoption and displacement of the person adopted from the natural succession - thus onus of proof is rather heavy. This Court held that the statute allowed some amount of fl exibility, lest it turns out to be solely dependent on a registered adoption deed. The reason for inclusion of the words ‘unless and until it is disproved’, per this Court, have to be ascertained in proper perspective and as such, the presumption cannot but be said to be a rebuttable presumption. This Court further held that the registered instrument of adoption presumably stands out to be taken to be correct but the Court is not precluded from looking into it upon production of some evidence contra the adoption and the Court can always look into such evidence. This Court further noted the mandate of Section 11 (vi) of the Act of 1956 and held that the ‘give and take in adoption’ is a requirement which stands as a sine qua non for a valid adoption. 18 AIR 1931 Privy Council 81 19 (2002) 3 SCC 634 666 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 42. In Mst. Deu and others vs. Laxmi Narayan and others20, this Court observed that in view of Section 16 of the Act of 1956, whenever any document registered under law is produced before the Court purporting to record an adoption made and is signed by the persons mentioned therein, the Court should presume that the adoption has been made in compliance with the provisions of the said statute, unless and until it is disproved. It was further held that in view of Section 16 of the Act of 1956, it is open to the persons who challenge the registered deed of adoption to disprove the same by taking independent proceedings. 43. In Lakshman Singh Kothari vs. Rup Kanwar (Smt) alias Rup Kanwar Bai21, having referred to texts on Hindu Law, this Court observed: ‘10. The law may be briefl y stated thus: Under the Hindu law, whether among the regenerate caste or among Sudras, there cannot be a valid adoption unless the adoptive boy is transferred from one family to another and that can be done only by the ceremony of giving and taking. The object of the corporeal giving and receiving in adoption is obviously to secure due publicity. To achieve this object, it is essential to have a formal ceremony. No particular form is prescribed for the ceremony, but the law requires that the natural parent shall hand over the adoptive boy and the adoptive parent shall receive him.