8. The appellant did not place any document on record by way of the treatment summary or medical certificate of his wife to demonstrate E that she was seriously ill and required his presence for constant treatment. Instead, a bald statement was made by him during the Summary of Evidence to the effect that he had remained absent without leave on account of his wife’s ill health. Moreover, the appellant failed to cross- examine any of the prosecution witnesses produced by the respondents F during the Summary of Evidence conducted on 12th July, 1999. It is noteworthy that during the course of the SCM conducted on 24th August, 1999, after the charge sheet was read out and explained to the appellant when he was asked whether he pleaded guilty or not to the charge preferred against him, he had categorically answered in the affirmative, by stating “Guilty”. In other words, the appellant pleaded guilty to the G charge levelled against him of having failed to rejoin duty on expiry of the leave granted to him from 8th November, 1998 to 15th January, 1999. 9. It is also relevant to note that this was not the first occasion when the appellant had remained absent without leave. He had made a habit of remaining absent without leave even on earlier occasions. A H EX SEPOY MADAN PRASAD v. UNION OF INDIA AND 1205 OTHERS [HIMA KOHLI, J.] summary of the punishments for overstayal of leave imposed on the A appellant under Sections 39 (b) and 63 of the Army Act, set out in the impugned are extracted below : B C 10. It is apparent from the above table that the appellant was a habitual offender. There were four red ink entries and one black ink entry against him before the present incident cited at serial number (f) D above. Such gross indiscipline on the part of the appellant who was a member of the Armed Forces could not be countenanced. He remained out of line far too often for seeking condonation of his absence of leave, this time, for a prolonged period of 108 days which if accepted, would have sent a wrong signal to others in service. One must be mindful of the fact that discipline is the implicit hallmark of the Armed Forces and E a non-negotiable condition of service. 11. As for the plea taken on behalf of the appellant that the charge under Section 39(b) is not maintainable or that the provisions of Section 120 provide for a maximum punishment of imprisonment for one year, the same is found to be misconceived. Section 39 falling under Chapter F VI of the Act is extracted below for ready reference : “39. Absence without leave. Any person subject to this Act who commits any of the following offences, that is to say,- (a) absents himself without leave; or G (b) without sufficient cause overstays leave granted to him; or (c) being on leave of absence and having received information from proper authority that any corps, or portion of a corps, or any department, to which he belongs, has been ed on H 1206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.