while submitting the chargesheet in respect of the said FIR. SAUMYA CHAURASIA v. DIRECTORATE OF 865 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 28. That apart, it is very much pertinent to note that when the FIR is registered under particular off ences which include the off ences mentioned in the Schedule to the PMLA, it is the court of competent jurisdiction, which would decide whether the Charge is required to be framed against the accused for the scheduled off ence or not. The off ences mentioned in the chargesheet by the I.O. could never be said to be the fi nal conclusion as to whether the off ences scheduled in PMLA existed or not, more particularly when the same were mentioned in the FIR registered against the accused. As held by the Three-Judge Bench in Vijay Madanlal (supra), it is only in the event the person named in the criminal activity relating to a scheduled off ence is fi nally absolved by a Court of competent jurisdiction owing to an of discharge, acquittal or because of quashing of the criminal case (scheduled off ence) against him/ her, there can be no action for money laundering against such a person or person claiming through him in relation to the property linked to the stated scheduled off ence. 29. In the instant case, there is neither discharge nor acquittal nor quashing of the criminal case by the court of competent jurisdiction against Suryakant Tiwari in the predicate/ scheduled off ence. 30. In that view of the matter the Court does not fi nd any merit in the instant appeal. Since the Court has found that there was an attempt made by and on behalf of the Appellant to misrepresent the facts by making incorrect statements in the appeal for assailing the impugned passed by the High Court, the appeal deserves to be dismissed and is accordingly dismissed with cost of Rs.1 Lakh, which shall be deposited by the Appellant before the Supreme Court Legal Services Authority within two weeks from today. 31. Appeal stands dismissed accordingly. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Ankit Gyan