use/public purpose G on priority. 6. The same practice as followed while developing the New Delhi Municipal area (Lutyen’s Delhi) be followed in respect of the city of Chandigarh. The efforts should be to keep the character of the city intact. H 630 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 7. The architecture of the city needs to be preserved and retained in sync with Le Corbusier’s vision. 8. The low-rise character of the city needs to be maintained. 9. The focus needs to be on building an efficient public transport system and augmenting parking spaces in the city. B 10. Chandigarh has limited land and to preserve the integrity of the original concepts, it needs to be ensured that the city is not pressurized beyond its holding capacity. 11. The peripheral area and the Tri-City are intrinsically linked. One cannot be successfully planned or implemented without C also looking at the other. Specific plans for every village in this area are a necessity and the overall plan must accommodate the growing requirements along with the requirement for ecological conservation of the natural resources in the vicinity. D 12. State of the art best international practices in all aspects of planning & infrastructure development need to be adopted. 13. Chandigarh is today known throughout the world for being one of the best planned urban environment. In large part, it is due to the high proportion of open space, social facilities, E civic amenities and infrastructure per living unit. The introduction of apartment rules, by itself does not have any provision to add these essential services and facilities within the existing built-up environment. It will only add residential density while ignoring other urban infrastructure thereby F being detrimental to the city environment and will only lead to the long term decline of the city.” 58. It can thus clearly be seen that the said Board has considered that Chandigarh has a heritage value and it is important to preserve and maintain the integrity of the original concepts and planning postulates of G Sun, Space and Verdure. It also emphasized that the northern sectors of Chandigarh (Corbusian Chandigarh) should be preserved in their present form as far as possible. It also states that any redevelopment in the northern sectors (Phase-I) should only be done keeping the recommendations of the Heritage Committee in mind. It further provides that the same practice as followed while developing the New Delhi H RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 631 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Municipal area (Lutyen’s Delhi) be followed in respect of the city of A Chandigarh. The efforts should be to keep the character of the city intact. It further emphasizes that the architecture of the city needs to be preserved and retained in sync with Le Corbusier’s vision. It states that the low-rise character of the city needs to be maintained. It states that Chandigarh is today known throughout the world for being one of the B best planned urban environment.