87 ibid, para 10.6. 88 ibid, para 10.7. 89 ibid, para 10.16. 90 Discovery Enterprises (supra), para 40. 742 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. and held that the doctrine cannot be anchored in Sections 8 and 45 and to this extent, Chloro Controls (supra) is wrongly decided. I am in complete agreement with his reasons and fi ndings. D. Group of Companies Doctrine in the Context of Section 7 51. In this reference, we are tasked to determine whether the Group of Companies doctrine is in accord with the statutory regime of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, defi ning an arbitration agreement and parties thereto. The adaptation of the doctrine has been doubted, and that is the reason for this reference. While dealing with the international perspective on the doctrine in Part C(i) of my opinion, it was noticed that the doctrine could not attain any conceptual singularity, and it remains contested. Perhaps, this is for two reasons: fi rst, the expression ‘single economic reality’ employed in Dow (supra) is not in line with the concept of separate legal personality of a company, and second, the doctrine is applied for determining the intention of the parties, which is completely fact-based. For these reasons, the doctrine has remained dynamic, if not uncertain, and is subject to many qualifi cations and exceptions. At the same time, there are certain advantages to adopting the doctrine, considering modern business practices. I am of the opinion that it is necessary to entrench the doctrine within the statutory regime of the Act, to enable a court or arbitral tribunal to apply it as a principle to decipher the intention of the parties. I fi nd it necessary to subsume the doctrine of Group of Companies within the judicial process under Section 7(4)(b), where a court or arbitral tribunal is called upon to determine the existence of an arbitration agreement and parties to it. 52. A conjoint reading of Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure and Section 28 of the Indian Contract Act informs us that the jurisdiction of an arbitral tribunal to settle disputes between the parties, to the exclusion of ordinary civil courts, must arise out of a contract to arbitrate between them. An arbitration agreement, being a contract, must necessarily be in writing, as against an oral agreement, but need not be signed by the parties. The written arbitration agreement can be in the form of a document signed by the parties, or be evidenced in the record of agreement. Section 7(4)(b) prescribes the written material from which a non-signatory’s consent and intention can be deciphered by a court or arbitral tribunal. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 743 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] 53. The existence of an arbitration agreement with a non-signatory is a matter of interpretation and construction. The express words employed by the parties enable the court to ascertain the intention of the parties and their agreement to resolve disputes through arbitration.