; such powers are always available to be exercised ex debito justitiae, i.e., to do real and substantial justice for administration of which alone the High Courts exist – The issue of process u/s. 204 r/w. s.200, Cr.P.C. does not ipso facto stand vitiated for non-consideration of the Exceptions to s.499, IPC unless, of course, before the High Court it is convincingly demonstrated that even on the basis of the complaint and the materials that the Magistrate had before him and without there being anything more, the facts alleged do not prima facie make out the off ence of defamation and that consequently, the proceedings need to be closed. [Paras 46 and 47] Penal Code, 1860 – s. 499 – Exceptions to s.499 – Trial Court upon considering the complaint u/s. 200 Cr.P.C. returned a prima facie fi nding in dated 25.03.2010 that accused no.1, the appellant (accused no.2) and its district manager were responsible for writing, sending, publishing letters containing malicious and defamatory statements and 222 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. consequently summoned the three accused persons u/ss. 500/107/34, IPC – Propriety: Held: At the stage, when the Trial Court made the summoning , two aspects were required to be satisfi ed: (1) whether the uncontroverted allegations as made in the petition of complaint read with the examination of the complainant, prima facie, tend to suggest an off ence having been committed, and (2) whether it is expedient and in the interest of justice to proceed – Keeping in view the allegations made in the petition of complaint and the evidence placed before the Trial Court by the complainant and on a plain reading of its dated 25.03.2010 issuing summons to the accused, it does not appear that the fi nding of a prima facie case having been made out at that stage is so outrageously illogical or in defi ance of legal principles and acceptable standards that it would merit interference by this Court – Appellant would be free to appear before the Trial Court and raise whatever defence is available to it in law, not necessarily confi ned to the Fourth Exception, for due consideration thereof by the Trial Court – Therefore, the Trial Court was not unjustifi ed in issuing summons to the accused based on the materials before it. [Paras 49, 50] Penal Code, 1860 – s.499 – Exceptions to s.499 – Whether a company can be prosecuted for defamation when the alleged defamatory statements are made not by it (the company) but by its authorised agent: Held: It must necessarily depend on the facts of each case, meaning thereby the quality of evidence that is led in course of the trial and the weight to be attached to it – In the instant case, the Power of Attorney is yet not proved by the appellant-company according to law and, therefore, could not have been considered by the Judge and cannot be considered by this Court as well – Even if proved, its eff ect and import necessarily have to be considered by the Trial Court – However, if from evidence led it is established that the authorised agent had issued defamatory statements with the consent of the principal or that the principal, without giving consent, had due knowledge of such defamatory statements, yet, did not caution/ reprimand the agent for doing so or had not disowned the statements so made, there is no reason why a prosecution for defamation should be nipped in the bud on the specious ground that an authorised agent is supposed to act M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 223 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA lawfully and not unlawfully – As far as the benefi t of the fourth exception is concerned, it is for the appellant to demonstrate before the Trial Court that the Fourth Exception is attracted, or plead any other defence, and discharge its burden of proof in respect thereof during the course of the trial.