This Court was of the opinion that if the right to privacy is not secured, the full purport of the rights entrenched in the Constitution could not be secured. Similarly, this Court in Unnikrishnan (supra) held that the right to education is a fundamental right. The right to education was derived from the provisions of the Directive Principles of the State Policy and their centrality to development of an individual. Entry 25 of the Concurrent list authorizes Parliament and State legislatures to enact laws on “education.” The State in pursuance of this power has enacted numerous legislations relating to education such as laws establishing and regulating universities and colleges. However, the right to education was held to be a fundamental right, not because of any statute or law but because of its centrality to the values that the Constitution espouses. The SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1339 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] arguments of the petitioners that the Constitution recognises a right to marry is hinged on the meaning accorded to marriage by statutes, which cannot be accepted. 185. The Constitution does not expressly recognize a fundamental right to marry. Yet it cannot be gainsaid that many of our constitutional values, including the right to life and personal liberty may comprehend the values which a marital relationship entails. They may at the very least entail respect for the choice of a person whether and when to enter upon marriage and the right to choose a marital partner. c. The challenge to the SMA I. The scheme of the SMA 186. The SMA was enacted to provide a special form of marriage for couples belonging to diff erent religions and castes. Section 4 of the SMA prescribes conditions relating to the solemnization of special marriages. The relevant portion of the provision is extracted below: “4. Conditions relating to solemnization of special marriages.― Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force relating to the solemnization of marriages, a marriage between any two persons may be solemnized under this Act, if at the time of the marriage the following conditions are fulfi lled, namely:― (a) neither party has a spouse living; [(b) neither party― (i) is incapable of giving a valid consent to it in consequence of unsoundness of mind; or (ii) though capable of giving a valid consent, has been suff ering from mental dis of such a kind or to such an extent as to be unfi t for marriage and the procreation of children; or (iii) has been subject to recurrent attacks of insanity (c) the male has completed the age of twenty-one years and the female the age of eighteen years; 134 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (d) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship: Provided that where a custom governing at least one of the parties permits of a marriage between them, such marriage may be solemnized, notwithstanding that they are within the degrees of prohibited relationship; […] ” (emphasis supplied) 187.