2. In the words of one of the Indian philosophers, Basaveshwara: E “NuDidare muttina haaradantirabeku, NuDidare maanikyada deeptiyantirabeku, NuDidare spatikada shalaakeyantirabeku, NuDidare Lingamecchi ahudenabeku.” One should speak only when the words uttered are as pure as F pearls strung on a thread; Like the lustre shed by a ruby; Like a crystal’s flash that cleaves the blue; And such that the Lord, on listening to such speech, must say “yes, yes, that is true!” Introduction: G 3. The concern of the petitioners in these cases is the misuse of the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, particularly, by those persons holding political offices, public servants, public functionaries or others holding responsible positions *Ed. Note : Pagination is as per the original . H 718 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A in Indian polity and society. The concern of the petitioners is with regard to the manner in which public functionaries make disparaging and insulting remarks against certain sections of the society, against countrymen and against certain individuals such as women who may be victims of crime. Such indiscreet speech is a cause of concern in recent times as it is thought to be hurtful and insulting. The questions raised in these matters B are with regard to remedies available in law so as to counter such kind of hurtful or disparaging speech made, particularly, by public functionaries. 4. The facts giving rise to the present petitions may be encapsulated as under: 4.1. Writ Petition (Crl.) No. 113 of 2016, relates to the unsavory C public comments made by a former Uttar Pradesh Cabinet Minister, in the context of an alleged gang rape of a woman and her minor daughter that took place on 29th July, 2016 on the Noida-Shahjahanpur National Highway (NH 91). Relying on certain news articles, the petitioner in Writ Petition D (Crl.) No. 113 of 2016 has brought to the notice of this Court the remarks made by the said public functionary, terming the alleged incident as an “opposition conspiracy,” which was proliferated merely because “elections were near, and the desperate opposition could stoop to any level to defame the government.” E 4.2. In relation to such statements, a First Information Report, being FIR No. 0838 of 2016 was registered against the said Minister on 30th July, 2016 by the Kotwali Police Station, Dehat, Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh, for offences under Sections 395, 397, 376-D, 342 of the Indian Penal Code, F 1860 (hereinafter referred to as ‘IPC’ for the sake of convenience). 4.3. In the above background, the Writ Petition has been preferred, praying as follows: G “P R A Y E R : - In view of the above stated submissions, it is therefore, most humbly prayed that this Hon’ble Court; may in the interests of justice, be pleased to :- H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 719 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] a. Issue a writ of mandamus and/or any other A appropriate writ and/or direction against the respondents directing them to stop the infringement of the fundamental rights of the petitioner to live a lawful life; in addition to passing other appropriate directions to the respondents.