Under Section 52(1) of the Act, the Board was to first satisfy F in such manner as was prescribed, after making inquiry that the property is recorded in the Waqf Register and further that the property was alienated without any prior permission of the Board. Thereafter, the matter is to be sent to the Collector for recovering possession. G ii. After perusing the record and a true copy filed by the appellant (the papers Nos. 42C and 53C2), it was found that it was not mentioned in the that the Board had done any inquiry. H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 947 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] iii. The Board had not satisfied itself, after making inquiry. This A finding was entered on the basis of there being no evidence in the record requisitioned from the Board. iv. A Report of a Senior Waqf Inspector found included in the record, was considered and it was found that Senior Waqf Inspector had not actually seen whether the property was B recorded in the Waqf Register. The Controller had not satisfied itself as per the prescribed procedure laid down in Section 52(1) of the Act. v. The procedure adopted was illegal. There was no Officer known as Controller under the Act. The power under Section C 52(1) could be exercised by the Board. No Notification was produced to establish that the Board transferred its power to any Officer known as Controller. The passed by the Controller was without jurisdiction. vi. A period of seven days alone was given, which is illegal. D vii. The possession of the respondents was clearly admitted in the petition filed by the appellant before the Waqf Board. It was further admitted that the respondents were using the property for their own interest and as their own personal property. The respondents were found to have become E owners by way of adverse possession. There were exceptions to Section 49A of the U.P. Act and Section 51 of the Act. Both Acts were special Acts on the subject of Waqf. There was no absolute Rule that a property could not be transferred as new rights could accrue to any person on the basis of adverse possession. F FINDINGS OF THE HIGH COURT 8. i. There is merit in the contention of the appellant that the compromise entered into before the Deputy Director, G Consolidation, being a collusive one, could not defeat the Waqf. Once a Waqf, always a Waqf. ii. In the absence of the Waqf Board, the passed by the Deputy Director, Consolidation acting on the compromise was invalid in view of Section 69 of the 1960 U.P. Act. H 948 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A iii. The sale executed by Shri Qasim Ali Khan on 29.06.1974 (the second sale) was invalid for the reason also that no permission of the Waqf Board was obtained under Section 49A of the 1960 U.P. Act. Equally, the sale executed by Shri Kasim Ali Khan in the year 1960 (the first sale), who was a beneficiary, who had no right to sell Waqf Property, B was void.