2007 (Raj)] impugned herein, the Division Bench merely recorded to the eff ect that the counsel for the appellant pleaded for sympathy to commute the death sentence into one for life for the off ence falling under Section 302 IPC while praying for maintaining the sentence imposed for the off ence under Sections 376/511 IPC and that there was no opposition from the learned Public Prosecutor. The Division Bench on that sole ground and by merely stating that there was no use of force of severe nature on the victim at the hands of the appellant and that the commission of off ence of murder cannot be held to be brutal or inhuman and consequently the death sentence was liable to be altered as one for life for the off ence under Section 302 IPC. The Division Bench of the High Court did not bother to exercise its jurisdiction vested in it under Section 366(1) CrPC read with Sections 368 to 370 and 392 CrPC in letter and spirit and thereby, in our opinion, shirked its responsibility while deciding the reference in the manner it ought to have been otherwise decided under the Code of Criminal Procedure. We feel that less said is better while commenting upon the cursory manner in which the came to be pronounced by the Division Bench while dealing with the reference under Section 366(1) while passing the impugned [Criminal Murder Reference No. 1 of 2007 under S. 366(1) CrPC, decided on 11-7-2007 (Raj)]. 18. We are however duty-bound to state and record that in a reference made under Section 366(1) CrPC, there is no question of the High Court short-circuiting the process of reference by merely relying upon any concession made by the counsel for the convict or that of the counsel for the State. A duty is cast upon the High Court to examine the nature and the manner in which the off ence was committed, the mens rea if any, of the culprit, the plight of the victim as noted by the trial court, the diabolic manner in which the off ence was alleged to have been performed, the ill-eff ects it had on the victim as well as the society at large, the mindset of the culprit vis-à-vis the public interest, the conduct of the convict immediately after the commission of the off ence and thereafter, the past history of the culprit, the magnitude of the crime and also the consequences it had on the dependants or the custodians of the victim. There should be very wide range of consideration to be MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1059 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] made by the High Court dealing with the reference in to ensure that the ultimate outcome of the reference would instill confi dence in the minds of peace-loving citizens and also achieve the object of acting as a deterrent for others from indulging in such crimes. (Emphasis supplied) CONCEPT OF FAIR TRAIL 64. All fair trials are necessarily legally valid, but is the reverse necessarily true?