He contended that this amounted to ‘class legislation’ which discriminated against the Assignees and violated their fundamental rights under Article 14 of the Constitution. 34. Repelling the combined submissions made on behalf of the Appellants, Mr. K.K. Venugopal, learned senior counsel for the Respondent- Greyhounds, has raised the following contentions – Firstly, that the Temporary Pattas granted only a limited occupancy right to the Assignees in the form of a temporary license to occupy and, it was not a permanent assignment per se. Secondly, the claim of the Appellants that they were cultivating the land is baseless as they were never interested in even holding the possession over the Subject Land itself. In this respect, he referred to the Panchnama conducted by the revenue offi cials in the years 2003 and 2007 wherein it was noted that no cultivation was going on at the Subject Land. Thirdly, he contended that under the regular assignment as per Laoni Rules of 1950, an auction mechanism was in place, and it was only through this process that an alienable right could be granted in respect of the assigned land. In this regard, he relied upon Form 9(G) under which the Subject Land was granted to Assignees and invited our attention to the relevant part indicative of the auction mechanism. He further submitted that the grant of Subject Land was under the Special Loani, which included the valid condition of non-alienability. Fourthly, he submitted that the fi nding of possession as well as the Appellants’ claim that applicable rules in respect of assignment should be that of 1953 is completely unsustainable. Learned senior counsel has taken us through the documents on record to showcase that the assignment only happened on 21.10.1961, i.e., when Temporary Pattas were granted. He further maintained that all other documents only discussed the grant of sanction of the Subject Land and the procedure pending before any kind of assignment could take place. Fifthly, he submitted that Mr. Reddy’s argument concerning limited contravention of the 1977 Act is factually incorrect in light of the language employed in the GPA executed in favour of M.A. Baksh, which categorically noted that the said GPA was in respect of the entirety of Subject Land. Finally, he argued that YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 629 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] the Subject Land is resumed for a ‘public purpose’, i.e. training of the elite commando force, which has been instrumental in suppressing the Naxalite movement in the region. He also submitted that the Assignees were hand in glove with the land mafi a as well as the corrupt revenue offi cers, who had set their sights on the Subject Land. 35. Mr. C.S. Vaidyanathan, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of Respondent State of Telangana, supported the contentions made by Mr. Venugopal and has supplemented the same by highlighting the following additional points – Firstly that the High Court dated 21.04.2006 only discusses the issue of raising the objection of irregularity in assignment and doesn’t decide the issue of applicable law per se.