v. 1443 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] codifi ed and recognized existing customs – such as by enacting prohibited degrees of relationships, rule against insanity, rules enabling declaration of nullity or divorce on ground of impotence, etc., - others were meant to further interests of women and children and also enable exercise of choice. 23. Such reforming and codifi cation, however, did not cover the entire fi eld. For instance, in the fi eld of succession and inheritance, the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 only enacts certain broad features, leaving untouched the rights of various communities and sections of Hindus, to work out their rights in succession to joint family, Hindu Undivided Family and coparcenary property- and this unwritten, uncodifi ed law, (in many cases based on customs and local traditions) is enforced not only in regard to inheritance, but also in the fi eld of taxation. Likewise, the law accommodates and accords primacy to custom [e.g., Section 2 (d) which states that persons other than Hindus- including Jews, Muslims and Christians who may be following Hindu customs, would continue to do so9; Section 7 which spells out the ceremonies of Hindu marriage, also states that they shall be based on “customary rites and ceremonies of either party thereto”; and similarly, customary divorce amongst Hindus is accorded primacy, by Section 29 (2)10]. Neither the Hindu Marriage Act, nor the Hindu Succession Act, apply to members of the Scheduled Tribe communities; the Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, applies to them in a nuanced manner.11 The Hindu 9 Section 2 which says that the Act does not apply to “(c) to any other person domiciled in the territories to which this Act extends who is not a Muslim, Christian, Parsi or Jew by religion, unless it is proved that any such person would not have been governed by the Hindu law or by any custom or usage as part of that law in respect of any of the matters dealt with herein if this Act had not been passed.” 10 “29… (2) Nothing contained in this Act shall be deemed to aff ect any right recognised by custom or conferred by any special enactment to obtain the dissolution of a Hindu marriage, whether solemnized before or after the commencement of this Act.” 11 Section 2 (2), Hindu Marriage Act, and Hindu Succession Act, are identically worded, and state that: “(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), nothing contained in this Act shall apply to the members of any Scheduled tribe within the meaning of clause (25) of article 366 of the Constitution unless the Central Government, by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette, otherwise directs.” The Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956 is worded diff erently, and covers, inter alia, “(a) any child, legitimate or illegitimate, both of whose parents are Hindus, Buddhists, Jainas or Sikhs by religion (b) any child, legitimate or illegitimate, one of whose 144 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Minority and Guardianship Act, 1956, on the other hand, has a provision similar to the one under the Hindu Minority and Maintenance Act as well as one which excludes members of the scheduled tribe communities12.