Such a person may own another apartment to which electricity may already be supplied, but they will be considered a separate consumer with respect to the second apartment. For an application to be considered as a ‘reconnection’, the applicant has to seek B supply of electricity with respect to the same premises for which electricity was already provided. Even if the consumer is the same, but the premises are different, it will be considered as a fresh connection and not a reconnection. [Para 61][679-H; 680-A-C] 4. The scheme of the 2003 Act makes it evident that the C regulatory powers of the State Commission under section 181(2) are of wide import. The Commission has certain plenary powers to regulate on matters contained in section 181(2), including Electric Supply Code under Section 50. Accordingly, the Commission can notify a Supply Code governing all the matters D pertaining to supply of electricity such as “recovery of charges”, “disconnection of supply” and “restoration of supply”. In the opinion of this Court, such an authority also extends to stipulating conditions for recovery of electricity arrears of previous owners from new or subsequent owners. [Para 84][690-F-G] E 5. The 2003 Act has been enacted to promote the development of the electricity industry as well as to protect the interests of the consumers and to ensure the supply of electricity to all areas. The Supply Conditions providing for recoupment of electricity dues of a previous consumer from a new owner are necessary to recover the costs incurred for laying down the F infrastructure as well as the ongoing current liabilities towards the electricity generation and transmission companies. In the absence of such conditions, it may be difficult for the distribution licensees to recover defaulted payments, adding to the revenue deficits. This may adversely impact the financial health of the G distribution licensees to the detriment of the interests of the consumers. The Conditions of Supply and Electricity Supply Code H 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A which require the payment of electricity dues of a previous owner as a condition for the grant of an electricity connection have a clear nexus to the scheme of the parent legislations and the objectives sought to be achieved. It is just and reasonable for distribution licensees to specify conditions of supply requiring the subsequent owner or occupier of premises to pay the arrears B of electricity dues of the previous owner or occupier as a pre- condition for the grant of an electricity connection to protect their commercial interests, as well as the welfare of consumers of electricity. [Paras 87 and 91][691-G-H; 692-A; 693-E-F] 6. The electricity utilities can create a charge by framing C subordinate legislation or statutory conditions of supply enabling recovery of electricity arrears from a subsequent transferee. Such a condition is rooted in the importance of protecting electricity which is a public good. Public utilities invest huge amounts of capital and infrastructure in providing electricity supply. The D failure or inability to recover outstanding electricity dues of the premises would negatively impact the functioning of such public utilities and licensees.