An adjournment sine die postulates that there is no specifi c date on which the sitting of the Vidhan 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Sabha is convened. The fi rst proviso requires express consultation with the Speaker in that regard, for the adjournment of the Vidhan Sabha. However, even when an adjournment takes place the Speaker is entrusted in public interest to call a meeting of the Vidhan Sabha before the date to which it has been adjourned. These provisions are a clear indicator of the control of the Speaker in the conduct, both of the legislative business of the House and matters pertaining to its adjournment. 41. Therefore, it was legally permissible for the Speaker to reconvene the sitting of the Vidhan Sabha after it was adjourned sine die without prorogation. Further, the Speaker was empowered as the sole custodian of the proceedings of the House to adjourn and reconvene the House. 42. The submission that the declaration sought by the State of Punjab in the present petition namely, that the sessions of the Vidhan Sabha and the business transacted was legal indicates that the State of Punjab is unsure about the validity of the sessions is misconceived. The declaration has not been sought in a vacuum but in response to the Governor’s inaction on the Bills purportedly on the grounds that the sessions were invalid. In fact, as evidenced by the correspondence, the State of Punjab has consistently held the position that the sessions of the Vidhan Sabha and the business transacted therein are legal and constitutionally valid. The fact that a petitioner has approached this Court seeking declaratory relief cannot be used to the petitioner’s detriment. 43. During the course of the hearing, a question was posed to the senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State of Punjab as to whether the course of action which has been followed in the present case could possibly be utilized to justify the indefi nite adjournment of the House sine die so as to obviate the prorogation of the House. We posed a query to learned counsel on whether the power of adjourning of the House sine die could be used to obviate the proroguing of the House over an entire year. Responding to the query, Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioner submitted that the Chief Minister heading the Council of Ministers of the State of Punjab would be advising the Speaker to convene the Winter Session of the State Legislative Assembly at an early date which would be fi xed in due consultation. Dr Singhvi urged that the course of action which was adopted in the present case was due to the diffi culty faced by STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 801 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the government in having the House summoned by the Governor. Counsel adverted to the situation which arose when the Governor was delaying in summoning the Vidhan Sabha for the Budget session, which eventually led to proceedings before this court under Article 32.