Now returning to the facts of Dhanush (supra), the learned Division Bench, in contrast, held that the stock in kirana store is not a valuable article for the purposes of Section 69B.The Court noted that kirana store items are not valuable articles having a high price and are rather in the nature of ordinary articles. In that case the excess stock worked out to around Rs. 87,000/-. G 8. Between the two contrary opinions, on the applicability of Section 69A/69B as mentioned above, on the nature of the article for the purpose of tax liability, I feel that the Chhattisgarh High Court in 2 Dhanush General Stores vs. Commissioner of Income Tax (2011) 339 ITR 651 H 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Dhanush (supra) propagates the correct view. I do not see any basis to give a wide interpretation to Section 69A and include within its ambit, any and every article of value. Notably, it can be seen that- articles of value- are a genus of which valuable articles are a species i.e. a subset of high priced items. To put it differently, an article having value, may not be a valuable article. As for instance, a bag of cement, a sack of rice B or a diamond stone will certainly have some value. But only the diamond stone can be regarded as a high costvaluable item. To categorise all sundry items as valuable articles will mean an interpretation which will be foreign to the purpose of the law and the intention of the legislature in so far as Section 69A is concerned. C 9. At this point, it may also be useful to refer to the Circular No. 20 of 1964- Dated 7.7.1964.In this Circular the then Minister of Finance, while defending the insertion of Section 69A- stated that the 1964 Amendment is enacted not to subject lower middle-class people to taxation by taxing gold or jewellery inherited from D forefathers, but provision is mandated for ‘big assessees’ who convert their black money and unaccounted wealth into gold jewellery and gold vessels and claim it to be heirloom. This makes it clear that the legislature never intended that any and every article of value should be brought within the ambit of Section 69A.It is only the high priced precious items- that command a premium price and are often used E by high wealth individuals to park their unaccounted income- by converting it into gold and bullion - that the Section 69A was inserted to address and to make such articles taxable under the Income Tax Act. Therefore, theintent of the legislature,through the Amendment – was to subject articles like gold, jewellery and other valuable items, F to income tax, where such articles are typically owned with the intention of avoiding income tax. 10. Conversely, if all sundry articles of nominal value are bracketed in the category of valuable article, it will lead to an absurdity and will also be inconsistent with the legislative intent. Focusing on the G high total value of an article, ignoring it slowly per unit price would mean including low-cost ordinary articles also in the valuable category, under Section 69A.