As a consequence of the answers to the questions framed, the Full Bench held that nothing remains to be decided in the Writ Petitions filed by the present appellants and the same were dismissed. E 6. Before we enter into the factual matrix of the case, we find it expedient to first trace out the etymology of the words “Pushtaini” and “Gair Pushtaini” used in the impugned classification, for language, once adopted inside the realm of law, materializes itself a much more powerful being, one which must be understood in the right historical context. F 7. The word ‘Pushtaini’ is a Persian word and finds its origin from the word ‘Pusht’, which means ‘back’. The said word has been historically used in the context of ancestry. Any possession, tale or legend, that has roots to a particular ancestry, to denote it’s significance to the said ancestry, the word ‘Pushtaini’ is used. As is obvious, since the word G ‘Gair’ which finds its origin in Urdu language means ‘other than’, thus, ‘Gair-Pushtaini’ would mean one which is not ‘Pushtaini’. 8. What we find most interesting however, is that ancestry as a concept, especially before times of modern private property ownership, H 2 (1973) 1 SCC 500 RAMESH CHANDRA SHARMA v. STATE OF UTTAR 431 PRADESH [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] had remained to be a tool for inclusivity and not exclusion. In such a A context, the use of the word “Pushtaini” by the Authority, to exclude compensation might be a historically inaccurate interpretation. While this is not consequential to the merits of the case, it is in our opinion a worthwhile observation, for law has to power to legitimize the meaning of words and can change the context in which a word used, and in turn B can change the course of history itself. Background Facts 9. Since the early 1970s, Liberalization took over India by storm, and it brought with it the promise of massive economic growth. A huge amount of money was infused in the Indian Economy with the purpose C of developing Indian cities into massive global hubs of capital and business. In line with this, Delhi began its journey of becoming a global city. This influx of capital into the city also brought with it massive employment opportunities, and people from all over the country started migrating to Delhi. To contain such influx of migrants and ensure dignified D living for all who came to the city with the hopes of improving their lives, the government of India planned to develop residential and industrial areas around the capital. For this, Gurgaon was developed across the b of Haryana, and New Okhla Industrial Development Authority (NOIDA) was developed by the Uttar Pradesh Government in the adjoining district of Gautam Budh Nagar. In this period, the city enjoyed E massive growth, both in terms of influx of capital and migration. This growth was so unprecedented, that it even exceeded the planning estimates as envisaged by the authorities. As a measure to accommodate such growth, the Uttar Pradesh Government, exercising its powers under Section 3 of the U.P.