Not only this, DMRC is also to nominate its arbitrator from the said list. Above all, the two arbitrators have also limited choice of picking upon the third arbitrator from the very same list i.e. from remaining three persons. This procedure has two adverse consequences. In the fi rst place, the choice given to the opposite party is limited as it has to choose one out of the fi ve names that are forwarded by the other side. There is no free choice to nominate a person out of the entire panel prepared by DMRC. Secondly, with the discretion given to DMRC to choose fi ve persons, a room for suspicion is created in the mind of the other side that DMRC may have picked up its own favourites. Such a situation has to be countenanced. We are, therefore, of the opinion that sub-clauses (b) & (c) of Clause 9.2 of SCC need to be deleted and instead choice should be given to the parties to nominate any person from the entire panel of arbitrators. Likewise, the two 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. arbitrators nominated by the parties should be given full freedom to choose the third arbitrator from the whole panel.” (Emphasis supplied) 76. What is relevant to note in all the above referred decisions of this Court is the phrase “operation of law”. This phrase is of wider connotation and covers the Act 1996 as well as the Constitution of India and any other Central or State Law. 77. In the aforesaid context, we should look into and discuss the Kelson’s Pure Theory of Law on the basic norm that he called “Grundnorm”. 78. Kelson’s pure theory of law has its pyramidical structure of hierarchy based on the basic norm of Grundnorm. The word ‘Grundnorm’ is a German word meaning fundamental norm. He has defi ned it as ‘the postulated ultimate rule according to which the norms of this are established and annulled, receive or lose their validity’. It is the Grundnorm which determines the content and validates the other norms derived from it. But from where it derives its validity, was a question which Kelson did not answer, stating it to be a meta-physical question. Grundnorm is a fi ction, rather than a hypothesis as proposed by the jurist. The Grundnorm is the starting point in a legal system and from this base; a legal system broadens down in gradation becoming more and more detailed and specifi c as it progresses. This is a dynamic process. At the top of the pyramid is the Grundnorm, which is independent. The subordinate norms are controlled by norms superior to them in hierarchical . The system of norms proceeds from downwards to upwards and fi nally closes at Grundnorm. (Reference: Application of Grundnorm in India, Zainab Arif Khan, Aligarh Muslim University) 79. Our Constitution is the paramount source of law in our country. All other laws assume validity because they are in conformity with the Constitution. The Constitution itself contain provisions that clearly provide that any law which is in violation of its provisions is unlawful and is liable to be struck down.