The Registry shall also transmit a copy of this to the Medical Council of India, Council of Architecture, Institute of Chartered Accountants, Institute of Company Secretaries and the Engineering Council of India for implementing the directions issued. (x) Member-Secretary, NALSA is requested to transmit a copy of this to the Member Secretaries of all the State Legal Services Authorities. Similarly, the Registrar Generals of the State High Courts shall transmit a copy of this to the Directors of the State Judicial Academies and the Principal District Judges/District Judges of their respective States. (xi) The Chairperson, Bar Council of India and the Apex Bodies mentioned in sub-para (ix) above, shall in turn, transmit a copy of this to all the State Bar Councils and the State Level Councils, as the case may be. 684 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 78. The Union of India and all States/UTs are directed to fi le their affi davits within eight weeks for reporting compliances. List after eight weeks.” 5. In addition to these detailed directions, a few aspects relating to the eff ective implementation of the POSH Act highlighted in the present writ petition, require our attention. Authorities responsible for the implementation of the POSH Act 6. The POSH Act is comprehensive, and a code in itself, for prevention, punishment and redressal of sexual harassment complaints. It takes the remit of the remedy envisaged in the Vishaka Guidelines beyond the State and public functionaries, to a larger, much wider scope of ‘employee’4 and ‘employer’5 than any other legislation. As a result, it comes too, with its own challenges for eff ective implementation. Anticipating this, the Act 4 Section 2(f) reads as follows: “(f) “employee” means a person employed at a workplace for any work on regular, temporary, ad hoc or daily wage basis, either directly or through an agent, including a contractor, with or, without the knowledge of the principal employer, whether for remuneration or not, or working on a voluntary basis or otherwise, whether the terms of employment are express or implied and includes a co-worker, a contract worker, probationer, trainee, apprentice or called by any other such name” 5 Section 2(g) reads as follows: “(g) “employer” means— (i) in relation to any department, organisation, undertaking, establishment, enterprise, institution, offi ce, branch or unit of the appropriate Government or a local authority, the head of that department, organisation, undertaking, establishment, enterprise, institution, offi ce, branch or unit or such other offi cer as the appropriate Government or the local authority, as the case may be, may by an specify in this behalf; (ii) in any workplace not covered under sub-clause (i), any person responsible for the management, supervision and control of the workplace. Explanation. —For the purposes of this sub-clause “management” includes the person or board or committee responsible for formulation and administration of polices for such organisation; (iii) in relation to workplace covered under sub-clauses (i) and (ii), the person discharging contractual obligations with respect to his or her employees; (iv) in relation to a dwelling place or house, a person or a household who employs or benefi ts from the employment of domestic worker, irrespective of the number, time period or type of such worker employed, or the nature of the employment or activities performed by the domestic worker;” INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR.