In view of the aforesaid position, this Court exercised the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to do ‘complete justice’ between the parties. It was also directed that the appellant - husband would continue to pay the specified amount per month to the respondent - wife, which amount could be enhanced or reduced by taking recourse E to appropriate proceedings. 32. In Sivasankaran (supra), the marriage had taken place in February 2002, and after about a year, divorce proceedings were initiated and the decree of divorce was passed in 2008 under Section 13(1)(i-a) of the Hindu Marriage Act. The appellant - husband had remarried within F six days of the passing of the decree of divorce. The respondent - wife filed an appeal and the dispute had remained pending till it reached this Court. Attempts to resolve the dispute through mediation and settlement between the parties bore no fruit. The respondent - wife was resistant to accept the decree of divorce, even though she was aware that the marriage was but only on paper. Observations on the difficulty faced by G women in the form of social acceptance after a decree of divorce, and also the need to guarantee financial and economic security were elucidated. However, this Court, relying on the earlier decisions in Munish 50 (2020) 14 SCC 657. H 51 2021 SCC OnLine SC 702. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 207 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] Kakkar (supra) and R. Srinivas Kumar v. R. Shametha52, observed A that there was no necessity of consent by both the parties for exercise of powers under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to dissolve the marriage on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage, albeit the interest of the wife is also required to be protected financially so that she may not have to suffer financially in future and she may not have to B depend upon others. Accordingly, this Court passed a decree of divorce by exercising the jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. 33.Having said so, we wish to clearly state that grant of divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage by this Court is C not a matter of right, but a discretion which is to be exercised with great care and caution, keeping in mind several factors ensuring that ‘complete justice’ is done to both parties. It is obvious that this Court should be fully convinced and satisfied that the marriage is totally unworkable, emotionally dead and beyond salvation and, therefore, dissolution of marriage is the right solution and the only way forward. That the marriage D has irretrievably broken down is to be factually determined and firmly established. For this, several factors are to be considered such as the period of time the parties had cohabited after marriage; when the parties had last cohabited; the nature of allegations made by the parties against each other and their family members; the s passed in the legal E proceedings from time to time, cumulative impact on the personal relationship; whether, and how many attempts were made to settle the disputes by intervention of the court or through mediation, and when the last attempt was made, etc.