Similarly, under DANICS and DANIPS Rules 2003, once an officer is alloted to NCTD, it is the Administrator who appoints that officer to a post within NCTD. G 9. Mr. Shadan Farasat, learned counsel appearing for the appellant, provided an overview of the control of services in national capital territories across the world. He argued that regardless of the level of devolution of power in countries across the world, even in countries with H 8 (1976) 3 SCC 473 GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 511 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] centralized forms of government, the power to control “services” has A been devolved upon the local government of the National Capital Territory. 10. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, made the following submissions on behalf of the Union of India: a. Entry 41 of List II is not available to Union Territories, as it B cannot have either a State Public Service or a State Public Service Commission; b. The 2018 Constitution Bench did not decide whether NCTD has legislative competence over Entry 41 of List II; C c. Delhi, being the national capital, enjoys a special status which requires the Union to have control over services, in the absence of which it would become impossible for the Union to discharge its national and international responsibilities; d. The expression “in so far as any such matter is applicable D to Union Territories” in Article 239AA means that the entries contained in List II are available to NCTD to the limited extent to which they are applicable to Union Territories. The legislative powers of NCTD shall extend to only those matters which are ‘applicable’ to Union Territories. Since the Constitution uses the term ‘applicable’ E and not ‘relating’ to Union Territories, the legislative power of NCTD will extend to an Entry only when that Entry is clearly and unequivocally applicable to Union Territories as a class. Consequently, List II has to be read contextually and certain entries can be excluded from the domain of F GNCTD; e. The control of Union of India over “services” has not led to any issue pertaining to the governance of NCTD; and f. The Transaction of Business Rules 1993 provide enough powers to Ministers of GNCTD to ensure supervisory and G functional control over civil services to ensure their proper functioning; the rules applicable to the civil services indicate that administrative control vests with the Union. 11. The arguments advanced indicate that this Constitution Bench is called upon to decide the limited question of whether NCTD has the H 512 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A power to legislate under Entry 41 of the State List, and the meaning of the term “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories” in Article 239AA(3)(a). This Bench will refer to the principles laid down in the 2018 Constitution Bench to facilitate the analysis. B Though both sides reliedon the subordinate rules referred to above to argue that they have control over postings of officers, we do not deem it appropriate to interpret each of these rules to elucidate on the framework of governance in each of the cadres.