The communication of this right has to be clear, unambiguous and individual. The accused must be made aware of the existence of such a right. This right would be of little signifi cance if the benefi ciary thereof is not able to exercise it for want of knowledge about its existence. A joint communication of the right may not be clear or unequivocal. It may create confusion. It may result in diluting the right. We are, therefore, of the view that the accused must be individually informed that under Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act, he has a right to be searched before the nearest gazetted offi cer or before the nearest Magistrate. Similar view taken by the Punjab and Haryana High Court in Paramjit Singh v. State of Punjab, (1977) 1 Crimes 242 (P&H) and the Bombay High Court in Dharamveer Lekhram Sharma v. State of Maharashtra (2001) 1 Crimes 586 (Bo0m) meets with our approval. 18. It bears repetition to state that on the written communication of the right available under Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act, respondent Surajmal has signed for himself and for respondent 1 Parmanand. Respondent 1 Parmanand has not signed on it at all. He did not give his independent consent. It is only to be presumed that he had authorized respondent 2 Surajmal to sign on his behalf and convey his consent. Therefore, in our opinion, the right has not been properly communicated to the respondents. The search of the bag of respondent 1 Parnanand and search of person of the respondents is, therefore, vitiated and resultantly their conviction is also vitiated. 19. We also notice that PW 10 SI Qureshi informed the respondents that they could be searched before the nearest Magistrate or before the nearest gazetted offi cer or before PW 5 J.S. Negi, the Superintendent, who was a part of the raiding party. It is the prosecution case that the respondents informed the offi cers that they would like to be searched before PW 5 J.S. Negi by PW 10 SI Qureshi. This, in our opinion, is again a breach of Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act. The idea behind taking an accused to the nearest Magistrate or the nearest gazetted offi cer, if he so requires, is to give him a chance of being searched in 308 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the presence of an independent offi cer. Therefore, it was improper for PW 10 SI Qureshi to tell the respondents that a third alternative was available and that they could be searched before PW 5 J.S. Negi, the Superintendent, who was part of the raiding party. PW 5 J.S. Negi cannot be called an independent offi cer. We are not expressing any opinion on the question whether if the respondents had voluntarily expressed that they wanted to be searched before PW 5 J.S. Negi, the search would have been vitiated or not. But PW 10 SI Qureshi could not have given a third option to the respondents when Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act does not provide for it and when such option would frustrate the provisions of Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act.