It is necessary to notice Articles 327 and 328: “327. Power of Parliament to make provision with respect to elections to Legislatures.—Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, Parliament may from time to time by law make provision with respect to all matters relating to, or in connection H 110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A with, elections to either House of Parliament or to the House or either House of the Legislature of a State including the preparation of electoral rolls, the delimitation of constituencies and all other matters necessary for securing the due constitution of such House or Houses.” “328. Power of Legislature of a State to make provision with B respect to elections to such Legislature.—Subject to the provisions of this Constitution and in so far as provision in that behalf is not made by Parliament, the Legislature of a State may from time to time by law make provision with respect to all matters relating to, or in connection with, the elections to the House or either House C of the Legislature of the State including the preparation of electoral rolls and all other matters necessary for securing the due constitution of such House or Houses.” 112. We may proceed to decode Article 326. In the first part, the Constitution provides that election to the House of the People and to the D Legislative Assembly of every State, shall be on the basis of adult suffrage. This is followed by the words, which is intended to expound what ‘adult suffrage’ means. The Founding Fathers have, in unmistakable terms, declared that elections to the two Legislative Bodies in question, shall be thrown open to participation to every person, who is: I. E a) A citizen of India; b) Is not less than eighteen years of age. The condition must be fulfilled as regards the qualification with reference to ‘such date’; II. ‘Such date’ is to be as specified in or under a law made by F the appropriate Legislature. The appropriate Legislature would mean, Parliament in the case of elections to the House of People and the Legislative Assembly of the concerned State, in the case of the Legislative Assembly; III. The person, who is a citizen and not less than eighteen years G as on the date as indicated in the law, as aforesaid, Article 326 continues to declare must not be disqualified under the Constitution or any law made by the appropriate Legislature. IV. The appropriate Legislature can make a law providing for a disqualification, however, only as provided in Article 326 H itself. In other words, Article 326 has limited the power of ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 111 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the Legislature concerned in the matter of stipulating A disqualifications. What are those disqualifications, which can be stipulated by a law? V. The disqualifications, which can be provided by a law are as follows: B a. Non-residence; b. Unsoundness of mind; c. Crime; d. Corrupt practice; C e. Illegal practice; VI.