With the exception of Government entities engaged in sovereign functions, there is no valid justification for B such exclusion and all other Government enterprises should be within the ambit of the law. 4.2.4 By the same logic, Government enterprises and departments engaged in any sovereign function (like defence, law and , currency functions) may not be subjected to the rigours of C Competition Law.” (Emphasis supplied) 50. In paragraph-4.4.7, we notice the following: “4.4.7. Before assessing whether an undertaking is dominant, it is important, as in the case of horizontal agreement, to determine what the D relevant market is. There are two dimensions to this – the product market and the geographical market. On the demand side, the relevant product market includes all such substitutes that the consumer would switch to, if the price of the product relevant to the investigation were to increase. From the supply side, this would include all producers who could, with E their existing facilities, switch to the production of such substitute goods. The geographical boundaries of the relevant market can be similarly defined. Geographic dimension involves identification of the geographical area within which competition takes place. Relevant geographic markets could be local, national, international or occasionally even global, depending upon the facts in each case. Some factors relevant to geographic F dimension are consumption and shipment patterns, transportation costs, perishability and existence of barriers to the shipment of products between adjoining geographic areas. For example, in view of the high transportation costs in cement, the relevant geographical market may be the region close to the manufacturing facility.” G 51. In the summary, we may notice paragraph-4.8.8, it is stated as follows: “4.8.8. Summary 1. The State Monopolies, Government procurement and foreign H companies should be subject to the Competition Law. The Law COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 857 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] should cover all consumers who purchase goods or services, A regardless of the purpose for which the purchase is made. 2. Bodies administering the various professions should use their autonomy and privileges for regulating the standard and quality of the profession and not to limit competition. B 3. If quality and safety standards for goods and services are designed to prevent market access, such practices will constitute abuse of dominance/exclusionary practices. 4. Certain anti-competitive practices should be presumed to be illegal. Blatant price, quantity, bid and territory sharing agreements C and cartels should be presumed to be illegal. 5. Abuse of dominance rather than dominance needs to be frowned upon for which relevant market will be an important factor. 6. Predatory pricing will be treated as an abuse, only if it is indulged in by a dominant undertaking. D 7. Exclusionary practices which create a barrier to new entrants or force existing competitors out of the market will attract the Competition Law. 8. Mergers beyond a threshold limit in terms of assets will require pre-notification. If no reasoned , prohibiting the merger is E received within 90 days it should be deemed to have been approved.