Within the conspectus of fair dealing in case of ‘legitimate expectation’, the reasonable opportunities to make representation by the parties likely to be affected by any change of consistent past policy, come in. We have not been shown any compelling reasons taken into consideration by the Central Government E to make a departure from the existing policy of allotment with reference to seniority in registration by introducing a new guideline. On the contrary, Mr Jaitley the learned counsel has submitted that the DDA and/or Central Government do not intend to challenge the decision of the High Court and F the impugned memorandum of January 20, 1990 has since been withdrawn. We therefore feel that in the facts of the case it was only desirable that before introducing or implementing any change in the guideline for allotment, an opportunity to make representations against the proposed change in the guideline should have been given to the registered Group G Housing Societies, if necessary, by way of a public notice.” 23. The doctrine of legitimate expectation was then further elaborated upon in the case of Food Corporation Of India vs. Kamdhenu Cattle Feed Industries11, wherein, this Court held that the H 11 (1993) 1 SCC 71 M/S. K.B. TEA PRODUCT PVT. LTD. v. COMMERCIAL TAX 847 OFFICER, SILIGURI [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] duty of public authorities to act in a reasonable manner, entitles every A person to have a legitimate expectation to be treated in such a reasonable manner. This legitimate expectation imposed on public authorities to act in a fair manner, as has been held, is imperative to ensure non-arbitrariness of state action. It was further held by this Court that while such a legitimate expectation might not by itself be an enforceable right, however, the B failure to take into account such expectation may deem a decision of the public authority to be arbitrary. It is my opinion, that the above said decision rendered by this Court, remarkably weaves in the doctrine of rule of law, the doctrine of legitimate expectation, and the doctrine of arbitrariness together, and firmly roots the doctrine of legitimate expectation within Article 14 of the Constitution Of India. The relevant C paragraphs of the said are being reproduced hereunder: “In our view, Shri A.K. Sen is right in the first part of his submission. However, in the present case, the respondent does not get any benefit there from. The High Court’s decision is based on the only ground that once tenders have been invited D and the highest bidder has come forward to comply with the conditions stipulated in the tender notice, it is not permissible to switch over to negotiation with all the tenderers and thereby reject the highest tender. According to the High Court, such a procedure is not countenanced by the rule of law. This is not E the same as the submission of Shri Sen which is limited to permissibility of such a course only on cogent grounds indicated while deciding to switch over to the procedure of negotiation after receiving the tenders to satisfy the requirement of non-arbitrariness, a necessary concomitant of the rule of law.