This is to be considered in light of the fact that at no point of time did the original owner namely, Braja Mohan Dey dispute the execution of power of attorney in favour of Plaintiff No. 2. H 186 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 29. Prima-facie, the endorsement made on the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968, could be considered as determinative evidence of the conveyance of title to the suit property by its original owner, especially where the defendants have not set up a case to establish any independent title over the suit property. When such a presumption arises, the onus would be on a person who challenges such presumption, to successfully B rebut it, vide Prem Singh and Ors. vs. Birbal and Ors., (2006) 5 SCC 353. In that context, the question that would arise is, whether, the defendants have rebutted the presumption of validity of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968. In to answer this question, the following facts may be considered: C (i) Trial Court and First Appellate Court have concurrently found that the defendants do not have any title over the suit land and against such finding the defendants have not preferred an appeal. They have thus accepted this finding which has attained finality. D (ii) The original owner namely, Braja Mohan Dey has not initiated any proceeding to dispute the execution of power of attorney in favour of Plaintiff No. 2. (iii) The of the Sadar Munsiff dated 17th July, 1974, in T.S. 69/1974 records that by way of a sale deed dated 03rd E September, 1968, Plaintiff No. 2 had purchased the suit property and was paying municipal taxes as the owner of the premises which finding is binding on the parties herein as the same has not been upset by any Court of law. Sarat Chandra Majumdar, original defendant No. 1 in the present suit, was the plaintiff therein. F (iv) Notwithstanding the fact that the original defendant had become aware of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 and of the power of attorney that formed the basis of such sale deed, no steps were taken by the Defendant to challenge Plaintiff No. 2’s title over the suit property. It G was only in the written statement filed in the present suit that it was vaguely claimed that Sarat Chandra Majumdar was the title holder of the suit property and Plaintiff No. 2 was a tenant therein. This, without there being any legal basis or evidence. H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 187 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] In light of the said facts, it can be stated that the defendant has A not rebutted the presumption of validity of the sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968. 30. In short, there is no reason to disbelieve the recitals contained in the registered sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 merely on the ground that the document conferring power of attorney in favour of B plaintiff no.