Because of the rash and negligent driving on the part of the respondent – accused two persons sitting in the ambulance also suffered injuries. Due to the collision, in fact, the ambulance turned turtle, which shows the manner in which the accused was driving the Scorpio with high speed. The respondent herein came to F be tried for the offences under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC. The learned Trial Court convicted the accused for the offences under Sections 279 and 304A of the IPC and the sentence of the accused came to be confirmed by the learned Sessions Court. The accused preferred the present revision application before the High Court. By the impugned and , though the High Court has confirmed the conviction G of the accused for the offence under Section 304A of the IPC, however, has reduced the sentence to eight months SI subject to a prior deposit of Rs. 25,000/-. At this stage, it is required to be noted that at the time when the High Court decided the revision application, the accused had undergone an actual sentence period of seven months and fifteen days H 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A and therefore, the High Court seems to have reduced the sentence to eight months only. 2.1 Against the impugned and passed by the High Court by which the High Court has reduced the sentence to eight months for the offence under Section 304A of IPC, the State of Punjab has B preferred the present appeal. 3. Ms. Kanika Ahuja, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has seriously erred in interfering with the sentence imposed by the learned Trial Court confirmed by the First Appellate C Court. 3.1 It is submitted that while reducing the sentence the High Court has shown undue sympathy to the accused. It is submitted that while reducing the sentence the High Court has not properly appreciated and/ or considered the manner in which the accused committed the offence. It is submitted that the High Court has not properly appreciated the fact D that because of the rash and negligent driving on the part of the accused one innocent person lost his life and two persons suffered injuries who were travelling in the ambulance. 3.2 It is submitted that the accused was driving the Scorpio (car) with such a high speed and that too when he was on the cross road, E rashly and negligently and due to the collision, the ambulance turned turtle. It is submitted that therefore, the High Court ought not to have shown un-due sympathy in favour of such an accused person, because of whose act of rash and negligent driving one innocent person lost his life and two persons sustained injuries. F 3.3 Making the above submissions and relying upon the decisions of this Court in the case of State of Madhya Pradesh Vs. Surendra Singh (2015) 1 SCC 222 and in the case of State of Punjab Vs. Saurabh Bakshi (2015) 5 SCC 182, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and restore the sentence imposed by the learned Trial Court and G confirmed by the learned Sessions Court.