However, it is in section 389(1), Cr. PC that the expression “execution of the sentence or the appealed against be suspended” pending the appeal is found instead of the legislature having used a simpler expression like “the appealed against be stayed”. Had the statute provided so and an to that eff ect were passed, it would be suffi cient to stay the conviction as well as the sentence. However, the legislature has prefaced “the sentence or the appealed against” with “execution”, which has the eff ect of connoting that only such part of the and appealed against, which is capable of being executed, can be suspended under section 389(1), Cr. PC. Though conviction would be an integral part of the and carried in an appeal, but it is not executable in the sense a sentence of imprisonment and/ or fi ne or any other fastening obligation on the convict is executable. While section 389(1) empowers an appellate court to suspend execution of the sentence or the appealed against, an suspending execution of the appealed against [according to K. Prabhakaran (supra) and Lalsai Khunte (supra)] would not amount to a stay of conviction. An staying the conviction has to be sought before the concerned court and obtained by the convict to render any disability including a disqualifi cation as in the present case, incurred as a result of the conviction, inoperative. In the absence of a stay of conviction having been sought and an to that eff ect having been passed, an merely suspending execution of the appealed against would be of no use in a matter of the present nature. 30. Be that as it may, the guiding principles that emerge from these precedents can briefl y be summarised as follows: a. the power to suspend execution of an and/or to stay a conviction is traceable to section 389(1), Cr. PC notwithstanding that the high courts may, in appropriate cases, exercise their inherent jurisdiction preserved by section 482 of the Cr. PC to grant a stay of conviction; b. suspension of execution of an of conviction or stay of the conviction — whatever be the prayer made before the Court of appropriate jurisdiction, the same can be granted depending upon the facts of each particular case and the courts have a duty to look 100 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. at all aspects including the ramifi cations of keeping the conviction in abeyance. c. stay of conviction or suspension of execution of conviction is a rare occurrence, and in to avail this exceptional measure, it must be demonstrated that irreversible consequences and injustice would otherwise entail which cannot be undone in future; d. a convict who has appealed against the and of conviction and sentence - if he wishes to have the conviction stayed - has to specifi cally pray for stay of conviction, since despite suspension of execution of sentence and the appealed against, the conviction remains and such suspension does not amount to stay of conviction; e. while seeking a stay of conviction pending appeal, it is imperative for the appealing convict to expressly bring to the court’s attention the foreseeable consequences that could ensue if the conviction were not stayed and failure to elucidate these specifi c consequences may lead to the denial of a stay of conviction; f. once a conviction is either stayed or execution of the conviction is suspended under the Cr.