(iv) The act where the accused induced the person to deliver the property or to perform or to abstain from any act which the person would have not done or had otherwise committed. B 36. As observed and held by this Court in R.K. Vijayasarathy v. Sudha Seetharam [R.K. Vijayasarathy v. Sudha Seetharam, (2019) 16 SCC 739 : (2020) 2 SCC (Cri) 454] , the ingredients to constitute an offence under Section 420 are as follows: (i) a person must commit the offence of cheating under Section C 415; and (ii) the person cheated must be dishonestly induced to: (a) deliver property to any person; or (b) make, alter or destroy valuable security or anything signed or D sealed and capable of being converted into valuable security. Thus, cheating is an essential ingredient for an act to constitute an offence under Section 420IPC.” 25. Significantly, no material has been placed on record to show that the representation made by accused No.1 Babu (now deceased), E the present appellant or the de facto complainant, was false or that they had prior knowledge of such representation being false and made only with the intention to deceive. There are only statements to the effect that despite reminders by the seven persons no jobs were secured for them or their wives. The only ingredient out of the four required, being in F the present case is that in the ordinary course, none of the persons would have given the accused any money, and therefore were induced to deliver property which otherwise they would have not. No proof of any financial transaction is on record, much less concerning the present appellant. 26. With only one ingredient being fulfilled and mere statements G made to show dishonest intention or falsity of statement, the threshold of Section 420 is not breached, constituting the offence. 27. Therefore, the first question is answered in the negative. 28. In terms of second question, the above discussion makes clear that the District Police Chief, Kottayam could not have ed further H PEETHAMBARAN v. STATE OF KERALA & ANR. 1155 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] investigation, as that power rests either with the concerned magistrate A or with a higher court and not with an investigating agency. 29. Given the above, the dated 6th of November, 2019 in Crl. MC No. 6314 of 2018 passed by the High Court of Kerala is set aside and Criminal Case No.132 of 2017 is quashed. The appeal is allowed in the above terms and the pending application(s), if any, stand disposed B of. Nidhi Jain Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Rakhi, LCRA) C D E F G H