1 is trying to sell the property to third parties, it fi led a suit for injunction7. The prayer made in the suit was that the defendant (respondent No. 1 herein) be restrained from transferring, selling or alienating the suit property in favour of anyone else except the plaintiff (appellant herein). It was also prayed that he be restrained from creating any encumbrance on the property. In the written statement fi led in the aforesaid suit, the stand taken by respondent No. 1 was that he was not selling the property or creating any third-party rights therein. The suit was accordingly dismissed. 4. The appellant was never updated by respondent No. 1 about the status of the litigation between the family members. The petitioner having come to know that respondent No. 1 was again intending to sell the property in question issued two public notices to inform the public at large from not entering into any agreement in respect of the property in question. When it came to the notice of the appellant that respondent No. 1 was again trying to dispose of the property, as the litigation between the family members had been fi nally resolved by this Court in Shreya Vidyarthi v. Ashok Vidyarthi and others8, a suit9 for specifi c performance was fi led seeking enforcement of MoU dated 31.08.1998. It is in the aforesaid suit that application was fi led by respondent No. 1 under VII Rule 11(d) C.P.C. for rejection of the plaint on the ground that in terms of II Rule 2 C.P.C., the suit was barred by law. The relief, as claimed in the suit, was available to the appellant when the suit for injunction was fi led by it and a fresh suit was not maintainable. The Trial Court, vide dated 12.02.2020 rejected the application. The revision fi led against the aforesaid was dismissed by the High Court vide dated 14.07.2021. However, there being no error apparent on the record of the , which was a detailed and speaking one, the respondent No. 1 fi led Review Application, which was allowed by the High Court and 7 Original Suit No. 111 of 2009 8 (2015) 16 SCC 46: 2015:INSC:934 9 Original Suit No. 751 of 2017 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. consequently the application fi led under VII Rule 11(d) C.P.C. was allowed and the suit fi led by the appellant was rejected. 5. The argument raised is that for consideration of an application under VII Rule 11 C.P.C., it is only the pleadings in the suit which are to be considered and no other material. A plain reading of the plaint shows that there was a cause of action to fi le the suit which was not time barred. The MoU entered into between the parties clearly mentioned that there was litigation pending between the family members; as and when the rights are fi nally determined by the Court, the appellant will be informed and subsequent thereto the sale deed will be registered.