The said was issued in concurrence with the Government of the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Clause (2) of the 2019 Presidential provided that all the provisions of the Constitution of India, as amended from time to B time, shall apply in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir subject to exceptions and modifications set out in the said . Clause (4) was added by the said to Article 367 in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir which provided that the expression C “Constituent Assembly of the State referred to in clause (2)” in the proviso to clause (3) of Article 370 of the Constitution shall be read as “Legislative Assembly of the State”. The 2019 Presidential was brought into force with immediate effect; (b) The second important development was the declaration D under Clause (3) of Article 370 of the Constitution (for short ‘the said declaration’) made by the Hon’ble President on the recommendation of the Parliament. It was declared that from 6th August 2019, all clauses of Article 370 shall cease to be operative, subject to the E exceptions incorporated in the said declaration. It was provided therein that notwithstanding anything contained to the contrary in Articles 152 and 308 as well as any other Article of the Constitution or any other provision of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir or any law, all the provisions of the Constitution of India as amended F from time to time shall apply to the State of Jammu and Kashmir; (c) Thus, in view of the 2019 Presidential and the said declaration, with effect from 6th August 2019, all the provisions of the Constitution of India became G applicable to the State of Jammu and Kashmir except the modifications provided in the 2019 Presidential . As a result of the said declaration and the 2019 Presidential , the special status of the State of Jammu and Kashmir under the Constitution by virtue of Article 370 virtually came to an end; H HAJI ABDUL GANI KHAN & ANR. v. UNION OF INDIA & 529 ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (d) Another important development that followed was the A enactment of the J&K Reorganisation Act which received the assent of the Hon’ble President on 9th August 2019. 31st October 2019 was fixed as the appointed day under the J&K Reorganisation Act by the Central Government. By virtue of Sections 3 and 4 B thereof, with effect from 31st October 2019, a new Union Territory came into existence known as the Union Territory of Ladakh. The said Union Territory comprises of the areas covered by Kargil and Leh districts. From the appointed day, the Union Territory of J & K was also created. The said Union Territory comprises of C the territories of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir except the area covered by the Union Territory of Ladakh. Thus, with effect from 31st October 2019, the State of Jammu and Kashmir ceased to exist and the Union Territories of Ladakh, as well as Jammu & D Kashmir, were brought into existence; (e) The Delimitation Act, 2002 became applicable to the Union territory of J & K as the definition of “State” in clause (f) of Section 2 thereof includes the Union Territories having a Legislative Assembly.