Therefore, the intention of the Act is to levy only those E charges/fees provided/mentioned under Section 15(2-A) of the Act, 1973, otherwise the other charges also would have been defined under the Act, 1973. Levy of such other charges can be said to be hit by Article 265 of the Constitution of India. As per Article 265 of the Constitution of India, there shall not be any levy of tax/fees/charges except in accordance F with law and/or as provided under the statute. Under the circumstances and in view of the above, the High Court has rightly set aside the various demand notices by way of levy of inspection fee/supervision fee while granting of sanction lay out plan, sub-division charges, impact fee etc. 13. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above, the G levy of development charges/fees by the various Development Authorities of the State of U.P. is hereby confirmed. The decision of the High Court in the case of Rekha Rani (supra) (Civil Appeal No. 4489/ 2014) quashing and setting aside the levy of development charges/fees is hereby quashed and set aside to that extent. The impugned s and s passed by the High Court quashing and setting aside the H MATHURA VRINDAVAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & 915 ANOTHER v. RAJESH SHARMA AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] demand notices/levy of other charges/fees, namely, inspection fee/ A supervision fee while granting of sanction layout plan, sub-division charges, impact fee etc. (other than development charges/fees) are hereby confirmed. 14. It is observed and directed that any amount already paid by the respective original writ petitioners other than the development charges/ B fees and the charges provided under Section 15(2-A), now be refunded to the respective original writ petitioners with 6% interest per annum, within a period of twelve months from today, of course after adjusting development charges/fees. It is made clear that we have not expressed anything on the levy of betterment charges, which, as such, is otherwise C permissible under section 35 of the Act, 1973. It is also made clear that the of refund shall be applicable only with respect to those original writ petitioners/persons who have challenged the demand notices and who were before the High Court. It is also observed and it is made clear that if any individual/original writ petitioner has any other grievances, it will be open for them to approach the High Court by way of independent D proceedings. 15. The present appeals stand disposed of in terms of the above. In the facts and circumstances of the case, there shall be no as to costs. E Ankit Gyan Appeals disposed of. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Mahendra Yadav, LCRAs) F G H