The State Government is also of the view that the purpose of the OAT (to ensure speedy disposal of cases) is not served subsequent to the decision of this Court in L. Chandra Kumar D (supra); c. The word “may” in Section 4 of the Administrative Tribunals Act is unambiguous and must be interpreted strictly. d. An intra-court appeal is different from an appeal to a separate forum and the former streamlines the process of adjudication. E It cannot be said that there is no advantage to be had by abolishing the OAT; e. The principles of natural justice were not violated; The abolition of the OAT does not make the court system less F accessible to litigants because they would have been required to travel to Cuttack in any event in to participate in the writ proceedings before the Orissa High Court. The number of cases transferred from the Circuit Benches of the OAT at Berhampur and Sambalpur to the Orissa High Court are 275 and 235 respectively. The Principal Bench at Bhubaneswar G and the regular Bench at Cuttack, on the other hand, had 11,483 and 32,911 cases respectively, which were transferred to the Orissa High Court. Financial hardships faced by litigants can be alleviated through compensation schemes which exist for this purpose; and H 760 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A f. It was not mandatory for the government to conduct a judicial impact assessment test before abolishing the OAT. 18. In its counter affidavit, the Orissa High Court detailed the action taken to transfer the cases pending before the OAT to the High Court – nodal officers were appointed to monitor the transfer, a B committee was constituted to oversee the transfer, the committee devised a methodology for shifting pending cases, and a dedicated branch called the ‘OA Branch’ was created to deal exclusively with transferred matters. C. Issues C 19. Based on the submissions which have been canvassed by the parties, the issues which arise for determination are: a. Whether the Writ Petitions instituted by the appellants before the Orissa High Court were maintainable; b. Whether Article 323-A of the Constitution makes it manda- D tory for the Union Government to establish SATs;c. Whether Section 21 of the General Clauses Act can be in- voked to rescind the notification establishing the OAT, thereby abolishing the OAT; d. Whether the abolition of the OAT is arbitrary and therefore E violative of Article 14 of the Constitution; e. Whether the abolition of the OAT is violative of the fundamental right of access to justice; f. Whether the Union and State Governments have violated the F principles of natural justice by failing to provide the OAT Bar Association and the litigants before the OAT with an opportunity to be heard before arriving at a decision to abolish the OAT; g. Whether the notification dated 2 August 2019 is invalid because G it is not expressed in the name of the President of India; h. Whether the transfer of cases from the OAT to the Orissa High Court has the effect of enlarging the jurisdiction of the latter; i.