SSB Guwahati Subject: Regarding information of personal grievances thereof. Hon’ble Sir, With due respect and humility, I the undersigned to draw your kind attention to the following matter. 1. I have joined the offi ce of the A.O Rangia in March, 2009, Since my joining I have been entrusted the task of receiving telephones and Mobiles in the Control Room, CAP, Training, Sports. Then I was the only female employee in the Offi ce. 2. Having just started discharging my duties devotedly the AO Mr. Dilip Paul started teasing me tactically. He started making phone calls to me sometimes at night using unoffi cial and multimeaninged word. Even he went to the extent of visiting my residence where I stay alone with two of my children as my husband is a state Government employee in Manipur. 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 3. Sometimes CAP work needs close working with the offi cers. Taking the advantage he used to call me in his room and started teasing indirectly and unnecessarily makes me sit for hours. One day he went to the extent of saying “If you want to work happily in my offi ce, then agree to my saying. 4. I have been tolerating his acts since the last two and half years. I could neither inform my husband nor lodge any written complaint against such acts as it will be diffi cult to give evidence. Unable to bear the situation I have verbally complaint to the then DIG Shri S. C. Katoch over Telephone in May, 2010 about Mr. Paul uncivilized altitude. The DIG did a favour and warned Mr. Paul of severe consequences if he did not stopped misbehaving. 5. Since then, he stopped teasing but instead began torturing me mentally. I have not been entrusted any work and ex-communicated in the offi ce. Throughout the day all I have to do is sit silently in the offi ce. If any of my colleagues talk with me, Mr. Paul would immediately call him and scold him bitterly. Sir, I am now so much depressed and mentally disturbed I have visited to the Doctors many times for which I have taken many medical leaves. Now, I am not in position to work even for a day under him. It also began aff ecting my family life. 6. In view of the above, I request your kind honour to look into the matter sympathetically and it is also requested to take necessary action against the Shri D. Paul, AO Rangia to get rid of this problem as soon as possible for which I shall remain ever grateful to you. Yours faithfully, Sd/- 30.8.2011 (Smt. X) FA (Lady) A.O. Offi ce, SSB Rangia” UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 483 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] A.1 On-Spot/Preliminary Inquiry Report 4. The Dy. IG, SSB, SHQ, Tezpur held a common “on-the-spot” fact fi nding inquiry in relation to the fi rst complaint dated 30.08.2011 and recorded the statements of the employees working in the offi ce of the respondent.