Both these are recognised as enforceable. Other claims, however, do not fall within the expression “actionable claim”. 34. Sections 130, 131 and 132 of TPA, deal with transfer of actionable claims: “130. Transfer of actionable claim— (1) The transfer of an actionable claim [whether with or without consideration] shall be eff ected only by the execution of an instrument in writing signed by the transferor or his duly authorised agent, shall be complete and eff ectual upon the execution of such instruments, and thereupon all the rights and remedies of the transferor, whether by way of damages or otherwise, shall vest in the transferee, whether such notice of the transfer as is hereinafter provided be given or not: Provided that every dealing with the debt or other actionable claim INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1053 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] by the debtor or other person from or against whom the transferor would, but for such instrument of transfer as aforesaid, have been entitled to recover or enforce such debt or other actionable claim, shall (save where the debtor or other person is a party to the transfer or has received express notice thereof as hereinafter provided) be valid as against such transfer. (2) The transferee of an actionable claim may, upon the execution of such instrument of transfer as aforesaid, sue or institute proceedings for the same in his own name without obtaining the transferor’s consent to such suit or proceeding and without making him a party thereto. Exception —Nothing in this section applies to the transfer of a marine or fi re policy of insurance or aff ects the provisions of section 38 of the Insurance Act, 1938 (4 of 1938). Illustrations (i) A owes money to B, who transfers the debt to C. B then demands the debt from A, who, not having received notice of the transfer, as prescribed in section 131, pays B. The payment is valid, and C cannot sue A for the debt. (ii) A eff ects a policy on his own life with an Insurance Company and assigns it to a Bank for securing the payment of an existing or future debt. If A dies, the Bank is entitled to receive the amount of the policy and to sue on it without the concurrence of A’s executor, subject to the proviso in sub-section (1) of section 130 and to provisions of section 132. Section 131. Notice to be in writing signed- Every notice of transfer of an actionable claim shall be in writing, signed by the transferor or his agent duly authorized in this behalf, or, in case the transferor refuses to sign, by the transferee or his agent, and shall state the name and address of the transferee.” 35. In Mewa Lal and Ors. vs. Tara Rani13it was held that: “Actionable claim can be transferred only by execution of an instrument in writing signed by the transferor or his duly authorised 13 AIR 1973 All 165 105 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.