448 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 3E PSO.CR.RT.S 448 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS AND OTHERS (Civil Appeal No(s). 5352-5353 of 2007) B APRIL 13, 2023 [AJAY RASTOGI AND C. T. RAVIKUMAR, JJ.] Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – s.2(1)(d) – Respondent (commercial enterprise) had taken fire insurance policy from the appellant insurance company – Respondent sufferred damage due C to fire – Appellant denied the claim of respondent – Respondent filed complaint before the State Commission for compensation – State Commission held that respondent was not a “consumer” as defined u/s. 2(1)(d) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, and the complaint was not maintainable – However, National Commission D held that the respondent was a “consumer” and the complaint was maintainable – Issue before the Supreme Court was, whether the insurance policy taken by respondent (commercial enterprise) insured amounts to hiring of services for “commercial purpose” thereby excluded from the purview of the expression “consumer” as defined u/s. 2(1)(d) of the Act, 1986 – Held: There is no such E exclusion from the definition of the term “consumer” either to a commercial enterprise or to a person who is covered under the expression “person” defined in Section 2(1)(m) of the Act, 1986 merely because it is a commercial enterprise – Each case has to be examined on its own facts and circumstances – What needs to be F determined is whether the insurance service had a close and direct nexus with the profit generating activity and whether the dominant intention or dominant purpose of the transaction was to facilitate some kind of profit generation for the insured or to the beneficiary – In the instant case, hiring of insurance policy is clearly an act for indemnifying a risk of loss/damages and there is no element of profit G generation – of the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission upheld. Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – Nature of the insurance contract – Insurance contracts are contracts of indemnity whereby one undertakes to indemnify another against loss/damage or liability H 448 NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS 449 AND OTHERS arising from an unknown or contingent event and is applicable A only to some contingency or act likely to come in future. Consumer Protection Act, 1986 – A social benefit-oriented legislation – Discussed. Words and Phrases – “Consumer”, “Commercial Purpose” – B Discussed – Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. The provisions of the Act, 1986 thus have to be construed in favour of the consumer to achieve the purpose of enactment as it is a social benefit-oriented legislation. The C primary duty of the Court/Commission while construing the provisions of such an Act is to adopt a constructive approach subject to that it should not do violence to the language of the provisions and is not contrary to attempted objective of the enactment. [Para 24][458-F] D 2. The word “consumer” so defined does not include a person, who, in case of goods obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose, or who, in case of service, avails of such services, for any commercial purpose.