Substantive ranks can only be granted to such an offi cer if he is cleared for such promotion in the parent branch. The rules for grant of substantive rank are the rules governing such grant, in the parent branch and not in the legal branch. 8.4 Merely because vacancy is available and the Respondent herein considers himself qualifi ed to be appointed at such vacancy, it would not imply that such an appointment would be automatically made. Upon consideration, the Respondent herein failed to secure the promotion and therefore such promotion has not been granted. The recommendation of the promotion board is only recommendatory in nature and holds no signifi cance unless approved by the competent and duly empowered authority. IMPUGNED 9. The AFT held that given the position of JAG (Air) had been upgraded in light of the recommendations made by a High-Power Committee constituted in compliance with the directions given by the Delhi High Court in Ex-Rect-/Rfn Nahar Singh v. UOI12, the consideration of the case of the Respondent herein, “under a policy where he could be promoted against a legal vacancy by competing with his batch mates working in the administrative branch was an exercise in futility.” 12 WP(C) 12853/2005 103 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 9.1 It then endorsed the submission of the learned counsel for the Respondent herein that “a policy ought to have been formulated by the Respondent No.1 for fi lling up the post immediately after the upgradation of the post of JAG (Air) to the rank of AVM… And a separate promotion board ought to have been proposed thereunder to give eff ect to provisions of para 3 of AFI 71/74(supra)” 9.2 The learned Tribunal concluded as under: – “13. Having considered all these factual and legal aspects of the matter, we are of the considered opinion that non-framing of the policy for fi lling up the post of JAG (Air) in the rank of AVM by constituting a Special Promotion Board has adversely aff ected the petitioner›s right to be considered for the promotion in a just, fair and reasonable manner. As we have concluded that the petitioner›s claim for onward promotion to the post in the rank of AVM has not been duly considered against the vacancy, which became available with eff ect from 01.10.2014 when he still had 14 months of service remaining the decision of the Supreme Court in Maj Gen SM Singh VSM v. Union of India (2014) 3 SCC 670, is attracted to the facts of this case. Accordingly, on one hand the impugned action of the respondent no. 1 deserves to be quashed as violative the fundamental rights vested in the petitioner under Articles 14 & 16 of the Constitution of India and on the other, he is entitled to remain in service till a due consideration for promotion is aff orded. 14. For all these reasons, the OA is allowed in part and the impugned decision of the respondent No. 1 not approving the recommendation of the Promotion Board qua the petitioner is set aside with the direction to reconsider the same after formulating the policy for fi lling up the AVM rank post in the JAG (Air) Department by convening a separate Promotion Board.