My son was given medical treatment at Patna but he succumbed to his injury. His post mortem examination was conducted. My statement was recorded by the police after the demise of my son. Now I do not have to give my statement before the Court. I had given my statement before the Judge at Bhagalpur. My son died after six months of the occurrence.” In her cross-examination, she was subjected to many suggestions to which she gave satisfactory explanation. The defence could not elicit any major discrepancies in her examination-in-chief. The cross-examination is as under: “I went back to my house with the police after adducing evidence at Bhagalpur. I had not gone to the Magistrate with the S.I. of police of Panapur P.S. after three days of coming back to my house. My Dewar Kedama Rai had come to the hospital with Rajendra Rai. Parma Rai is not my relative. There was no one with me at the time I was giving my statement to the police at hospital. Kedama rai was present with me at the time I was giving my statement. I had given my statement on the day on which my son died. I disclosed all the facts whatsoever relating to the occurrence before the S.I. of Police. The S.I. of police had read over the content of my statement to me. I affi xed my thumb impression thereon after understanding the content to be true. Besides the statement given at hospital. HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 429 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] The S.I. of Police did neither ask anything to me nor record my statement again in course of investigation. I had not given any petition against the police in the court that the police did not record my statement correctly. It is not a fact that I had not given such statement before the police that we were returning after casting our votes and a which came from the side of the village Satzora and Prabhunath Singh had asked how the voting was going on and I responded that I had caste my vote in favour of “Chakra” mark. The vehicle went into the rahar (a kind of pulse) fi eld and thereafter Prabhunath Singh fi red shot which hit three persons. The shots hit the arms of Rajendra Rai, Daroga Rai and Srimati Devi. I took the deadbody of my son to Panapur P.S. from the booth and the deadbody was sent to Patna from the police station but he succumbed to his injury. Harendra Rai is my son. Harendra Rai himself had told me that I had to utter the name of Prabhunath Singh among the shooters. It is not a fact that I have deposed falsely in the Court.” d) On the same date i.e. 29.09.2008, the Trial Court closed the prosecution evidence and fi xed 15.10.2008 for examination of the accused under Section 313 CrPC. On 15.10.2008 examination of the accused under Section 313 CrPC was recorded.