3.4. The appellant filed Revision Application before the Commissioner, Excise and Taxation, Himachal Pradesh, Respondent No. 2 herein, challenging the Assessment s dated 01 October, 1992. The same was dismissed on the ground that a revision application would not be maintainable and it would be appropriate to instead, file an appeal. 3.5. In the said background, the appellant, NHPC Ltd. fi led Writ Petition No.1733 of 1995 before the High Court, challenging the vires of the Act of 1955, and the assessments made in accordance with the provisions thereof. The pertinent contentions raised by the appellant in the said Writ Petition may be encapsulated as under: i. That under the Act of 1955, no tax can be levied on the appellant as its employees and their children were being carried in the appellant’s buses, without any fare or consideration. That passenger tax as contemplated under the Act of 1955 was to be levied only on fare-paying passengers against tickets issued by the owner of the motor vehicles, who is engaged in the business of carrying passengers for hire and reward. ii. That no rate or fare had been specifi ed by the competent authority under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939 (hereinafter referred to as “MV Act” for short) for the routes on which the appellant’s buses plied, nor had any contractual rate been agreed upon between the appellants and its employees. Therefore, the charging provision, i.e., Section 3 (1) of the Act of 1955 and the Explanation thereto would not be attracted. 8 NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 9 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] iii. That in passing the Assessment s dated 01 October, 1992, erroneous and baseless assumptions had been made to the eff ect that every bus of the appellant, NHPC Ltd. was plying on every day of the relevant year; a passenger travelled on every seat of every bus; every employee travelled the full distance shown in the logbook; and every passenger was paying a fare of Rs. 1.15 per kilometer. iv. That even if the assessee was liable to pay tax under the Act of 1955, they would not be liable to pay surcharge under Section 3A of the Act as the said provision would not be applicable to the appellants. Further, Section 3A of the Act of 1955 was unconstitutional and suff ered from excessive delegation of powers to the State Government to prescribe the rate of surcharge leviable, without laying down any guideline on the basis of which surcharge was to be prescribed. 3.6. By the and dated 27 March, 1997, the Division Bench of the High Court allowed Civil Writ Petition No.1733 of 1995 fi led by the appellant and directed the Respondents to refund the tax collected under the provisions of the Act of 1955. The pertinent fi ndings of the Division Bench of the High Court are culled out hereinunder: i. That the scheme of the Act of 1955 was to levy a tax on passengers of certain motor vehicles only.