It further clarifi es that for fresh appointment of teachers for Primary and Upper Primary level, NCTE notifi cations dated 23rd August 2010 and 29th July 2011 need to be strictly adhered to. It is further to be noted that whereas notifi cations dated 23rd August 2010 and 29th July 2011 specifi cally refer to powers conferred under sub-section (1) of Section 23 of the RTE Act, NCTE recognition dated 22nd September 2017 refers only to the directives issued by MHRD under Section 29 of the NCTE Act. JAIVEER SINGH AND OTHERS v. THE STATE OF 613 UTTARAKHAND AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 29. It is thus clear that the entire scheme was for the purpose of providing a window to the in-service teachers inasmuch as unless they would have acquired requisite qualifi cations prior to 1st April 2019, they could not have continued to remain in service and would have faced dismissal from service. As such, we fi nd that the High Court has erred in holding that the 18 months Diploma conducted by NIOS through ODL mode is equivalent to 2 years Diploma as provided in the notifi cations of NCTE dated 23rd August 2010 and 29th July 2011. 30. In the impugned and , the High Court has relied on the s of the High Court of Patna in the case of Sanjay Kumar Yadav (supra) and High Court of Tripura in the case of Sri Raju Nama (supra). It is to be noted that, in the of the High Court of Patna, though a reference has been made to the communication addressed by NCTE to the Additional Chief Secretary, Bihar, it brushed aside the said communication on the ground that it is nowhere mentioned that the said course cannot be treated at par with the 2 years training course. In the absence of a specifi c of NCTE granting equivalence to the 18 months course with the 2 years course, in our view, the High Court has totally erred in fi nding that since the said communication does not mention non-equivalence, it would be deemed to be equivalent. 31. We fi nd that the High Court of Patna has totally erred in not giving eff ect to the stand of NCTE. As a matter of fact, we fail to understand as to why NCTE did not challenge the said when its specifi c stand that the said 18 months course was only for in-service candidates and not applicable to fresh ones was rejected by the High Court. We also fail to understand as to why vide communication dated 6th January 2021, NCTE decided to accept the said of the High Court of Patna. 32. Insofar as the High Court of Tripura is concerned, it again relies on the of the High Court of Patna in the case of Sanjay Kumar Yadav (supra). We therefore fi nd that the views taken by both the High Court of Patna and the High Court of Tripura were not correct in law.