15. passed by this Court on 25.03.2022 records that another effort was required to be made through mediation for resolution of dispute between the parties. It was referred to Maharashtra State Legal Service C Authority. The Marriage Counsellor was also required to be associated. 16. The passed by this Court on 02.09.2022 reads as under: “It appears that the marriage has not worked from the initial period of time itself. The parties got married after having met on facebook. D The problem is what the wife demands and what the husband says is capable of paying. Let both the parties file affidavits alongwith list of movable/immovable assets. They should also file their last three years’ Income Tax Returns. E Two weeks’ time is granted to file necessary affidavits. List on 29th September, 2022. The parties to either remain present in the Court or connect virtually for which the connection will be granted by F the Registry.” 17. From the dated 13.10.2022, it is evident that the petitioner may be working in Canada as she stated that she wound up her work in Canada and is now living in India. They agreed to take assistance of a marriage counsellor. Justice S.J. Vazifdar, former Chief Justice of Punjab G and Haryana High Court was appointed as a Mediator. The report has been received from the Mediator stating that despite spending about 50 hours in different sessions, the parties and their family members could not arrive at a settlement and the mediation failed, as per the report dated 08.02.2023. It is specifically recorded by the Mediator in his report H 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A that during four months, several meetings were held with the parties and throughout the petitioner was in Canada and she attended the meetings through Video Conferencing. 18. Number of Transfer Petitions are filed in matrimonial cases, primarily by the wives seeking transfer of the matrimonial proceedings B initiated by the husband. This Court normally has been accepting the prayer made while showing leniency towards ladies. In Anindita Das v. Srijit Das (2006) 9 SCC 197, this Court observed that may be this leniency was being misused by women. Hence, each and every case has to be considered on its own merits. C 19. In the facts of this case in hand, the petitioner is a permanent resident of Canada. She had shifted there in the year 2014 and was working there on a well-paid job, however, came to India for the matrimonial alliance. She is presently based at Mumbai, Maharashtra with her parents and stated to be working in ICICI Bank. There is no child born out of the wedlock. The relation started after the parties met D on Facebook. As far as the respondent is concerned, he is a doctor by profession and is living at Mangaluru, Karnataka. Divorce Petition has been filed by the husband at Mangaluru where he resides with his aged parents. Thereafter, the wife filed a petition for restitution of conjugal rights at Mumbai, Maharashtra.