Eminent domain is the highest and most exact idea of property remaining in the F Government, or in the aggregate body of the people in their sovereign capacity. It gives the right to resume possession of the property in the manner directed by the Constitution and the laws of the State, whenever the public interest requires it. The term ‘expropriation’ is practically synonymous with the term “eminent domain”. G (Emphasis supplied) This Court opined that the right to property is not a basic feature of the Constitution [See paragraph 30]. We may also notice the following views: - H 411995 (suppl.) 1 SCC 596 ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1101 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “48. The word ‘property’ used in Article 300-A must be understood A in the context in which the sovereign power of eminent domain is exercised by the State and property expropriated. No abstract principles could be laid. Each case must be considered in the light of its own facts and setting. The phrase “deprivation of the property of a person” must equally be considered in the fact situation of a B case. Deprivation connotes different concepts. Article 300-A gets attracted to an acquisition or taking possession of private property, by necessary implication for public purpose, in accordance with the law made by Parliament or a State Legislature, a rule or a statutory having force of law. It is inherent in every sovereign State by exercising its power of eminent domain to expropriate C private property without owner’s consent. Prima facie, State would be the judge to decide whether a purpose is a public purpose. But it is not the sole judge. This will be subject to judicial review and it is the duty of the court to determine whether a particular purpose is a public purpose or not. Public interest has always been considered to be an essential ingredient of public purpose. D But every public purpose does not fall under Article 300-A nor every exercise of eminent domain an acquisition or taking possession under Article 300-A. Generally speaking preservation of public health or prevention of damage to life and property are considered to be public purposes. Yet deprivation of property for E any such purpose would not amount to acquisition or possession taken under Article 300-A. It would be by exercise of the police power of the State. In other words, Article 300-A only limits the powers of the State that no person shall be deprived of his property save by authority of law. There has to be no deprivation without any sanction of law. Deprivation by any other mode is not F acquisition or taking possession under Article 300-A. In other words, if there is no law, there is no deprivation. Acquisition of mines, minerals and quarries is deprivation under Article 300-A.” (Emphasis supplied) G 86. A Constitution Bench has considered the aspects arising out of the changes brought by the amendment to the Constitution by the insertion of Article 300A in the of this Court in K.T.