C It held that the GCV ‘as received’ should be the appropriate basis to assess the quantum of shortfall in domestic coal and calculate the Change in Law compensation accordingly. 115. It is also relevant to note that the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (“C&AG” for short), in its Performance Audit Report on “Fuel Management of Coal Based Power Stations of NTPC Limited” D submitted to MoP, had observed that the ‘quality assessment of coal has inherent as well as manmade infirmities due to heterogeneous nature of coal and sampling errors’. The C&AG, therefore, recommended to the MoP that there was a need to appropriately review the methods for energy pricing and had requested the MoP to coordinate with CERC in E light of the audit findings. The MoP, therefore, addressed a communication dated 28th June 2017 to the CEA. In the said communication, the MoP had stated that the NTPC has highlighted the issues of sampling error on account of change of point of sampling for measurement of GCV from “as fired” to “as received” basis as per the 2014 Tariff Regulations, non-homogeneous nature of samples taken from the wagons, loss of F GCV from point of “as received” to the point of “as fired”, and difficulty with coal sampling through ‘Augurs’. It further states that the MoP had also sought views of the CERC on the said issue. The CERC had, therefore, requested the MoP for consulting CEA in this regard and accordingly the matter was referred to CEA. G 116. The CEA in its communication dated 17th October 2017 stated thus: “The issue has been examined in CEA. After preliminary discussions with NTPC on the issue on 05.09.2017, CEA has also taken views of other specialist agencies in the field of coal such H as CIMFR and CPRI in the meeting held on 21.09.2017. MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 139 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] It is acknowledged that there is a loss of GCV from point of “as A received” to the point of “as fired” inside a power plant mainly due to following factors: (i) Effect of Moisture in GCV of coal sample taken from Wagon Top B As stated by C&AG, there are sampling errors on account of heterogeneous nature of coal. This issue was deliberated in detail with CIMFR and CPRI. Both CIMFR and CPRI acknowledged the difference in wagon top-bottom GCV due to heterogeneous nature of coal, tendency of moisture to settle at the bottom and exposure of top layer to C atmosphere. CEA is of the view that GCV measurement of wagon top coal will give comparatively higher GCV value due to steeling of moisture at the bottom of the wagon and loss of moisture from wagon top during transportation of coal, D however, loss in GCV will vary as per seasonal variations. (ii) Loss in GCV during coal storage inside power plant CEA is of the view and also substantiated by many national and international papers that there is a loss of GCV in the coal stock where coal is stored inside the power plant, mainly E due to oxidation and weathering effect.