Before dealing with this question further, in the fi tness of things we will refer to another aspect. A bare perusal of the impugned of the High Court would reveal that virtually, the High Court also, in troth, agreed with the admissibility of Exts.A1 and A5. The High Court held that 96 cents were purchased under Ext.A5 by the appellant/plaintiff . In paragraph 14 of the impugned the High Court held:- “However, even though the fi rst appellant property/plaintiff has prayed for declaration to the entire suit property as admitted by the appellant/ defendant that the title of the plaintiff Puliyankaladi purchased the 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. property from Velaiya Thevar and his property is only entitled to 96 cents and as said the fi rst respondent/ plaintiff has titled over the 96 cents as per sale deed Ex.A.5 and not grant that and accordingly, he is entitled to the title as well as the possession.” 31.If Ext.A1 was not taken as a certifi ed copy admissible for proving the contents of its original and accordingly, taken the contents of its original as proved where is the question of accepting Ext.A1 sale deed creating title to Puliyankaladi to sell the property covered thereunder to the plaintiff under Ext.A5 sale deed, as held in paragraph 14 of the impugned judgement. In this context it is also relevant to note that except Ext.A1 sale deed there is no other proven document conferring title to Puliyankaladi to eff ect transfer of property having an extent of 2 acres and 61 cents comprised in Survey No. 845/1 of Thimmanayakanur village in Madurai District. In short, the very action on the part of the High Court in declaring that the appellant herein/ the plaintiff got title over 96 cents as per Ext.A5 sale deed and therefore, he is entitled to the title as well as possession over the said extent, in the aforesaid circumstances amounts to confi rmation of the admissibility and evidentiary value of Exts.A1 and A5 as held by the Courts below. 32. Now a perusal of the impugned would reveal that the High Court held that the Ext.A1 would not cover the entire extent of 2 acres and 61 cents comprised in Survey No.845/1 of Thimmanayakanur village in Andipatti Taluk of Madurai District. We are at a loss to understand as to how the High Court came to such a conclusion when Ext.A1 in unambiguous terms describes the property transacted thereunder as land comprised in Survey No. 845/1 of Thimmanayakanur village having an extent of 2 acres and 61 cents. A perusal of Ext.A1 would also reveal that it specifi es the boundaries within which the said extent of property lies. The recital in Ext.A1 that describing the property as property in Survey no. 845/1 having an extent of 2 acres and 61 cents along with 3/5th share of well and other plants standing in its four boundaries would not and could not be taken as something which would reduce the actual extent of the property under transaction i.e., 2 acres and 61 cents comprised within the boundaries mentioned thereunder.