S.O. 423 (E), Dolomite was notifi ed as a minor mineral, and accordingly henceforth, fell under the legislative and administrative jurisdiction of the State Government. 2.10. A Grant dated 16.07.2015 was issued by the Deputy Secretary, Commerce and Industries Department, West Bengal for Dolomite mining in favour of Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih in respect of 76 acres of land, subject to certain conditions, including the requirement to submit consent letters of owners of the land in question (Raiyats) before the execution of the lease deed, or a condition to this eff ect would be incorporated in the draft lease. Another stipulation mentioned therein is the need for permission under Section 14-Y4 of the West 4 14-Y. Limitation on future acquisition of land by a raiyat.—If at any time, after the commencement of the provisions of this Chapter, the total area of land owned by a raiyat exceeds the ceiling area applicable to him under Section 14-M, on account of transfer, inheritance or otherwise, the area of land which is in excess of the ceiling area shall vest in the State and all the provisions of this Chapter relating to ceiling area shall apply to such land: Provided that a person intending to establish a tea garden, mill, factory or workshop, livestock breeding farm, poultry farm, or dairy, or township in accordance with the provisions of the West Bengal Town and Country (Planning and Development) Act, 1979, may, with the previous permission, in writing, of the State Government and on such terms 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Bengal Land Reforms Act, 19555 for holding the required land and furnishing of Conversion Certifi cate for plots of land from the appropriate authority in terms of Section 4-C6 of the WBLR Act, 1955. It is also stipulated that the Grant and the subsequent execution of the lease deed are subject to the No Objection Certifi cate to be obtained from the Central Government since Dolomite was a major mineral at the time of the dated 10.09.2014 passed by the High Court. 2.11. Aggrieved by the conditions and the requirements stipulated in the Grant dated 16.07.2015, the Respondent No. 1 - M/s. Chiranjilal (Mineral) Industries of Bagandih fi led two Contempt Petitions in W.P. and conditions and in such manner as the State Government may by rules prescribe, acquire and hold land in excess of the ceiling area applicable to him under Section 14-M: Provided further that if such person, having been permitted by the State Government, does not utilise within two years of the date of such permission such land for the purpose for which he has been so permitted by the State Government to acquire and hold it, then, all the provisions of this Chapter relating to ceiling area shall apply to the area of land which is held in excess of the ceiling area applicable to him under Section 14-M. Explanation.—For the purpose of this section, “person” includes an individual, a fi rm, a company, an institution, or an association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not.