Reliance was placed E on passed by this Court in Sulbha Prakash Motegaonkar v. LIC1. However, for the period subsequent to 6.7.2009, the claim was not accepted by the insurance company. On a complaint filed by the appellant, a direction was issued by the District Forum to the insurance company to reimburse the expenses incurred on the treatment. The was upheld by the State Commission. However, the National Commission F has erroneously set aside that holding that the renewal of policy was not proper. No doubt, the health insurance policy was renewed on a direction issued by the District Forum, as upheld by the State Commission. However, non-renewal of a policy by the insurance company has certainly deprived the appellant from taking the policy from any other company. G At this stage, it would be unreasonable to deprive the appellant of the fruits of the policy in the form of claim, despite the fact that more than the normal premium was charged by the insurance company at the time of renewal as extra risk was covered. H 1 2015 SCC Online SC 1880. OM PRAKASH AHUJA v. RELIANCE GENERAL INSURANCE 89 CO. LTD. ETC. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 9. On the other hand, learned counsel for the insurance company A submitted that no benefit could accrue to the appellant in terms of an passed by the Commission, which was ultimately set aside. Initially the appellant had got the policy from 7.7.2007 to 6.7.2008, which was renewed upto 6.7.2009. There was some issue with reference to the claim for expenses incurred by the appellant for treatment of his wife as B the disease from which she was suffering at the time of purchasing the policy, was not disclosed. Still in a complaint filed by the appellant, direction was issued for reimbursement of the expenses incurred by the appellant. As the direction was upheld up to the National Commission, the insurance company has not challenged the same. Even though there may be dispute regarding the quantum of expenses incurred. C 10. There is no error in the passed by the National Commission whereby it has held that renewal of policy from 7.7.2009 onwards is not proper. In fact, the last policy of the appellant expired on 6.7.2009 and thereafter there was no renewal of the policy as the insurance company had refused to renew the same. It was in terms of D the passed by the District Forum on 11.9.2009 as upheld by the State Commission by dated 23.12.2010 and the interim passed by the National Commission on 13.5.2011 that the insurance policy from 7.7.2009 to 6.7.2012 was renewed in October 2011. Interim passed by the National Commission specifically stated that the renewal will be E subject to the final decision and finally the National Commission held that the direction issued by the State Commission for renewal of the policy was not proper. 11. Issuance of insurance policy is a contract. The insurance company cannot be compelled to sell any policy. In fact, the refusal to F renew the policy was in terms of the guidelines issued down by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority dated March 31, 2009.The appellant cannot compel the insurance company to violate those guidelines.