the under appeal be not granted. Referring to the arguments advanced by Dr. Singhvi on behalf of the appellant, learned ASG contended that the same do not deserve consideration being beyond the four corners of the affi davit of the appellant before the High Court. It was also his contention that the High Court rightly observed that “there is absolutely nothing that what consequences are likely to fall upon conviction”. 10. Reiterating that no exceptional circumstances deserving suspension of the appealed against having been brought out by the appellant, learned ASG concluded by submitting that the appeal may be dismissed. 11. Reference has been made by learned senior counsel appearing for the parties to multiple decisions of this Court on the subject of stay/ suspension of conviction, which need to be adverted to prior to deciding the contentious issue. In the process, it would be essential to consider certain other decisions too having a bearing on the question that this Court is now tasked to decide. 12. The decision in Ravikant S. Patil v. Sarvabhouma S. Bagali6, heavily relied on by Dr. Singhvi, in its turn, relied on Rama Narang v. Ramesh Narang & Ors.7. Ravikant S. Patil (supra) illuminates the position of law with respect to stay/suspension of conviction. This Court was considering an appeal under section 116-A of the RoP Act preferred by the appellant who was an elected member of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly. By and dated 28th July, 2000, the appellant was convicted and sentenced to undergo imprisonment for a period of 7 (seven) years by the Addl. Sessions Judge, Solapur, Maharashtra. Immediately thereafter, a criminal appeal was preferred by the appellant challenging the of conviction and of sentence. Pending the appeal, the Bombay High Court granted stay of the execution of the sentence. Fresh elections to the Karnataka Legislative Assembly having been notifi ed in the early part of 2004, the appellant once again moved the Bombay High Court and obtained an dated 26th March, 2004 staying his conviction. The appellant having fi led his nomination by the last date, i.e., 31st March, 2004, objection was lodged by the respondent which was turned down. 6 (2007) 1 SCC 673 7 (1995) 2 SCC 513 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. In the election that followed, the appellant came to be elected. Upon an election petition being fi led by the respondent, the same succeeded before the Karnataka High Court on the ground that the appellant stood disqualifi ed in terms of provisions contained in section 8 of the RoP Act to contest an election. The principle which is laid down by this decision is that stay of conviction is the exception, and to avail that exception the appellant will have to show irreversible consequence and injustice. The operative part is reproduced hereinbelow: “15. It deserves to be clarifi ed that an granting stay of conviction is not the rule but is an exception to be resorted to in rare cases depending upon the facts of a case.