But, such a provision is not available in this F State. Therefore, suitable Parliamentary amendment to the Administrative Tribunal Act is necessary to consider such proposal. The necessary steps for the same are being taken by the Central Government.” 69. The Union Government’s stance on a question of law before G a court in another case or for that matter, any party’s position on a question of law, does not preclude this Court from interpreting the law. In Zakir Abdul Mirajkar v. State of Maharashtra25, a two-judge Bench of this Court (of which one of us, Dr. DY Chandrachud, J. was a part) held: H 25 (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1092 ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 781 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “36. … A submission which is made on a question of law by A counsel appearing for a party (in this case, the state) cannot bind that party or for that matter, preclude this Court from correctly interpreting the law.” The Union Government’s stance before the Madras High Court in the TNAT Abolition Case (supra) will therefore not steer this Court’s B exegesis of the law. 70. At this juncture, we may also deal with three interrelated arguments put forward by the appellants with respect to the transfer of cases from the abolished OAT to the Orissa High Court: C a. The Constitution of India (including Article 323-A) does not envisage a transfer of cases from any court or tribunal to a particular High Court except in terms of Article 228 of the Constitution; b. While Section 29 of the Administrative Tribunals Act provides for the transfer of cases from the High Courts (or other D courts and authorities) to the relevant SATs, there is no provision which enables the transfer of cases from the abolished SATs back to the forum in which they would have been heard if not for the establishment of SATs; and c. The abolition of the OAT has the effect of enlarging the E jurisdiction of the Orissa High Court but Parliament alone has the power to create or enlarge jurisdiction. Reliance is placed on A.R. Antulay v. R.S. Nayak (1988) 2 SCC 602. 71. The response to the three arguments is that the transfer of cases from the OAT to the Orissa High Court is, properly characterized, F a revival of the latter’s jurisdiction. We agree with the impugned that the Orissa High Court’s jurisdiction in relation to matters pending before the OAT is not being created or enlarged by the abolition of the OAT. It previously exercised such jurisdiction and is merely resuming its jurisdiction over the same subject matter. It is for this reason that the G decision in A.R. Antulay (supra) is not applicable to the facts of the present case. 72. The natural consequence of the Union Government rescinding the notification establishing the OAT would be to restore the status quo ante. Nothing in either Article 323-A of the Constitution or the H 782 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.