An advertisement is generally of goods and services and is an information intended for the potential customers 40 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. and not a mere display of the name of the company unless the same happens to be a trade mark or trade name.” 17. The aforesaid fi nding was recorded in the background of Section 328A of Bombay Municipal Corporation Act. It has been further held therein to the following eff ect: “18. The context in which the word advertisement has been used in Section 328-A of the Corporation Act and in the commercial and ordinary parlance it must have direct or indirect connection with the business, trade or commerce carried out by the advertiser. It must have some commercial exposition. The advertisement would be for the purpose of directing or soliciting customers to the product or service prominently shown in the advertisement. If ordinary parlance meaning is not given to the word advertisement in Section 328-A it will create anomalous position, inasmuch as a simple name board put on the house to indicate who is residing in the premises, would also be an advertisement; a name board or signboard of a trader visible to the public or identifying the place of business would also be an advertisement. In our considered opinion advertisement within the meaning of Section 328-A of the Corporation Act must primarily have a commercial purpose and should be indicative of business activity of the displayer with a view to attract the attention of people to its business. 19. In the present case the appellant has put up an illuminated ATM board at various sites and as per the appellant it has been put only to tell the existing customers and others about the location of the ATM centres, which in itself is in the interest of public at large and not to attract new customers for opening the bank account. Normally, the ATM centres enable the customers to carry out the banking activities or transactions at any time, day or night and even on gazetted holidays. They are in the nature of public service as they enable the customers to do away with the need to keep large sums of cash in their house; they are able to have access to the money in their account even on holidays and emergency. The ATM centres have a signboard over them that are illuminated and tell about the fact that there lies the ATM centre of the Bank in that premises. The fact that there is an M/S HARSH AUTOMOBILES PRIVATE LIMITED v. INDORE 41 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] ATM centre in the premises tells that the appellant Bank is providing automatic teller machine service there and hence the service provider is clearly identifi ed. The communication in this is directed to the account-holders and also to prospective account-holders. The kind of information supplied of the location of the service provided may also be construed of commercial exploitation indirectly, as the signboards may not aim at the existing customers only but they may also aff ect the decisions of the prospective customers.