By the time I reached Mari temple, I once again made a phone call to Lijo. Lijo told me that Kafan’s son had called him over phone and asked me to go there saying that Kafan’s son Sajith had called him over phone. I and H 428 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Stanie again went near the court. Lijo was there and at that time Lijo got a phone call and he talked and then gave mobile phone to Stanie. Stanie talked directly and the person who was talking in the phone told that he would come to Sagar to obtain the advance amount. He even told that he would come after making a phone call.” B PW-15: “From 17 years I have been practicing as an Advocate in Sagar. I have the acquaintance of Babu of Marur village. He had come to my house on 09.12.2011 at about 7-45 in the evening. The said Babu was accompanied by his uncle and the accused before the Court. The witness was shown Ex.P.21. He has C identified the person who is holding documents in Ex.P.21- photograph as the brother-in-law of Babu. Babu, who came to my house, told me that the accused has a rubber roller machine and he is purchasing it. He asked me to prepare a sale agreement with regard to that. I asked him the details about the company of D the rubber roller machine, its owner, its number and other details, for which he said that he does not have all those details. According to the information furnished from them, I prepared a sale agreement of movable property. The witness was shown M.O. 41. He identifies it as the sale agreement that was prepared E by him. The accused, who was selling the rubber roller machine, did not know Kannada. I read out the sale agreement in Kannada and also in English. Since the accused did not know both English and Kannada, Lijo translated the contents of sale agreement into Malayalam language and explained to the accused. Both the vendor and vendee have affixed their signature before me. The accused, F who is the vendor, has affixed his signature and the vendee has also affixed his signature. Lijo has affixed his signature as a witness.” 21. The other surrounding circumstances which prove the accused being guilty of the offence beyond reasonable doubt are the recovery of G the articles belonging to the deceased and sold by the accused which were recovered on the strength of the voluntary statement of accused as per Ex.P-2. In-fact PW-5 has clearly stated as to how the accused intended to sell the immoveable property belonging to the deceased. PW-5 has clearly deposed as to how the accused was apprehended by the police when he was attempting to sell the property of the deceased. H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 429 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 22. That apart the statements made by the accused that deceased A had gone to Kerala or the deceased had suffered a paralytic stroke or deceased had proceeded to America and expired there are all incorrect and conflicting statements as has been deposed by PW-5, reliance of which is placed by the High Court in the background of the of this Court in State of Karnataka v. Swarnama8, and as such we are of B the view that conclusion arrived at by the High Court is based on sound appreciation of evidence and proper application of law.