In view of the above discussion, one now proceeds to consider the First Amendment of the American Constitution which is extracted as under: “Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom B of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.” 15. The contradistinction between the rights created by the First Amendment of the American Constitution and Article 19 of the Indian C Constitution is the power given to the State to make laws reasonably restricting such freedoms in India. Conversely, in the United States of America, restrictions have been imposed by the Judiciary in instances, as relied upon in Arup Bhuyan and Indra Das, however no such explicit power is available with the Legislature. D 16. This distinction has been enunciated by this Court as well. In Babulal Parate v. State of Maharashtra15, as submitted by the Union of India, a Constitution Bench of this Court (five-Judge Bench) while upholding the constitutional validity of Section 144, Cr.P.C. has held that whatever may be the position in the United States, the anticipatory action under S.144, Cr.P.C. is permissible under clauses (2) and (3) of Article E 19, which allow the legislature to make laws placing reasonable restrictions on the rights conferred by these clauses of Article 19. Importantly, this Court further observed there is nothing in the American Constitution corresponding to clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19 of the Indian Constitution. It was further observed that the framework of the Indian Constitution is F different from the American Constitution. 17. The above distinction in Babulal Parate (supra), was reaffirmed by another Constitution Bench in Madhu Limaye v. Sub-Divisional Magistrate16 (seven-Judge Bench), wherein this Court while dealing with the constitutionality of S.144 of the Cr.P.C. and the scope of G restrictions that can be imposed, observed that in America, the First Amendment freedoms have no qualifications, as in India and the American rulings are apt to be misapplied to our Constitution.17 15 (1961) 3 SCR 423 16 (1970) 3 SCC 746 17 Paragraph 17 and 28. H 568 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 18. Furthermore, in Indian Express Newspapers (Bombay) Pvt. Ltd. and Others v. Union of India and Others18 (three-Judge Bench), through the pen of E.S Venkatramaiah J., (as his Lordship then was), observed that: “44. While examining the constitutionality of a law which is alleged to contravene Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution, we cannot, no doubt, B be solely guided by the decisions of the Supreme Court of the United States of America. But in to understand the basic principles of freedom of speech and expression and the need for that in a democratic country, we may take them into consideration. The pattern of Article 19(1)(a) and of Article 19(1)(g) of our Constitution is different C from the pattern of the First Amendment to the American Constitution which is in absolute terms.