331 and Terikabi v. Uganda [1975] E.A. 60. But it is important to notice that in the countries concerned, the admissibility of a dying declaration does not depend upon the common law test: upon the deceased having at the time a settled hopeless expectation of impending death. Instead there is the very diff erent statutory provision contained in section 32 (1) of the Indian Evidence Act 1872. That section provides that statements of relevant facts made by a person who is dead are themselves relevant facts: 814 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. “When the statement is made by a person as to the cause of his death, or as to any of the circumstances of the transaction which resulted in his death, in cases in which the cause of that person’s death comes into question. Such statements are relevant whether the person who made them was or was not, at the time when they were made, under expectation of death, and whatever may be the nature of the proceeding in which the cause of his death comes into question.” (emphasis added). In Pius Jasunga s/o Akumu v. The Queen it was pointed out (for the reason associated with the italicised words in the subsection) that the weight to be attached to a dying declaration admitted by reference to section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872 would necessarily be less than that attached to a dying declaration admitted under the common law rules. The fi rst kind of statement would lack that special quality that is thought to surround a declaration made by a dying man who was conscious of his condition and who had given up all hope of survival. Accordingly it may not seem surprising that the courts dealing with such statements have felt the need to exercise even more caution in the use to be made of them than is the case where the common law test is applied.”” 57. This Court in Muthu Kutty & Anr. v. State by Inspector of Police, T.N. reported in (2005) 9 SCC 113, while discussing the decision in Woodcock (supra) referred to above had cautioned the courts to ensure that a dying declaration is reliable before relying on it, with the following observations: - “13. … The general principle on which this species of evidence is admitted is that they are declarations made in extremity, when the party is at the point of death and when every hope of this world is gone, when every motive to falsehood is silenced, and the mind is induced by the most powerful considerations to speak the truth; a situation so solemn and so lawful is considered by the law as creating an obligation equal to that which is imposed by a positive oath administered in a court of justice. These aspects have been eloquently stated by Eyre, L.C.B. in R. v. Woodcock ((1789) 1 Leah 500 : 168 ER 352). Shakespeare makes the wounded Melun, fi nding himself IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 815 [J.