51. We agree with the reasoning giving in Kadodara Power51 Rule 3(1)(b) of the Rules does not negate or undo the eligibility requirements specifi ed in paragraphs (i) and (ii) to Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules, which in case of an association of persons mandates the satisfaction of the proportionality requirement under the second proviso to Rules 3(1)(a). Rule 3(1)(b) refers to a situation where a company set up as a SPV has multiple units generating electricity. It stipulates that the company formed as a SPV can identify one or more of such generating units for its captive use. All the generating units need not be identifi ed for captive use. The units which are not identifi ed for captive use need not satisfy the conditions mentioned in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules. Electricity generated by these unidentifi ed units need not be accounted and considered. The explanation clarifi es the situation as it states that the requirement of consumption of electricity by captive users shall be determined with reference to the generating unit or units identifi ed for captive use. The unit or units identifi ed for captive use, in other words, must satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (i) and (ii) of Rule 3(1)(a) of the Rules read with the second proviso. This is also clear from Rule 3(2), which states that the equity shares held by the captive user in the generating station, which is identifi ed for captive use, should not be less than 26% of the proportionate equity of the company relating to the generating unit or units identifi ed as a CGP. The illustration to Section 3(1)(b) that is lucid, for the sake of convenience is again reproduced: “Illustration.—In a generating station with two units of 50 MW each namely Units A and B, one unit of 50 MW namely Unit A may be identifi ed as the Captive Generating Plant. The captive users shall hold not less than thirteen per cent of the equity shares in the 51 Supra note 5. M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 385 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] company (being the twenty-six per cent proportionate to Unit A of 50 MW) and not less than fi fty-one per cent of the electricity generated in Unit A determined on an annual basis is to be consumed by the captive users.” Thus, Rule 3(1)(b) of the Rules liberalises, gives fl exibility and an option when a generating station owned by company, incorporated as a SPV, has multiple generating units. Rule 3(1)(b) does not undo or override the eligibility criteria specifi ed under Rule 3(1)(a) read with second proviso. 52. It was submitted before us that since a SPV was an incorporated company, it could not be equated with an association of persons, which is usually understood to mean a recognised taxable entity and not as an incorporated entity. Reliance was placed on the interpretation by this Court in Ramanlal Bhailal Patel and Others v. State of Gujarat52, to contend that whenever an inclusive defi nition is provided for a term, an extended statutory interpretation of such term may be adopted.