The Finance Department’s letter dated 15th March 2010 approving the funds was received by the Accounts Department on 25th March 2010. The cheque towards court fees was received sometime in April 2010, after which the same was deposited with the Treasury on 7th May 2010. The Treasury having deposited the court fees on 11th May 2010, fi nally the appeal came to be presented on 2nd June 2010. APPELLANT’S CONTENTIONS 7. Mr. Chinmoy Pradip Sharma, learned senior counsel, contended that the High Court plainly erred in condoning the delay without suffi cient cause being shown therefor. He pointed out that the reasons cited were not reasonable by any measure, and that the same were habitual unacceptable explanations meted out in such land acquisition matters to seek condonation of delay. Adverting to the granting the prayer for condonation of delay, it was next submitted that the High Court, and this Court, on numerous occasions had refused to condone delays of lesser periods. An attempt was made to impress upon us that it was not even the case of the fi rst respondent that the explanation proff ered by it in the present matter was more cogent 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. than the ones in the other cases before several fora which were not accepted. He urged that the High Court caused a failure of justice in not appreciating that inter-departmental correspondence, bereft of an attempt to explain the delay, did not amount to showing suffi cient cause warranting condonation of the same. The approach of the High Court was criticised as mechanical and perverse. 8. Mr. Sharma submitted that the application for condonation of delay before the High Court simply provided a narration of the ‘chain of matters’ post the of the Reference Court. In the present case, not only was there a delay of almost 6 months in applying for a certifi ed copy of the of the Reference Court, but also a delay of 10 months thence in fi ling the appeal after receipt of approval from the Principal Secretary (Land and Building) on 11th August 2009. Such an explanation, Mr. Sharma urged, ought not to be construed as a satisfactorily explained delay as per Balwant Singh (Dead) v. Jagdish Singh & Ors.1. 9. Relying on several other decisions of this Court, more particularly the decision in University of Delhi v. Union of India & Ors2, Mr. Sharma prayed that the appeal be allowed by setting aside the impugned and dismissing the appeal of the fi rst respondent before the High Court as time barred. RESPONDENTS’ CONTENTIONS 10. Per contra, Mr. Sanjiv Sen, learned senior counsel, urged this Court not to disturb the fi ndings in the impugned since the High Court had, in judicious exercise of discretion, condoned the delay after satisfying itself as to the suffi ciency of the reasons for the delay in presentation of the appeal. 11. Mr. Sen was heard informing us of the negligent conduct of counsel for the fi rst respondent before the Reference Court costing him his empanelment.