A reading of the SMA in a gender-neutral manner would impact the interpretation of these provisions. m. By declaring that non-heterosexual couples have a right to marry, this Court would be granting legal recognition to a new social relationship. Such a declaration by this Court could also pre-empt debates on this issue in the legislature; and n. The term ‘spouse’ in Section 7A of the Citizenship Act 1955 cannot be read in a gender neutral manner. Section 7A of the Citizenship Act applies to the same class of persons to whom the FMA applies. The FMA expressly uses the phrases ‘bride’ and ‘bridegroom.’ Section 4 of the FMA prescribes the same conditions for the registration of a marriage as Section 4 of SMA. 43. Mr. Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel appearing for intervenor made the following submissions: a. Marriage was defi ned by the social acceptability of a relationship even before it was codifi ed. The heterosexual nature of a marriage was not introduced by law. Law merely regulated unions which were socio-historically recognised. The law has always diff erentiated between heterosexual and non-heterosexual unions; b. A legal recognition of a union is premised on the recognition of a relationship on an individual level, family level, and societal level; c. The right of a person to choose a partner of their choice is protected under Article 21. However, the legislative recognition of such a choice is not a fundamental right; d. The right to marry cannot be traced to the right to privacy. The right to privacy postulates the right to be left alone. There is a negative obligation on the State and the society to not interfere 127 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. with choices of individuals. However, if the exercise of the right to privacy has a public dimension, the State must regulate the exercise of the right in the larger interest of the community. The State has, in the past, regulated the parameters of choice within the realm of marriage with respect to the number of partners and the age of marriage. Thus, the right to the recognition of non- heterosexual unions is not traceable in Article 21; e. The South African Supreme Court in Minister of Home Aff airs v. Fourie53 and the United States Supreme Court in Obergefell v. Hodges, Director, Department of Health54 while recognising the right to marry acknowledged the importance and relevance of social debate and public discourse on the issue. The courts observed that the public has become more accepting of non- heterosexual unions. While it may not be necessary to reach public consensus on social issues, it is still important to have some form of discourse on the issue be it through law commissions, referendums, bills in the legislature, or even High Court decisions; f. Public engagement also goes hand-in-hand with an incrementalistic approach by the courts or the legislature. For example, Mexico City recognised cohabitation partnership of homosexual unions in 2006. Three years later, their right to marry was recognised.