59. The same principle is applicable to the signatory/director in the case of Section 138/141 proceedings. The signatory/director cannot take benefit of discharge obtained by the corporate debtor by operation G of law under the IBC. 60. If the argument that extinguishment of debt under Section 31 of the IBC leads to the discharge of signatory/director under Section 138 proceedings is accepted, the same will lead to conflict in law as laid down compared to the guarantor’s liability wherein in spite of the plan H being approved, the guarantor is held separately liable for the remaining AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1035 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] amount.If the guarantor does not get the benefit of extinguishment of A debt under Section 31 of the IBC, then similarly for extinguishment of debt, the signatory/director cannot get any benefit. If accepted, this may lead to uncertainty in the first Principles of law on interpretation of extinguishment of debt. In Lalit Kumar Jain (supra) this Court held as under: B “122. It is therefore, clear that the sanction of a resolution plan and finality imparted to it by Section 31 does not per se operate as a discharge of the guarantor’s liability. As to the nature and extent of the liability, much would depend on the terms of the guarantee itself. However, this Court has C indicated, time and again, that an involuntary act of the principal debtor leading to loss of security, would not absolve a guarantor of its liability. In Maharashtra SEB [Maharashtra SEB v. Official Liquidator, (1982) 3 SCC 358] the liability of the guarantor (in a case where liability of the principal debtor was discharged under the Insolvency law or the Company D law), was considered. It was held that in view of the unequivocal guarantee, such liability of the guarantor continues and the creditor can realise the same from the guarantor in view of the language of Section 128 of the Contract Act, 1872 as there is no discharge under Section E 134 of that Act. This Court observed as follows: (SCC pp. 362-63, para 7) “7. Under the bank guarantee in question the Bank has undertaken to pay the Electricity Board any sum up to Rs 50,000 and in to realise it all that the Electricity F Board has to do is to make a demand. Within forty-eight hours of such demand the Bank has to pay the amount to the Electricity Board which is not under any obligation to prove any default on the part of the Company in liquidation before the amount demanded is paid. The Bank cannot raise the plea that it is liable only to the extent of any loss G that may have been sustained by the Electricity Board owing to any default on the part of the supplier of goods i.e. the Company in liquidation. The liability is absolute and unconditional. The fact that the Company in liquidation i.e. the principal debtor has gone into liquidation also H 1036 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R.