Custody does not mean a formal one. Rather, it can only be construed when an arrestee is given in physical custody. We make it clear that our interpretation of physical custody is meant to be applied to Section 167(2) of the CrPC, 1973 alone. 58. In Sundeep Kumar Bafna v. State of Maharashtra, (2014) 16 SCC 623, while dealing with the interpretation of word “custody” this Court has relied upon several dictionaries: “Meaning of custody 9. Unfortunately, the terms “custody”, “detention” or “arrest” have not been defi ned in CrPC, and we must resort to few dictionaries to appreciate their contours in ordinary and legal parlance: 9.1. Oxford Dictionary (online) defi nes “custody” as imprisonment, detention, confi nement, incarceration, internment, captivity; remand, duress, and durance. 9.2. Cambridge Dictionary (online) explains “custody” as the state of being kept in prison, especially while waiting to go to court for trial. (emphasis supplied) 9.3. Longman Dictionary (online) defi nes “custody” as “when someone is kept in prison until they go to court, because the police think they have committed a crime”. 9.4. Chambers Dictionary (online) clarifi es that custody is “the condition of being held by the police; arrest or imprisonment; to take someone into custody to arrest them”. 9.5. Chambers’ Thesaurus supplies several synonyms, such as detention, confinement, imprisonment, captivity, arrest, formal incarceration. 894 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 9.6. Collins Cobuild English Dictionary for Advance Learners states in terms that someone who is in custody or has been taken into custody or has been arrested and is being kept in prison until they get tried in a court or if someone is being held in a particular type of custody, they are being kept in a place that is similar to a prison. 9.7. Shorter Oxford English Dictionary postulates the presence of confi nement, imprisonment, durance and this feature is totally absent in the factual matrix before us. 9.8. Corpus Juris Secundum under the topic of “Escape & Related Off enses; Rescue” adumbrates that “custody, within the meaning of statutes defi ning the crime, consists of the detention or restraint of a person against his or her will, or of the exercise of control over another to confi ne the other person within certain physical limits or a restriction of ability or freedom of movement.” 9.9. This is how “custody” is dealt with in Black’s Law Dictionary, (5th Edn. 2009): “Custody.—The care and control of a thing or person. The keeping, guarding, care, watch, inspection, preservation or security of a thing, carrying with it the idea of the thing being within the immediate personal care and control of the person to whose custody it is subjected. Immediate charge and control, and not the fi nal, absolute control of ownership, implying responsibility for the protection and preservation of the thing in custody. Also the detainer of a man’s person by virtue of lawful process or authority. The term is very elastic and may mean actual imprisonment or physical detention or mere power, legal or physical, of imprisoning or of taking manual possession.