The other material witness examined by the prosecution includes P.W.8 (Well Borja) – the brother of the deceased, who is also admittedly not an eye witness. Having come to know that his brother had been assaulted by the appellant, he reached the place of occurrence and saw his younger brother lying dead on the fl oor. 6. It may also be mentioned at this stage that as per the postmortem report, the deceased suff ered the following injuries: “1. Laceration of size 7 cm x 1 cm x muscle deep is present over right forehead, 3 cm from mid-line and 2.5 cm above eyebrow. 2. Laceration of size 2 cm x 1 cm x muscle deep is present over left mastoid region. 3. Laceration of size 2 cm x 1 cm x muscle deep is present just below the chin and placed obliquely.” 7. Dr. Ved Prakash Gupta, who conducted the autopsy of the dead body, entered into the witness box as P.W.4 and while acknowledging the postmortem report prepared by him, opined that “the injury sustained over the head by the deceased is fatal to cause instantaneous death.” 8. The Trial Court on consideration of the above-stated evidence held the appellant guilty of committing an off ence under Section 302 IPC and consequently, sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment. 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 9. It appears that owing to his poor fi nancial conditions, the appellant’s appeal was forwarded by the Jail Authorities and with the able assistance of an amicus curiae, the High Court on re-evaluation of the entire evidence came to the following conclusion: “14. In view of the facts and circumstances, which are well supported by the witnesses, we disagree with the submission of the learned Amicus Curiae that the conviction of the accused appellant was based on suspicion only. We also disagree with the submission of the learned counsel that the word of the “confession” has to be recorded in the exact words of the accused specifi cally when it is extra judicial confession. At para 8 of the of the Hon’ble Apex Court passed in the case of Ajay Sing -Vs- State of Maharashtra reported in (2007) 12 sec 341, it has been stated that though it is not necessary that the witness should speak the exact words, but there cannot be vital and material diff erence. This very sentence shows that it is not necessary that the witness should give the exact words spoken by the accused who confessed but it would be suffi cient if the material and vital parts of the confession has been stated by the witness. In this case, under the facts and circumstances, the fact that the PW-6 has stated in her deposition that her father confessed to her that he had murdered her husband when she questioned him is suffi cient enough as the same is clear, specifi c, unambiguous and trustworthy.” 10. As regards the defence plea taken by the appellant that there was no eye witness to the occurrence and that the alleged confession made by him before his daughter (P.W.6) could not be relied upon, the High Court found no merit in those contentions and opined that: 17.