A laying the sewer main and sewer pumping station in the land of the petitioner. 7. In the meantime, a Pubic Interest Litigation2 was instituted before the High Court of Judicature at Madras. The petitioner was impleaded as sixth respondent to the writ petition. The PIL was instituted B on behalf of the residents of Ward No. 147 who sought a direction for the completion of the underground drainage work so as to enable them to have the benefit of a sewerage facility. The residents submitted that 15,000 families were affected because of the failure to lay pipelines along the stretch of the 110 meters connecting the underground drainage C to the pumping station. 8. The Division Bench in its dated 3 October 2017, adverted to the writ petition instituted by the petitioner which was dismissed by the Single Judge of 4 April 2017. The Division Bench also noted that D there was an appellate of 27 April 2017. After having noticed the provisions of the statute, the Division Bench disposed of the writ petition by directing the Board to lay the pipelines and complete the underground drainage within three months. The last paragraph of the indicates that the petitioner was directed to be impleaded as the sixth respondent, together with the final disposing of the petition. E 9. The challenge in the first Special Leave Petition is to the of the Division Bench dated 3 October 2017 by which the authorities have been directed to complete the laying of the drainage line. The companion Special Leave Petition has been instituted by the Chennai F Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board for challenging the dated 27 April 2017 of the Division Bench. 10. As regards the first of the two Special Leave Petitions under Article 136 of the Constitution, the petitioner does have a legitimate grievance that an was passed in the PIL directly affecting the G rights of the petitioner without furnishing an adequate opportunity of being heard. As noted earlier, the for the impleadment of the petitioner was passed when the PIL was disposed of finally on 3 October 2017. H 2 “PIL” E. JEEVANANDAM v. N. KOTESWARA RAO & ORS. 1103 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 11. Ordinarily, we would have been inclined to set aside the A impugned of the High Court and to remit the proceedings back for fresh consideration. That however would not resolve the substance of the controversy. When the Special Leave Petition arising from the of the Division Bench dated 3 October 2017 was entertained by this Court on 27 October 2017, while issuing notice, the Court observed that B if the petitioner succeeds, he shall be entitled to compensation in accordance with law. In the absence of an of stay, the work of laying the sewerage line has been completed. The developmental work which has been carried out by the Board is in the form of a public amenity to the residents of the area. The title of the petitioner is by no means C free from doubt since it is the subject matter of a civil dispute.