The Division Bench noticed how the process of law was being subverted and the trial interfered including the report of the Inspecting Judge. The trial was ed to be transferred to Patna to ensure a fair trial. The Division Bench quoted extensively from the of the Supreme Court in (2004) 4 SCC 158 (Zahira Habibullah Sheikh Vs. State of Gujarat). It cautioned the Presiding Offi cer to be wary and ensure that justice was done in all respects. Liberty was given for recall of prosecution witnesses under Section 311 CrPC. The Presiding Offi cer in the sheet dated 08.09.2008 specifi cally states that he has gone through the of the Division Bench and then quotes the directions with regard to recall of witnesses but makes no reference to the observation from the case of Zahira Sheikh. He also refers to Cr. Misc. No.44589 of 2006 preferred by Kishori Rai, a seizure list witness for his examination under Section 311 CrPC. The FIR in the form of a dying declaration was not marked as an exhibit. The Presiding Offi cer himself states that it is the nature of a dying declaration. The application fi led by Kishori Rai, seizure list witness, to examine him along with Narendra Singh and Sanjeev Kumar Singh (attesting witness to the FIR) as witnesses, was rejected HARENDRA RAI v. THE STATE OF BIHAR & ORS. 433 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] by stating that no such application was fi led by the Public Prosecutor for their examination. No statement of the latter two was their under Section 161 CrPC and neither were they charge sheeted witness. The application of Kishori Rai was rejected by saying that the original seizure list was not on record. Kishori Rai was not a charge sheet witness or the informant but a stranger and no application by him on behalf of the informant, who was dead, would be entertained. The P.P. remained silent. The Presiding Offi cer preferred to ignore the directions of the Division Bench from the observations in the case of Zahira Habibullah Sheikh. After the of the Division Bench, the Public Prosecutor fi led an application for recall of certain witnesses including FIR witnesses (not the attesting witnesses). The Public Prosecutor then himself fi led their affi davits that they did not wish to depose beyond what was deposed by them at Bhagalpur. The Public Prosecutor then requested for evidence to be closed. The Court took no further steps to verify the voluntary nature and genuineness of the affi davits. The conduct of the Presiding Offi cer ignoring these duties prescribed in the case of Zahira Habibullah Sheikh in taking no steps for having the F.I.R. exhibited is shocking. After acknowledging that it was in the form of a dying declaration, he rejects it as it had not been proved. No coercive steps whatsoever were taken to secure the attendance of the Investigating Offi cer. It was simply stated that despite eff orts and notice to D.G.P., he has not appeared.