On the basis of the investigation carried out by the Crime Branch, Section 302 of IPC was applied while filing the chargesheet. 4. We must record here that the High Court has disbelieved the prosecution’s case about the existence of motive. The prosecution’s case F was that the deceased had seen the appellant and PW-12 in a compromising position and therefore, they held a grudge against the deceased. After considering the evidence of PW-3, PW-18 and PW-22 on the alleged motive of the crime, the High Court came to the conclusion that motive was not established. The High Court relied upon the testimony of PW-13 Karim Baksh who stated that he heard the cry of the deceased G “Mujhe Bachao” and sound of the firing of SAF. The witness stated that when he saw the deceased lying on the chair with bullet injuries, the appellant was telling PW-12 Shashi Bala in Hindi “Madam aapne yeh kya karva diya, Mere to bache barbad ho jayenge”. According to the witness, Shashi Bala responded by telling the accused that: “tum phikr H 716 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A mat karo may bhi tumhare saath hu, court tak tumhara saath dungi”. The Court applied the doctrine of res gestae covered by Section 6 of the Indian Evidence Act 1872 (for short, “the Evidence Act”). RIVAL SUBMISSIONS 5.The learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant has taken B us through the notes of evidence of the relevant witnesses. He submitted that taking the prosecution case as correct, in the scuffle between the deceased and the appellant, the SAF got entangled in the chain of the appellant’s belt which resulted in the accidental firing of bullets from the SAF. He submitted that once the motive is discarded, the prosecution’s C case based on circumstantial evidence must fail. He urged that no offence was committed by the appellant in view of Section 80 of IPC as the death was as a result of purely an accident. 6.In the alternative, he submitted that at the highest, the second part of Section 304 of IPC was applicable. He submitted that the Courts below have committed an error by invoking Section 302. D 7. Learned counsel for the State supported the impugned s. Learned counsel pointed out that the reports of the ballistic expert and ocular evidence clearly show that the appellant certainly had knowledge that the use of SAF carbine may cause death. E CONSIDERATION OF THE SUBMISSIONS 8. There is no dispute that the deceased was the victim of five bullets fired from the SAF carbine held by the appellant and that the bullet injuries caused his death. The Trial Court and the High Court held that the defence of accidental firing cannot be accepted and that the act F of firing bullets by the appellant was intentional. The Court rejected the defence of the accident pleaded by the appellant by taking recourse to Section 80 of IPC. 9. The motive alleged by the prosecution was that the deceased had seen PW-12 Shashi Bala (Sub-Inspector) and the appellant in a G compromising position.