12. Since the date for the convening of the Budget Session is barely three days away, the petition was mentioned for urgent s, on which it was directed to be listed at 3.50 pm today. D 13. Dr Abhishek Manu Singhvi, senior counsel has appeared on behalf of the petitioner. Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India appears on behalf of the first respondent. Mr Ajay Pal, counsel has appeared for the second respondent. 14. At the outset, the Solicitor General has placed on the record an E dated 28 February 2023 of the Governor of Punjab. For convenience of reference, the is extracted below: “In exercise of the powers conferred upon me by virtue of Clause(1) of Article 174 of the Constitution of India, I, Banwarilal Purohit, Governor of Punjab, hereby summon the Sixteenth Vidhan F Sabha of the State of Punjab to meet for its Fourth (Budget) Session at 10.00 am on Friday, the 3rd March 2023 in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha Hall, Vidhan Bhavan, Chandigarh.” 15. In terms of the above , the Governor of Punjab has summoned the Sixteenth Vidhan Sabha of the State of Punjab to meet G for its Fourth (Budget) Session at 10 am on 3 March 2023. 16. With the issuance of the above by the Governor, the reliefs which have been sought in the petition have been substantially fulfilled. However, before disposing of the petition, there are certain facets which must be highlighted by this Court in the exercise of its constitutional H duty. STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 539 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 17. The institution of these proceedings has its genesis in the A communications issued by the Governor for the disclosure of information by the State government. Article 167 of the Constitution enunciates the duty of the Chief Minister to furnish information to the Governor. The provision is in the following terms: “167. Duties of Chief Minister as respects the furnishing of B information to Governor, etc– It shall be the duty of the Chief Minister of each State– (a) to communicate to the Governor of the State all decisions of the Council of Ministers relating to the administration of the affairs of the State and proposals for legislation; C (b) to furnish such information relating to the administration of the affairs of the State and proposals for legislation as the Governor may call for; and (c) if the Governor so requires, to submit for the consideration of the Council of Ministers any matter on which a decision D has been taken by a Minister but which has not been considered by the Council.” 18. The Chief Minister has the duty to communicate to the Governor all decisions of the Council of Ministers relating to the administration of the affairs of the State and proposals for legislation. E Going beyond the duty to communicate, the Chief Minister has a duty to furnish such information relating to the administration of the affairs of the State and proposals for legislation as the Governor may require.