Thus, the very procedure adopted by the Operating Agency appears to be defective at its very inception. [Para 23][90-C-D] 1.3 The object of the auction is to secure optimum realizable E value of the property by giving opportunity to the potential buyers facing competitive bids either in open or closed format. The terms ‘auction’ or ‘bid’ are inter–related as both give the idea of selling the product to the public. Bidding involves the process where a person offers a price which is known as a bid. The process of F bidding takes place in a situation where large number of people show their willingness to buy a particular product or a service and bidding in a sealed envelope is often used by various companies, industries and small businesses for assessing the needs of the public at large. On the other hand, auction is the process that involves buying and selling goods and services by G offering them for bids, taking bids and selling the item to the highest bidder and that is possible if there is a competitive bidding between the bidders. The purpose of auction (open or close format) is to get the most remunerative price and giving H RAJIV KUMAR JINDAL v. BCI STAFF COLONY 81 RESIDENTIAL WELFARE ASSOCIATION opportunity to the intending bidders to participate and fetch higher A realizable value of the property. If that path is cut down or closed, the possibility of fraud or to secure inadequate price or underbidding would loom large. In the given circumstances, it is the duty of the Court to exercise its discretion wisely and with circumspection and keeping in view the facts and circumstances B in each case. [Paras 24, 25][90-E-H] 1.4 The appellants (auction bidder) have neither paid the sale consideration in terms of clause (h) of the guidelines nor furnished the bank guarantee within 15 days of the acceptance of the bid in terms of clause (i) of the guidelines. [Para 29][92-F-G] C 1.5 When the matter was placed before the BIFR, the Bench took note of the fact that the appellants were the sole bidder for Block IV and have not complied with the ASC guidelines. Taking both the factors into consideration, the bid of the appellants was not confirmed but on appeal being preferred by the appellants, D the AAIFR did not take into consideration that the guidelines of the ASC have not been followed and the appellant was the sole bidder, as there was no competitive bidding which is always to be taken care of to secure the optimized value of the property. [Para 30][92-G-H; 93-A] E 1.6 The appellants have shown their willingness to deposit the bid amount in two instalments but the fact is that even before the came to be passed by the BIFR, neither the bank guarantee was furnished nor a single instalment was deposited by the appellants and the AAIFR erred in setting aside the of BIFR. [Para 31][93-B-C] F 1.7 The Division Bench of the High Court had revisited the entire proceedings and taking into consideration the fact that there was no competitive bidding which is a sine qua non for public auction and guidelines of the ASC have not been complied with, accordingly set aside the of the AAIFR with a further G direction to initiate the process afresh in accordance with law.