We are of the opinion that the service provided by the ESI hospital/dispensary falls within the ambit of “service” as defi ned in Section 2(1)(o) of the Consumer Protection Act. ESI scheme is an insurance scheme and it contributes for the service rendered by the ESI hospitals/dispensaries, of medical care in its hospitals/dispensaries, and as such service given in the ESI hospitals/dispensaries to a member of the Scheme or his family cannot be treated as gratuitous.” 49. Section 1 (4) of CPA 1986, (which was in force when the appellant preferred his complaint) reads as follows: “1. Short title, extent, commencement and applications: (4) Save as otherwise expressly provided by the Central Government by notifi cations, this Act shall apply to all goods and services.” 50. Earlier, keeping in line with the reasoning that furthered the objectives of the CPA 1986, spelt out in V.P. Shantha, this court had rejected, in Regional Provident Fund Commissioner v Shiv Kumar Joshi40: “We cannot accept the argument that the Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, being Central Government, cannot be held to be rendering “service” within the meaning and scheme of the Act. The Regional Provident Fund Commissioner, under the Act and the Scheme discharges statutory functions for running the Scheme. It has not, in any way, been delegated with the sovereign powers of the State so as to hold it as a Central Government, being not the authority rendering the “service” under the Act. The Commissioner is a separate and distinct entity. It cannot legally claim that the facilities provided by the “Scheme” were not “service” or that the benefi ts under the Scheme being provided were free of charge. The defi nition of “consumer” under the Act includes not only the person who hires the “services” for consideration but also the benefi ciary, for whose benefi t such services are hired. Even if it is held that administrative charges are paid by 40 1999 (5) Suppl. SCR 294. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 631 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the Central Government and no part of it is paid by the employee, the services of the Provident Fund Commissioner in running the Scheme shall be deemed to have been availed of for consideration by the Central Government for the benefi t of employees who would be treated as benefi ciaries within the meaning of that word used in the defi nition of “consumer”. 51. In Haryana Urban Development Authority v Vidya Chetal41, this court, speaking through a three-judge bench, held that: “..if the statutory authority, other than the core sovereign duties, is providing service, which is encompassed under the Act, then, unless any statute exempts, or provides for immunity, for defi ciency in service, or specifi cally provides for an alternative forum, the consumer forums would continue to have the jurisdiction to deal with the same. We need to caution against over-inclusivity and the tribunals need to satisfy the ingredients under Consumer Protection Laws, before exercising the jurisdiction.” 52.