substance. Where the transaction takes the form of a contract or other deed, it depends upon a proper construction of the terms of the contract whether a payment made thereunder is a capital disbursement or revenue expenditure. The true nature of a transaction must be gathered by placing emphasis on the business aspect of the transaction. What is an outgoing of capital and what is an outgoing on account of revenue depends on what the expenditure is calculated to eff ect from the practical and business point of view. This aspect of the transaction is then, to be reconciled with juristic classifi cation of the legal rights, if any, secured, employed, or exhausted in the process. 22.1. Therefore, what is material is the nature of right sought to be secured through the payment or transaction in question. The purpose towards which the expenditure is incurred must guide any attempt to categorise the expenditure. The structure or form of the transaction or the payment schedule is hardly suggestive of the nature of the transaction. Therefore, it cannot be axiomatically held that an expenditure which in its core, capital in nature, is actually to be treated as a revenue expenditure simply because the payment is structured in instalments. 22.2. The determinative test to identify whether an expenditure structured in the form of instalments is in the nature of a capital expenditure or revenue expenditure, would be to fi rst assess whether the payment made either in lump-sum or in instalments relates to the acquisition or expansion of a capital asset, or by contrast, relates to the working of an asset to produce profi ts; whether the consideration payable towards the acquisition or expansion of a capital asset has simply been chopped up into smaller sums payable in instalments, for the sake of convenience. The dictum of this Court in Pingle Industries Ltd., is relevant in this regard. In the said case, the majority stated that the payment in question therein was made with a view to acquire a long-term lease and a right to mine stones, and the lease was conveyed to the assessee who had to extract the stones and convert them as a stock-in-trade. That the expenditure was incurred towards securing a capital asset from which, after extraction, stones could be converted into stock-in-trade. The payment, though periodic, in fact, was neither rent nor royalty but a lump-sum payment in instalments for acquiring a capital asset of enduring benefi t to the assessee’s trade. According to this Court “it was really the entire sum chopped into small payments for his 462 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. convenience.” Hence, the amount could not be described as a business expense, because the outgoings every month were not to be taken as spent over purchase of stones but in discharge of a singular original obligation to the jagir. These observations clearly establish the diff erence between a revenue expenditure on the one hand and capital expenditure incurred in instalments on the other hand.