Whether disciplinary proceedings were ‘contemplated’ against Mr. Dinesh Singh as on date of consideration, that is, 31.08.2019 32. What does the word ‘contemplate’ entail in the context of Rule 9(1)(a)(iii)? Said rule provides for two conditions, both of which have to be satisfi ed since the two conditions are separated by the conjunction ‘and’ instead of ‘or’. To put it diff erently, what Rule 9 (1)(a)(iii) mandates is that not only there must be no pending disciplinary proceeding but there must also not be any action contemplated against the candidate as on date of consideration. 33. It is now trite that a disciplinary proceeding is said to be pending when a formal charge-sheet is issued to the employee.10 The stage at which action can be contemplated has to, quite obviously, come before the time at which a disciplinary proceeding becomes pending (i.e. at the time of issuing a formal chargesheet). At what point between the employer having received information/knowledge of an alleged misconduct committed by the employee and the ultimate initiation of disciplinary proceedings by issuing chargesheet, can it be said that disciplinary proceedings are contemplated? The entire challenge before us is to fi nd that point. 34. The word contemplate has diff erent meanings in the English Dictionary. It can mean ‘to think deeply at length’; ‘to have in view as a probable intention’; to think about. According to us, the second meaning comes closest to the sense in which the rule-maker intended the rule to operate. Probability is a step ahead of possibility but falls short of certainty. With this basic logic in mind, we can glance through some of the rulings which have interpreted the word ‘contemplate’ in similar contexts. Meaning of the term “Contemplation” : 35. In H.Surendra Shetty v. Vijaya Bank, MG Road Bangalore & Ors., ILR 2000 Kar 2883 wherein the disciplinary proceedings were initiated 10 Union of India Vs. KV Janakiraman (1991) 4 SCC 109. STATE OF HARYANA AND OTHERS v. DINESH SINGH 1061 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] against the petitioner with respect to certain irregularities. The Karnataka High Court explained the meaning “contemplation” and made the following observations: “20. The meaning given in Black's Law Dictionary, 5th edition (1979) for the word 'contemplation' is as follows: "The act of the mind in considering with attention. Continued attention of the mind to a particular subject. Consideration of an act or series of acts with the intention of doing or adopting them. The consideration of an event or state of facts with the expectation that it will transpire". Thus, contemplation is a process that goes on in the mind and falls far short of a 'decision' which refers to the culmination of the process of contemplation in arriving at a defi nite conclusion as to the next course of action to be taken under a set of facts with the intention of carrying out a certain act. Thus, mere contemplation cannot serve as the basis for adopting the sealed cover procedure as it does not answer to the tests adopted in the decisions relied upon by learned Counsel Ramadass to justify the adoption of the sealed cover procedure.” 21.