But, if the fundamental right of the poor and helpless victims of injustice is sought to be enforced by public interest litigation, F the so-called champions of human rights frown upon it as waste of time of the highest court in the land, which, according to them, should not engage itself in such small and trifling matters. Moreover, these self-styled human rights activists forget that civil and political rights, priceless and invaluable as they are for freedom and democracy, simply do not exist for the vast G masses of our people. Large numbers of men, women and children who constitute the bulk of our population are today living a sub-human existence in conditions of object poverty; utter grinding poverty has broken their back and sapped their moral fiber. They have no faith in the existing social and H 1006 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A economic system. What civil and political rights are these poor and deprived sections of humanity going to enforce? This was brought out forcibly by W. Paul Gormseley at the silver jubilee celebrations of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at the Banaras Hindu University : B “Since India is one of those countries which has given a pride of place to the basic human rights and freedoms in its Constitution in its Chapter on Fundamental Rights and on the Directive Principles of State Policy and has already completed twenty-five years of independence, the question may be raised whether or not the fundamental rights C enshrined in our Constitution have any meaning to the millions of our people to whom food, drinking water, timely medical facilities and relief from disease and disaster, education and job opportunities still remain unavoidable. We, in India, should on this occasion study the human rights / D declared and defined by the United Nations and compare them with the rights available in practice and secured by the law of our country.” The Only solution for making civil and political rights meaningful to these large sections of society would be to E remake the material conditions and restructure the social and economic so that they may be able to realize the economic, social and cultural rights. There is indeed close relationship between civil and political rights on the one hand and economic, social and cultural rights on the other and this relationship is so obvious that the International Human Rights F Conference in Teheran called by the General Assembly in 1968 declared in a final proclamation: “Since human rights and fundamental’ freedoms are indivisible, the full realization of civil and political rights without the enjoyment of economic, social and cultural rights G is impossible.” Of Course, the task of restricting the social economic so that the social and economic rights become a meaningful reality for the poor and lowly sections of the community is one which legitimately belongs to the legislature H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 1007 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] and the executive, but mere initiation of social and economic A rescue programmes by the executive and the legislature would not be enough and it is only through multi-dimensional strategies including public interest litigation that these social and economic rescue programmes can be made effective.