The learned Civil Court erred in assuming that it had the power to do so, in the absence of any such provision in the Punjab Police Rules, 1934. There may be cases where a High Court under Articles 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India or this Court in exercise of its constitutional powers may specifi cally direct for fresh consideration of a representation, even in the absence of specifi c provisions. In High Court of Tripura v. Tirtha Sarathi Mukher-jee, (2019) 16 SCC 663, the question that arose was whether, in the absence of a statutory provision, a writ petitioner could seek re-evaluation of examination an-swer scripts? Answering, this Court held: “20. The question however arises whether even if there is no legal right to demand re-valuation as of right could there arise circumstances which leave the Court in any doubt at all. A grave injustice may be occasioned to a writ applicant in certain circumstances. The case may arise where even though there is no provision for re-valuation it turns out that despite giving the correct answer no marks are awarded. No doubt this must be confi ned to a case where there is no dispute about the correctness of the answer. Further, if there is any doubt, the doubt should be resolved in favour of the examining body rather than in favour of the candidate. The wide power under Article 226 may continue to be available even though there is no provision for re-valuation in a situation where a candidate despite having giving correct answer and about which there cannot be even the slightest manner of doubt, he is treated as having given the wrong answer and consequently the candidate is found disentitled to any marks. UNION TERRITORY OF LADAKH v. JAMMU AND KASHMIR 91 NATIONAL CONFERENCE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 21. Should the second circumstance be demonstrated to be present before the writ court, can the writ court become helpless despite the vast reservoir of power which it possesses? It is one thing to say that the absence of provision for re-valuation will not enable the candidate to claim the right of evaluation as a matter of right and another to say that in no circumstances whatsoever where there is no provision for re-valuation will the writ court exercise its undoubted constitutional powers? We reiterate that the situation can only be ra- re and exceptional.” (emphasis supplied)” (emphasis supplied by us via bolding) 22. Elections to any offi ce/body are required to be free, fair and transparent. Elections lie at the core of democracy. The authority entrusted by law to hold/ conduct such elections is to be completely independent of any extraneous infl uence/consideration. It is surprising that the Union Territory of Ladakh not only denied R1 the Plough symbol, but even upon timely intervention by the learned Single Judge, has left no stone unturned not only to resist but also frustrate a cause simply by effl ux of time. 23. A detailed dive into the sequence of events is apposite.