We ourselves went to the eldest son of the family F Shamsudeen. As no one had responded at Perambalur we did not take steps to take the child again to Kolakkudi. As she i.e. my son-in-law’s mother asked to leave the child and go, we had left the child and went from there. I was working in foreign country earlier. At present I am running the poultry shops business. If it is said that I had deposed during police investigation, that my daughter G margin accused used to tell me that she is going to mother-in- law’s house and hospital, and was going in a wrong way, it is not correct. The police authorities did not examine me. If it is said that the margin accused was not staying in my house properly and that the conduct of the accused is not good and that if the H 964 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A same is revealed out it will spoil the prestige of my family, and hence I did not reveal it, they are all incorrect. If it is said that during the police investigation, I had deposed that my son-in-law who came to know all these details, had called over phone and told me to drop the margin accused and his child in the house of witness Basheera, they are all incorrect. It is incorrect to state B that during the police investigation I had deposed that thereafter I had taken the margin accused and her child and dropped them in the house of witness Basheera. If it is said that during the police investigation, I had deposed that when I dropped them and started to leave Permabalur, the accused told me that she could not stay C in Perambalur and that she will be coming soon to me and that I had advised her to do as said by the accused’s husband and I left from there, they are all incorrect. If it is said that, during the police investigation I had deposed that on the next day, I came to know over phone that my daughter, the margin accused had killed my grand daughter Farhana and that thereafter I came to Perambalur D and saw my granddaughter who was dead and that the accused had ran away, they are all incorrect. If it is said that, during the police investigation I had deposed that as the accused could not act as per whims and fancies at Perambalur, the accused had killed her child, it is incorrect. It is incorrect to state that as the E accused is my daughter, I am adducing false evidence.” 5.11. In her examination under Section 313 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19735, the appellant denied all the allegations made against her as false. 6. With the aforesaid status of record, the Trial Court heard the F parties and proceeded to decide the matter by way of its and dated 15.10.2009. 6.1. The Trial Court held that although PW-1 to PW-3 were related witnesses but, PW-4 and PW-5 were independent witnesses who had seen the child and the accused-appellant together; and there was no G necessity for them to depose against the appellant.