E 18. The aforesaid line of reasoning was supported by other pleas. It was submitted that the power given to the Bar Council of India in V. Sudeer17 was for enlarging the scope of eligibility of becoming an advocate, and not to narrow it down. Further, there was no accountability and transparency with respect to the fees collected by Bar Council of F India and its association with an entity named ‘Pearl First’ which found no place on the official website of the Bar Council of India. Our Thought Process: 19. We have given our thought to the matter and share the concerns G of all those who appeared before us to see that the best come into the profession. Quality of lawyers is an important aspect and part of administration of justice and access to justice. Half baked lawyers serve no purpose. It is this quality control, which has been the endeavour of all the efforts made over a period of time. 17 (supra) H 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 20. The object of Parliament enacting the said Act was to consolidate the law relating to legal practitioners. The prominent role of the Bar Council of India, the apex body, is apparent from the functions prescribed for the Bar Council of India under Section 7 of the said Act. Clause (h) of Sub-Section (1), provides for promotion of legal education and for laying down standards of such education in consultation with B Universities in India and State Bar Councils. Sub-Clause (m) is in the nature of a residuary clause, having the widest amplitude to do all other things necessary for discharging the aforesaid functions. These provisions do not entrust the Bar Council of India with direct control of legal education, as primarily legal education is within the province of the C universities. Yet, the Bar Council of India, being the apex professional body of the advocates, is concerned with the standards of legal profession and the equipment of those who seek entry into that profession.18 Neither these provisions, nor the role of the universities to impart legal education, in any way, prohibit the Bar Council of India from conducting pre- enrolment examination, as the Council is directly concerned with the D standard of persons who want to obtain a license to practice law as a profession. 21. Along with the aforesaid provision, we would like to advert to the post-legal education stage for admission of advocates on the State roll. Section 24 of the said Act prescribes as to who are the persons who E may be prescribed as Advocates on State roll. Sub-Section (1) of Section 24 provides conditions fulfilling which a person shall be qualified to be admitted as an advocate on a State roll. Sub-Section (3) of Section 24 of the said Act begins with the non-obstante clause qua Sub-Section (1) by stating “notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-Section (1)”. Clause F (d) of Sub- Section (3) of Section 24 of the said Act refers to the entitlement to be enrolled as an Advocate under any Rule made by the Bar Council of India in this behalf.