A It shall be permissible for the respondent herein to withdraw the entire deposited amount, including the earlier deposited amount of Rs.1,48,52,000/- together with accrued interest. This deposit by the petitioners and withdrawal by the respondent shall remain subject to the final to be passed in B these petitions. List these petitions in the second week of July, 2022.” 4. After completion of pleadings, and in view of a short point involved, we have heard learned counsel for the parties finally at this stage itself. C Relevant factual and background aspects 5. As noticed, the only question involved in these appeals is about the legality and validity of the directions by the State Commission to the appellants to refund the deposited amount to the respondent with compound interest. The relevant factual and background aspects, to the D extent relevant for the short question involved in the matter could be noticed as follows: 5.1. The appellant No. 1 is said to have launched a residential project namely Siddharth Shila Apartments at Plot No. 24, Vaishali, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. The appellant No. 2, K.L. Suneja is said to E be the Director of the appellant No. 1. On 01.08.1989, the respondent, a Non-Resident Indian, applied for allotment of three flats in the said project and pursuant thereto, the appellant No. 1 issued allotment letter in her favour, purportedly allotting three residential flats bearing Nos. C-601, C-602 and C-603 admeasuring 1375 sq. ft. each (including common F areas) for a consideration of Rs. 7,37,000/-, Rs, 7,35,625/- and Rs. 7,35,625/- respectively. The entire consideration was payable by the respondent in 12 instalments. It has been the case of the appellants that the respondent made payment up to 6th instalment but, defaulted thereafter and did not make remaining payment despite numerous reminders. G 5.2. On 15.10.2005, the respondent issued a notice to the appellants, stating, inter alia, that even after 16 years, the appellants had kept the allottees waiting despite having received more than 60% of the total cost of the respective flats. It was also stated that she could make further payment towards the remaining instalments but was having legal right to know as to when the construction would be completed and the possession H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1103 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] would be handed over; and without disclosing such essential facts, A retaining the deposited money amounted to deficiency in service in terms of Section 2 of the Act of 1986. The respondent called upon the appellants to furnish within 15 days a written undertaking supported by a progress certificate from the architect concerned as to when the said flats would be completed or else, she would be approaching the proper forum under B the relevant provisions of law against them. The relevant contents of this notice read as under: - “5) That it is further needless to mention here that an allottee like my said clientess, who has already invested more than 60% of the total cost of the respective flats, certainly can make further C payment towards the remaining instalments but at least the allottees at large are having legal rights to know as to when the said flats will be completed and the possession be handed over to them, and without disclosing the same from your side, and keeping the money collected amounts to deficiency in service as per Section 2 of the Consumer Protection Act for which my said clientess shall have D right to invoke the jurisdiction of the competent forum.