Mr. Pankaj Jain, learned Senior Standing counsel on a specific query having been put, concedes that no such verification has been carried out. D We are constrained to observe that UT Administration has chosen to skirt a vital issue that has been raised in the instant petition. In view of the above we direct UT Administration to forthwith carry out an exercise whereby in the first instance the properties/buildings would be identified from the office of the Estate E Officer where the record of the rights is maintained wherein sale of share(s) be it to the extent of 50%, 30% or 20% has been sold/ transferred to a person outside the family of the original owner/ shareholder. The second step would be to carry out a physical inspection of such identified buildings/dwelling units to find out as to whether the sale of share(s) has actually translated into the F buyer occupying an independent floor in the otherwise composite dwelling unit or to find out as to whether independent floors are in the process of being constructed commensurate to the share(s) that has been purchased in such dwelling unit. It would be open for the official respondents to seek the cooperation/ assistance of G the concerned police authorities/law enforcement agencies to facilitate the carrying out of the physical inspection of the premises in question. We further direct that this entire exercise be carried out under the supervision of the Chief Architect, UT Chandigarh. To ensure that such exercise does not become overly time consuming and the object is only towards a fact finding exercise H 656 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A we are of the view that it ought to be a sample exercise. The same be confined from the date of filing of the instant petition till 31.12.2019. Still further the exercise to confine only with regard to residential buildings.” 107. It is thus clear that the Division Bench found that the written B statement filed on behalf of the Chandigarh Administration as also the subsequent affidavit of the Assistant Estate Officer, Chandigarh is totally silent on the aspect of advertisements of sale of independent floors. It observed that, Chandigarh Administration ought to have been alive to such situation, and particularly when there were specific averments made to that effect in the writ petition which was filed way back in the year C 2016. The Division Bench observed that the Chandigarh Administration should have carried out some kind of physical verification to ascertain as to whether the aforementioned modus operandi had been resorted to after the repeal of the 2001 Rules. The High Court recorded the contention of the Senior Standing Counsel on behalf of the Chandigarh D Administration that no such verification has been carried out. The Division Bench thereafter issued a direction to the Chandigarh Administration to forthwith carry out an exercise in two steps. In the first step, the properties/buildings were to be identified from the office of the Estate Officer where the record of the rights is maintained wherein share(s) be it to the extent of 50%, 30% or 20% has been sold/transferred E to a person outside the family of the original owner/shareholder.