4.11 It is further submitted that the Rules, 2020 as such nullify the of this Court in the case of UPCPBA (supra). 4.12 It is submitted that as observed and held by this Court in the E case of Madras Bar Association Vs. Union of India & Anr. ; (2021 SCC OnLine SC 463) in Writ Petition (C) No. 502/2021 decided on 14.07.2021 that the permissibility of legislative override in this country should be in accordance with the principles laid down by this Court in the catena of decision which are as under: - F “44. The permissibility of legislative override in this country should be in accordance with the principles laid down by this Court in the aforementioned as well as other s, which have been culled out as under: a) The effect of the s of the Court can be nullified G by a legislative act removing the basis of the . Such law can be retrospective. Retrospective amendment should be reasonable and not arbitrary and must not be violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution. H 310 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A b) The test for determining the validity of a validating legislation is that the pointing out the defect would not have been passed, if the altered position as sought to be brought in by the validating statute existed before the Court at the time of rendering its . In other words, the defect pointed out should have been cured such that the basis of the judgement B pointing out the defect is removed. c) Nullification of mandamus by an enactment would be impermissible legislative exercise [See : S.R. Bhagwat (supra)]. Even interim directions cannot be reversed by a legislative veto [See : Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal (supra) and Medical C Council of India v. State of Kerala. d) Transgression of constitutional limitations and intrusion into the judicial power by the legislature is violative of the principle of separation of powers, the rule of law and of Article 14 of the Constitution of India.” D 4.13 It is further submitted that even the criteria of having experience of minimum 20 years for appointment of Member in the State Commission under Rule 3(2)(b) and criteria of having experience of minimum 15 years for appointment of Member in District Commission as per Rule 4(2)(c) is absolutely arbitrary and illegal and unconstitutional E and contrary to the provisions of Article 217 and 233 of the Constitution of India. It is further submitted that even the same is violative of the and passed by this Court in the case of Madras Bar Association (supra). 4.14 It is submitted that the High Court has rightly quashed the F provision of Rule 4(2)(c) as the requirement of having experience of 15 years for a lawyer in to get the appointment as Member in District Forum/Commission is arbitrary and illegal. It is submitted that even in accordance with the Article 233 of the Constitution of India a lawyer needs to have only seven years of practice as an advocate in High Court.