It is thus settled that a hasty trial in which proper and suffi cient opportunity has not been provided to the accused to defend himself/herself would vitiate the trial as being meaningless & stage-managed. It is in violation of the principle of judicial calm. NAVEEN @ AJAY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 991 [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] 17. The principle of “judicial calm” in the context of a fair trial needs to be elaborated for its observance in letter and spirit. In our view, in the hallowed halls of justice, the essence of a fair and impartial trial lies in the steadfast embrace of judicial calm. It is incumbent upon a judge to exude an aura of tranquillity, off ering a sanctuary of reason and measured deliberation. In the halls of justice, the gavel strikes not in haste, but in a deliberate cadence ensuring every voice, every piece of evidence, is accorded its due weight. The expanse of judicial calm serves not only as a pillar of constitutional integrity, but as the very bedrock upon which trust in a legal system is forged. It is a beacon that illuminates the path towards a verdict untainted by haste or prejudice, thus upholding the sanctity of justice for all. 18. The issue concerning evidentiary value of DNA report has been considered by this Court in a recent reported in the case of Rahul v. State of Delhi, Ministry of Home Aff airs & Anr.7 wherein the following has been held in Paragraphs 36 and 38 as under: - “36. The learned Amicus Curiae has also assailed the forensic evidence i.e. the report regarding the DNA profi ling dated 18-4-2012 (Ext. P-23/1) giving incriminating fi ndings. She vehemently submitted that apart from the fact that the collection of the samples sent for examination itself was very doubtful, the said forensic evidence was neither scientifi cally nor legally proved and could not have been used as a circumstance against the appellant-accused. The Court fi nds substance in the said submissions made by the Amicus Curiae. The DNA evidence is in the nature of opinion evidence as envisaged under Section 45 and like any other opinion evidence, its probative value varies from case to case. 38. It is true that PW 23 Dr B.K. Mohapatra, Senior Scientifi c Offi cer (Biology) of CFSL, New Delhi had stepped into the witness box and his report regarding DNA profi ling was exhibited as Ext. PW 23/A, however mere exhibiting a document, would not prove its contents. The 7 (2023) 1 SCC 83 992 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. record shows that all the samples relating to the accused and relating to the deceased were seized by the investigating offi cer on 14-2-2012 and 16-2-2012; and they were sent to CFSL for examination on 27-2-2012. During this period, they remained in the malkhana of the police station. Under the circumstances, the possibility of tampering with the samples collected also could not be ruled out. Neither the trial court nor the High Court has examined the underlying basis of the fi ndings in the DNA reports nor have they examined the fact whether the techniques were reliably applied by the expert.