17. In Halsbury’s Laws of England, Fourth Edition, Volume I(I) 151,the concept of legitimate expectation has been elucidated on, and for the sake of convenience, the same is being extracted herein: E Legitimate expectations. A person may have a legitimate expectation of being treated in a certain way but an administrative authority even though he has no legal right in private law to receive such treatment. The expectation may arise either from a representation or promise made by the authority, including an implied representation, or from F consistent past practice. The existence of a legitimate expectation may have a number of different consequences; it may give locus standi to seek leave to apply for judicial review; it may mean that the authority ought not to act so as to defeat the expectation without some overriding reason of public policy G to justify its doing so; or it may mean that, if the authority proposes to defeat a person’s legitimate expectation, it must afford” him an opportunity to make representations on the matter. The Courts also distinguish, for example in licensing cases, between original applications, applications to renew and revocations; a party who has been granted a licence may H M/S. K.B. TEA PRODUCT PVT. LTD. v. COMMERCIAL TAX 843 OFFICER, SILIGURI [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] have a legitimate expectation that it will be renewed unless A there is some good reason not to do so, and may therefore be entitled to greater procedural protection than a mere applicant for a grant. 18. The Courts of United Kingdom, while conceptualizing the doctrine of legitimate expectation, have adopted other key aspects of B judicial review such as Wednesbury unreasonableness in the case of R vs. Inland Revenue Commissioners, exparte M.F.K. Underwirting Agents Limited2 and abuse of power in the case of R. (Bancoult) vs. Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs)3 to justify the existence and the protection of legitimate expectations. C 19. The term legitimate expectation was first used in the case of Schmidt v Secretary of State for Home Affairs4 by the UK Courts. The doctrine however, was not applied to the facts therein. Subsequently, in the case of O’Reilly v Mackman5, the doctrine of legitimate expectation was recognized as a ground for judicial review, allowing D individuals to challenge the legality of decisions on the grounds that the decision-maker “had acted out with the powers conferred upon it”. 20. Further in the cases of Council of Civil Service Unions v Minister for the Civil Service6and R v North and East Devon Health Authority, ex parte Coughlan7, the boundaries of the doctrine were E further elaborated upon. Notwithstanding efforts of the Courts, some ambiguity as to when legitimate expectations arise persisted, and in response, Lord Justice of Appeal, John Laws proposed the aspiration of “good administration” as a justification for the protection of legitimate expectations in the case of Nadarajah v. Secretary of State for the Home Department8. F 21. The doctrine of legitimate expectation was first introduced to Indian jurisprudence in the case of State Of Kerala & Ors.