5.10 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeals and to hold that for late remittance of the TDS, there shall not be any penalty leviable under Section 271C of the Act, 1961. B 6. All these appeals are vehemently opposed by Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG assisted by Ms. Monica Benjamin, learned counsel, appearing on behalf of the Revenue. 6.1 Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the Revenue has vehemently submitted that Section 271C of the Act has C been inserted in the year 1987. It is submitted that the object and purpose of inserting Section 271C is to levy the penalty for failure to deduct tax at source. It is submitted that under the old provision of Chapter XXI of the Income Tax Act, no penalty was provided for failure to deduct tax at source though, this default, however, attracted prosecution under the provisions of Section 276B, which prescribed punishment for failure to D deduct tax at source or after deducting failure to remit the same to the Government and therefore, Section 271C came to be inserted to provide for levy of penalty for failure to deduct tax at source. It is submitted that therefore, in a case where though the assessee has deducted the tax (TDS), but does not remit the same to the Government and/or belatedly E remits the TDS after deducting, such an assessee is liable to pay the penalty under Section 271C of the Act. 6.2 It is submitted that any other view will frustrate the object and purpose of insertion of Section 271C of the Act. Then, Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG has taken us to the CBDT Circular No. 551 dated F 23.01.1998, explaining the amendment and insertion of Section 271C. It is submitted that the object and purpose of insertion of Section 271C seems to be that over and above the prosecution, the person who has deducted tax at source but not remitted the same to the Government shall also be liable to pay penalty and that is why Section 271C has been inserted. G 6.3 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeals. 7. Heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective parties at length. H M/S US TECHNOLOGIES INTERNATIONAL PVT. LTD. v. THE 391 COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX [M. R. SHAH, J.] 7.1 The short question which is posed for the consideration of this A Court is in case of belated remittance of the TDS after deducting the TDS whether such an assessee is liable to pay penalty under Section 271C of the Act, 1961? 7.2 The question which is also posed for the consideration of this Court is what is the meaning and scope of the words “fails to deduct” B occurring in Section 271C(1)(a) and whether an assessee who caused delay in remittance of TDS deducted by him, can be said a person who “fails to deduct TDS”? 7.3 In to appreciate the rival contentions and to answer the aforesaid questions, it is necessary to have analysis of Statutory provisions.