ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 125 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] On January 26, 1950, we are going to enter into a life of A contradictions. In politics we will have equality and in social and economic life we will have inequality. In politics we will be recognizing the principle of one man, one vote and one vote, one value. In our social and economic life we shall, by reason of our social and economic structure, continue to deny the principle of B one man, one value. How long shall we continue to live this life of contradictions? How long shall we continue to deny equality in our social and economic life? If we continue to deny it for long, we will do so only by putting our political democracy in peril. We must remove this contradiction at the earliest possible moment or else those who suffer from inequality will blow up the structure of C political democracy which we have so laboriously built up.” 143. In Indira Nehru Gandhi Smt. v. Raj Narain and another 143, this Court adverted to the importance of elections in a democracy as follows: D “198. … Democracy postulates that there should be periodical elections, so that people may be in a position either to re-elect the old representatives or, if they so choose, to change the representatives and elect in their place other representatives. Democracy further contemplates that the elections should be free and fair, so that the voters may be in a position to vote for E candidates of their choice. Democracy can indeed function only upon the faith that elections are free and fair and not rigged and manipulated, that they are effective instruments of ascertaining popular will both in reality and form and are not mere rituals calculated to generate illusion of defence to mass opinion. Free F and fair elections require that the candidates and their agents should not resort to unfair means or malpractices as may impinge upon the process of free and fair elections. Even in the absence of unfair means and malpractices, some times the result of an election is materially affected because of the improper rejection of ballot papers. …” G 144. Aharon Barak, President of Supreme Court of Israel in his book ‘The Judge in a Democracy’ articulates concepts about democracy succinctly. He says the following while answering the difficult question as to what is democracy: 43 1975 Supp SCC 1 H 126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “What is democracy? According to my approach, democracy is a rich and complex normative concept. It rests on two bases. The first is the sovereignty of the people. This sovereignty is exercised in free elections, held on a regular basis, in which the people choose their representatives, who in turn represent their views. This aspect of democracy is manifested in majority rule and in the centrality B of the legislative body through which the people’s representatives act. This is a formal aspect of democracy.