Now F which document or source is to be accepted by us? In the case of Pawan (supra), a Coordinate Bench of this Court has rejected the juvenility plea when documents to raise the plea of juvenility were collected after conviction. In that , this Court cited the case of Murari Thakur (supra) and the Coordinate Bench observed:- G “41. The question is: should an enquiry be made or report be called for from the trial court invariably where juvenility is claimed for the first time before this Court. Where the materials placed before this Court by the accused, prima facie, suggest that the accused was “juvenile” as defined in the 2000 Act on the date of incident, it may be necessary to call for the H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1107 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] report or an enquiry be ed to be made. However, in a A case where plea of juvenility is found unscrupulous or the materials lack credibility or do not inspire confidence and even, prima facie, satisfaction of the court is not made out, we do not think any further exercise in this regard is necessary. If the plea of juvenility was not raised before the trial court B or the High Court and is raised for the first time before this Court, the judicial conscience of the Court must be satisfied by placing adequate and satisfactory material that the accused had not attained the age of eighteen years on the date of commission of offence; sans such material any further enquiry into juvenility would be unnecessary. C 42. As regards A-2, two documents are relied upon to show that he had not attained the age of eighteen years on 25-9- 2003/26-9-2003. His age (17 years) mentioned by the trial court at the time of recording his statement under Section 313 CrPC is a tentative observation based on physical D appearance which is hardly determinative of age. The other document is the school leaving certificate issued by the Headmaster, Prem Shiksha Niketan, Bilaspur, Rampur which does not inspire any confidence as it seems to have been issued on 16-10-2006 after A-2 had already been convicted. Primary E evidence like entry from the birth register has not been produced. We find it difficult to accept Annexure P-3 (school leaving certificate) relied upon by the counsel. For A-1, the only document placed on record is a school leaving certificate which has been procured after his conviction. In his case also, entry from the birth register has not been produced. We F are not impressed or satisfied with such material. There being no satisfactory and adequate material, prima facie, we are not persuaded to call for report about the age of A-1 and A- 2 on the date of commission of offence.” 36.So far as the case of the applicant is concerned, on the basis G of materials disclosed in the present application, an inquiry was directed in the passed on 29th January 2019. In the case of Pawan (supra) school leaving certificate issued by the headmaster of a school did not inspire the confidence of the Court.