Art. 77 – Notification dated 2.08.2019 abolishing OAT – Not E expressed in the name of the President of India – Validity of – Held: Notification dated 2.08.2019 is valid though it is not expressed in the name of the President of India – Non-compliance with Art.77 does not invalidate a notification or render it unconstitutional – Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985. F Administrative Tribunals Act,1985: Establishment of Odisha Administrative Tribunal-OAT – Union Government if rendered functus officio after establishing the OAT – Held: Union Government did not become functus officio after establishing the OAT – Doctrine of functus officio cannot ordinarily G be applied in cases where the government is formulating and implementing a policy. Establishment of Odisha Administrative Tribunal-OAT – Plea that State Government took advantage of its own wrong by ceasing to fill the vacancies in the OAT – Held: State Government did not H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 733 UNION OF INDIA take advantage of its own wrong – It stopped filling the vacancies A of the OAT only after deciding to abolish it – It did not rely on the vacancies (and the consequent increase in pendency) created by its inaction to abolish the OAT. Odisha Administrative Tribunal-OAT – Judicial impact assessment – Conduct of before abolishing the OAT - Failure by the B Union Government, if vitiates its decision to abolish the OAT – Held: Failure of the Union Government to conduct a judicial impact assessment before abolishing the OAT does not vitiate its decision to abolish the OAT – Directions to conduct a judicial impact assessment in Rojer Mathew’s case were of a general nature and C did not prohibit the abolition of specific tribunals such as the OAT in the absence of a judicial impact assessment - However, the Ministry of Law and Justice directed to conduct a judicial impact assessment as directed by this Court in Rojer Mathew’s case. General Clauses Act, 1897: s 21 – Applicability/ Invocation D of – To rescind the notification establishing the OAT, thereby abolishing the OAT – Held: Union Government acted in valid exercise of its powers when it invoked s. 21 r/w s. 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act to rescind the notification establishing the OAT – Decision to establish the OAT was an administrative decision and not a quasi-judicial decision – Administrative decisions, E unlike quasi-judicial decisions, may be reversed by the application of s. 21 – Moreover, s. 21 is not repugnant to the subject- matter, context and effect of the Administrative Tribunals Act and is in harmony with its scheme and object – Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 – s.4(2). F Words and Phrases - “ Functus officio” - Meaning of. Dismissing the appeals, the Court HELD : 1.1 The abolition of the Odisha Administrative Tribunal-OAT was constitutionally valid for the following reasons: G a. The Writ Petitions instituted before the Orissa High Court were maintainable because the appellants claimed that their constitutional rights had been violated. They were therefore entitled to invoke the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution; H 734 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.