A along with subsequent of this Court in Chloro Controls (India) (P) Ltd. v. Severn Trent Water Purification Inc.(2013) 1 SCC 641. **** **** **** 154.3. The general rule and principle, in view of the B legislative mandate clear from Act 3 of 2016 and Act 33 of 2019, and the principle of severability and competence-competence, is that the Arbitral Tribunal is the preferred first authority to determine and decide all questions of non-arbitrability. The court has been conferred power of “second look” on aspects of non-arbitrability C post the award in terms of sub-clauses (i), (ii) or (iv) of Section 34(2)(a) or sub-clause (i) of Section 34(2)(b) of the Arbitration Act. 154.4. Rarely as a demurrer the court may interfere at Section 8 or 11 stage when it is manifestly and ex facie certain that the arbitration agreement is non-existent, invalid or the disputes D are non-arbitrable, though the nature and facet of non-arbitrability would, to some extent, determine the level and nature of judicial scrutiny. The restricted and limited review is to check and protect parties from being forced to arbitrate when the matter is demonstrably “non-arbitrable” and to cut off the deadwood. The E court by default would refer the matter when contentions relating to non-arbitrability are plainly arguable; when consideration in summary proceedings would be insufficient and inconclusive; when facts are contested; when the party opposing arbitration adopts delaying tactics or impairs conduct of arbitration proceedings. This is not the stage for the court to enter into a mini trial or elaborate F review so as to usurp the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal but to affirm and uphold integrity and efficacy of arbitration as an alternative dispute resolution mechanism. **** **** **** G 238. At the cost of repetition, we note that Section 8 of the Act mandates that a matter should not (sic) be referred to an arbitration by a court of law unless it finds that prima facie there is no valid arbitration agreement. The negative language used in the section is required to be taken into consideration, while analysing the section. The court should refer a matter if the validity of the H GUJARAT COMPOSITE LIMITED v. A INFRASTRUCTURE 133 LIMITED & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] arbitration agreement cannot be determined on a prima facie basis, A as laid down above. Therefore, the rule for the court is “when in doubt, do refer”. 239. Moreover, the amendment to Section 8 now rectifies the shortcomings pointed out in Chloro Controls case [Chloro Controls (India) (P) Ltd. v. Severn Trent Water Purification B Inc., (2013) 1 SCC 641: (2013) 1 SCC (Civ) 689] with respect to domestic arbitration. Jurisdictional issues concerning whether certain parties are bound by a particular arbitration, under group- company doctrine or good faith, etc., in a multi-party arbitration raises complicated factual questions, which are best left for the C tribunal to handle. The amendment to Section 8 on this front also indicates the legislative intention to further reduce the judicial interference at the stage of reference.