B 20. In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances, this Court is of the opinion that the impugned dated 23.07.2002 is not in accordance with law and cannot be sustained. The said is therefore set aside and quashed. The application filed by the petitioner under VII Rule 11 of the CPC is allowed. It is held that the second eviction petition filed by the respondents under Section 14(1)(a) of the Act is C liable to be rejected being barred by the principles of res judicata. ed accordingly.” (Emphasis supplied) 15. Being dissatisfied with the aforesaid passed by the High Court, the appellants, claiming to be the lawful owners and landlord of D the property in question, have come up before this Court by way of the present appeal. Submissions on behalf of the appellants 16. The learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants E vehemently submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in taking the view that the second Eviction Petition No. 136 of 2001 was not maintainable in law as the same was hit by the principles of res judicata. He would submit that the plaint could not have been rejected under the provisions of 7 Rule 11(d) of the CPC as the issue of res judicata could be said to be a mixed question of law and fact. He F would submit that there is no averment in the plaint of the Eviction Petition No. 136 of 2001 on the basis of which it could be said that the eviction petition is barred by any provisions of law. 17. The learned counsel further submitted that the High Court also committed an error in applying the principles of 17 Rule 3 of G the CPC as the first passed by the Rent Controller dated 27.01.1998 in the first eviction petition was not on merits and, therefore, no finding could be said to have been rendered as regards the relationship of landlord and tenant which could be said to be binding between the parties in the second eviction petition. H PREM KISHORE & ORS. v. BRAHM PRAKASH & ORS. 645 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 18. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel A prays that there being merit in his appeal, the same may be allowed and the impugned be set aside. Submissions on behalf of the respondent No. 1 19. The learned counsel appearing for the respondent No. 1, on the other hand, vehemently opposed the present appeal by submitting B that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned . 20. He would submit that in the first round of litigation, late Samey Singh (original plaintiff) was given sufficient time and opportunities by the Rent Controller to establish the landlord tenant relationship. However, C Samey Singh failed to appear before the court and also failed to lead any evidence in that regard. In such circumstances, the Rent Controller was justified in dismissing the eviction petition.