17. It is, thus, manifested from a conjoint reading of the cited decisions that power of summoning under Section 319 Cr.P.C. is not to be exercised routinely and the existence of more than a prima facie H 526 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A case is sine quo non to summon an additional accused. We may hasten to add that with a view to prevent the frequent misuse of power to summon additional accused under Section 319 Cr.P.C., and in conformity with the binding judicial dictums referred to above, the procedural safeguard can be that ordinarily the summoning of a person at the very threshold of the trial may be discouraged and the trial court must evaluate B the evidence against the persons sought to be summoned and then adjudge whether such material is, more or less, carry the same weightage and value as has been testified against those who are already facing trial. In the absence of any credible evidence, the power under Section 319 Cr.P.C. ought not to be invoked. C 18. Adverting to the case in hand, the allegations against the Appellants are that they too played an active role in the commission of the alleged offence. 19. The record reveals that after the application under section 319 Cr.P.C was dismissed by the Trial Court, Respondent No.1 was D called on 06.12.2018 for further examination-in-chief as PW-1. His deposition distinctively unravels that at the time of marriage, Appellant No.1 – Juhru (father-in-law) had asked Respondent No.1 to spend a sum of Rs. 20 lacs on the marriage of Aamir and the deceased, to which Respondent No.1 had agreed. Appellant No.1 and his wife Akhlima E (mother-in-law) were living under the same roof as his son Aamir (husband) and he would have been privy to all the alleged occurrences of torture, harassment or demand for more dowry. Viewed from this angle, it appears that the Ist appellant might have to sink or swim with his son and wife. The High Court , to the extent of summoning Appellant No. 1, therefore, satisfies the ingredients of Section 319 Cr.P.C. F and may not warrant any interference by this Court. 20. As regard to Appellant Nos. 2 and 3, i.e., Sonam (sister-in- law), and Rijwan (brother-in-law) of the deceased, it appears to us that despite both of them being named in the FIR and in the examination-in- chief of Respondent No.1, there is no credible evidence to connect them G with the unnatural death of Rukseena. There is no cogent material that Appellant No. 2, even after her marriage with Appellant No. 3, continued to reside in her parents’ house or that they used to inter-meddle in the day to day marital life of the deceased and Aamir. In the absence of any authentic evidence to bring them in close proximity of the reported crime, H JUHRU & ORS. v. KARIM & ANR. 527 [SURYA KANT, J.] it would be unjustified to call upon Appellant Nos. 2 and 3 to face trial as A additional accused in this case.