The investigation of offences to bring the offender to the book and facilitate the ultimate search for truth is one of the important duties the police has to perform. This is a statutory duty under the Cr.P.C. and is also a constitutional obligation ensuring the maintenance of peace and the upholding of rule of law. H 844 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 39. On the responsibility cast on an officer investigating a crime, this Court in Common Cause v. Union of India (2015) 6 SCC 332, observed as under : “31. There is a very high degree of responsibility placed on an investigating agency to ensure that an innocent person is not B subjected to a criminal trial. This responsibility is coupled with an equally high degree of ethical rectitude required of an investigating officer or an investigating agency to ensure that the investigations are carried out without any bias and are conducted in all fairness not only to the accused person but also to the victim of any crime, whether the victim is an individual or the State.” C 40. It is well recognised that the Magistrate concerned is not empowered to interfere with the investigation being carried out up until the submission of the report by the said officer. Needless to state then that the role of the Investigating Officer is essential and crucial. Chapter XII of Cr.P.C. titled as “information to the police and their powers to D investigate”, lays down the procedure and course of action to be taken by the police upon receipt of the commission of an offence cognizable in nature. Section 156 lays down the power of investigation; Section 157 the procedure thereof; Section 160 the power to require attendance of a witness, Section 161 conduct examination of such witness, etc. Section E 172 requires such police officer to maintain a case diary and Section 173 lays down the format and the procedure for the report to be issued by such officer. 41. This Court has in Pooja Pal v. Union of India (2016) 3 SCC 135, expounded as under for criminal investigations and its success: F “96. The avowed purpose of a criminal investigation and its efficacious prospects with the advent of scientific and technical advancements have been candidly synopsised in the prefatory chapter dealing with the history of criminal investigation in the treatise on Criminal Investigation — Basic Perspectives by Paul B. Weston and Renneth M. Wells: G “Criminal investigation is a lawful search for people and things useful in reconstructing the circumstances of an illegal act or omission and the mental state accompanying it. It is probing from the known to the unknown, backward in time, and its H MAGHAVENDRA PRATAP SINGH @ PANKAJ SINGH v. 845 STATE OF CHHATTISGARH [SANJAY KAROL, J.] goal is to determine truth as far as it can be discovered in A any post-factum inquiry. Successful investigations are based on fidelity, accuracy and sincerity in lawfully searching for the true facts of an event under investigation and on an equal faithfulness, exactness, and probity in reporting the results of an investigation.