4.10 It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the accused – appellant that A-1 has already G undergone 15 years in prison for a crime which he did not commit and therefore, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and acquit the accused. 5. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State while opposing the present appeal has vehemently submitted that in the present case, H 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A the dead body was exhumed from the place shown and identified by A- 1. It is submitted that the place of burial shown by A-1 and the identification of the body by him has been duly proved by the prosecution. The evidence of anthropology of expert is accepted. It is submitted that even the stolen car was also recovered on the basis of disclosure statement made by A- 1. It is submitted that engine and gear box were found to be in custody B of PW-17 on the basis of disclosure statement made by A-1. It is submitted that PW-17 has deposed that some parts were sold by A-1. It is submitted that aforesaid crucial circumstances have not at all been explained by the accused in his further statement under Section 313 CrPC. It is submitted that deposition of DW-1 has been rejected by the C Court(s). It is submitted that therefore, no error has been committed by the Courts below in convicting the accused for the offence punishable under Section 302 and other offence of IPC. 5.1 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. D 6. We have heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of accused as well as the State. We have gone through the findings recorded by the learned Trial Court as well as the High Court while holding the appellant – accused No. 1 guilty for the offence punishable under Sections 302 and 201 of IPC. E 6.1 It is the case on behalf of the appellant – accused No. 1 that he has been convicted on the confessional statement and therefore, in case of circumstantial evidence and unless and until the complete chain of events were proved and established, he could not have been convicted on F confessional statement. However, from the (s) and (s) passed by the learned Trial Court as well as the High Court, it cannot be said that the appellant has been convicted on the basis of confessional statement. In the present case, there is no G confession by the accused that he committed the offence, which has been relied upon by the Court. It is required to be noted that the so-called communication by the accused No. 1 addressed to PW-22 is as such not believed by the High Court being secondary evidence and the same has not been proved. Therefore, as such the High Court has H JOHN ANTHONISAMY @ JOHN v. STATE, REP. BY THE 287 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [M. R. SHAH, J.]