The direction of this Court to record evidence cannot be construed to mean that the Court was obliged to record her statement despite the fact that she was produced without proper security. I am of the opinion that the Presiding Offi cer of the Court had also failed miserably in the matter.” 13. The proceedings of the Habeas Corpus petition also need to be appropriately referred to. After the incident of abduction of Lalmuni Devi (CW-1) on 24.10.2006, the Habeas Corpus petition was fi led on 31.10.2006 and was taken up by the Court on 01.11.2006. On the said date, it was adjourned on the request made by the Advocate General. On 02.11.2006, the Advocate General stated before the Court that, on receiving report of abduction of Lalmuni Devi and Rama Rai, investigation was started and in the night itself Rama Rai appeared before the Offi cer In-Charge and the Sub Divisional Police Offi cer. He stated that, apprehending some threats from diff erent quarters, he and his wife had gone underground for self-protection. 414 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. Rama Rai said that he had come forward on his own to speak the truth about going into hiding on their own accord on account of certain rumors that were spread. Rama Rai, however, refused to disclose the whereabouts of his wife Lalmuni Devi. The Advocate General assured the Court that Lalmuni Devi would be given full protection not only for appearing before the Court but also otherwise so that she may not be harmed by anyone. On the above statement of the Advocate General, the Division Bench of the Patna High Court hearing the Habeas Corpus Petition directed for the production of Rama Rai to record his statement. The next date fi xed was 08.11.2006 for production of Rama Rai. It was further provided by the Division Bench that in the meantime if Lalmuni Devi appears before the Trial Court on 03.11.2006, the Court may proceed with the case but if she failed to appear on the said date, the prosecution case should not be closed till further s by the Court. 14. On 08.11.2006, it was reported that the statement of Lalmuni Devi was recorded on the date fi xed i.e. 03.11.2006. Thereafter she was taken from Bhagalpur to Chapra from where she had been abducted and her statement was recorded under Section 164 CrPC before the Magistrate at Chapra. In the said statement, she stated that she was not abducted by anyone. The said statement was fi led before the High Court along with the counter affi davits. On the above submissions, the Advocate General stated that the petition had become infructuous. 15. The Division Bench was further informed that on 03.11.2006, the deposition of Lalmuni Devi was not normal and smooth. Her appearance had led to a clash between two groups of people although the said incident was not reported by the Trial Judge. However, it had attracted the attention of the Inspecting Judge, Bhagalpur through newspaper reports and based on the same he called for reports and directed for enquiry.