The court cannot travel beyond the pleadings as no party can lead the evidence on an issue/point not raised in the pleadings and in case, such evidence has been adduced F or a finding of fact has been recorded by the court, it is just to be ignored. Though it may be a different case where in spite of specific pleadings, a particular issue is not framed and the parties having full knowledge of the issue in controversy lead the evidence and the court records a finding on it.” G 39.In such circumstances, we have absolutely no hesitation to hold that the original defendants failed to raise sufficient and appropriate pleadings in the written statement that they have better right for 11 (1987) 1 SCC 254 12 (1981) 3 SCC 103 H 13 (2012) 8 SCC 148 SHIVSHANKARA & ANR. v. H.P. VEDAVYASA CHAR 391 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] possession of the suit properties. No amount of proof offered without A appropriate pleadings would have any relevance. The Courts below have rightly relied on the evidence of PW-5 to hold forceful dispossession of the defendants from ‘B’ schedule property. Nothing is on record to uphold the said finding. 40.After considering and answering the questions, mentioned as B above, we bestowed our anxious consideration to find whether the impugned is inflicted with perversity or any patent illegality warranting interference in invocation of the power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India. The sound reasons given by the courts below persuade us to answer it in the negative. After carefully considering the C evidence on record the Trial Court arrived at the conclusion that the respondent herein/the plaintiff is entitled to get back the possession of suit schedule property from which he was dispossessed and even after careful consideration of the additional evidence recorded and transmitted to the High Court by the trial court and considering all contentions and aspects with reference to plethora of decisions the High Court only D confirmed the and decree of the trial court. As observed earlier, when the concurrent findings of the courts below are the outcome of the rightful consideration and appreciation of materials on record they do not call for any interference. 41.Thus, taking into account the fact that the suit was indisputably E filed based on prior permission and illegal dispossession we do not find any reason to place Exhibit D-2 sale deed executed (even if by the owners) in favour of the deceased second appellant to displace the concurrent findings of the courts below on the entitlement of the respondent herein/the plaintiff for a decree as granted by the trial court F and confirmed the High Court. In the said situation, this appeal has to fail. Consequently, it is dismissed. In the circumstances, there will be no as to costs. Nidhi Jain Appeal dismissed. (Assisted by : Rakhi, LCRA) G H