An act of abrogation is permissible only in the interests of justice, eff ectiveness and good governance, and not to serve the oblique agenda of defying a court’s , or stripping it of its binding nature. 15. The Constitution of India precludes any interference by the legislature with the administration of justice and judicial determination of the validity of a legislation. The power of abrogation is to be exercised in the light of the said Constitutional mandate. The legislative device of abrogation must be in accordance with the following principles which are not exhaustive: i. There is no legal impediment to enacting a law to validate a legislation which has been held by a court to be invalid, provided, such a law removes the basis of the of the court, by curing the defects of the legislation as it stood before the amendment. ii. The validating legislation may be retrospective. It must have the eff ect that the pointing out the defect would not have been passed, if the altered position as sought to be brought in by the validating statute existed before the court at the time of rendering its . NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 43 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] iii. Retrospective amendment should be reasonable and not arbitrary and must not be violative of any Constitutional limitations. iv. Setting at naught a decision of a court without removing the defect pointed out in the said decision is opposed to the rule of law and the scheme of separation of powers under the Constitution of India. v. Abrogation is not a device to circumvent an unfavourable judicial decision. If enacted solely with the intention to defy a judicial pronouncement, an Amendment and Validation Act of 1997 may be declared as ultra-vires. Validity of the Act of 1955 as amended by the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997: 16. We shall now proceed to consider the issue as to validity of the Act of 1955 as amended by the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997, in light of the principles and case law discussed hereinabove. For the purpose of carrying out such an exercise, it is necessary to fi rst, identify the defects pointed out by the High Court in its dated 27 March, 1997, whereby the Act of 1955 had been held not to include within its scope the activity of the appellants of providing transport facilities for their employees and their children, as the charging provision contained therein, i.e., Section 3 (1) and the Explanation thereto was crouched in ambiguous terms. 16.1. The defects identifi ed by the High Court in its dated 27 March, 1997 are as under: i. The High Court observed that the levy of tax on passengers was only on certain motor vehicles and the provisions of the Act were not applicable to entities, such as, appellants herein. This was on a reading of a defi nition of ‘motor vehicle’ and ‘owner’ as found in the Act of 1955.