8.15 Adani further prayed before to direct MSEDCL that in so far as the costs incurred towards transportation of coal from the H 668 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Lohara Coal Blocks to Tiroda TPS is concerned the same may be considered based on applicable Railway Freight with applicable taxes and duties, while determining the landed cost of coal from the Lohara Coal Blocks. We are in agreement with this contention. It is no longer res integra that landed cost of coal includes transportation costs. Supreme Court’s in Nabha Power B Ltd. vs. Punjab State Power Corp. Ltd. (2018) 11 SCC 508 is locus classicus on the subject wherein it was held that landed costs cannot exclude transportation costs viz. :- “64. We fail to appreciate as to how these costs can be excluded, as the transportation costs to the project site have to C be compensated to the appellant. It is not qualified by the methodology of transfer, i.e., railways or road. It is also a matter of necessity, since the railway siding had not reached the project site due to some complications in acquisition of land. It is really the transportation cost from point to point which would be D involved and the mere mention in the RFP under project related activity/milestone about Railway siding and the Railway lines from nearby station to site cannot imply that the Railways is the only mode of transportation when the siding has not been made, albeit on account of land acquisition problems.” E 8.16 We, therefore, hold that MSEDCL ought to pay Lohara coal cost as base (including transportation costs) while compensating Adani for the change in law events. This issue is decided accordingly and the Impugned on this issue is set aside.” 50. It could thus be seen that the finding of APTEL is based on the report of the Expert Committee, which was ignored by MERC. The F Expert Committee had found that APML had entered into a PPA based on the assurance of an instrumentality of the Government of India that coal would be provided to it from the Lohara Coal Blocks. However, on account of the reasons that have been elaborately discussed, Lohara Coal Blocks, which was allocated to APML, came to be deallocated for G no fault on the part of APML. It is to be noted that the Expert Committee, while arriving at its finding, had also appointed external industry experts, i.e. legal consultant, financial experts and independent auditors. It is worthwhile to mention that one of the Members of the said Expert Committee was a representative of MSEDCL. What has been granted under the said methodology is the additional cost of transport which H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 669 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J. ] APML would be required to incur for transporting the coal from other A locations on account of deallocation of Lohara Coal Blocks. We, therefore, find no reason to interfere with the said finding with regard to methodology of arriving at the compensation payable on account of ‘Change in Law’ event.