53.The answer to this question would necessitate looking back at the operative directions contained in the under challenge. What the High Court said has been quoted above. It is noteworthy that the G High Court did not mandatorily direct grant of promotion to Mr. Nair. The High Court’s , unintendedly, was confined to application of reservation policy. The High Court did not declare that Mr. Nair should also be entitled to condonation of shortfall in marks with reference to the Panel Examination 2003. Insofar as other qualifying requirements under H 804 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the relevant rules are concerned, the High Court clarified that it may not be understood to have expressed any opinion on the question of Mr. Nair satisfying such requirements. Given such contours of the , it was open to the RBI to consider Mr. Nair for promotion and pass appropriate either granting or denying him promotion in accordance with the prevailing exposition of law. Instead of complying with the , B the RBI carried the and to this Court on 12th September, 2014. GoI also followed suit. It was Mr. Nair who rushed to the High Court with a review petition within the period of limitation, whereupon his rights have been kept open noticing pendency of the petition for special leave of the RBI. Given such a situation, it seems that the RBI C has on its own invited the uncomfortable position in which it finds itself now. The decisions of this Court rendered during the pendency of these appeals have to be considered and applied, notwithstanding the fact that the same were not available when the High Court decided Mr. Nair’s writ petition finally. RBI might not have faced this conundrum had the of the High Court been complied with on time. D 54. In any event, should the RBI and GoI be worse off for approaching this Court, given the fact that after his participation in the 2003 examination Mr. Nair has elected to stay away from further examinations on the pretext of pendency of proceedings before the High Court as well as this Court, and suffer the impact of the decisions of this E Court post the impugned and ? Or, should the appeals be dismissed leaving it open to the RBI to comply with the of the High Court? In our view, dismissal without any observation has the potential of generating further unnecessary litigation. At the same time, though Mr. Nair did not file any cross-appeal, he had applied for review F and has been conferred the liberty to revive the review petition after disposal of proceedings by this Court. 55. Having regard to the materials on record before us and for answering question (b), it is considered appropriate to invoke Article 142 of the Constitution “for doing complete justice” in the cause. G 56.We direct RBI to grant notional promotion to Mr. Nair on the post of Assistant Manager Grade – ‘A’, to be effective from the date of presentation of the writ petition before the High Court, i.e., 27th September, 2006 and actual promotion from 15th September, 2014, i.e., the last date for compliance of the of the High Court.