[Para G 30][871-C-E] 1.5 The suggestion made by the defence counsel to a witness in the cross-examination if found to be incriminating in nature in any manner would definitely bind the accused and the accused cannot get away on the plea that his counsel had no implied H 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A authority to make suggestions in the nature of admissions against his client. Any concession or admission of a fact by a defence counsel would definitely be binding on his client, except the concession on the point of law. The submission that an answer by a witness to a suggestion made by the defence counsel in the cross-examination does not deserve any value or utility if it B incriminates the accused in any manner cannot be accepted. [Para 38, 39][873-B-D] 1.6 It is a cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence that the initial burden to establish the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt rests on the prosecution. It is also an elementary C principle of law that the prosecution has to prove its case on its own legs and cannot derive advantage or benefit from the weakness of the defence. This Court is not suggesting for a moment that if prosecution is unable to prove its case on its own legs then the Court can still convict an accused on the strength D of the evidence in the form of reply to the suggestions made by the defence counsel to a witness. In the instant case, the conclusion is reached that the evidence of the three eyewitnesses inspires confidence and there is nothing in their evidence on the basis of which it could be said that they are unreliable witnesses. Having reached to such a conclusion, to fortify the view the E suggestions made by the defence counsel to the eyewitnesses can be looked into, the reply to those establishing the presence of the accused persons as well as the eyewitnesses in the night hours. To put it in other words, suggestions by itself are not sufficient to hold the accused guilty if they are incriminating in F any manner or are in the form of admission in the absence of any other reliable evidence on record. It is true that a suggestion has no evidentiary value but this proposition of law would not hold good at all times and in a given case during the course of cross-examination the defence counsel may put such a suggestion the answer to which may directly go against the accused and this G is exactly what happened in the instant case. [Para 40][873-E-H; 874-A] 1.7 The principle of law that in a criminal case, a lawyer has no implied authority to make admissions against his client during the progress of the trial would hold good only in cases where H BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 855 MAHARASHTRA dispensation of proof by the prosecution is not permissible in A law. It is obligatory on the part of the prosecution to prove the post mortem report by examining the doctor.