v. ANITA 1141 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] question of compensation or damages could be determined invariably by A awarding compound interest whenever the deposited money is to be returned by the builder or developer in case of default in carrying out its obligations under the agreement and in failing to deliver the property envisaged by the agreement. In our view, the answer could only be in the negative. B 16.1. It is at once clear on a bare look at the aforesaid decision of this Court in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga that therein, the Competition Appellate Tribunal, while exercising powers under Section 12-B of the MRTP Act, directed the builder to pay compound interest at rate of 15% p.a. from the date of deposit and until the date on which allotment was C cancelled. There were cross appeals in this Court. The complainant in her appeals questioned the award of compound interest only until the date of cancellation and sought the same until the date of payment. On the other hand, the builders, that is, the present appellants, contended that they could not be made liable to pay compound interest because even if the complainant was entitled to any compensation, it could only D be that of the amount determined under Section 12-B MRTP Act. In this background and in regard to such contentions of the present appellants, this Court observed that there was no need for any interpretation of the meaning of the term “compensation” because once the amount of interest as ed by COMPAT was calculated, that would be the compensation E referred to under Section 12-B of the MRTP Act; and merely because liquidated amount was not stipulated or determined by COMPAT, it could not be said that the awarded amount was not that of compensation. This all was said by this Court, as could be noticed from paragraph 5 in the extraction aforesaid. In the subsequent passages, this Court adverted to another peculiar feature of this case where the amount of pay , F despite being deducted from current account of appellants, did not reach the payee and re-credit was allowed by the bank more than 11 years later; and as the bank was not a party to the litigation, the said aspect was remitted for consideration of COMPAT. 16.2. In the aforesaid decision in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga by G this Court, the question was not raised as to whether compound interest could be granted as a measure of compensation nor this Court decided so. The question raised had been the other way round that COMPAT had not specified the amount of compensation payable, to which, this Court observed that calculating the amount as per directions of COMPAT would lead to the quantum of compensation. H 1142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 17. What has been argued before us on behalf of respondent is essentially on the basis of the relief granted by COMPAT to the said complainant Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga, which was not interfered with by this Court.