It is the duty of the defendants to specifically plead and prove their case by leading proper evidence in the matter. As per the evidence led by the defendant/respondent i.e. the documentary evidence as well as the oral evidence, C the allegations made by the defendants are not substantiated. So far as condition no.9 of the allotment letter is concerned, there is no dispute that the defendants can demand additional price as the price at the time of allotment was tentative. But in to justify the enhancement of the price as per condition No. 9 of the allotment letter, the defendants had to lead proper D evidence to substantiate the allegation. There is no such evidence produced by the defendants. Therefore, the trial court has rightly approached in the matter and this is a case of total misreading of the evidence by the learned Additional ‘District Judge as well as by learned Single Judge of the High E Court. 6. In the result of our above discussion, we are of the opinion that the passed by the trial court is justified and the view taken by the Additional District Judge as well as learned Single Judge of the High Court in the facts and circumstances F of this case does not appear to be justified. Hence, we allow this appeal and set aside the passed by the learned Single Judge of the High Court as well as the passed by the Additional District Judge, Hisar and confirm the dated March 27, 1996 passed by the trial court. No as to costs.” G 19. The issue sought to be raised before this Court was referring to the letter dated 01/12/1992 which according to the Appellants shows the amount required to be paid by the Appellants to the Animal Husbandry Department for the land transferred to Sector-14, (Part), Hisar. The idea to show the letter was that in fact the amount required to be paid H HARYANA URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY & ANR. v. 1165 JAGDEEP SINGH [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] for transfer of land was 3,00,000 instead of 1,21,000/- per acre. The A fact remains that the aforesaid document has been referred to and considered by this Court in Sanjay Gera’s case (supra) and no merit was found in the arguments raised. 20. In the case in hand, the civil suit was filed on 1.10.2003 by the Respondent challenging the demand of additional price. of B this Court in Sanjay Gera’s case was delivered on 22.02.2005. Despite this fact being in knowledge of the Appellants, the suit was contested and the same was decreed on 19.08.2008. The matter did not end here, appeal was preferred by the appellant before the First Appellate Court and on failure even before the High Court and thereafter before this C Court. For the aforesaid reasons and wasting the time of the Courts at different levels, we deem it appropriate to burden the Appellants with cost of 1,00,000/- to be deposited with the Supreme Court Mediation Centre. 21.