D Therefore, the decision of this Court in Jah Developers (supra) will not be applicable to the facts of the present appeal. D. Analysis D.1 Regulatory Framework E 12. RBI is a statutory body constituted under Section 3 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. The RBI has been constituted for the purpose of taking over the management of currency from the Central Government, regulating the issue of bank notes, keeping of reserves with a view to securing monetary stability, and operating the currency F and credit system of India.RBI is entrusted with the statutory obligation of administering the provisions of the Banking Regulation Act, 194914. The BR Act vests RBI with various powers with respect to banking companies such as granting licenses, conducting inspections and giving directions. G 13. Section 35A of the BR Act empowers RBI to issue directions to banking companies. Such directions are statutory in nature. Section 35A is extracted below: 13 Master Circular on Wilful Defaulters, 2015 14 “BR Act” H 494 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “35A. Power of the Reserve Bank to give directions – (1) Where the Reserve Bank is satisfied that – (a) in the public interest; or (aa) in the interest of banking policy; or B (b) to prevent the affairs of any banking company being conducted in a manner detrimental to the interests of the depositors or in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the banking company; or (c) to secure the proper management of any banking company generally, C it is necessary to issue directions to banking companies generally or to any banking company in particular, it may, from time to time, issue such directions as it deems fit, and the banking companies or the banking company, as the case may be, shall be bound to comply with such directions. D (2) The Reserve Bank may, on representation made to it or on its own motion, modify or cancel any direction issued under sub- section (1), and in so modifying or cancelling any direction may impose such conditions as it thinks fit, subject to which modifications or cancellation shall have effect.” E 14. RBI has been issuing ‘master directions’ on diverse issues since 2016. These directions encompass the instructions on that particular subject. The master directions are updated whenever there is a change in policy, and such changes get reflected on RBI’s website. In exercise of the power conferred by Section 35A, RBI issued the Master Directions F on Frauds on 01 July 2016 to consolidate and update seven earlier circulars on classification of fraud, reporting and monitoring issued between June 2009 and January 2016. The Master Directionson Frauds were updated on 03 July 2017. The purpose of the Master Directions is extracted below: G “1.3 Purpose These directions are issued with a view to providing a framework to banks to enable them to detect and report frauds early and taking timely consequent actions like reporting to the Investigative agencies so that fraudsters are brought to book early, examining H STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 495 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] staff accountability and do effective fraud risk management.