• In Section 81A in relation to genuineness of every electronic G record purporting to be the Official Gazette. • In Section 82 in relation to documents admissible in England without proof of seal or signature. • In Section 83 in relation to accuracy of maps or plans made by the authority of the Government. H 728 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A • In Section 84 in relation to genuineness of every book purporting to be printed or published under the authority of the Government, containing collection of the laws of the country and reports of the decisions of the Courts. • In Section 85 in relation to certain powers-of-attorney. B • In Sections 85A, 85B and 85C in relation to electronic agreements, electronic records and the electronic signature certificates. • In Section 89 in relation to due execution of documents called for and not produced after notice to produce. C • In Section 111A in relation to certain offences. • In Section 113 in relation to cession of territory. • In Section 113B in relation to dowry death. • In Section 114A in relation to absence of consent in certain prosecutions for rape. D 8. The expression “may presume” is used in the Evidence Act- • In Section 86 in relation to certified copies of judicial records of countries other than India. • In Section 87 in relation to the author, publisher and the E place and time of publication of books, maps and charts, to which a reference is made for information on matters of public or general interest. • In Section 88 in relation to telegraphic messages. • In Section 88A in relation to electronic messages. F • In Section 90 in relation to documents which are thirty years old. • In Section 90A in relation to electronic records which are five years old. • In Section 113A in relation to abetment of suicide by a G married woman. • In Section 114 in relation to existence of certain facts. 9. It is interesting to note that the Evidence Act does not include legitimacy of birth during marriage, either under the category of a fact H which “may be presumed” or under the category of a fact which “shall APARNA AJINKYA FIRODIA v. AJINKYA ARUN FIRODIA 729 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] be presumed”. On the contrary, the Act places birth during marriage as A “conclusive proof” of legitimacy. But Section 112 keeps a window open, enabling a party to the marriage who questions the legitimacy of the child, to show that he/she had no access to the other, when the child could have been begotten. 10. We have seen that under Section 4, when one fact is declared B by the Act to be conclusive proof, the Court shall, on proof of that one fact, regard the other as proved, and shall not allow evidence to be given for the purpose of disproving it. This is why Section 112 does not use the word “proved” or “disproved”.