I have read the affi davit in between the lines. More than a couple of paragraphs are devoted to pointing out the infi rmities in the of the Trial Court leading to the appellant’s conviction, which possibly are 102 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. also the grounds of appeal. In only one of the paragraphs did the appellant plead his disqualifi cation by reason of the notifi cation having been issued by the Lok Sabha Secretariat and vide the concluding paragraph, the High Court was implored to suspend the sentence awarded by the Trial Court together with the conviction. 65. The appellant is an accused in a couple of criminal cases and his conduct is either under investigation or he is standing trial. Not a single mitigating factor was shown by the appellant that could lend support to his case. In such circumstances, can it be concluded that the appellant’s case qualifi es as “exceptional”, thus justifying a stay of the conviction? 66. The present case, as in K.C. Sareen (supra) and Balakrishna Dattatraya Kumbhar (supra), beckons that stay of conviction of the appellant in the circumstances as were presented before the High Court as well as before this Court, could have serious aspersions cast on the integrity of the democratic institutions. Such a power of stay, as and when exercised by the courts, would carry with it the obligation of being extremely circumspect and abundantly cautious necessitating consideration in a judicious manner of all pleaded facts and circumstances. Notwithstanding that the appellant is a (disqualifi ed) member of the Lok Sabha and without the essential pleadings, he cannot legitimately urge that holder of one public offi ce is diff erent from the holder of another public offi ce like the ones referred to above and, therefore, he is entitled to any special treatment. If at all one was to go down that rabbit hole, then the higher burden resting on the shoulders of elected representatives would likely not serve the appellant’s case. Thus, inadequate and insuffi cient pleadings, as assigned by the High Court, is considered a valid ground for upholding the impugned . 67. Though the fundamental flaw of absence of pleadings in the appellant’s case exposes its vulnerability since its very inception, nonetheless, I am inclined to explore an additional facet fl owing from Dr. Singhvi’s forceful argument that the appellant, being an elected member of the Lok Sabha, stands on the brink of losing the right to represent his constituency in the near future, apart from potentially silencing the voice of the electorate that had previously elected him. 68. As enumerated above, law is well-settled that one needs to plead irreversible consequences to have the conviction stayed, and by extension, AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1021 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] get the disqualifi cation lifted. The majority penned by Hon’ble Surya Kant, J. does not also propose to allow the appellant to participate in the remaining sessions of the 17th Lok Sabha. 69. Be that as it may, the claim of the appellant that he would be ineligible to contest the elections to the next Lok Sabha due next year, on account of the conviction suff ered by him, has also failed to impress me.