15. Admittedly, the conviction of the appellants is rested on circumstantial evidence only. As per the Trial Court, the following circumstances were relied upon by the prosecution to establish the guilt of the accused, including the appellants, before it: - H 672 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A “1. Visit of the deceased Rahul Meshram to the house of Chintaman Gatey (P.W.8). 2. While the deceased was at the house of Chintaman, the accused nos. 1 to 3 and deceased accused Raju Pande arrived at the house of Chintaman Gatey. B 3. The motive altercation had taken place between the accused on one side and the deceased on the other side. 4. That, the accused persons, under the pretext of consuming liquor persuaded the deceased to accompany them. C 5. That, the deceased and the accused nos. 1 to 3 and deceased accused Raju Pande, left the house of Chintaman Gatey, on two motor-cycles. 6. That, immediately, there after i.e. after the deceased left the house of Chintaman Gatey with accused persons, D he was found met with homicidal death. 7. Recovery of the weapon from the accused No.1 with the blood stains of Group ‘A’ which was of the deceased. 8. The Opinion of the Dr. Sau. Manjusha Rangari that by E the said weapon, the injuries which were found on the dead body of the deceased, could be caused. 9. The discovery of the fact of burning clothes stained with blood by the accused No. 1 and those clothes were belonged to accused nos. 1 and 2. F 10. The full pant belonged to accused No.1 was stained with blood, of blood group “A” which was of the deceased.” 16. After considering the said relied on circumstances, the Trial Court held that the prosecution had succeeded in establishing eight G circumstances, as under: - “1. The visit of deceased Rahul Meshram at the house of Chintaman Gatey. 2. Arrival of the accused No. 1 to 3, alongwith the deceased accused, at the house of Chintman Gatey. H SHANKAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 673 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 3. That, the accused No.1 to 3 and deceased accused A succeeded in persuading the deceased to join them for consuming liquor. 4. That, the accused No.1 to 3, deceased accused Raju Pande, and deceased Rahul Meshram left the house of Chintaman Gatey, on two motor cycles. B 5. That immediately after the deceased and the accused persons left the house of Chintaman Gatey, the deceased was found murdered. 6. At the instance of the accused No.1 weapon having C handle at one end and the other end sharp and edged one, was recovered, which was found stained with blood, of Group “A” which was of the deceased. 7. Doctor opined that by the said weapon, the injuries could be caused, which were found on the dead-body of the deceased. D 8. The accused No.1 burnt the clothes at place near the water tank in M.S.E.B, Colony, Bhandara.” 17.