in aggregate for a contract year. What is clear, therefore, from a A reading of Article 13.2, is that restitutionary principles apply in case a certain threshold limit is crossed in both sub-clauses (a) and (b). There is no dispute that the present case is covered by sub-clause (b) and that the aforesaid threshold has been crossed. The mechanism for claiming a change in law is then set out by B Article 13.3 of the PPA.” 118. It could thus be seen that this Court has held that insofar as the “operation period” is concerned, compensation for any increase/ decrease in revenues or costs to the seller is to be determined and effected from such date as is decided by the appropriate Commission. It has C further been held that the compensation is only payable for increase/ decrease in revenue or cost to the seller if it is in excess of an amount equivalent to 1% of the Letter of Credit in aggregate for a contract year. It has been held that restitutionary principles apply in case a certain threshold limit is crossed. It has been held that an in-built restitutionary principle compensates the party affected by such ‘Change in Law’ and D the affected party must be restored through monthly tariff payment to the same economic position as if such ‘Change in Law’ had not occurred. 119. From the perusal of paragraph 9, it would also be clear that in case the ‘Change in Law’ happens to be by way of adoption, promulgation, amendment, re-enactment or repeal of the law or ‘Change E in Law’, it has to be effected from the date on which such change occurs. 120. In this respect, it will also be apposite to refer to the following observations of this Court in the case of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited v. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory F Commission and Others8: “173. The APTEL correctly found that: (Maharashtra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission case [Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd. v. Maharashtra Pradesh Electricity Regulatory Commission, 2021 SCC OnLine APTEL G 13] , SCC OnLine APTEL para 13) “13. … On the contrary, there is a conscious exclusion regarding any suo motu change in the rate to be applied while calculating LPS, it being incorrect to argue on the 8 (2022) 4 SCC 657 H 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A assumption that the contract permits automatic change in system.” (emphasis supplied) 174. This Court is unable to accept Mr Singh’s submission that the conclusion of APTEL that LPS is not tariff is erroneous. The B meaning of the expression tariff has to be considered, and has rightly been considered by APTEL in the context of the relevant provision of the power purchase agreements. The dictionary meaning of tariff may be charge. However, in Article 13 of the Stage 1 and Article 10 of the Stage 2 power purchase agreements, C tariff means monthly tariff and tariff adjustment consequential to change in law, is of monthly tariff in respect of supply of electricity.