(1A) Either party to a marriage, whether solemnized before or after the commencement of this Act, may also present a petition for the dissolution of the marriage by a decree of divorce on the ground— SMT. ROOPA SONI v. KAMALNARAYAN SONI 875 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] (i) that there has been no resumption of cohabitation as between the parties to the marriage for a period of one year or upwards after the passing of a decree for judicial separation in a proceeding to which they were parties; or (ii) that there has been no restitution of conjugal rights as between the parties to the marriage for a period of one year or upwards after the passing of a decree for restitution of conjugal rights in a proceeding to which they were parties.” 3. The Amending Act of 1976 (Act 68 of 1976) had introduced clauses (ia) and (ib) to Section 13 and Section 13A etc. to liberalize grant of divorce. The Statement of Objects and Reasons, when the Bill was introduced, clearly spells out the reasons in the following words: “Statementof Objects and Reasons for the Marriage Laws (Amendment) Bill, 1976: “(1) To liberalise the provisions relating to divorce; (2) to enable expeditious disposal of proceedings under the Act; and (3) to remove certain anomalies and handicaps that have come to light after the passing of the Acts.” 4. Preceding the Bill, the Minister of Law and Justice and Company Aff airs addressed a communication to the Chairman of the Law Commission of India on 17.01.1974, seeking his view towards liberalizing divorce proceedings, which resulted in the 59th Report of the Law Commission of India. The Amending Act of 1976 substantially amended Section 13 of the Act of 1955, while adding some more clauses. Suffi ce to state that the intendment of the Parliament is very clear, which is to liberalize the provision of divorce, while being conscious of the protection required for the estranged wife. While applying the sub-clauses to Section 13(1) of the Act of 1955, one needs to have a proper understanding of the position of the spouse opposing the petition for grant of divorce as the consequences and impact may diff er from person to person, based upon factors such as social setting, educational qualifi cation(s), fi nancial status, employment, caste, community, age and place. 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 5. The word ‘cruelty’ under Section 13(1)(ia) of the Act of 1955 has got no fi xed meaning, and therefore, gives a very wide discretion to the Court to apply it liberally and contextually. What is cruelty in one case may not be the same for another. As stated, it has to be applied from person to person while taking note of the attending circumstances. 6. In Vishwanath Agrawal v. Sarla Vishwanath Agrawal, (2012) 7 SCC 288this Court suffi ciently sets out: “22. The expression “cruelty” has an inseparable nexus with human conduct or human behaviour. It is always dependent upon the social strata or the milieu to which the parties belong, their ways of life, relationship, temperaments and emotions that have been conditioned by their social status.