Therefore, H 500 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Section 10(a)(i) does not suffer from any vagueness and/or on the ground unreasonable and/or disproportionate. [Para 16.1][556- E-G] 3.3 As per Section 10(a)(i) a person cannot be punished merely because he was the member of such unlawful association. B The language including Section 10 is very significant. It provides that “wherein an association is declared unlawful” by notification under Section 3 which has become effective under sub-Section 3 of that Section. So, it is only after the Notification under Section 3 has become effective under subsection 3, that the latter part of that Section applies. The language of Section 10(a)(i) is also very C cautiously worded “who is and continues to be a member of such association”. Therefore, on true interpretation, if a person has been a member but does not continue to be a member after declaration, that does not attract mischief of Section 10. The intention seems to be that not only was he a member on the day D when the association is declared unlawful but he continues to be a member. The intention is very clear that not only on the given date but even after that you continue to be a member of that association which is declared as unlawful association due to unlawful activities which is found to be against the interests of sovereignty and integrity of India. Therefore, once an association E is declared unlawful of whom the concerned person was the member wishes to continue as a member despite the fact that he is well aware of the fact that such an association is declared unlawful and if he still wishes to continue being a part of such unlawful association it shows a conscious decision on his part F and therefore liable to be penalized for such an act of continuation of his membership with such unlawful association. Therefore, thereafter he may not make grievance of chilling effect. [Para 17.1][557-B-F] 4. The view taken by this Court in the cases of Raneef, G Arup Bhuyan (two Judge Bench decision), and Sri Indra Das taking the view that under Section 3(5) of Terrorists and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987 and Section 10(a)(i) of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 mere membership of a banned organization will not incriminate a person H ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 501 unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence and A does an act intended to create dis or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence and reading down the said provisions to mean that over and above the membership of a banned organization there must be an overt act and/or further criminal activities and adding the element of mens rea are held to be not a B good law. When an association is declared unlawful by notification issued under Section 3 which has become effective of sub-section 3 of that Section, a person who is and continues to be a member of such association is liable to be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, and shall also be liable to fine under Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967.