Specifi cally, Seven Judges of this Court analysed the phrase “restrictions and modifi cations” to not encompass unfettered powers for the statutory authority. 89. In response, the Union has relied on the observations in Puranlal Lakhanpal v. President of India,116 in which this Court the President’s power to make modifi cations ought to be considered in its “widest possible amplitude”. However, as submitted by the Petitioners, these observations are obiter. In this case, the Court was considering the constitutionality of a provision in C.O. 48, where the President, in exercise of his powers under Article 370(1)(d), had modifi ed Article 81(1) as it applied to J&K. The modifi cation provided that “the representatives of the State in the House of the People shall be appointed by the President on the recommendation of the legislature of the State.” Specifi cally, the Court dealt with the question as to 114 (supra). 115 (supra). 116 (supra) 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. whether this alteration constituted a ‘radical modifi cation’ of Article 81 as it applied to Jammu & Kashmir, and whether the same was within the powers of the President under Article 370(1)(d). In Paragraph 3 of the said , this Court noted that there had been no radical alteration of Article 81 by the modifi cation eff ected in C.O. 48. This was because the President only had the power to nominate such persons who had been recommended by the State Legislature, which was elected on adult suff rage. The only way the Legislature could make a recommendation for this purpose was by voting. Thus, the eff ect was that six seats to the House of the People would be fi lled by indirect election. Since the element of election still remained (although indirect), it could not be said that the President had exceeded his powers under Article 370(1)(d). 90. Although the Court found in Paragraph 4 that the power was of the widest possible amplitude, these comments were made after the Court had already decided the question of whether C.O. 48 constituted a radical alteration of Article 81 and were not relevant for determination of the lis. 91. Thus, C.O. 272, to the extent that it “modifi es” Article 367 by introducing Article 367(4) is invalid. B. Concurrence with the Government of the State was not necessary to apply all the provisions of the Constitution of India to the State. 92. As discussed above, CO 272 applied all the provisions of the Constitution of India to the State. Article 370(1)(d) requires: i. Consultation with the Government of the State for applying those provisions which are declared by the President as corresponding to matters in the Instrument of Accession ii. Concurrence with the Government of the State for applying any other provisions In this case, the Governor of the State had dissolved the Legislative Assembly of the State, there were no Council of Ministers, and the President had assumed to himself all functions of the Government of the State under the 2018 Proclamation, as extended.