In that context, this Court also indicated that an individual using such product may not be prepared to say that he or she H 348 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A was using a particular compound to get rid of dandruff or other similar diseases but would not hesitate to state that he or she was using a particular brand of shampoo. The observations in BPL Pharmaceuticals in this regard correlates with ingredient test as also the common parlance test; and in our view, fortify the case of the respondent. B 23.3. The submissions about specific entry to be preferred to the general entry do not take the case of appellant any further. In the present case, in fact, the referred entry of Chapter 33 relating to the Tariff Item ‘Hair oil’ under the Heading 3305 is itself to be taken as a general entry and in any case, when hair oil is being used only as a medium for use/ administration/application of the medicine, the case would fall in the C specific entry pertaining to medicament under Headings 3003 or 3004; and it being of the medicines of Homeopathic system, it would fall either in Tariff Item 3003 90 14 or in Tariff Item 3004 90 14. In any case, the product in question cannot fall under Chapter 33. 24. As observed, we have considered it appropriate to refer to the D said decision of the Tribunal in the case of Bakson Homeo Pharmacy (supra), which had all through been relied upon by the respondent for the reason that it related to a similar product marketed in the name of “Sunny Arnica Hair Oil”. The said decision clearly makes out the ingredient test in favour of the respondent and we are satisfied with the E detailed analysis of the same ingredients by the Tribunal while holding the product to be a medicament. The ingredient test, as extensively dealt with in the leading opinion of majority of the Tribunal in the case of Bakson Homeo Pharmacy(supra), with reference to the fundamental principles of Homeopathy and the medicinal properties and therapeutic/ prophylactic use of several of the ingredients, inspires confidence and F when AHAHO is found carrying all such Homeopathic medicines which were the ingredients of the product under consideration of the Tribunal, we find it just and proper to endorse the views of the majority of the Tribunal in Bakson Homeo Pharmacy (supra) and there appears no requirement to re-analyse the medicinal properties of the ingredients. G Suffice it would be to observe that the product in question, AHAHO, passes the ingredients test beyond any doubt. 25. On the other features of common parlance test, i.e., the manner in which the product in question is commonly understood, it is noticed that one of the grounds placed at the forefront by the appellants and the Adjudicating Authority had been that AHAHO was accessible in both H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 349 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.]