The cause of the quarrel is not relevant no is it relevant who off ered the provocation or started the assault. The number of wounds caused during the occurrence is not a decisive factor but what is important is that the occurrence must have been sudden and unpremeditated and the off ender must have acted in a fi t of anger. Of course, the off ender must not have taken any undue advantage or acted in a cruel manner. Where, on a sudden quarrel, a person in the heat of the moment picks up a weapon which is handy and causes injuries, one of which proves fatal, he would be entitled to the benefi t of this exception provided he has not acted cruelly.” 3 (1989) 2 SCC 217 108 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 11. In the present case, while looking at the facts and circumstances of the case, it can be seen that the appellant had suddenly stabbed the deceased during a heated verbal argument with him and not during a pre-planned attack which was carried out with the sole intention of causing the death of the deceased. The previous enmity between the appellant and the deceased had been a contributory factor leading to the verbal altercation but it was not the reason for the accused to carry out a pre-planned fatal attack against the deceased. The appellant had acted “suddenly”, in the heat of passion and without a pre-planned approach to kill the deceased. 12. Right from the beginning i.e. he prosecution story as set up in the FIR was that initially there was a heated discussion between the parties and in a fi t of anger the physical assault took place. Even the ocular testimony is also to the same eff ect. Although on the same evidence the Trial Court has acquitted two co-accused and convicted only the appellant. It has also come in evidence that the appellant had caused only one injury whereas other accused had caused multiple injuries. However, the Trial Court acquitted the other two accused. 13. Hence, it can be safely concluded from the evidence led in the present case that the appellant’s overt act of killing the deceased happened during a fi t of anger in the heat of a passionate verbal quarrel and would fall under Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC. Moreover, the clear intent needed to prove culpable homicide amounting to murder has also not been established by the prosecution. 14. The appeal is partly allowed. 15. The conviction under Section 302 IPC is Converted to Section 304 Part-I with sentence of 10 years Rigorous Imprisonment and fi ne of Rs. 50,000/-, to be paid to the victim’s family. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal partly allowed. Ankit Gyan