7 Said IA was Filed for directions against Escrow Bank and lender seeking return of amount debited. 104 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. The Borrower hereby unconditionally and irrevocably undertakes and confi rms to create security interest on the said Secured Property in favour of the Lender and perfect the security creation as mentioned herein above in favour of the Lender in such form and manner as may be deem fi t by Lender within 6 months from the date of fi rst disbursement of the Facility. The Company further undertakes and confi rms to open an Escrow Account within 30 days of the fi rst disbursement of the Facility for the assignment of receivables arising/accruing from the TIFC Property and creating charge on the said Escrow Account in manner and form as made be deem fi t by Lender.” 20. Clause 13 of the MFA provided for ‘Assignment/Transfer’. Clause 13.1 of MFA is as follows: “13. ASSIGNMENT/TRANSFER 13.1. The Borrower shall not assign or transfer all or any of its rights, benefi ts or obligations under the Facility Agreement and the Transaction Documents without the approval of Lender. Lender may, at any time, assign or transfer all or any of its rights, benefi ts and obligations under the Facility Agreement and the Transaction Documents. Notwithstanding any such assignment or transfer, the Borrower shall, unless otherwise notifi ed by Lender, continue to make all payments under the Facility Agreement to Lender and all such payments when made to Lender shall constitute a discharge to the Borrower from its liabilities only to the extent of such payments.” Clause 15 covers ‘Event of Default’. Clause 15.2deals with ‘Consequence of Default and remedies’.Schedule-1 of the MFA provides for ‘Special Conditions for Rental Discounting. ‘Receivables’ is defi ned in Clause 1 of Schedule -I of the MFA in the following words: “Receivables” shall mean and include gross income and revenue derived from the operation of Client’s Contracts and shall include Deferred Receivables as stated in Appendix-1.” 21. Clause 4 of Schedule-1of the MFA deals with ‘Borrower’s Contracts Specifi c Covenants’. Clauses 4(c) and Clause 5 (a), (b) and (c) provide as follows: “4. [..] (c) The Borrower shall not alter, change or modify the terms of the Borrower’s Contracts in so far as it relates to such terms which INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1045 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] would have an adverse eff ect or impact on the Receivables and/or which shall otherwise detrimentally eff ect the Lender’s interest in the Secured Property and income thereof.” “5. SECURITY AND REPAYMENT SPECIFIC COVENANTS a) The Borrower agrees that the Facility shall be secured by exclusive security interest on the Receivables in such mode and manner as deemed fi t and desired by the Lender. b) The Borrower shall, on execution of this Facility Agreement, assign the Receivables in favour of the Lender on such terms as would be entered into between the Borrower and the Lender and pursuant thereto shall execute a Power of Attorney and Assignment and Management Agreement in line with the draft enclosed herewith in Appendix-3 to the Special Conditions.