However, the PCIT rejected all the contentions raised by the assessee inter alia holding that Article 25 of Omani tax laws is not applicable in the instant case because there is tax payable on dividend in Oman and, accordingly, no tax has been paid and that assessee is not covered under the exemption. 7. Questioning the of PCIT, the assessee preferred an appeal before the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (for short, ‘ITAT’), which allowed the appeal holding that the passed by the PCIT under Section 263 of the Act is without jurisdiction and is not sustainable in law. 8. The passed by the ITAT was challenged before the Delhi High Court by preferring an Income Tax Appeal, which has been dismissed by the High Court by the impugned holding that as per the relevant terms of the DTAA between India and Oman, the assessee is entitled to claim the tax credit, which has been rightly allowed by the Assessing Offi cer. CONTENTIONS RAISED BY THE PARTIES: 9. Shri Arijit Prasad, learned senior counsel would submit that Article 11(4) would only apply in a case where the Permanent Establishment (for short, ‘PE’) of the assessee was carrying on business in Oman, whereas, in the case in hand, the PE is only doing preparatory and auxiliary work and is not having any tangible expenses. Therefore, the dividend income of the assessee is not related to its PE. It is also argued that the exemption letter dated 11.12.2000 issued by the Sultanate of Oman, Ministry of Finance under the signatures of Secretary General for Taxation, has no statutory force as per Omani Tax Laws, therefore, the same cannot be relied upon to claim exemption. 10. Per contra, Mr. Arvind P. Dattar, learned senior counsel appearing for the assessee would contend that the provisions of DTAA fully exempt the assessee from payment of tax on dividend in Oman which, in turn, 594 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. would exempt the assessee from taxation in India. It is further argued that the letter issued by the Sultanate of Oman, Ministry of Finance emanates from the highest authority of the Omani regime, therefore, the clarifi cation set out in the said letter is valid for interpretation of the relevant clauses of DTAA, to exempt the assessee from payment of dividend tax in Oman and, in turn, in India. ISSUE TO BE CONSIDERED BY THIS COURT: 11. All the matters involve a similar question of law as to whether the dividend income earned by the assessee is taxable, although exempted under Omani Tax Laws to entitle the assessee to the benefi ts of the Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (for short, ‘DTAA’) between India and Oman. ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS: 12. The decision in these appeals revolves around the relevant provisions of the DTAA and Omani Tax Laws, therefore, it is profi table to extract them for ready reference. Article 7 speaks about business profi ts which reads as follows: “ARTICLE 7. The profi ts of an enterprise of a Contracting State shall be taxable only in that State unless the enterprise carried on business in the other Contracting State through a Permanent Establishment situated therein.