A when one has been completed another may be begun on further information received.”. 43. After recognition of the right of the police to make repeated investigations under the Old Code in Divakar’s case, a three-Judge Bench of this Court in H.N. Rishbud v. State of Delhi reported in AIR B 1955 SC 196, held that:- “It does not follow, however, that the invalidity of the investigation is to be completely ignored by the Court during trial. When the breach of such a mandatory provision is brought to the knowledge of the Court at a sufficiently early C stage, the Court, while not declining cognizance, will have to take the necessary steps to get the illegality cured and the defect rectified, by ing such reinvestigation as the circumstances of an individual case may call for. Such a course is not altogether outside the contemplation of the scheme of the Code as appears from Section 202 under which a D Magistrate taking cognizance on a complaint can investigation by the police. Nor can it be said that the adoption of such a course is outside the scope of the inherent powers of the Special Judge, who for purposes of procedure at the trial is virtually in the position of a Magistrate trying a warrant E case.” 44. Some High Courts were also of the view that with the submission of a chargesheet under Section 173, the power of the police to investigate into an offence comes to an end and the Magistrate’s cognizance of the offence started. For instance, in State v. Mehar Singh and Ors. reported in 1974 Crl LJ 970, a Full Bench of the High Court of F Punjab and Haryana held that the police became functus officio once the Court took cognizance of an offence on the filing of a chargesheet by the police and thereafter, further investigation by the police was not permissible. 45. It was, however, observed that in light of the decision in H.N. G Rishbud (supra), it would be open to the Magistrate to ‘suspend cognizance’ and direct the police to make further investigation into the case and submit a report. 46. The said inconsistency and incongruity in the judicial decisions was recognized by the Law Commission in its 41st Report (under Clause H STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 155 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 14.23) and it was recommended that the right of the police to make A further investigation should be statutorily affirmed. Accordingly, in the CrPC, Section 173(8), came to be introduced, which statutorily empowered the police to undertake further investigation after submission of the final report under Section 173(2) of the CrPC. Conspicuously, it still did not confer such powers on the Magistrate to direct further and/ B or fresh investigation after submission of the final report by the Police. 47. Section 173(8) of the CrPC may be fragmented or dissected as under: (1) Further investigation can be done in respect of an offence wherein report under Section 173(2) has been forwarded to the C Magistrate; and (2) During further investigation, the officer-in-charge has power (a) to obtain further evidence, oral or documentary, (b) to forward to the Magistrate, a further report or reports regarding such evidence in the form prescribed, D (3) The provisions of sub sections (2) to (6) shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to such further report or reports.