He submits that, in these circumstances, it was not appropriate on the part of the High Court to have interfered B with the s of the learned Special Judge and deprived the appellants herein of their liberty. He further submits that this Court in the case of Thwaha Fasal v. Union of India1, has held that even at the stage of grant of bail, the prosecution has to prima facie establish that there was mens rea for committing the crime punishable under Sections 39 and 40 C of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 (hereinafter referred to the “said Act”). He further submitted that even though the appellants were arrested and subsequently released, their services are not suspended and they are still continuing in their respective jobs. 8. Smt. V. Mohana submits that the learned Division Bench of the D High Court has rightly reversed the s of grant of bail. She submits that the appellants themselves have admitted that they have paid the money to the organization. She further submits that, from the documents which were submitted with the supplementary charge-sheet, it is clear that the receipts are signed in the hand writings of the appellants. She, therefore, submits that there is a prima facie material to connect the E present appellants with the crime in question. 9. Smt. Mohana further relies on the provisions of sub-section (5) of Section 43D of the said Act to buttress the submission that since the prima facie case is made out, the appellants were not entitled to bail and as such, the High Court has rightly reversed the s. F 10. It will be relevant to refer to the following observation of the learned Special Judge, while granting them bail:- “I have considered this peculiar position which has a marked difference between the extortionist and the tax payers who are under constraint. It is also in all correctness by the learned Special G PP, NIA to argue that the petitioners should take recourse to protection of the law enforcing agencies. However, in my considered view the position of the accused who are compelled to pay tax are precarious and there is no doubt that the law H 1 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1000 KEKHRIESATUO TEP ETC. v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION 527 AGENCY [B. R. GAVAI, J.] enforcing agencies may not always be there for their protection A and penalty for violation which always looms is eminent. Under this given facts we are drawn to the cardinal principle of criminal jurisprudence which postulates that there can be no crime when there is no mens rea. It is apparent to see that the accused persons have undoubtedly committed offence but it is an offence which is B prompted by element of threat. We are drawn to the Criminal Appeal No. 4 (K) of 2017 NIA vs. Victo Swu which is relied upon by the Special PP, NIA where the submission of the learned PP NIA is recorded as “Thereafter the IA. PP NIA submitted that this document as a piece of evidence which would prove that the respondent/accused was regularly extorting money for C NSCN(K) from Govt.