The view expressed consistently is that it would be compensatory or regulatory where it is imposed for breach of a statutory duty. [Para 31][906-F-H; 907-A] 2.2. From the very object and reasons of the Amending Act 1999, it is apparent that the special road tax was introduced as a G compensatory measure. What is to be seen is whether the tax imposed will have identifiable object and a nexus between the subject and the object of the levy. The power has been given to the States to make its own legislations by imposing tax on motor vehicles as also the goods being transported in to H 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A compensate itself for the services, benefits and facilities provided by it. [Paras 34, 35][908-E, H; 909-A] 2.3. The argument by the amicus is that the offending provision contained in Section 3A(3) being repugnant to the central legislation, will have to give way and cannot be sustained. B His submission is that the power to impose penalty is given in Section 192A of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988. According to him, Entry 57 of List II being subject to the provisions of Entry 35 of List III under which the 1988 Act has been enacted, Section 192A provides for penalty being imposed on vehicles being used without permit or in contravention of the provisions of sub- C section (1) of Section 66 (providing for necessity for permits). According to him once the central Act contains a penal provision for such a violation of imprisonment as also fine, the State could not have imposed a tax for the same violation. This submission can be sustained only if any repugnancy or any conflict can be D established between the State law and the Central law. The provisions under Section 192A are in no way violated or conflicted by imposing an additional special tax for violation of use of vehicles without permit. It can be said to be in addition to the penalty provided in Section 192A of the 1988 Act. This Court, in the case of Sukhpal Singh Bal has already upheld that such imposition E of tax for violation of statutory provisions, is to be treated as a regulatory measure and only to work as a deterrent of the vehicle owners’ violating the law. Such a tax would be regulatory in nature and would only check violations of the statutory provisions. In the case of Sharma Transport Rep. by D.P. Sharma, a similar issue F was considered and this Court was of the view that under Entry 35 of List III the permission is to lay down the principles on which the tax may be levied whereas the State had a right to levy such tax. [Para 38][911-H; 912-A-F] 3.1. Section 3 of the Himachal Pradesh Motor Vehicles G Taxation Act 1972 provided for levy of taxes on all motor vehicles kept or used in the State of Himachal Pradesh as per the schedules appended to the said Act.