608 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 55. Per contra, Mr. Vivek Kohli, learned senior counsel, appearing for the respondent has reiterated the contentions raised and grounds urged before the tribunal. He would contend that throughout the period before dispute, during the disputed period and even after the disputed period, the product manufactured by the assessee was classifi ed as ‘chewing tobacco/ fl avoured chewing tobacco’. Even the ER-1 returns and weekly online returns fi led by the assessee classifying the product as ‘chewing tobacco’ were accepted by the Revenue without any objection. He would contend that even after introduction of 8-digit tariff for full one year i.e., from 1.03.2005 to 28.02.2006, the assessee classifi ed its product under tariff entry number 2403 9910 and discharged its tax liability under Section 4A of CE Act, which was accepted with full knowledge by the Revenue and raising objection during audit of the unit for the period 1.03.2006 to 11.07.2006 is possibility of higher Revenue during this period is due to (a) technical oversight by the Revenue itself which was later corrected and, (b) the alternate assessment on transaction value rather than MRP based assessment. He would contend that when classifi cation of the product is accepted earlier and for the subsequent period, same cannot be classifi ed diff erently. There being no defi nition of the competing products, the application of the common parlance test is to be adopted and when so adopted the only conclusion that has to be drawn is that product is to be construed as ‘chewing tobacco’, as declared in invoices and understood by distribution chain of dealers, stockists, retailers and consumers. He would submit that burden of proof lies on the Revenue as classifi cation is a question relating to chargeability and the same having not been discharged by adducing any evidence whatsoever the classifi cation as done by the adjudicating authority has been right set-aside by the tribunal. 56. He would submit that the Revenue is seeking to impose classifi cation wherein the word ‘perfumery’ to impart fl avour to ‘chewing tobacco’ has the basis and the fact remains the very same process is adopted since decades. Based on uncorroborated statement the classifi cation cannot be done. To conclude he would contend that as opined that this court in W.P.I.L. v. CCE Meerut – 2005 (181) ELT 359 has opined that during transition phases inadvertent mistakes have to be interpreted/ understood in the light of or in the context of policy prevailing in respect of the product and the policy then existing was to tax tobacco products under Section 4 A of the CE Act – MRP based assessment, it is only logical that classifi cation COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 609 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] declared by the assessee and declared by the department prevail. Hence, he prays for dismissal of the appeal by relying upon the following s. i. HPL Chemicals Limited v. CCE Chandigarh. 2006 (197) ELT 324 (SC) ii.