alimony and permanent lump-sum maintenance gets delayed, while A anxiety and suspicion remain. Here, the procedure should give way to a larger public and personal interest of the parties in ending the litigation(s), and the pain and sorrow effected, by passing a formal decree of divorce, as de-facto the marriage had ended much earlier. 17.Analysing the provisions of sub-section (2) to Section 13-B of B the Hindu Marriage Act, this Court in Amardeep Singh v. Harveen Kaur32 went into the question of whether the cooling off period of six months is mandatory or discretionary. It was held that the cooling off period can be waived by the court where the proceedings have remained pending for long in the courts, these being cases of exceptional situations. C It was held thus: “14. The learned Amicus Curiae submitted that waiting period enshrined under Section 13-B(2) of the Act is directory and can be waived by the court where proceedings are pending, in exceptional situations. This view is supported by the s of D the Andhra Pradesh High Court in K. Omprakash v. K. Nalini, Karnataka High Court in Roopa Reddy v. Prabhakar Reddy, Delhi High Court in Dhanjit Vadra v. Beena Vadra and Madhya Pradesh High Court in Dineshkumar Shukla v. Neeta. Contrary view has been taken by the Kerala High Court in M. Krishna Preetha v. Jayan Moorkkanatt. It was submitted that Section E 13-B(1) relates to jurisdiction of the court and the petition is maintainable only if the parties are living separately for a period of one year or more and if they have not been able to live together and have agreed that the marriage be dissolved. Section 13-B(2) is procedural. He submitted that the discretion to waive the period F is a guided discretion by consideration of interest of justice where there is no chance of reconciliation and parties were already separated for a longer period or contesting proceedings for a period longer than the period mentioned in Section 13-B(2). Thus, the court should consider the questions: (i) How long parties have been married? G (ii) How long litigation is pending? (iii) How long they have been staying apart? 32 (2017) 8 SCC 746. H 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A (iv) Are there any other proceedings between the parties? (v) Have the parties attended mediation/ conciliation? (vi) Have the parties arrived at genuine settlement which takes care of alimony, custody of child or any other pending issues between the parties? B xx xx xx 19. Applying the above to the present situation, we are of the view that where the court dealing with a matter is satisfied that a case is made out to waive the statutory period under Section 13-B(2), it can do so after considering the following: C (i) the statutory period of six months specified in Section 13-B(2), in addition to the statutory period of one year under Section 13-B(1) of separation of parties is already over before the first motion itself; D (ii) all efforts for mediation/conciliation including efforts in terms of 32-A Rule 3 CPC/Section 23(2) of the Act/Section 9 of the Family Courts Act to reunite the parties have failed and there is no likelihood of success in that direction by any further efforts; E (iii) the parties have genuinely settled their differences including alimony, custody of child or any other pending issues between the parties; (iv) the waiting period will only prolong their agony.