This is so because what must ultimately sustain the court in public confidence of is the character and independence of the judges.” 86 Alan Barth, Prophets with Honor,1974 Ed. P 3-6 H 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 87.1 The practice of dissent in judicial decision-making process plays a critical role in revealing constitutional commitment to deliberative democracy. Allowing judges to express differing views and engage in a dialogue about the law and its interpretation can potentially lead toa more nuanced and refined understanding of the law, as the Court grapples with competing interpretations and seeks to reconcile them in a principled B manner. 87.2 Confronted with a similar situation which is confronting us today where the present opinion is the minority one, Justice Stephen Breyer of the US Supreme Court in his dissenting opinion87 in a C question in the context of Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) spoke of interpreting not only the purpose of the Statute but also the likely consequence: “When interpreting a statute, it is often helpful to consider not simply the statute’s literal words, but also the statute’s purposes D and the likely consequences of our interpretation. Otherwise, we risk adopting an interpretation that, even if consistent with text, creates unnecessary complexity and confusion.” 87.3. The objective behind the enactment of the Arbitration Act, 1996 was to, inter alia, avoid procedural complexity and the E delay in litigation before Courts. Impounding and stamping at the Section 11 stage would frustrate the very purpose of the amended Arbitration Act, 1996 as the enforcement of arbitration agreements would be stalled on an issue, which is capable of being resolved at a later stage. To defer stamping to the stage of the arbitrator would in my view F achieve the objective of both the Arbitration Act, 1996 and the Stamp Act, 1899. 87.4. The contours of the jurisdiction of the judge referring matters for arbitration, cannot be permitted to suffer from confusion and ambiguity. As can be seen, the present 5 judge-Bench could not provide G clarity on the issue referred to us, on account of the fractured verdict, leading to legal uncertainty. The constitution of a larger Bench in this Court is certainly not commonplace as the last occasion when 7 judges assembled was in the year 2017. Around 5 matters as I am informed, H 87Badgerow v. Walters, 596 U.S. 2022 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 491 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] are already awaiting the attention of 7 judges Bench. In such backdrop, A the interplay between the Acts and how its objective is to be achieved in the course of Arbitral proceedings either at the referral stage or thereafter is much too important to be left lingering for a clarificatory verdict by a larger Bench. Therefore, I would appeal to the legislative wing of the State to revisit the Amendments which may be necessary B in the Stamp Act, 1899 in its application to the Arbitration Act, 1996.