It is thus clear that in the field of rendering professional services at any rate the principle of equal pay for equal work would be inapplicable. In the instant case Medical Officers holding the B qualification of G.C.I.M., or the qualification of L.I.M. or the qualification of D.A.M., though in charge of dispensaries run by Zilla Parishads, cannot, therefore, be created on par with each other and if the State Government or the Zilla Parishads prescribe different scales of pay for each category of Medical Officers no C fault could be found with such prescription. …” 29. Though the decision in Dr. C. Girijambal (supra) was cited, the High Court, in the cases on hand, sought to distinguish the same on the ground that in the case of holders of GCIM, LIM and DAM, the State did not treat them equally in the matter of proficiency right from D the beginning, but that in the case of non-MBBS degree holders and MBBS degree holders, the cadre remained the same. Therefore, the High Court held that the ration of the decision in Dr. C. Girijambal was not applicable to the cases on hand. 30. But we do not think that the High Court was right in distinguishing the decision in Dr. C. Girijambal. In the said case, the E writ petitioner succeeded in the first round of litigation and secured a Class ‘A’ Registration Certificate as well as the same scale of pay on par with holders of GCIM and LIM. It was only thereafter when a revision was undertaken that a classification was sought to be made. In other words, the petitioner in Dr. C. Girijambal reached the same F pedestal as that of others through a court and it was only subsequently, that she suffered inequal treatment at the time of revision of pay. Therefore, the distinguishment made by the High Court to the decision in Dr. C. Girijambal is not well founded. 31. In Mewa Ram Kanojia vs. All India Institute of Medical G Sciences4, a person initially appointed to the post of Teacher Coordinator in a project funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research, was redesignated as Hearing Therapist, upon his unit getting absorbed with the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. While implementing the recommendations of the Third Pay Commission, he sought parity with H 4 (1989) 2 SCC 235 STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. ETC. v. DR. P. A. BHATT & ORS. 313 ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] Speech Therapists and Audiologists. His claim was not considered, forcing A him to approach this Court directly under Article 32 of the Constitution, contending that he was performing the same duties and functions as that of Speech Therapists and Audiologists. While rejecting his claim, this Court held that “… it is open to the State to classify employees on the basis of qualifications, duties and responsibilities of the posts B concerned. …”. 32. The decision in Mewa Ram Kanojia (supra) was distinguished by the High Court on the ground that in the case on hand the Allopathy doctors and Ayurved doctors are performing the same duties and responsibilities.