This Court reasoned that molasses manufactured in the sugar mills, was the property of the appellant therein and it answers the description of goods, that the transfer of the ownership in the goods wherefor the company was to pay the price to the appellant therein was C not in the form of cash but to be adjusted from the amount payable by the appellant therein to the owner by way of consideration for use of the mill. The expression cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration had to be given its true meaning and the latter two expressions enlarge the ambit of consideration beyond cash only. It was observed that “once an essential component of sales takes place, sales D tax would, indisputably, be payable”. It was held that the arrangement between the parties therein being clear and unambiguous and not with a view to evade tax but there being transfer of goods from the appellant therein to the company in the form of supply of molasses, the appellant therein was entitled to a consideration which was in the form of the right E to run the sugar mill under a deed of licence. It was also observed that a barter or an exchange being different from a sale, payment of a licence fee could not be a subject matter of barter or exchange. The aforesaid is squarely applicable to the facts of the present cases on the interpretation of the expression valuable consideration in the definition of sale in the legislations under consideration. F 61. In Commissioner of Central Excise, Mumbai vs. Fiat India Private Limited, (2012) 9 SCC 332, this Court observed that consideration means something which is of value in the eye of the law. In other words, it may consist either in some right, interest, profit or benefit accruing to one party, or some forbearance, detriment, loss or G responsibility, given, suffered or undertaken by the other. 62. Webster’s Third New International Dictionary (unabridged) defines, consideration thus: “Something that is legally regarded as the equivalent or return given or suffered by one for the act or promise of another.” H 1342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A In Salmond on Jurisprudence, the word “consideration” has been explained in the following words: “A consideration in its widest sense is the reason, motive or inducement, by which a man is moved to bind himself by an agreement. It is for nothing that he consents to impose an B obligation upon himself, or to abandon or transfer a right. It is in consideration of such and such a fact that he agrees to bear new burdens or to forego the benefits which the law already allows him.” The gist of the term “consideration” and its legal significance has C been clearly summed up in Section 2(d) of the Indian Contract Act which defines “consideration” thus: “When, at the desire of the promisor, the promisee or any other person has done or abstained from doing, or does or abstains from doing, or promises to do or to abstain from doing, something, such act or abstinence or promise is called a D consideration to the promise.” 63.