The new licences issued to others also stipulated one time entry fee and then licence fee payment on sharing basis. In view of the new 1999 policy, the earlier policy which restricted competition, underwent a change and licencees forgo their right to operate in the regime of limited number of operators. Another reason why we feel that licence fee payable for the period on or before 31 July, 1999 should be treated as capital and the amount payable thereafter as revenue, is justifi ed and appropriate in view of Section 35ABB. We have already quoted the said section above. The provision provides that licence fee of capital nature shall be amortized by dividing the amount by number of remainder years of licences. Thus, the capitalized amount of licence fee is to be apportioned as a deduction in the unexpired period of the licence. The provision will have ballooning eff ect with amortized amount substantially increasing in the later years and in the last year the entire licence fee alongwith the brought forward amortized amount would be allowed as deduction. After a particular point of time, deduction allowable under Section 35ABB would be more than the actual payment by the assessee as licence fee for the said year. This would normally happen after the mid-term of the licence period. Section 35ABB, therefore, ensures that the capital payment is duly allowed as a deduction over the term and once the expenditure is allowed, it would be revenue or tax neutral provided the tax rates remain the same during this period. 388 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 44. ITA Nos. at serial Nos. 1 to 9 above primarily relate to variable licence fee, which is to be shared under the 1999 Policy whereas, ITA No. 417/2013 fi led against Hutchison Essar Ltd. relates to the period of variable licence fee payable for the fourth year under the 1994 Agreement. 45. The effect thereof is that we are treating about 20% of the expenditure in terms of the tenure as per the 1999 Policy as capital in nature, whereas if we apply the 1994 Agreement, we would be treating about 40% of the expenditure as per the tenure as payable towards establishing or setting up of cellular business. By the time 1999 Policy was implemented in the case of the respondents-assessees, the cellular telephone business had already commenced and was in operation. The 1999 Policy had the eff ect of extending period of licence from 10 years to 20 years, but from the eff ective date. The view, we have taken, eff ectively means that the entire licence fee paid in the initial fi rst four years is treated as capital in nature i.e. the expenditure incurred to establish cellular telephone business, whereas the balance expenditure payable on year to year basis from 5 year onwards is treated as revenue expenditure to run and operate cellular telephone business. 46. However, we would like to discuss two s relied upon by Huthison Essar Pvt.