The court also noticed that “patent or proprietary medicaments” were drug or medicinal preparations in any form to prevent, or treat ailments which bears a name on the container a name “note specified in a monograph” in a pharmacopoeia, F formulator or other publications or whose brand name is registered as a medicine. The court took note of a number of previous s, especially CIENS Laboratories (supra),Muller and Phipps (India) Ltd (supra); Puma Ayurvedic Herbal (supra) and B.P.L Pharmaceuticals (supra) and, after considering that the product in question was developed specially to treat fungal infection, having antifungal properties, held it to G be classifiable as medicinal, meant for therapeutic use, to treat cracked heels. 37. In CIENS Laboratories(supra) too, the proper classification of a moisturising cream – whether it was a drug, a medicament, under Chapter 30, CETA, or a beauty or skin care product under Chapter 34 H 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A was involved. The court concluded that having regard to the product’s ingredients, it was not a mere skin care product, but meant to treat skin complaints like “fissure feet, dry scaly skin conditions, ichthyosis etc”, and that it had therapeutic or prophylactic values. The court had followed B.P.L Laboratories (supra). B 38. The context of B.P.L. Laboratories (supra) was again whether the Selenium Sulphide lotion was a medicament under Chapter 30 CETA (sub heading 3003.19) or a cosmetic (Chapter 33, sub heading 3305.90). The court rejected the revenue’s contentions, holding that the article was a medicament used to treat Seborrheic dermatitis (dandruff); manufactured under drug license, the drug controller had held its C ingredient, i.e., Selenium Sulphide to be in therapeutic concentration and that it was included as a drug in the National Formulatory, USA.The court resolved the issue of interpretation, having regard to the Chapter Notes and General Rules of Interpretation, as well as the language of the specific entries in question. Other factors, such as that it was D manufactured under a drug licence; the Food and Drugs Administration had certified it as a drug; that the Drug Controller had categorically opined that Selenium Sulphide present in Selsun was in a therapeutic concentration; that the brand name “Selsun” was derived from the name of the drug Selenium Sulfide, all weighed into the conclusion recorded by the court. E 39. In Muller & Phipps (India) Ltd (supra),the dispute was with respect to prickly heat powder sold under the brand “Johnson’s Prickly Heat Powder” – whether it was medicament covered under Chapter 30 CETA, or beauty and skin care item.This Court noted the previous ruling in B.P.L. Pharmaceuticals Ltd. (supra) and after noting the ingredients F of the product as well as the Harmonised System of Nomenclature (HSN) concluded that as to the manner in which the goods had been treated earlier - as medicament on the basis of commercial parlance and understanding, - it had to be classified as such. This court also noticed the in Collector of Central Excise v. Wood Crafts Products G Ltd.24 and held that Central Excise Tariffs are based on internationally accepted nomenclature in HSN; consequently, disputes relating to classification had to, as far as possible, accord with the nomenclatures in HSN.