1- Nagaraja Reddy, the appellant herein. Muthamizh Mudalvan (PW-16), the Investigating Offi cer (IO), prepared a mahazar report and, thereafter, conducted an inquest over the dead body of Rajappa. The dead body of Rajappa was then sent to Government Hospital, Hosur, where an autopsy was performed and the cause of death was determined to be injury to a vital organ, i.e. the brain. The IO, thereafter, arrested accused Nos. 2 to 5, with the date of their arrest being shown as 22nd September 2004. On the very next day, i.e. 23rd September 2004, the appellant herein surrendered before the Judicial Magistrate Krishnagiri and, on 1st October 2004, he was taken into police custody. 2.5 During the course of investigation, the role of accused Nos. 6 to 13 came to the fore and they too were arrested, on the allegation that they had conspired to get rid of Rajappa, a prominent fi gure of his community. Thereafter, the trial commenced where all the accused pleaded not guilty. Nagi Reddy, accused No. 2, perished during the course of trial and as such, the trial against him abated. 2.6 At the conclusion of trial, the trial court, vide its judgement and dated 20th December 2018, acquitted accused Nos. 4 to 13 but convicted accused Nos. 1 and 3 for the off ences punishable under Sections 302 and 341 of the IPC and sentenced them to undergo life imprisonment along with a fi ne of Rs. 1500/-. The trial court largely relied on the testimonies of PWs 1, 3 and 4 for convicting them. 3. Aggrieved by their conviction and sentence, accused Nos. 1 and 3 preferred an appeal before the High Court. Pertinently, the State did not prefer any appeal against the acquittal of accused Nos. 4 to 13. The High Court, vide the impugned and , confi rmed the conviction and sentence imposed on the appellant herein but acquitted Sridhar Reddy, accused No. 3 of all the charges levelled against him, fi nding that, while he had been arrested a few days after the incident, the date of his arrest was shown only as 22nd September 2004. 4. Hence, the present appeal. NAGARAJ REDDY v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 461 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 5. We have heard Shri Venugopala Gowda, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant and Dr. Joseph Aristotle S., learned counsel appearing for the respondent-State. 6. It is submitted on behalf of the appellant that the High Court has grossly erred in convicting the appellant for the off ences punishable under Sections 302 and 341 of the IPC. He submitted that on the basis of the evidence of Narayanappa (PW-1), accused No. 3 – Sridhar Reddy has been acquitted. He further submitted that, the conviction of the appellant on the basis of the same is not tenable in law. 7. Dr. Joseph Aristotle S., on the contrary, submitted that the trial court as well as the High Court has concurrently, found the present appellant guilty of the off ence on the basis of appreciation of evidence.