and on a careful consideration of the allegations in the complaint/ application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., by a detailed reasoned , the learned CJM dismissed the said application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C. 6.2 That while dismissing the application/complaint, the learned F CJM verified the truth and veracity of the allegations, regard being had to the nature of the allegations of the case, considering the binding decision of the High Court of Calcutta in the case of Mukul Roy (supra). The learned CJM also considered the decision of this Court in the case of Priyanka Srivastava (supra). The passed by the learned CJM was challenged before the High Court and by the impugned G and , not agreeing with the view taken by the co-ordinate Bench of the High Court in the case of Mukul Roy (supra) and even not following the decision of this Court in the case of Priyanka Srivastava (supra), and following the decision of Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), the High Court has quashed and set H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 157 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] aside the passed by the learned CJM and has directed to re-consider A the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., in light of the observations made in the impugned and . While quashing and setting aside the passed by the learned CJM, the High Court was of the opinion that at the stage of considering the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., it was not open for the learned CJM to verify the truth B and veracity of the allegations. The High Court was of the opinion that in view of the decision of this Court in the case of Lalita Kumari (supra), what was required to be considered was, whether the allegations in the complaint/application disclose prima facie commission of a cognizable offence or not and if so, the Magistrate has to pass an directing the concerned police officer to register an FIR. That thereafter, pursuant C to the impugned and passed by the High Court and on remand, the learned CJM has straightway directed to register the application/complaint as an FIR. Therefore, as such, the subsequent passed by the learned CJM is a consequential passed by the High Court on quashing and setting aside the passed by the learned D CJM dismissing the application/complaint. 7. It is the contention on behalf of the appellants – original accused that at the stage of deciding the application under Section 156(3) Cr.P.C., it is open for the Magistrate to verify the truth and veracity of the allegations, regard being had to the nature of the allegations of the case, E and at that stage, the Magistrate has to apply the judicial mind. Reliance is placed on the decisions of this Court in the case of Priyanka Srivastava (supra); Maksud Saiyed (supra); Anil Kumar (supra); and Krishna Lal Chawla v. State of Uttar Pradesh, reported in (2021) 5 SCC 435, as also, on the decision of the Calcutta High Court in the case of Mukul Roy (supra).