The Court, therefore, asked the learned senior counsel about the sanctity attached to the Certifi cate given by the Advocate-on-Record at the end of the SLP which stated that “the SLP is confi ned only to the pleadings before the Court/Tribunal whose is challenged and the other documents relied upon in those proceedings. No additional facts/documents or grounds have been taken therein or relied upon in the SLP.” The learned Senior Advocate replied that “we regret for that.” 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 9. The reason for elaborately stating the above facts is that XXI of the Supreme Court Rules 2013 framed under Article 145 of the Constitution of India, deals with the provisions regarding Special Leave Petitions under Article 136 of the Constitution. Rule 3 of the said XXI mandates inter alia that the SLPs shall be confi ned only to the pleadings before the court/tribunal whose is challenged and that the petitioner may produce copies of such petition/documents which are part of the record in the case before the court/tribunal below, if and to the extent necessary to answer, the question of law arising for consideration in the petition, or to make out the grounds urged in the SLP, as Annexures to the petition. 10. In the instant Appeal, as demonstrated hereinabove, though the documents, particularly the Chargesheet dated 08.06.2023 and the Cognizance dated 16.06.2023 were neither part of pleadings nor were produced during the course of arguments before the High Court, the Certifi cate at the end of the SLP appears to have been given by the Advocate- on-Record appearing for the Appellant without verifying the facts which were otherwise very apparent from the record. The affi davit by the husband and pairokar of the petitioner Shri Saurabh also appears to have been fi led at the bottom of the SLP without verifying the said facts. Even the affi davit sought to be fi led pursuant to the query raised by the court was also not fi led answering the query, rather was fi led making vague statements. 11. Though the said Chargesheet and the Cognizance were neither pleaded nor argued before the High Court, an impudent attempt was sought to be made by alleging all throughout in the synopsis, list of dates, questions of law and the grounds in the SLP that the High Court had grossly erred in not appreciating the said documents. 12. Having regard to the above state of aff airs, the Court has a reason to believe that there was a bold attempt made by and on behalf of the appellant to misrepresent the facts for challenging the impugned . 13. The Certifi cate to be issued by the Advocate-on-Record and the Affi davit to be fi led by or on behalf of the petitioner/appellant at the end of the SLP as per the provisions contained in the Supreme Court Rules, do carry sanctity in the eyes of law. It is unbelievable that the battery of lawyers appearing for the appellant did not notice the apparent fact that when the chargesheet and cognizance were not in existence before the High SAUMYA CHAURASIA v. DIRECTORATE OF 857 ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.]