A of the amnesty scheme dated 29 March 2012 issued by the Gujarat government. Further, the appellant submits that it can only clear its original liability upto Rs. 126 lakhs. The relevant part of the said application is extracted hereunder: “10. The applicants submit that the applicant is approaching this B Hon’ble Court with the intention to get the benefit of this amnesty scheme of Government of Gujarat for only reasons that if the applicant succeeds, the Applicant would be required to pay original dues if the applicant lose the matter in the Hon’ble Supreme Court the liability of the applicant will be only upto Rs. 126.00 Lakhs (original amount) and the Applicant will not be liable to pay any C other delay payment charges and other charges, etc. Therefore, the applicant prays before this Hon’ble Court that is liability of the Applicant is fixed only upto the amount of the original dues i.e. Rs. 126.00 Lakhs without any interest and penalty, etc., the applicant is ready to deposit such sum as is required by this Hon’ble D Court to be deposited with respondent no. 1 and for the balance the applicant is ready to submit the bank guarantee and/ or is ready to deposit the whole amount with this Hon’ble Court as security.” We allow the above application in the interests of equity, justice, E and fairness to the extent that the appellant is only liable to pay the principal amount of Rs. 126 lakhs and any outstanding interest accrued prior to the date of application for supply of electricity. Item 101.3: Torrent Power AEC Limited v. M/s Shreeji (Rakhail) Commercial Cooperative Housing Society Limited & Others; SLP (C) No. 2880 of 2007 F 250. The appellant is an electric utility engaged in distribution and retail supply of electricity in Ahmedabad. Raipur Manufacturing Company Ltd, the previous owner, became liable to pay an amount of Rs. 12 crores towards electricity dues together with running interest thereon. On account of the outstanding debt, the appellant disconnected electricity G supply to the premises of the company at Ahmedabad on 15 July 1999. In 2001, winding up proceedings were filed against the previous owner before the Company Court of the High Court of Gujarat. The sale of property of the previous owner was sanctioned by the High Court of Gujarat by an dated 2 December 2002 in favour of the respondent. H The relevant terms and conditions imposed by the High Court were: K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 753 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “1. The sale of properties of the Company shall be on “as is where A is and whatever there is” basis and the Official Liquidator will not transfer the title except the title which the company was having prior to its liquidation. *** B 5. All the statutory dues including the municipal dues, taxes, cess, etc. shall be paid and borne by the purchaser, Ajar Enterprises Private Limited. The purchaser shall be solely liable to all levies, charges, claims, arrears, etc.