The Court has the power to inspect the document if on a perusal of the affidavit, the Court C has ‘any doubt on whether the document relates to the affairs of the state’.109 It is therefore, of abundant importance that the affidavit stipulating the reasons of the non-disclosure (along with the grounds) is made in sufficient detail so as to enable the courts to assess the claim of PII. This Court in SP Gupta (supra) has observed that the claim has to D be made by the minister who is the political head of the department concerned or, failing him, by the secretary of the department. The claim should always be made in the form of an affidavit. The extent of information required to be placed in the affidavit to enable the government to discharge the onus of justification is based on the standard of scrutiny that the Court applies to assess public interest immunity claims. E I. Proportionality standard to test public interest immunity claims 137. The substance of a public interest immunity claim is to seek an exception to the compliance of principles of natural justice. We have already held above that a departure from compliance of principles of F procedural fairness, after it has been proved that the party has been denied a fair and reasonable hearing due to non-compliance must be tested on the proportionality standard. 138. In addition to the above discussion, we are of the opinion that the courts must use the proportionality standard to assess claims of public G interest immunity for the following reasons: (i) Firstly, the state while making a claim for public interest immunity seeks an accommodation to deviate from an H 109 SP Gupta (Paragraph 77) MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 695 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] established principle of natural justice, that is, the right to A know the case that is made against a person due to non- disclosure of relevant material. This claim by its very nature infringes upon the right to a fair trial or hearing that flows from Article 21 of the Constitution. The role of the courts while assessing the validity of the claim of public interest B immunity is restricted to determining if the infringement of the right that is protected under Article 21 of the Constitution is reasonable; (ii) Secondly, though the Constitution Bench of this Court in SP Gupta (supra) did not use the standard of structured C proportionality as it exists in the present form to assess the claim of PII, the standard that was laid down resembled the sub-facets of the proportionality standardas the focus was on: (i) effect and not the purpose of non-disclosure; and (ii) balancing the effects of disclosure and non-disclosure (both on facts and principle). This Court shifted the focus D away from the claim based on ‘class of documents’ and towards the impact of non-disclosure of individual material. These two principles are important components of the standard of structured proportionality that was laid down by this Court in Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra); E (iii) The proportionality standard in addition to introducing a culture of justification by prescribing a standard four step test that must be satisfied also provides sufficient flexibility within each step for the courts to apply the jurisprudence that has already been evolved by the courts on the subject F matter; and (iv) Lastly, PII claim is founded on common law doctrine.