Thus, the Leader of the legislature party is the link between the political party and the legislative E assembly. If the interpretation of the respondents is accepted, the action of the leader condoning an MLA’s prohibitory conduct would not reflect the voice of the political party and would instead reflect the voice of the legislature party. This would be contrary to the manner in which the Tenth Schedule is intended to operate. The manner in which the Tenth Schedule would then operate would not effectively prevent or provide a F solution to the constitutional sin of defection. 122. On 21 June 2022, there was no material on record before the Deputy Speaker for him to doubt that the resolution of SSLP dated 21 June 2022 (appointing Mr. Ajay Choudhari as the Leader of the SSLP) was de hors the political party, or that two factions of the party had G emerged. The resolution was signed by Mr. Thackeray in his capacity as the party president much like the resolution appointing the Whip and Leader in 2019. This makes it evident that Mr. Thackeray issued the communication on behalf of the political party. Thus, the decision of the Deputy Speaker recognising Mr. Ajay Choudhari as the Whip in place of Mr. Eknath Shinde is valid. H SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 937 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 123. However, the resolution passed by SSLP on 22 June 2022 A brought to the attention of the Speaker that it was passed by a faction of the SSLP. Thus, the Speaker by recognising the action of a faction of the SSLP without determining whether they represented the will of the political party acted contrary to the provisions of the Tenth Schedule, the 1986 Rules, and the Act of 1956. The decision of the Speaker recognising B Mr. Shinde as the Leader is illegal. 124. The Speaker must recognize the Whip and the Leader who are duly authorised by the political party with reference to the provisions of the party constitution, after conducting an enquiry in this regard and in keeping with the principles discussed in this judgement. C v. Deciding who the “real” Shiv Sena is 125. Time and again, the parties before this Court asserted that they were the “real” Shiv Sena. In cases such as the present one, the answer to this question will have implications in the disqualification proceedings under the Tenth Schedule as well as proceedings for the D allotment of a symbol under the Symbols . 126. The petitioners argue that this Court ought to lay down a constitutional sequence in to harmonise proceedings for disqualification under the Tenth Schedule, the notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker under Article 179(c) of the Constitution, and the allotment of an election symbol under Paragraph E 15 of the Symbols . 127. Since we have referred the issues arising from the issuance of a notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker under Article 179(c) to a larger Bench, it only remains for us to consider the manner in which the remaining two proceedings ought to be F harmonized.