SCR 42 referred to Para 37 CIVIL APPELLATE/ORIGINAL JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No.1497 of 2023. From the and dated 10.12.2015 of the High Court of Gauhati in TR No.68 of 2015. H SHAH NEWAZ KHAN v. STATE OF NAGALAND 989 With A Transfer Petition (c) No.307 of 2016. Parthiv K. Goswami, Sr. Adv., Ms. Ragini Pandey, Ms. Atiga Singh, Ms. Diksha Rai, Advs. for the Appellants. K N Balgopal, Sr. Adv., Ms. K. Enatoli Sema, Ms. Limayinla B Jamir, Amit Kumar Singh, Ms. Chubalemla Chang, Prang Newmai, Vivek Narayan Sharma, Ms. Mahima Bhardwaj, Ms. Laksha Bhavnani, Pranshu Kausha, Shubham Awasthi, Rajeev Kumar Jha, Ram Kumar, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by C DIPANKAR DATTA, J. 1. Leave granted. THE ISSUE 2. An issue, pristinely legal and novel, emerges for decision. It is D novel in the sense that although three different High Courts of the country have taken views which are entirely consistent, except the view taken in the and under challenge of the Gauhati High Court which impliedly stands overruled by a larger Bench of the same High Court, this Court hitherto might not have had the occasion to deal with such an E issue and decide either way. 3. Shortly put, the issue is: Is the Supreme Court the sole repository of power in terms of section 25 of the Code of Civil Procedure (for brevity ‘the CPC’) to direct transfer of a suit, appeal or other proceeding from a Civil F Court in one State to a Civil Court in another State? Or, is it open for a High Court, if it is the common High Court for two or more States, to entertain an application for transfer under section 24 of the CPC and transfer a suit, appeal or other proceeding from a Civil Court to another Civil Court, both of which are subordinate G to such High Court but situate in different States in relation to which it exercises jurisdiction, for consideration and decision? FACTS AND THE UNDER CHALLENGE 4. The facts leading to presentation of this appeal reveal that the appellants having instituted a suit for declaration of right, title and interest H 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A as well as for perpetual injunction and damages in the court of the District Judge at Dimapur, Nagaland sometime in 2007, failed to prosecute it in the right earnest allegedly due to hostile circumstances created by the private defendants in the suit resulting in dismissal and restoration thereof on three occasions. Pleading why it is impossible for them to continue with prosecution of the suit at Dimapur, the appellants moved an B application under section 24 of the CPC before the Gauhati High Court for an to transfer the suit to the court of the District Judge at Guwahati, Assam. A learned Judge of the Gauhati High Court, which presently happens to be the common High Court for the States of Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh, presiding over the Bench C at the principal seat at Guwahati, rejected the application for transfer by a and dated 10th December, 2015.