Insofar as product is concerned, Section 3 identifies “proceeds of crime” or the property representing the proceeds of crime as the product of the process or activity. Out of the three B things that Section 3 addresses, namely (i) person; (ii) process; and (iii) product, the first two do not require any interpretation or definition. The third aspect namely “product”, which Section 3 refers to as “proceeds of crime” requires a definition and hence it is defined in Section 2(1)(u). [Paras 96 and 97][1088-A-D] C 8.2 All the three FIRs allege that the accused herein had committed offences included in the Schedule by taking illegal gratification for providing appointment to several persons in the Public Transport Corporation. In one case it is alleged that a sum of more than Rs.2 crores had been collected and in another case a sum of Rs.95 lakhs had been collected. It is this bribe D money that constitutes the ‘proceeds of crime’ within the meaning of Section 2(1)(u). It is no rocket science to know that a public servant receiving illegal gratification is in possession of proceeds of crime. The argument that the mere generation of proceeds of crime is not sufficient to constitute the offence of money- E laundering, is actually preposterous. As we could see from Section 3, there are six processes or activities identified therein. They are, (i) concealment; (ii) possession; (iii) acquisition; (iv) use; (v) projecting as untainted property; and (vi) claiming as untainted property. If a person takes a bribe, he acquires proceeds of crime. So, the activity of “acquisition” takes place. Even if he does not F retain it but “uses” it, he will be guilty of the offence of money- laundering, since “use” is one of the six activities mentioned in Section 3. The FIRs for the predicate offences identify all the three components of Section 3, namely, (i) persons; (ii) process; and (iii) product. Persons accused in the FIRs are those who G have indulged in the process or activity. The illegal gratification that they have taken, represents the proceeds of crime. The (i) acquisition of such illegal gratification in the first instance; (ii) the possession of the tainted money before putting it to use; and (iii) today projecting it as untainted money, is the process or H 1036 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A activity in which the accused have indulged. The corruption money represents the proceeds of crime. [Paras 99, 100][1089-A-F] 8.3 It is true that there are some offences, which, though scheduled offences, may or may not generate proceeds of crime. For instance, the offence of murder punishable under Section B 302 is a scheduled offence. Unless it is a murder for gain or murder by a hired assassin, the same may or may not generate proceeds of crime. It is in respect of such types of offences that one may possibly argue that mere commission of the crime is not sufficient but the generation of proceeds of crime is necessary. In the case of an offence of corruption, the criminal activity and the generation C of the proceeds of crime are like Siamese twins.