It is submitted that therefore, the public policy behind Section 140(5) of the Act is very clear – to prevent an auditor who has been found to perpetrate fraud or colluding in it in one company from undertaking any statutory audits for a period of 5 years. Reliance is placed on the decision of this D Court in the case of Devas Multimedia Pvt. Ltd. v. Antrix Corporation Ltd. & Anr, reported in (2023) 1 SCC 216. 3.7 It is further submitted by Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG that Section 140(5) appears in Chapter X of the Act. It is submitted that Chapter X specifically deals with ‘Audit and Auditors’. Section 143 of E the Act deals with the powers and duties of the auditors. Sub-section (12) of Section 143 specifically provides that in the event that the auditors has reason to believe that an offence of fraud is being or has been committed in the company, the auditor shall report the matter to the Central Government. The detailed procedure is provided under the Rules issued in this regard. F 3.8 It is further submitted that Section 144 of the Act provides that the auditor cannot provide certain services and the relevant one for the present matter is “Management services”. It is submitted that the objective is that the auditor should function as an independent person uninfluenced by any of its activities outside the scope of audit services. G The auditor is prohibited from providing any management service to the Company. It is submitted that the prohibition and restriction created under Section 144 of the Act is primarily to protect the interest of the Company in question and other stakeholders such as lenders and investors and the public at large. H 974 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 3.9 It is submitted that keeping these provisions and the underlying public policy in the backdrop, Section 140 (5) of the Act, 2013 is to be considered. It is submitted that the plain words of Section 140(5) of the Act, 2013 provide for the NCLT to, either suo motu or on an application made by the Central Government/any person concerned, inquire into/ examine the conduct of an auditor or his involvement in a fraud and B reach a satisfaction as regards the auditors fraudulent conduct. The provision further prescribes that the satisfaction of the Hon’ble NCLT “may” finally result in a change of an auditor. 3.10 It is submitted that the first proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act is contemplated as an interim or pro-term measure to prevent an C existing auditor from continuing and substitute him with an auditor nominated by the Central Government based on a prima facie satisfaction that a fraud has been perpetrated and when circumstances warrant the substitution. This is an interim and operates akin to a temporary suspension. D 3.11 It is submitted that the second proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act which is in the nature of a substantive provision activates on an recording the Hon’ble NCLT’s satisfaction of fraudulent or collusive conduct by an auditor and his consequent removal from the Company and debars him from being an auditor in any company for a period of 5 E years.