It is equivalent to saying that in spite of the provisions of the Act or any other Act mentioned in the non obstante clause or any contract or document mentioned the enactment following it will have its full operation or that the provisions embraced in the non obstante clause would not be an impediment for an operation of the enactment.” 77. Although a non-obstante clause must be allowed to operate with full vigour, its eff ect is limited to the extent intended by the legislature. In ICICI Bank Ltd v. SIDCO Leathers Ltd,75 a two-Judge Bench of this Court held that a non-obstante clause must be interpreted by confi ning it to the legislative policy. Thus, even if a non-obstante clause has wide amplitude, the extent of its impact has to be measured in view of the legislative intention and legislative policy.76 In view of this settled legal position, the issue that arises for our consideration is the scope of the non-obstante clause contained in Section 5 of the Arbitration Act. 78. In Morgan Securities & Credit (P) Ltd. v. Modi Rubber Ltd.,77 the issue before the two-Judge Bench was whether the provisions of the Arbitration Act would prevail over the provisions of the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985.78 While noting the non-obstante clause contained in Section 5 of the Arbitration Act, this Court held that the non-obstante clause has “limited application aiming at the extent of judicial 74 (1986) 4 SCC 447 75 (2006) 10 SCC 452 76 JIK Industries Ltd. v. Amarlal V. Jumani, (2012) 3 SCC 255 77 (2006) 12 SCC 642 78 “SICA” IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1133 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] intervention.” It was held that the Arbitration Act would not prevail over SICA since the latter enactment seeks to “achieve a higher goal.” In other words, the scope of the non-obstante clause is limited to prohibiting the intervention of judicial authorities, unless it has been expressly provided for under Part I of the Arbitration Act. 79. Similar to Article 5 of the Model Law, Section 5 uses the expression “in matters governed by this Part.” The use of this expression circumscribes the scope of judicial intervention to matters expressly governed by Part I of the Arbitration Act. The matters governed by Part I inter alia include (i) Section 8 which mandates judicial authorities to refer parties to arbitration when prima facie there is a valid arbitration agreement; (ii) Section 9 which allows courts to issue interim measures on an application made by a party to an arbitration agreement; (iii) Section 11 which empowers the Supreme Court or the High Courts to appoint arbitrators on an application made by parties to an arbitration agreement; (iv) Section 27 which allows the arbitral tribunal to request the court for assistance in taking evidence; and (v) Section 34 which empowers the court to set aside an arbitral award on the basis of the limited grounds mentioned therein.