C Accordingly, the Collector directed the expunction of the revenue entries in favour of the Respondents and recommended that eviction proceedings be initiated against them. 12. Against the Expunction , the Respondents preferred a revision before the Commissioner, Kumaon who passed an interim D dated 20.01.1982 directing that no revenue entries should be deleted in light of the fact that the matter was pending before the Board of Revenue in mutation proceedings. However, as noted above, the Board of Revenue dismissed the said pending revision in the mutation proceedings on the same date. Consequently, it is stated that despite the abovementioned E interim dated 20.01.1982 of the Commissioner, the Tehsildar acted on Expunction and proceeded to expunge the revenue entries in favour of Respondents. 13. Afterwards, on 16.08.1983, the Commissioner, Kumaon dismissed the revision pending against the Expunction noting that the same was not maintainable in view of the fact that no provision F provided for revision of an passed under the Government Grants Act of 1895 as applicable to the then State of Uttar Pradesh vide amendment made in 1960. The relevant provisions after the 1960 amendment to the Government Grants Act of 1895 are as follows – “2. (1) Transfer of Property Act, 1882, not to apply to G government grants.-Nothing contained in the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, shall apply or be deemed ever to have applied to any grant or other transfer of land or of any interest therein, heretofore made or hereafter to be made, by or on behalf of the Government to or in favour of any H person whomsoever; and every such grant and transfer shall STATE OF UTTARAKHAND AND ANR. v. RAVI KUMAR 951 (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS AND OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] be construed and take effect as if the said Act had not been A passed. (2) U.P. Tenancy Act, 1939 and Agra Tenancy Act, 1926 not to affect certain leases made by or on behalf of the Government.-Nothing contained in the U.P. Tenancy Act, 1939, or the Agra Tenancy Act, 1926, shall affect, or be B deemed to have ever affected any rights, created, conferred or granted, whether before or after the date of the passing of the, Government Grants (U.P. Amendment) Act, 1960, by leases of land by, or on behalf of, the Government in favour of any person; and every such creation, conferment C or grant shall be construed and take effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the U.P. Tenancy Act, 1939, or the Agra Tenancy Act, 1926. (3) Certain leases made by or on behalf of the Government to take effect according to their tenor.-All provisions, D restrictions, conditions and limitations contained in any such creation, conferment or grant referred to in Section 2, shall be valid and take effect according to their tenor; any decree or direction of a court of law or any rule of law, statute or enactment of the legislature, to the contrary notwithstanding: E Provided that nothing in this section shall prevent, or be deemed ever to have prevented, the effect of any enactment relating to the acquisition of property, land reforms or the imposition of ceiling on agricultural lands.” It must also be highlighted that the Respondents, against the F aforesaid action of the Tehsildar wherein he expunged the revenue entries in favor of Respondents, preferred a contempt petition before the Allahabad High Court, which was dismissed in limine on 16.08.1986 after the concerned officials tendered unqualified apologies.