The letter proposed the setting up of an interim government with Sheikh Abdullah being asked to carry out the responsibilities as Prime Minister “in this emergency”. 237. Maharaja Hari Singh signed the IoA on 26 October 1947. The Instrument was accepted by the Governor-General on 27 October 1947. In his communication dated 27 October 1947 to the Maharaja, the Governor-General noted that “in the special circumstances mentioned by your Highness, my Government has decided to accept the accession of Kashmir State to the Dominion of India”. The letter of the Governor General also noted that the policy of their Government was that in case of any State where the issue of accession is a subject of dispute, “it is my Government’s wish” that the question of accession “should be decided in accordance with the wishes of the people of the State.” Thus, the letter noted that in the case of Jammu and Kashmir, the question of the State’s accession must be settled with reference to the people of the State: “[…] my Government have decided to accept the accession of Kashmir State to the Dominion of India. Consistently with their policy that in the case of any State where the issue of accession has been the subject of dispute, the question of accession should be decided in accordance with the wishes of the people of the State, it is my Government’s wish that, as soon as law and have been restored in Kashmir and her soil cleared of the invader, the question of the State’s accession should be settled by a reference to the people.” 144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 238. Shri Mehr Chand Mahajan (later a judge of the Supreme Court and Chief Justice of India) had taken over as Prime Minister of Jammu and Kashmir on 15 October 1947. His Memoirs titled “Looking Back204” devote an entire Chapter to the “Pak invasion of Kashmir”. Mehr Chand Mahajan provides a detailed account of the events commencing from 23 October 1947. The account can best be captured in his own words in the following extracts: “… Meanwhile the tribesmen from the frontier using Pakistan lorries, jeeps and other conveyances and armed with Pakistani weapons had entered the State on 23 October through Muzaff arabad. These tribesmen were themselves Pakistan nationals; as they advanced they were joined by other Pakistani citizens. The rail had been organised by an ex-offi cer of the Political Agency at Peshawar, at the instance and with the connivance of the Pakistan government. Transport, arms, ammunition and military offi cers were supplied by the Pakistan Government. We had tried to blow the bridge that could provide – and did provide – access to the tribesmen into Kashmir. But as related earlier, this attempt had failed for want of dynamite in the State. Now they pushed on. At Domel the Muslim offi cers and soldiers of the State forces who had been guarding this frontier under Col. Narain Singh deserted and joined the raiders after killing their commander in his offi cer at the Domel dak bungalow.