In support of his submission, Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the B case of VLS Finance Limited & Another v. Commissioner of Income Tax & Another, (2016) 12 SCC 32 (paragraphs 26 to 28). 5. Having heard learned counsel for the respective parties, the short question which is posed for the consideration of this Court is, whether the period of limitation of two years for the block assessment under C Section 158BC/158BE would commence from the date of the Panchnama last drawn or the date of the last authorization? 6. While considering the aforesaid issue, Section 158BE which provides for time limitation for commencement of block assessment is required to be referred to, which is as under: “Section 158BE D Time Limit for Completion of Block Assessment (1) The under Section 158-BC shall be passed— (a) within one year from the end of the month in which the last of the authorisations for search under Section 132 or for requisition under Section 132-A, as the case may be, was executed in cases E where a search is initiated or books of account or other documents or any assets are requisitioned after the 30th day of June, 1995 but before the 1st day of January, 1997; (b) within two years from the end of the month in which the last of the authorisations for search under Section 132 or for requisition F under Section 132-A, as the case may be, was executed in cases where a search is initiated or books of account or other documents or any assets are requisitioned on or after the 1st day of January, 1997. (2) The period of limitation for completion of block assessment in the case of the other person referred to in Section 158-BD shall G be— (a) one year from the end of the month in which the notice under this Chapter was served on such other person in respect of search initiated or books of account or other documents or any assets requisitioned after the 30th day of June, 1995 but before the 1st H day of January, 1997; and ANIL MINDA AND OTHERS v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME 1155 TAX [M. R. SHAH, J.] (b) two years from the end of the month in which the notice A under this Chapter was served on such other person in respect of search initiated or books of account or other documents or any assets are requisitioned on or after the 1st day of January, 1997. [Explanation 1.—In computing the period of limitation for the purposes of this section,— B (i) the period during which the assessment proceeding is stayed by an or injunction of any court; or (ii) the period commencing from the day on which the Assessing Officer directs the assessee to get his accounts audited under sub-section (2-A) of Section 142 and ending on the day on which C the assessee is required to furnish a report of such audit under that sub-section; or (iii) the time taken in reopening the whole or any part of the proceeding or giving an opportunity to the assessee to be re-heard under the proviso to Section 129; or D (iv) in a case where an application made before the Settlement Commission under Section 245-C is rejected by it or is not allowed to be proceeded with by it, the period commencing on the date on which such application is made and ending with the date on which the under sub-section (1) of Section 245-D is received by the [Principal Commissioner or Commissioner] under sub-section E (2) of that section,shall be excluded: Provided that where immediately after the exclusion of the aforesaid period, the period of limitation referred to in sub-section (1) or sub-section (2) available to the Assessing Officer for making an under clause (c) of Section 158-BC is less than sixty F days, such remaining period shall be extended to sixty days and the aforesaid period of limitation shall be deemed to be extended accordingly.]