The above Section further laid down the guidelines and the procedure for levy of annual fee where water was being supplied to H TRUST ESTATE KHIMJI KESHAWJI & ANR. v. THE KOLKATA 839 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION & ORS. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] any building. It also carved out exceptions where no fee would be levied A on supply of water. 19. The Scheme of the Act further provided two categories of water being supplied by the KMC. First is the filtered water or wholesome water which was potable also and could be used for domestic purposes and the other is unfiltered water which could be used for purposes other B than domestic which are enlisted under Section 238 of the Act. The Scheme further provided under Section 271 of the Act that water supply for domestic purposes could not be used for any other purpose except domestic without written permission of the Commissioner. 20. Section 272 of the Act describes the purposes for which C unfiltered water can be used, for example, extinguishing of fire, street watering, flushing of drains of the Corporations for flushing privies and urinals in private premises, for flushing of drains in private premises. Under sub-Section 3, it is provided that unfiltered water would not be used for domestic purpose without written permission of the D Commissioner or for any purpose other than those specified in sub- Sections 1 & 2. Sub-Section 4 starts with a non-obstante clause and it states that wholesome water may be used in lieu of unfiltered water for non-domestic purposes where supply of unfiltered water is not available. 21. In the present case, it is admitted position that there is no E supply of unfiltered water in the locality/area where building in question is situated. As such, the filtered water or the wholesome water could be used for purposes other than domestic by the owner/occupier of the building in question. Thus, it cannot be said that there was any violation of Section 238 or 271 of the Act. 22. The non-obstante clause in Section 272(4) of the Act clearly F mentions that notwithstanding anything contained in hereinbefore in this chapter which covers Section 271 as also Section 238 of the Act as the entire scheme of water supply is covered under Chapter XVII of Part- V beginning from Section 233 right up to Section 276 of the Act. Section 272(4) of the Act would thus have overriding effect with respect to all G the provisions of that chapter namely Chapter XVII of Part V of the Act. 23. The appellant had annexed copy of the trade licenses issued to the occupiers of 1st to 5th floor, copy of the same are attached as part of the supplementary affidavit (Annexure P-8). The fee and charges H 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A under various Sections of the Act are mentioned in the trade license. Rs.1,000/- was being charged as fee under Section 199 of the Act which refers to a certificate of enlistment for profession trade and calling.