Therefore, it is not necessary to once again consider all those s cited by both the learned counsel, since the issue is already settled by the of the Kerala High Court in the case of Heinz India Limited. Under these circumstances, we set aside the s of the Tribunal and restore the s of the C assessing authority. The tax case revisions are allowed.” III 9. On behalf of Heinz, Mr. S.K. Bagaria, learned senior counsel, argued that “Nycil” is the trade name under which the manufacturer D markets the substance known as ‘Chlorphenesin’. The Nycil powder contains zinc oxide and boric acid and they form 32% of the total contents of Nycil powder. The rest of the material is starch and talc. Nycil powder is devised so as to retain skin cleanliness in to protect it against prickly heat and infection. It also gives freshness and comfort. It consequently falls under Entry 79 of the first schedule to KGST Act. E 10. Learned senior counsel relied on B.Shah & Company v State of Gujarat10 (hereafter “Shah & Co”), and urged that Chlorphenesin is a potent antifungal, antibacterial and trichomonicidal substance of low toxicity. It is effective against common dermatophytes causing tinea pedis (Athelet’s foot) and other dematomycoses, epidermophyton, floccosum F and the various trichophyton, species such bacteria as streptococci, staphyloccocci, coliform organisms and clostridii. Nycil is effective in eliminating pruritus ani and pruritus vulvae. Pruritus ani and pruritus vulvae are frequently of bacterial or fungal origins, or the lesions may become infected with bacterial or fungi, and Nycil is effective in eliminating such G organisms. 11. In Shah & Co (supra), it was held thatNycilas powder or ointment is recommended for the treatment of prickly heat and dhobie 10 (1971) 28 STC 5 (Guj) H 436 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A itch and active skin protection during ringworms and other fungicidal infections. It was submitted that Nycil powder is suitable for the initial treatment of acute mycotic infection since it is an absorbant, in addition to exercising its fungicidal action. It was argued that the ingredients of Nycil powder are Chlorphenesin B.P. 1%; Zinc Oxide I.P. 16%; Boric Acid 16% Starch I.P. 51% and Talc. Thus, about one-third (33%) of its B ingredients are medicinal products.It was pointed out that the face of the container, in which the product is sold, contains the following description: “Nycil contains chlorphenesin the antibacterial and antifungal agent. It actively prevents prickly heat and protects C the skin from sores, dhobie itch, and athlete’s foot.” 12. It was argued that under Section 3(b) of the Drugs Act, “drug”is defined as “including all medicines used for internal or external use of human beings or animals intended to be used for mitigation or prevention of any disease or dis”. “Cosmetics” under Section D 3(aaa) of the said Act means, “any article intended to be sprinkled or sprayed or introduced or otherwise applied to a human body for cleansing, beautifying, promoting attractiveness or altering the appearance”, which also includes any article intended for use as a component of cosmetic.