He also stated that papers G relating to recovery of tiffin box; collection of blood-stained earth etc. were prepared at the police station and he signed those papers at the police station itself. PW-1 also clarified that the second report (i.e. Ex. Ka-2) was dictated by the Sub-Inspector at the police station and he wrote whatever was told to him. H RAVI MANDAL v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 9 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] At the fag end of his cross-examination, PW-1 stated A that he had informed the Sub-Inspector regarding financial transactions with Govind and also about Govind not refunding the money, which gave rise to enmity. (ii) PW-2 - Chandan Singh He deposed that, — (a) he knew Shabbir Ahmad and B Ravi Mandal; (b) they had come to his shop with the deceased at about 1900 Hours on 31.10.2001 and from there they proceeded towards the cinema hall; (c) later, in the night of 31.10.2001/ 01.11.2001, at about 0030 Hours, he saw the accused-appellants emerging from the forest and C walking fast; (d) at that time, hands of Shabbir were blood- stained and Ravi’s clothes were also having blood stains, (e) seeing PW-2, they got nervous, Shabbir threatened PW- 2 by saying that if PW-2 discloses what he has seen to any one, he would meet the same fate as Chhotu (the deceased); (f) next day morning, PW-2 learnt that dead D body of Chhotu has been found in that forest. To show the reason for his presence there, at that odd hour of the night, PW-2 stated that, — his parents have a separate house at Khatta, where he goes at least once a week; that night, after having dinner, while returning from E his parents’ house and proceeding towards his own house/ shop, at about 0030 Hours, he witnessed the incident. During cross examination, PW-2 stated that, — his shop is run from a room in his house; it remains open from 0500 Hours till 2300 Hours; his house comprises of 3 rooms F where he resides with his wife and five sons; the usual time of his dinner is 2100 Hours. A suggestion was put to PW-2 that mother of Ravi (one of the appellants) is PW-2’s neighbour on whose land PW- 2 had constructed his shop. This suggestion was denied by G PW-2. With regard to the delay in giving information to the police, PW-2 stated that he was petrified by the incident and when the accused were arrested, he could muster courage to make his statement. During cross-examination, H 10 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A PW-2 admitted that he had been arrested under section 60 of the Excise Act and is on bail. He feigned ignorance to a suggestion that his bail bonds were arranged by parents of Chhotu. (iii) PW-3 – Urmila Devi-Mother of the deceased B She proved that on 31.10.2001, Babloo (PW-7), who use to work at the cinema hall, came to her house to fetch food for the deceased, consequently, food was cooked and supplied by her.