Clause (b) of sub-section (1) indicates that the purpose of the interim-moratorium is to restrain the initiation or the continuation of legal action or proceedings against the debt. 58. This must be contra-distinguished from the provisions for moratorium which are contained in Section 14 in relation to the CIRP under Part II. Section 14(1)(a) provides that on the insolvency commencement date, the institution of suits or continuation of pending suits or proceedings against the corporate debtor, including proceedings in execution shall stand prohibited by an of the adjudicating authority. Clause (b) of sub- (cid:2) DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI (cid:3) 600 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. section (1) of Section 14 empowers the adjudicating authority to declare a moratorium restraining the transfer, encumbrance, alienation or disposal by the corporate debtor of any of its assets or any legal right or benefi cial interest therein. Signifi cantly, the moratorium under Section 14 operates on the passed by an adjudicating authority. The purpose of the moratorium under Section 96 is protective. The object of the moratorium is to insulate the corporate debtor from the institution of legal actions or the continuation of legal actions or proceedings in respect of the debt. 4. The Role of the Adjudicating Authority 59.The resolution professional submits a report to the adjudicating authority. The report is purely recommendatory in nature and does not bind the adjudicating authority. Section 100(1) requires the adjudicating authority to pass an either admitting or rejecting the application within fourteen days from the date of the submission of the report under Section 99. The adjudicating authority has the power to instruct the debtor and the creditor to enter into negotiation if it admits the application. It may also entitle the creditors to fi le for bankruptcy if it rejects the application on the ground that it was intended to defraud the creditors or the resolution professional. The provisions dealing with moratorium under Section 101(2) (c) correspond broadly to the provisions of Section 14(1)(b) in relation to Part II. Signifi cantly, clause (c) of Section 101(2) which places a restraint on the transfer, alienation or disposal of assets does not fi nd a place in Section 96(1)(b). It consequently operates only after the admission of an application under Section 100. 60. This analysis would indicate that the adjudicatory function of the adjudicating authority commences, under Part III, after the submission of a recommendatory report by the resolution professional. Evidently, bearing in mind the clear diff erences between the CIRP under Part II and insolvency resolution process for individuals and partnership under Part III, the legislature has carefully calibrated: (i) The role of the resolution professional; (ii) The imposition of the moratorium; and (iii) The stage at which the adjudicating authority steps in under Part II, on one hand, and Part III, on the other. DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 601 61. This is based on an intelligible diff erentia between the nature of the insolvency resolution process in the case of a corporate debtor, on one hand, and individuals or partnerships, on the other.