4. This demand for differential duty was raised for clearances made during the period of September 2000 to March 2004. The Show Cause Notice which was issued on 28.9.2005 relied upon a of F this Court on 9.8.2005 in the case of IFGL Refractories Ltd in support of the plea that monetary value of duty benefits obtained through transfer of advance licenses held by the customers constituted additional consideration flowing to the assessee from such customers. 5. Since the demand for differential duty was being raised on G 28.9.2005, which was beyond the normal limitation period of one year prescribed in Section 11A(1) of the Act, the show cause notice also alleged that the noticee had deliberately suppressed relevant facts and had made willful misstatements withholding material information and documents from the departmental officers. H 1292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 6. The allegations in the notice were confirmed by the Commissioner in his dated 30.10.2006 wherein the assessee’s defense on merits as well as on limitation were rejected. 7. The Commissioners’ was challenged by the assessee before CESTAT, which allowed that appeal by a majority by B accepting the assessee’s plea that the dispute was revenue neutral having no Revenue implications since the customers of the assessee were eligible to avail cenvat credit of duties actually paid or any differential duty payable on the goods cleared by the assessee. We are not dwelling deeper on the other findings of the Tribunal on the merits of the matter since these appeals are being decided only on the issue of time bar. C 8. On the issue of time bar, the CESTAT has held that during the relevant period the Appellant could have entertained a bonafide belief that it had correctly discharged its duty liability in view of the view taken by the Tribunal in the case of IFGL Refractories Ltd.1which came to be reversed by this Court only on 9.8.2005. It is relevant to note here D that insofar as the decision on time bar is concerned the view of the two learned members who constituted the division bench of CESTAT was unanimous. 9. The difference of opinion, therefore, arose only on the merits of the matter which also came to be decided in favour of the assessee E by a 2-1 majority. Since arguments before us are confined to the issue of limitation, it is necessary to take note of the findings of the CESTAT on the same. The finding of the Member (Technical) on the issue of limitation was as under: “As regards the submission on time bar, it is noticed that the F Commissioner has relied on the Hon’ble Supreme Court’s judgement dt. 9.8.2005 in the case of M/s. IFGL Refractories Ltd. cited supra. This decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court has reversed the decision of the Tribunal in the case of M/s IFGL Refractories Ltd. [2001 (134) ELT 230]. In other words, the Tribunal has taken a view that discounts offered to G advance licence holders were not additional consideration which decision has been reversed by the Hon’ble Supreme Court.