E (h) The lessee further agrees that if he dies heirless before the expiry of lease as also on the expiry of lease, the land hereby demised and all buildings standing on the land shall revert to the lesser without compensation. (i) The lessee shall have the right to erect masonry wall F not exceeding 4.5 feet in height or a wire fence along the boundary of the said land hereby demised. (j) The lessee shall have the use of a share of the water when available for irrigation purposes from the tank fixed approximately at mile 6 furlong 70 feet left of the main G gailuwar canal, but the lessor reserve on control over this outlet which the lessor is empowered to decrease or close whenever such decrease or closure is required on account of short supplies in or on account of executing repairs, extensions or improvements canal works etc. and the lessee H 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A shall have no right to claim compensation for any damage done by such reduction or closer of the water supply to the said plot of land. (k) The lessee shall have and unrestricted right to dispose of the produce of the land leased to him in any manner he B may choose and the lessee shall be allowed to clear and use for his requirements the trees and bushes standing on the land hereby demised. (l) If there be any breach by the lessee of any covenant herein before contained the Deputy Commissioner of C Nainital may, not withstanding the waiver of any previous breach by the lessee giving the Deputy Commissioner of Nainital the right of re-entry, enter upon any part of whole of the land hereby demised or of the buildings standing on the said plot of land and thereupon the said land and buildings shall remain to the use of and be vested in the Secretary of D State and the lessee shall not been titled to any compensation for any building erected by him or for any improvements made by him upon the land demised and this demise shall absolutely determine. (m) The Deputy Commissioner of Nainital agrees to stamp E the lease at his expense. X-X-X-X” (Emphasis Applied) 4. After the execution of the 1924 Lease Deed which was F registered on 22.08.1925, it appears that revenue entries were made in favour of one Manohar Lal, who is said to have purchased the Suit Land through a sale deed dated 17.11.1947 (hereinafter, ‘Sale Deed’). The same Manohar Lal is also stated to be the paternal uncle of the primary contesting respondents before us, namely Virendra Kumar and Ravi Kumar (hereinafter, ‘Respondents’), as the relief sought by all the G remaining private parties in connected matters flows from their claim on the Suit Land. It would be appropriate at this stage to reproduce the relevant portion of the Sale Deed, which records the factum of prior permission as required under the 1924 Lease Deed.