(vi) It was further observed in the said that Rule 2(ee) of the Drugs Rules was inserted with effect from 14.05.1960, while Section 15 of the IMC Act, 1956, as it D then stood, only provided that the medical qualifications in the Schedules shall be sufficient qualification for enrolment in any State Medical Register. Therefore, there was no inconsistency between the Section and the Rule when it was brought into force. However, after sub-section (2) of Section 15 was inserted into the said Act, a medical E practitioner enrolled in a “State Medical Register” could practice modern scientific medicine in any State but the rights of non-allopathic doctors to prescribe drugs by virtue of the declaration issued under the said Drugs Rules, by implication, got obliterated. However, this Court observed F that it did not debar them from prescribing or administering allopathic drugs sold across the counter for common ailments. (vii) On a harmonious reading of Section 15 of the IMC Act, 1956 and Section 17 of the IMCC Act, 1970, it was observed that there is no scope for a person enrolled in the State G Register of Indian Medicine or the Central Register of Indian Medicine to practice modern scientific medicine in any of its branches unless that person is also enrolled in a State Medical Register within the meaning of the IMC Act, 1956. Right to practice modern scientific medicine or Indian H 1002 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A system of medicine cannot be based on the provisions of the Drugs Rules and declaration made thereunder by State Governments. (viii) In the above context, it was held that Rule 2(ee)(iii) as effected from 14.05.1960 was valid and did not suffer from B the vice of want of legislative competence and the notifications issued by the State Governments thereunder were not ultra vires the said Rule and were legal. That after sub-section (2) in Section 15 of the IMC Act, 1956, occupied the field vide Central Act 24 of 1964 with effect from 16.06.1964, the benefit of the said Rule and the C notifications issued thereunder would be available only in those States where the privilege of such right to practice any system of medicine is conferred by the State law under which practitioners of Indian medicine are registered in the State, which is for the time being in force. That the position D with regard to medical practitioners of Indian medicine holding degrees in integrated courses is on the same plane inasmuch as if any State Act recognises their qualification as sufficient for registration in the State Medical Register, the prohibition contained in Section 15(2)(b) of the IMC Act, 1956 will not apply. Thus, as far as modern medicine E or allopathic medicine is concerned, the provisions of Section 15 of the IMC Act, 1956, would again become relevant inasmuch as Section 15(1) of the IMC Act, 1956, would have to be fulfilled before a person can be enrolled in any State Medical Register insofar as modern scientific medicine F is concerned.