[2023] 1 S.C.R. 579 579 K. SREEDHAR A v. M/S RAUS CONSTRUCTIONS PVT. LTD & ORS. (Civil Appeal Nos. 7402 of 2022) JANUARY 05, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND M. M. SUNDRESH, JJ.] Securitization and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 : s. 31(i) – Provisions of the Act not to apply to security interest created in agricultural land C – Respondent No. 1-debtor availed credit facilities from the Bank and owing to default in payment, declared NPA – Bank issued possession notice of the properties and e-auction held – Challenged to – One of the property purchased by the appellant-auction purchaser – DRT confirmed the sale in favour of the appellant – In writ petition, the High Court set aside the e–auction and sale D certificate – On appeal, held: High Court ought not to have entertained Writ Petition as there was a remedy of appeal before the DRAT – By entertaining the writ petition straightway under Art. 226/227 challenging the passed by the DRT, the High Court allowed/permitted the borrower to circumvent the provision of appeal E before the DRAT under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act – There was no breach of r. 8(1) & (2) of 2002 Rules as the possession notices were published in two leading newspapers and served upon borrowers – There was no breach of r. 9(3) of the 2002 Rules as the entire 25% of the sale proceed was deposited the very next day of sale – Also, no breach of r. 9(4) of the 2002 Rules – Merely because F the secured property is shown to be agricultural property is not sufficient for s. 31(i) – Properties must actually be used as agricultural land when the security interest was created – No evidence was led to show that property was actually put to use as agricultural land or any activity was going on – Burden was upon G the borrower to prove that the secured properties were agricultural lands and actually being used as agricultural lands and/or agricultural activities were going on – of the High Court set aside and that of the DRT restored – Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules 2002. H 579 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 What was challenged before the High Court by the borrower in a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India was the and passed by the DRT-I. Against the and passed by the DRT-I B dismissing the application, the borrower had a statutory remedy available by way of appeal before the DRAT. If the borrower would have preferred an appeal before the DRAT, he would have been required to deposit 25% of the debt due. To circumvent the provision of appeal before the DRAT and the pre-deposit, the borrower straightway preferred the writ petition before the High C Court under Article 226/227 of the Constitution. Therefore, in view of alternative statutory remedy available by way of appeal before the DRAT, the High Court ought not to have entertained the writ petition under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India challenging the and passed by the DRT-I.