11. While refuting the submissions made on behalf of the appellant, C learned counsel for the respondent-State has argued that the circumstantial evidence on record undoubtedly lead to the conclusion of guilt of the appellant and no case for interference is made out. 11.1. Learned counsel for the respondent-State has emphatically submitted that the fundamental fact remains rather undeniable that the D appellant was last person in the company of the deceased children and is amply established by the deposition of PW-1, the attendant at the petrol pump, and PW-4 and PW-6, the personnel on duty at the water treatment plant. This apart, the fact that the children were in the company of the appellant is established even in the testimony of PW-9, wife of the E appellant. Learned counsel would submit that there is nothing on record to suggest the presence of any other person with the deceased children at the time and place of occurrence; and the appellant has not shown his presence at any other place or his having parted with the company of the deceased. Learned counsel has further argued that the medical evidence of PW-14 leaves nothing to doubt that the cause of death of F the victim children had been asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation. Thus, according to the learned counsel, in the given set of circumstances, when the death of the victim children was homicidal in nature and the appellant rather attempted to project a false narrative that they fell into the canalaccidentally, the concurrent findings of his conviction cannot G be said to be suffering from any infirmity. 11.2. Learned counsel has referred to Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act and a decision of this Court in the case of Sabitri Samantaray v. State of Odisha: 2022 SCC OnLine SC 673 to submit that in the present case, the appellant having failed to explain the H 840 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A circumstances which were within his special knowledge, particularly after the prosecution had clearly established the basic facts about the deceased being lastly in the company of the appellant and that their death was homicidal in nature with manual strangulation, the want of explanation of the appellant definitely provides a strong link in the chain of events. B 11.3. As regards motive, learned counsel for the respondent-State has particularly referred to the testimonies of PW-7 and PW-8 to submit that the facts were clearly established that the relationship between the appellant and his wife was strained; and the reason for such strained relations was the appellant’s constant suspicion over the character of C his wife and in turn,his doubts on the paternity of the victim boys. Thus, according to the learned counsel, a case of strong motive for killing of the victim children is also established where the appellant suspected them to not be his sons. 11.4. As regards the plea of unsoundness of mind of the appellant, D learned counsel for the respondent-State has submitted that such a plea was never raised in the defence or in evidence or in appeal or even in the petition filed before this Court.