3.2 It is further submitted by Shri Ahmadi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants that there are divergent views of C different High Courts on the issue. It is submitted that the Madras High Court, the Delhi High Court, the Allahabad High Court, the Madhya Pradesh High Court, the Gujarat High Court have taken a contrary view than the view taken by the Full Bench of the Andhra Pradesh High Court, the Kerala High Court and the Himachal Pradesh High Court. It is submitted that various High Courts taking the contrary view have as D such followed the decision of the Madras High Court in the case of P. Ayyamperumal Vs. The Registrar and Ors. (W.P. No. 15732/2017 decided on 15.09.2017). 3.3 On merits, Shri Ahmadi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants has vehemently submitted that the words E used in Regulation 40(1) of the Regulations are very clear and unambiguous. It is submitted that it categorically provides that “an increment accrues from the day following that on which it is earned.” It is submitted that therefore, when the right to get the increment is accrued the employee must be in service. It is submitted that in the present case F when the right to get the increment accrues in favour of the respective respondents they were not in service but on their superannuation retired from the services. It is submitted that therefore, they shall not be entitled to the annual increment which might have been earned one day earlier i.e., on the last day of their service. G 3.4 It is further submitted by Shri Ahmadi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants that the annual increment is in the form of a good service and it is an incentive so that the concerned employee may serve effectively and may render good services. It is submitted that therefore, when the concerned employees are not in service H THE DIRECTOR (ADMN. AND HR) KPTCL & ORS. v. C.P. 337 MUNDINAMANI & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] due to their retirement there is no question of grant of any annual A increment which as such is in the form of incentive to encourage the employee for better performance. 3.5 Shri Ahmadi, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants has also taken us to the definition of the word “accrue” in B the Law Lexicon (the encyclopaedic law dictionary) and the definition of the word “increment.” It is submitted that as per the Law Lexicon, “increment” means a unit of increase in quantity or value. It means a promotion from a lower grade to a higher grade. As per the definition “increment” means an upward change in something. It is submitted that as per the Law Lexicon the word “accrue” means to come into existence C as an enforceable claim or right. It is submitted that therefore, on true interpretation of Regulation 40(1) of the Regulations, an increment accrues from the day following that on which it is earned.