41. If they were known to the witnesses, the witnesses would have given their names and that would have established their identity, but when they were not known, their identity could be established only if the witnesses on seeing them say that they are the off enders. Since it would be very easy for a witness who has little regard for truth, to say that the person arrested on suspicion was the off ender, he is confronted with the suspect mixed with innocent men. If he picks him out, that would add to the credibility of his statement that he was the off ender. This is the primary object of identifi cation proceeding. MUKESH SINGH v. THE STATE (NCT OF DELHI) 915 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 42. Phipson writes in his Law of Evidence, Edn. 8, p. 392:- “In criminal cases it is improper to identify the accused only when in the dock; the police should place him, beforehand, with others, and ask the witness to pick him out.” 43. A three-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Rajesh v. State of Haryana, (2021) 1 SCC 118, had the occasion to consider (i) the purpose of conducting a TIP, (ii) the source of the authority of the investigator to do so, (iii) the manner in which these proceedings should be conducted, (iv) the weight to be ascribed to identifi cation in the course of a TIP, and (v) the circumstances in which an adverse inference can be drawn against the accused who refuses to undergo the process. After due consideration of the aforesaid, this Court summarised the principles as follows:- “43.1 The purpose of conducting a TIP is that persons who claim to have seen the off ender at the time of the occurrence identify them from amongst the other individuals without tutoring or aid from any source. An identifi cation parade, in other words, tests the memory of the witnesses, in for the prosecution to determine whether any or all of them can be cited as eyewitness to the crime. 43.2 There is no specifi c provision either in CrPC or the Evidence Act, 1872 (“the Evidence Act”) which lends statutory authority to an identifi cation parade. Identifi cation parades belong to the stage of the investigation of crime and there is no provision which compels the investigating agency to hold or confers a right on the accused to claim a TIP. 43.3 Identification parades are governed in that context by the provision of Section 162 CrPC. 43.4 A TIP should ordinarily be conducted soon after the arrest of the accused, so as to preclude a possibility of the accused being shown to the witnesses before it is held. 43.5 The identifi cation of the accused in court constitutes substantive evidence. 43.6 Facts which establish the identity of the accused person are treated to be relevant under Section 9 of the Evidence Act. 916 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 43.7 A TIP may lend corroboration to the identifi cation of the witness in court, if so required.