The grounds raised by the applicant may be - a. a reasonable and immediate threat to life, personal liberty and bodily harm in the jurisdiction where the FIR is registered; b. the apprehension of violation of right to liberty or impediments owing to arbitrariness; c. the medical status/ disability of the person seeking extra- territorial limited anticipatory bail. 37. It would be impossible to fully account for all exigent circumstances in which an of extra territorial anticipatory bail may be imminently essential to safeguard the fundamental rights of the applicant. We reiterate that such power to grant extra-territorial anticipatory bail should be exercised in exceptional and compelling circumstances only which means where, denying transit anticipatory bail or interim protection to enable the applicant to make an application under Section 438 of CrPC before a Court of competent jurisdiction would cause irremediable and irreversible prejudice to the applicant. The Court, while considering such an application for extra-territorial anticipatory bail, in case it deems fi t may grant interim protection instead for a fi xed period and direct the applicant to make an application before a Court of competent jurisdiction. 38. We therefore set aside the judgement of Patna High Court in Syed Zafrul Hassan and of Calcutta High Court in Sadhan Chandra Kolay to the extent that they hold that the High Court does not possess 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. jurisdiction to grant extra-territorial anticipatory bail i.e., even a limited or transit anticipatory bail. 39. We shall now revert to our illustration given at the beginning of this . In the illustration, we have stated that if a person commits an off ence in one State and the FIR is lodged within the jurisdiction where the off ence was committed but the accused resides in another State he can approach the Court in the other State and seek transit anticipatory bail of limited duration. We have held that the accused could approach the competent Court in the State where he is residing or is visiting for a legitimate purpose and seek the relief of limited transit anticipatory bail although the FIR is not fi led in the territorial jurisdiction of the District or State in which the accused resides, or is present depending upon the facts and circumstances of each case. Conversely, the off ence may be committed in one State, the FIR may be lodged in another State and the accused may reside in a third State. In which of the Courts of the three States would the accused approach for grant of anticipatory bail? We feel that having regard to the salutary concept of access to justice, the accused can seek limited transit anticipatory bail or limited interim protection from the Court in the State in which he resides but in such an event, a ‘regular’ or full-fl edged anticipatory bail could be sought from the competent Court in the State in which the FIR is fi led. 40. We are conscious that this may also lead the accused to choose the Court of his choice for seeking anticipatory bail.