It is well settled that a heading is a condensed name to collectively indicate the characteristics of the subject matter covered by a H 988 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Section. Reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of Raichurmatham Prabhakar v. Rawatmal Dugar, (2004) 4 SCC 766 (Para14). vi) It is submitted that Sections 132, 141, 147, 245, and 447 of the Act deal with liability of an auditor in cases of fraud: B i. Section 132 provides for the constitution of the National Financial Reporting Authority (“NFRA”). NFRA has been given ample power (including the powers of civil court) under Section 132 to impose penalty or punishment on an auditor (including debarring the auditor) C to the auditors professional or other misconduct. The explanation under Section 132 provides for the terms “professional or other misconduct” to have the same meaning as prescribed under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 (“CA Act”). The meaning of “professional or other misconduct” entails a very wide scope as evinced D from Schedule I and II of the CA Act. Therefore, if auditors are guilty of fraud or abetting in fraud, they are certainly guilty of professional misconduct, for which powers are vested with the NFRA to disqualify, suspend etc. E ii. Section 141(3)(h), which specifically deals with eligibility of auditors, provides for the ineligibility for appointment of an auditor in case such person is convicted of an offence involving fraud. Section 141(3)(h) disqualifies the auditor for 10 years from the date of conviction for an offence involving fraud. Pertinently, while the F underlying offence is the same, i.e., an act involving the same fraud, the penalty under Sections 140(5) and 141(3)(h) are triggered at different times. A situation could arise where a person deemed ineligible under Section 140(5) by way of the NCLT’s final is G subsequently acquitted of the charge of fraud on the same set of facts under Section 447 of the Act by the criminal court. Further even where a person is convicted under Section 447, if he has already suffered the disqualification under Section 140(5) for 5 years he could face a further ineligibility to be appointed as an auditor H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 989 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] for 10 years. The total period hence could extend to 15 A years. iii. Section 147(3) imposes financial liability on auditors by way of refund of remuneration or even damages where the auditor is convicted under Section 147(2) of the Act. Section 147(5) further imposes joint and several liability B on audit firms and partners in case of criminal liability. iv. Section 241(3)(a) pertains to the civil consequence of fraud and concern “any person concerned in the conduct and management of the affairs of a company”. This would certainly include auditors who can be said to be C concerned in the conduct and management of a company’s affairs. In a proceeding under Section 241, the NCLT will determine: (i) whether there has been fraud; (ii) who the fraudsters are; (iii) who connived in or abetted the fraud; and (iv) whether the parties are fit D and proper persons.