14 ‘See – C.K. Allen, Law in the Making (Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1927). 15 See – Ninad Laud, Rationalising “Complete Justice” under Article 142, (2021) 1 SCC H J-30. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 183 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] to particular equity16. This is the reason that it has been held that Article A 142(1) of the Constitution of India turns the maxim ‘equity follows the law’ on its head, as this Article in the Constitution of India gives legal authority to this Court to give precedence to equity over law. This power, like all powers under the Constitution of India, must be contained and regulated, as it has been held that relief based on equity should not B disregard the substantive mandate of law based on underlying fundamental general and specific issues of public policy. Subject to this limitation, this Court, while moulding relief, can go to the extent of relaxing the application of law to the parties or exempting the parties altogether from the rigours of the law, in view of the particular facts and circumstances of the case.17 In I. C. Golak Nath and Others v. State of Punjab and Another18, K. C Subba Rao, CJ., while invoking the doctrine of prospective overruling, held that the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India is wide and elastic, and enables this Court to formulate legal doctrines to meet the ends of justice, and the only limitation thereon is reason, restraint and injustice. Restraint and deference are facets of the Rule of Law, D and when it comes to the separation of the role and functions of the legislature, the executive and the judiciary, the exercise of power by this Court to do ‘complete justice’, being for a ‘cause or matter’, does not interfere with and encroach on the legislature’s power and function to legislate. Clearly, when this Court exercises jurisdiction conferred by Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India to do ‘complete justice’ in a E ‘cause or matter’, it acts within the four corners of the Constitution of India. The power specifically bestowed by the Constitution of India on the apex court of the country is with a purpose, and should be considered as integral to the decision in a ‘cause or matter’. To do ‘complete justice’ is the utmost consideration and guiding spirit of Article 142(1) of the F Constitution of India. 10.In Union Carbide Corporation and Others v. Union of India and Others19, this Court laid specific emphasis on the expression ‘cause or matter’ to observe that ‘cause’ means any action or criminal G 16 As this Court interprets the law and adjudicates specific cases, in many a case, it exercises and applies both equity in general and particular equity. Also see – distinction between ‘cause’ and ‘matter’. 17 See – State (Through Central Bureau of Investigation) v. Kalyan Singh (Former Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh) and Others, (2017) 7 SCC 444. 18 AIR 1967 SC 1643. 19 (1991) 4 SCC 584. H 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.