No Public Officer, nor Court nor Arbitrator, can permit any person to ask them to act upon it or receive it as evidence. In law, it is bereft of life. It is ‘not enforceable in law’. In the said sense, it also cannot exist in law.It would be void. Our E view in this regard that voidness is conflated to unenforceability receives fortification from Section 2(j) of the Contract Act which renders a contract which ceases to be enforceable void. 71. What Section 11(6A) contemplates is a contract and it is not an agreement which cannot be treated as a contract. This is despite the F use of the words ‘arbitration agreement’ in Section 11(6A). In other words, contract must conform to Section 7 of the Act. It must also, needless to say, fulfil the requirements of the Contract Act. 72. A voidable contract within the meaning of Section 19 and 19A, undoubtedly stands in stark contrast to void contracts. However, G even in the categories of void contracts as for instance, Section 20 of the Contract Act provides that if on a material point, the parties were mistaken, the contract would be void. If in a given case where this is the contention raised by a party in a proceeding under Section 11 when the agreement otherwise satisfies the requirement of a contract to make it exist as an Arbitration Agreement, then, the Court would be justified in H 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A treating the agreement as one which exists and leave it open to the Arbitrator to go into the question, which can be done after the pleadings are laid and evidence is unfolded before him. When an Arbitration Agreement is sought to be brought under the cloud on the basis that it is a voidable contract which has been avoided, again it may be a matter where the principle of Kompetenz-Kompetenz may be apposite and again B the court under Section 11 would be justified in proceeding on the basis that an arbitration agreement exists. The question must undoubtedly be approached from the standpoint of advancing the sublime cause of speedy commencement, progress and conclusion of arbitration. When Parliament intervened by amending the Act, while in Section 8, it has employed the C words prima facie, it has used the word ‘examine’ to ascertain about the existence of an arbitration agreement in Section 11 (6A). Likewise, in Section 8 the law giver has used the word ‘valid’ which is missing in Section 11(6A). Can it be said that an invalid agreement can be said to exist in law for the purpose of Section 11(6A)? D 73. What is an invalid document or agreement? It is an expression which is associated and often conflated with the word void. We have already noticed Section 20 as an instance where a common mistake of the parties on a material subject renders the agreement void. We have also noticed that in view of the very nature of the voidness, a court under Section 11,may allow the application under Section 11 when shelter E is taken under Section 20 of the Contract Act by the respondent.