This anomaly, Justice Agarwal observed, would be avoided if the words “in respect of” in Article 105(2) are construed to mean ‘arising out of’. In other words, in such a case, the immunity would be available only if the speech that has been made or the vote that has been given is an essential and integral part for the cause of action for the proceedings giving rise to the law; and (iii) Thirdly, the of Justice SC Agarwal has specifically dwelt on the question as to when the offence of bribery would be complete. The notes that the offence is complete with the acceptance of the money or on the agreement to accept the money being concluded and is not dependent on the performance of the illegal promise by the receiver. The receiver of the bribe would be treated to have committed the offence even when he fails to perform the bargain underlying the tender and acceptance of the bribe. This aspect bearing on the constituent elements of the offence of a bribe finds elaboration in the of Justice Agarwal but is not dealt with in the of the majority. 25. We have already noted above that efforts in seeking a review of the in PV Narasmiha Rao and later in proceedings under Article 32 of the Constitution were not successful. One of us (Justice Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud), while delivering a concurrent opinion for a Bench of five judges in Kalpana Mehta Vs Union of India9 (para 221) had occasion to observe that should the correctness of the view in PV Narasmiha Rao fall for reconsideration in an appropriate case, a larger bench may have to consider the issue. The view of the majority has serious ramifications for the polity and the preservation of probity in public life. 26. For the above reasons, prima facie at this stage, we are of the considered view that the correctness of the view of the majority 9 (2018) 7 SCC 1 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. in PV Narasmiha Rao should be reconsidered by a larger Bench of seven judges. 27 . We accordingly request the Registry to place the papers before the Chief Justice for constituting a larger Bench of seven judges. Headnotes prepared by: Papers to be placed before Hon’ble CJI Nidhi Jain for constituting larger Bench of seven judges.