Even the High Court cannot go into that question on a revision or reference from the decision of the Tribunals. (4) When a provision is already declared unconstitutional or the constitutionality of any provision is to be challenged, a suit is open. A writ of certiorari may include a direction for refund if the claim is clearly within the time prescribed by the Limitation Act but it is not a compulsory remedy to replace a suit. (5) Where the particular Act contains no machinery for refund of tax collected in excess of constitutional limits or illegally collected, a suit lies. (6) Questions of the correctness of the assessment apart from its constitutionality are for the decision of the authorities and a civil suit does not lie if the s of the authorities are declared to be fi nal or there is an express prohibition in the particular Act. In either case the scheme of the particular Act must be examined because it is a relevant enquiry. URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 563 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] (7) An exclusion of the jurisdiction of the civil court is not readily to be inferred unless the conditions above set down apply.” (Emphasis Supplied) 40. In Firm Seth Radha Kishan (supra), the question that fell for determination was whether a suit would lie in a civil court claiming refund of the terminal tax collected by a municipality under the provisions of the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911. The trial court decreed the suit on fi nding that imposition/collection of tax was illegal. On appeal, the High Court of Punjab held that even though the imposition of tax might not be authorized but the civil court had no jurisdiction to entertain the suit as the Act provided for a remedy by way of appeal against the wrong s of the authorities thereunder. In that context, this Court, after considering a plethora of decisions, held: “7. Under Section 9 of the Code of Civil Procedure the court shall have jurisdiction to try all suits of civil nature excepting suits of which cognizance is either expressly or impliedly barred. A statute, therefore, expressly or by necessary implication, can bar the jurisdiction of civil courts in respect of a particular matter. The mere conferment of special jurisdiction on a tribunal in respect of the said matter does not in itself exclude the jurisdiction of civil courts. The statute may specifi cally provide for ousting the jurisdiction of civil courts; even if there was no such specifi c exclusion, if it creates a liability not existing before and gives a special and particular remedy for the aggrieved party, the remedy provided by it must be followed. The same principle would apply if the statute had provided for the particular forum in which the remedy could be had. Even in such cases, the civil court’s jurisdiction is not completely ousted. A suit in a civil court will always lie to question the of a tribunal created by a statute, even if its is, expressly or by necessary implication, made fi nal, if the said tribunal abuses its power or does not act under the Act but in violation of its provisions.” (Emphasis supplied) 41.