In other words, the criminal activity may have been committed before the same had been notifi ed as scheduled off ence for the purpose of the 2002 Act, but if a person has indulged in or continues to indulge directly or indirectly in dealing with proceeds of crime, derived or obtained from such criminal activity even after it has been notifi ed as scheduled off ence, may be liable to be prosecuted for off ence of money-laundering under the 2002 Act — for continuing to possess or conceal the proceeds of crime (fully or in part) or retaining possession thereof or uses it in trenches until fully exhausted. The off ence of money-laundering is not dependent on or linked to the date on which the scheduled off ence or if we may say so the predicate off ence has been committed. The relevant date is the date on which the person indulges in the process or activity connected with such proceeds of crime. These ingredients are intrinsic in the original provision (Section 3, as amended until 2013 and were in force till 31.7.2019); and the same has been merely explained and clarifi ed by way of Explanation vide Finance (No. 2) Act, 2019. Thus understood, inclusion of Clause (ii) in Explanation inserted in 2019 is of no consequence as it does not alter or enlarge the scope of Section 3 at all. 271 to 282 ………… 283. Even though, the 2002 Act is a complete Code in itself, it is only in respect of matters connected with off ence of money-laundering, and TARUN KUMAR v. ASSISTANT DIRECTOR DIRECTORATE 827 OF ENFORCEMENT [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] for that, existence of proceeds of crime within the meaning of Section 2(1)(u) of the Act is quintessential. Absent existence of proceeds of crime, as aforesaid, the authorities under the 2002 Act cannot step in or initiate any prosecution. 284. In other words, the Authority under the 2002 Act, is to prosecute a person for off ence of money-laundering only if it has reason to believe, which is required to be recorded in writing that the person is in possession of “proceeds of crime”. Only if that belief is further supported by tangible and credible evidence indicative of involvement of the person concerned in any process or activity connected with the proceeds of crime, action under the Act can be taken forward for attachment and confi scation of proceeds of crime and until vesting thereof in the Central Government, such process initiated would be a standalone process.” 11. As regards the twin conditions for the grant of bail contained in Section 45(1) of the said Act, it has been held in the said decision of Vijay Madanlal (supra) as under: - “412. As a result, we have no hesitation in observing that in whatever form the relief is couched including the nature of proceedings, be it under Section 438 of the 1973 Code or for that matter, by invoking the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, the underlying principles and rigors of Section 45 of the 2002 must come into play and without exception ought to be reckoned to uphold the objectives of the 2002 Act, which is a special legislation providing for stringent regulatory measures for combating the menace of money-laundering.” 12.