42.In view of the aforesaid discussion, we decide this reference C by answering the questions framed in the following manner: (i) The scope and ambit of power and jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. This question as to the power and jurisdiction of this Court under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India is answered D in terms of paragraphs 8 to 13, inter alia, holding that this Court can depart from the procedure as well as the substantive laws, as long as the decision is exercised based on considerations of fundamental general and specific public policy. While deciding whether to exercise discretion, this Court must consider the substantive provisions as enacted E and not ignore the same, albeit this Court acts as a problem solver by balancing out equities between the conflicting claims. This power is to be exercised in a ‘cause or matter’. (ii) In view of, and depending upon the findings of this bench on the first question, whether this Court, while F hearing a transfer petition, or in any other proceedings, can exercise power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution, in view of the settlement between the parties, and grant a decree of divorce by mutual consent dispensing with the period and the procedure G prescribed under Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act, and also quash and dispose of other/connected 66 See – Sahibzada Saiyed Muhammed Amirabbas Abbasi & Others v. State Of Madhya Bharat (Now Madhya Pradesh) & Others, AIR 1960 SC 768; Ujjam Bai v. State of Uttar Pradesh, AIR 1962 SC 1621; and Naresh Shridhar Mirajkar and Others v. State of H Maharashtra and Another, AIR 1967 SC 1. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 213 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] proceedings under the Domestic Violence Act, A Section 125 of the Cr.P.C., or criminal prosecution primarily under Section 498-A and other provisions of the I.P.C. If the answer to this question is in the affirmative, in which cases and under what circumstances should this Court exercise jurisdiction B under Article 142 of the Constitution of India is an ancillary issue to be decided. In view of our findings on the first question, this question has to be answered in the affirmative, inter alia,holding that this Court, in view of settlement between the parties, has the discretion to dissolve the C marriage by passing a decree of divorce by mutual consent, without being bound by the procedural requirement to move the second motion. This power should be exercised with care and caution, keeping in mind the factors stated in Amardeep Singh (supra) and Amit Kumar (supra). This Court can also, in exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, quash and set aside other proceedings and s, D including criminal proceedings. (iii) Whether this Court can grant divorce in exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India when there is complete and irretrievable breakdown of marriage in spite of the other spouses opposing E the prayer?