(z) “registered dealer” means a dealer registered under Section 17 or Section 18; Xxx xxx xxx (ah) “taxable dealer” means a dealer who is liable to pay tax under this Act; (ai) “taxable goods” means any goods except goods mentioned or described in column (2) of Schedule I; Xxx xxx xxx “13. Input tax credit (1) Subject to provisions of this Act, dealers referred to in the following clauses and holding valid registration certifi cate under this Act, shall, in respect of taxable goods purchased from within the State and mentioned in such clauses, subject to conditions given therein and such other conditions and restrictions as may be prescribed, be allowed credit of an amount, as input tax credit, to the extent provided by or under the relevant clause: (a) Subject to conditions given in column (2), every dealer liable to pay tax, shall, in respect of all taxable goods except non-vat goods, capital goods and captive power plant, where such taxable goods are purchased on or after the date of commencement of this Act, be allowed credit of the amount, as input tax credit, to the extent provided in column 3 of the table below: TABLE Serial Conditions Extent of amount of No. input tax credit (1) (2) (3) 1. If purchased goods are re-sold- Full amount of (i) inside the State, or input tax (ii) in the course of inter-state trade or commence; or (iii) in the course of the export of the goods out of the territory of India. M/S MODI NATURALS LTD. v. THE COMMISSIONER OF 757 COMMERCIAL TAX UP [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 2. If purchased goods are Full amount of input tax used in manufacture of - (i) any goods except non-vat goods and where such manufactured goods are sold in the course of the export of the goods out of the territory of India; or (ii) any taxable goods except non- vat goods and where such manufactured goods are sold either inside the State or in the course of inter-State trade or commerce. 3. If purchased goods are – Partial amount of input tax, which is in (i) transferred or consigned outside excess of four percent the State otherwise than as a of the purchase price result of a sale; or on which the dealer (ii) used in manufacture of any has paid tax either to taxable goods except non-vat the registered selling goods and such manufactured dealer or to the State goods are transferred or Government” consigned outside the State otherwise than as a result of a sale. Xxx xxx xxx (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this sub- section where goods purchased are resold or goods manufactured or processed by using or utilizing such purchased goods are sold, at the price which is lower than (i) purchase price of such goods in case of resale; or (ii) cost price in case of manufacture, 758 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the amount of input tax credit shall be claimed and be allowed to the extent of tax payable on the sale value of goods or manufactured goods.