Faced with a circumstance surrounding the suspension of conviction of a senior excise offi cer by the Bombay High Court, this Court held that the conviction of public servants in corruption cases cannot be suspended merely because they would otherwise lose their jobs. This is what was also observed in paragraph 15 of the decision: “15. Thus, in view of the aforesaid discussion, a clear picture emerges to the eff ect that the appellate court in an exceptional case, may put the conviction in abeyance along with the sentence, but such power must be exercised with great circumspection and caution, for the purpose of which, the applicant must satisfy the court as regards the evil that is likely to befall him, if the said conviction is not suspended. The court has to consider all the facts as are pleaded by the applicant, in a judicious manner and examine whether the facts and circumstances involved in the case are such, that they warrant such a course of action by it. The court additionally, must record in writing, its reasons for granting such relief. Relief of staying the of conviction cannot be granted only on the ground that an employee may lose his job, if the same is not done.” (emphasis supplied) 23. Again, in Shyam Narain Pandey v. State of U.P.16, arising out of an appeal at the instance of a principal of an institution who was, inter alia, convicted for murder, this Court stressed on the exceptionality of the power to suspend the conviction and observed thus: “11. In the light of the principles stated above, the contention that the appellant will be deprived of his source of livelihood if the conviction is not stayed cannot be appreciated. For the appellant, it is a matter of deprivation of livelihood but he is convicted for deprivation of life of another person. Until he is otherwise declared innocent in 15 (2012) 12 SCC 384 16 (2014) 8 SCC 909 100 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. appeal, the stain stands. The High Court has discussed in detail the background of the appellant, the nature of the crime, manner in which it was committed, etc. and has rightly held that it is not a very rare and exceptional case for staying the conviction.” 24. Bare perusal of the aforementioned decisions reveal how this Court has diff erently dealt with approaches made by, inter alia, a Managing Director of a company, a member of the Legislative Assembly, a member of Parliament, a fi lm actor intending to join politics, a bank offi cer, a civil post holder and a principal of an institution, while they sought for stay of conviction. 25. It is also noteworthy that notwithstanding Rama Narang (supra) referring to section 482 of the Cr. PC as the repository of power to stay a conviction in a case where section 389(1) thereof may not apply, the power of an “Appellate Court” to stay a conviction pending an appeal against a and of conviction and sentence too has been read into section 389(1) by Rama Narang (supra), although the statute on its plain language does not expressly say so.