The present case is one of compulsory winding up and, therefore, the ‘relevant date’, in the absence of appointment of a provisional liquidator, would be the date on which the winding up was passed against the Company, which is 1st December 200319. 19 The Offi cial Liquidator was appointed by the High Court vide the dated 1st December 2003 in Company Petition No. 168 of 2002. IDBI (THROUGH STRESSED ASSETS STABILIZATION FUND 1065 CONSTITUTED BY THE GoI)v. SUPT. OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS AND OTHERS [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 13. Again, before we proceed to interpret the expressions debt ‘due’ and debt ‘due and payable’ in clause (a) to Section 530(1) of the Companies Act, it is relevant to take note of the eff ect of Sections 447, 456, 468, 528 and 529 of the Companies Act, as well as the object and purpose behind these provisions. The relevant sections read as follows: “447. Eff ect of winding up .— An for winding up a company shall operate in favour of all the creditors and of all the contributories of the company as if it had been made on all the joint petition of a creditor and of a contributory.” “456. Custody of company’s property—(1) Where a winding up has been made or where a provisional liquidator has been appointed the liquidator or the provisional liquidator, as the case may be, shall take into his custody or under his control, all the property, eff ects and actionable claims to which the company is or appears to be entitled. (1-A) For the purpose of enabling the liquidator or the provisional liquidator, as the case may be, to take into his custody or under his control, any property, eff ects or actionable claims to which the company is or appears to be entitled, the liquidator or the provisional liquidator, as the case may be, may by writing request the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the District Magistrate within whose jurisdiction such property, eff ects or actionable claims or any books of account or other documents of the company may be found, to take possession thereof, and the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the District Magistrate may thereupon after such notice as he may think fi t to give to any party, take possession of such property, eff ects, actionable claims books of account or other documents and deliver possession thereof to the liquidator or the provisional liquidator. (1-B) For the purpose of securing compliance with the provisions of sub-section (1-A), the Chief Presidency Magistrate or the District Magistrate may take or cause to be taken such steps and use or cause to be used such force as may in his opinion be necessary.” “468. Delivery of property to liquidator.—The Tribunal may, at any time after making a winding up , require any contributory for the time being on the list of contributories, and any trustee, receiver, 1066 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. banker, agent, offi cer or other employee of the company, to pay, deliver, surrender or transfer forthwith, or within such time as the Tribunal directs, to the liquidator, any money, property or books and papers in his custody or under his control to which the company is prima facie entitled.” “528.