10. Section 8 of the Act of 1956 elaborates on intestate succession in the case of males. It provides that a property of a male Hindu, dying intestate, shall devolve fi rstly, upon Class I heirs; secondly, upon Class II heirs; thirdly, if there is no heir of any of the two Classes, upon the agnates of the deceased; and lastly, if there is no agnate, then upon the cognates of the deceased. 11. In Gurupad Khandappa Magdum vs. Hirabai Khandappa Magdum and others [(1978) 3 SCC 383], a 3-Judge Bench of this Court dealt with Section 6 of the Act of 1956 in depth. It was held therein that, in to ascertain the shares of the heirs in the property of a deceased coparcener, the fi rst step is to ascertain the share of the deceased himself in the coparcenary property and Explanation 1 to Section 6 provides a fi ctional expedient, namely, that his share is deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition had taken place immediately before his death. It was pointed out that once that assumption has been made for the purpose of ascertaining the share of the deceased, one cannot go back on the assumption and ascertain the shares of the heirs without reference to it, and all the consequences which fl ow from a real partition have to be logically worked out, which means that the shares of the heirs must be ascertained on the basis that they had separated from one another and had received a share in the partition which had taken place during the life-time of the deceased. In eff ect, the Bench held that the 942 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. inevitable corollary of this position is that the heir will get his or her share in the interest which the deceased had in the coparcenary property at the time of his death, in addition to the share which he or she received or must be deemed to have received in the notional partition. 12. This principle fi nds affi rmation in Shyama Devi (Smt) and others vs. Manju Shukla (Mrs) and another [(1994) 6 SCC 342] and several other decisions of this Court and various High Courts across the country. 13. Applying this principle, the share of Phannuram would fi rst have to be determined as on the date of his death. He seems to have had two brothers and would have been entitled to a 1/3rd share in the coparcenary properties, if a partition had been eff ected before his death. In fact, such a partition was actually eff ected in 1964 and Phannuram’s 1/3rd share was allotted to his only son, Vishal. However, Vishal was a coparcener in his own right in a separate coparcenary with his father and would be entitled to a share in that coparcenary property by birth. Therefore, he would be entitled to a half-share by birth in the I/3rd share of the coparcenary properties that was allotted as Phannuram’s share.