It cannot be gainsaid that the court in exercise of powers under Article 142 cannot ignore any substantive statutory provision dealing with the subject. The plenary powers of the Supreme Court under Article 142 are inherent in nature and are complementary to those powers which are specifi cally conferred on the court by various statutes. These powers though are of a very wide amplitude to do complete justice between the parties, cannot be used to supplant the substantive law applicable to the case or to the cause under consideration of the court. As observed by this Court in Supreme Court Bar Association vs. Union of India and Another2, Article 142 even with the width of its amplitude cannot be used to build a new edifi ce where none existed earlier, by ignoring the express statutory provisions dealing with a subject and thereby to achieve something indirectly which cannot be achieved directly. Even Section 148 of CPC does not permit the court to extend the time limit beyond thirty days of the time limit fi xed by the court earlier. 2 (1998) 4 SCC 409 UNION BANK OF INDIA v. RAJAT INFRASTRUCTURE PVT. LTD. & 681 ORS. AND M/S. SUNVIEW ASSETS PVT. LTD. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 18. It is pertinent to note that the instant Miscellaneous Application has been fi led by the Applicant seeking substantive prayer/ direction against the Appellant Bank for the issuance of the sale certifi cate on the ground that the Applicant has made full and fi nal payment of auction amount with interest in terms of the dated 12.05.2020 passed in M.A. No.922 of 2020. Apart from the fact that the Applicant had not complied with the s passed by this Court from time to time in the successive applications fi led by it, and more particularly the dated 12.05.2020 passed in M.A. No.922 of 2020, such an application in the disposed of Civil Appeal No.1902 of 2020, to pursue its strategies and to avoid judicial adjudication in the substantive proceedings, would not be even maintainable in the eye of law. Such a trend emerging in this Court of fi ling repeated applications, styled as Miscellaneous Applications, without any legal foundation has been strongly deprecated by this Court in Supertech Limited vs. Emerald Court Owner Resident Welfare Association and Others3, in which it was observed as under: - “A disturbing trend has emerged in this court of repeated applications, styled as Miscellaneous Applications, being fi led after a fi nal has been pronounced. Such a practice has no legal foundation and must be fi rmly discouraged. It reduces litigation to a gambit. Miscellaneous Applications are becoming a preferred course to those with resources to pursue strategies to avoid compliance with judicial decisions. A judicial pronouncement cannot be subject to modifi cation once the has been pronounced, by fi ling a miscellaneous application. Filing of a miscellaneous application seeking modifi cation/clarifi cation of a is not envisaged in law. Further, it is a settled legal principle that one cannot do indirectly what one cannot do directly [“Quando aliquid prohibetur ex directo, prohibetur et per obliquum”]” 19.