[2023] 7 S.C.R. 719 719 SANTOSH @ BHURE A v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI (Criminal Appeal No.575 of 2011) APRIL 28, 2023 B [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, MANOJ MISRA AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – s. 302 r/w. s.34 – Acquittal under – Prosecution case that ‘S’ was tenant of an apartment on the second floor of a building owned by PW-3 – On 12.09.2000, at about 10.40 C a.m., an information was given to the police that a dead body is lying in that apartment – As per prosecution, two disclosure/ confessional statements were made by each of the two accused (‘S’ and ‘N’) during police custody – Trial Court held that the proven circumstances constituted a chain which conclusively indicated that D the accused ‘S’ in the company of co-accused ‘N’ committed the crime and to remove the evidence hid the dagger and the blood- stained clothes and further, to hoodwink the police, ‘N’ wrote and planted a suicide letter in a pocket of the trouser worn by the deceased – Both the accused were convicted u/ss. 302 r/w. s. 34 – High Court acquitted ‘N’, however, S’s conviction was upheld – On E appeal, held: Mere tenancy of the apartment being with ‘S’ by itself is not sufficient to hold him guilty as there is no general presumption against the owner/tenant of a property with regard to his/her guilt if a dead body with homicidal injuries is found in his/her property – Prosecution failed to lead any evidence that the two accused, or F any one of them, were present there, or in the vicinity – There is no witness statement identifying the handwriting of accused ‘N’ or disclosing that accused wrote the suicide letter in his presence – There is also no evidence to explain the relevance of the contents of the suicide letter – Suicide letter indicts one person ‘C’– As to why such indictment was made; whether it was with reference to some G other event contemplated, the prosecution evidence is silent – Barring the expert report, there exists no internal or external evidence to lend assurance to the prosecution story that the suicide letter was written by accused ‘N’ – As regards recovery of clothes at the instance of ‘S’, PW4, a witness to that recovery, has been H 719 720 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A declared hostile – There is thus no support to that recovery from any public witness – The circumstance that the clothes carried blood of same group as of the deceased is rendered meaningless because there is no admissible evidence to connect the clothes with the two accused – As regards recovery of knife at the instance of ‘N’, the same has been denied by ‘N’ and there appears no independent B witness to support it – Its incriminating value is extremely limited because, firstly, there is no forensic evidence connecting the knife with the crime; secondly, the knife is a common knife which could easily be available; thirdly, the wounds found on the body of the deceased were of different dimensions giving rise to possibility of C use of more weapon than one; and, fourthly, the entire exercise of recovery does not inspire confidence, particularly, because the first attempt to recover had failed – Thus, the prosecution failed to prove a chain of incriminating circumstances as to conclusively point out that in all human probability it was the two accused or any one of them, and no one else, who had committed the murder.