In any case, if the approach of the High Court in the present case is countenanced, the result would only be of making every award susceptible to challenge before the Court on those very grounds which are, otherwise, of appeal or revision C and which are not permitted by the legislature to be taken under Section 34 of the Act of 1996. [Para 25.1][443-E-H] 1.11 The approach of the High Court in relation to the two comparatively minor issues relating to variable charges on 4MW power and netting-out principles is also suffering from the same D error, where the High Court deeply analysed the evidence on record to hold that the arbitral tribunal has not been correct in its propositions or inferences. [Para 26][444-A-B] 1.12 As regards the award relating to variable charges on 4 MW power, the High Court stepped into the arena which is E reserved for the arbitral tribunal. It is noticed that the parties had agreed to a particular methodology of billing for supply of 15.8 MW power but, at the same time, retained with them the right to revert back to 19.8 MW supply at any future point of time. With reference to the dealings of the parties, the arbitral tribunal took a particular view of the matter. It cannot be said F that the view as taken by the arbitral tribunal was entirely impermissible or implausible. There was no scope for interference by the Court. [Para 29][445-B] 1.13 The aspect of netting-out depended on the terms of contract of the parties and the deductions to be drawn from the G evidence on record. The arbitral tribunal had drawn the particular conclusion on the basis of notes dated 13.09.2014 and 18.09.2014. The arbitral tribunal considered the documentary evidence before it, as well as the provisions of the contract relating to supply of H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 385 backup power by Government of Goa to the claimant when the A power station was under shutdown for the period May 2014 to August 2014. The arbitral tribunal further referred to the communications which also include the decision of the Government of Goa as to the rate at which power during the shut down period was to be supplied to the claimant and on this basis, B came to the finding that a fixed rate which was not to be multiplied as per the provisions of the PPA was agreed between the parties. The award also gave reasons for such finding. Even if it be assumed that another view is possible, it cannot be said that the arbitral tribunal has taken such a view which no fair-minded and reasonable person could have ever taken. The High Court C substituted its own view and reinterpreted the documentary evidence before it for setting aside the award. Such a substitution of view is not permissible for the Court under Section 34 of Act. There arise no question of it being permissible under Section 37 of the Act.