Hence it is presented as follows: - (i) Section 9C, Chapter II-A of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Act, 1973 (Tamil Nadu Act No. 22 of 1974) prescribed that the Madras Metropolitan Development F Authority shall carry out a survey of Madras Metropolitan area and prepare a Master Plan as referred to in Section 17. (ii) Accordingly, MMDA carried out necessary surveys and studies and prepared the First Master Plan for the Chennai Metropolitan Area in 1975. The Government approved the same in G.O.Ms. No. 2395, Rural Development and Local Administration dated G 4.12.1976. (iii) The First Master Plan covered an extent of approximately 1170 sq. kms. It included within the City of Chennai, a part of Ambattur Taluk, Tambaram Taluk, Tiruvallur Taluk, Chengalpet Taluk, Sriperumbudur Taluk, Ponneri Taluk and Poonamallee H Taluk. ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1069 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (iv) Under the said Plan, all lands in the Metropolitan Area were A categorised into 10 zones such as Primary Residential Use Zone, Mixed Residential Use Zone, Commercial Use Zone, Light Industrial Use Zone, General Industrial Use Zone, Special and Hazardous Industrial Use Zone, Institutional Use Zone, Open Space and Recreational Use Zone, Agricultural Use Zone and B Non-Urban Use Zone. (v) Along with the First Master Plan, a set of rules known as Development Control Rules were issued by the Government. These rules dealt with (i) permission for development (ii) use zones and (iii) general provisions. C (vi) Rule 19 of the Development Control Rules, which comes under Part III, under the heading “General Provisions” deals with layout and subdivision. (vii) The liability to reserve a portion of the site in a layout as open space, arose out of Rule 19 of the Development Control Rules, till these rules were in operation. D Para 17. Rule 19 of the Development Control Rules contains a Table which prescribes the minimum width of the streets and roads in different types of layouts. Just below the Table under Rule 19, there is a Note. The said Note contains 3 prescriptions. The third prescription in the said Note contains a Table indicating the extent E of land to be reserved for communal and recreational purposes in a layout or subdivision for residential, commercial, industrial or combination of such uses. Para 21. It may be of interest to note that at the time when the First Master Plan was conceived in 1975, the concept of “Group F Development” or “Flats”, had not gained momentum in the City of Chennai. Therefore, the Development Control Rules did not contain specific provisions to regulate the same. But when developers started promoting flats, the issue was taken up by the Madras Metropolitan Development Authority with the Government, in a letter dated 22.3.1981. On the basis of the said G letter of the Member Secretary and the recommendations of the Technical Committee of MMDA and the response of the public to the proposed amendment to the Rules, the Government issued G.O.Ms.