Thus, the test of reasonableness was introduced by the first amendment H 630 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A and the same fell for jural exploration within no time, in State of Madras vs. V.G. Row47. The said case arose out of a of the Madras High Court quashing a Government declaring a society known as ‘People’s Education Society’ as an unlawful association and also declaring as unconstitutional, Section 15(2)(b) of the Indian Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1908, as amended by the Indian Criminal Law B Amendment (Madras) Act, 1950. While upholding the of the Madras High Court, this Court indicated as to how the test of reasonableness has to be expounded. The relevant portion of the reads as follows: - “23. It is important in this context to bear in mind that the test of C reasonableness, wherever prescribed, should be applied to each individual statute impugned, and no abstract standard, or general pattern of reasonableness can be laid down as applicable to all cases. The nature of the right alleged to have been infringed, the underlying purpose of the restrictions imposed, the D extent and urgency of the evil sought to be remedied thereby, the disproportion of the imposition, the prevailing conditions at the time, should all enter into the judicial verdict. In evaluating such elusive factors and forming their own conception of what is reasonable, in all the circumstances of a given case, it is inevitable that the social E philosophy and the scale of values of the Judges participating in the decision should play an important part, and the limit to their interference with legislative in such cases can only be dictated by their sense of responsibility and self-restraint and the sobering reflection F that the Constitution is meant not only for people of their way of thinking but for all, and that the majority of the elected representatives of the people have, in authorizing the imposition of the restrictions, considered them to be reasonable.” G 21. After the First Amendment to the Constitution, the country witnessed cries for secession, with parochial tendencies showing their ugly head, especially from a southern State. Therefore, a National Integration Conference was convened in September-October, 1961 to find ways and means to combat the evils of communalism, casteism, H 47 (1952) 1 SCC 410 KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 631 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] regionalism, linguism and narrow mindedness. This Conference decided A to set up the National Integration Council. Accordingly, it was constituted in 1962. The constitution of the Council assumed significance in the wake of the Sino-India war in 1962. This National Integration Council had a Committee on national integration and regionalism. This Committee recommended two amendments to the Constitution, namely, (i) the B amendment of clause (2) of Article 19 so as to include the words “the sovereignty and integrity of India” as one of the restrictions; and (ii) the amendment of 8 Forms of oath or affirmation contained in the Third Schedule.