A cause of action is a bundle of facts on the basis of which relief is claimed. If in addition to the facts alleged in the first suit, further facts are alleged and relief sought on their basis also, and he explained the additional facts to be the allegations about possession and dispossession in October 1934, then the position in law was that the entire complexion E of the suit is changed with the result that the words of 9 Rule 9 “in respect of the same cause of action” are not satisfied and the plaintiff is entitled to reagitate the entire cause of action in the second suit. In support of this submission, learned counsel invited our attention to certain F observation in a few decision to which we do not consider it necessary to refer as we do not see any substance in the argument. 29. We consider that the test adopted by the Judicial Committee for determining the identity of the causes of action in two G suits in Mohammed Khalil Khan v. Mahbub Ali Mian [75 IA 121] is sound and expresses correctly the proper interpretation of the provision. In that case Sir Madhavan Nair, after an exhaustive discussion of the meaning of the expression “same cause of action” which occurs in a similar context in para (1) of 2 Rule 2 of the Civil Procedure H Code observed: GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 927 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] “In considering whether the cause of action in the A subsequent suit is the same or not, as the cause of action in the previous suit, the test to be applied is/are the causes of action in the two suits in substance — not technically — identical?”” 60. Thus, we may sum it up saying that IX Rule 9 of the B CPC provides that when the suit is wholly or partially dismissed under Rule 8 (dismissed for default) the Plaintiffs shall be precluded from bringing in a fresh suit, in respect of the same cause of action. The present suit i.e., Suit No. 154 of 2009 filed in the Court of Civil Judge (J.D.) Eastern, District Ballia is not filed on the same cause of action. In C the present suit, the case of the Plaintiffs as put up in the alternative is that the Defendant is in possession of the suit property as a mortgagee and they are ready to redeem the mortgage by making the necessary payment of the mortgaged amount and take back the possession. Whether the relief prayed for is time barred or not is for the trial court to decide on the basis of the evidence that the parties may lead. As observed by D the Privy Council in Mohammad Khalil Khan (supra) if the evidence to support the two claims is different than the causes of action are also different. Hence, the contention raised on the basis of the provisions of IX Rule 9 of the CPC has no merits.