All of a sudden he requested adjournment and he was informed that no adjournment would be given at this state since the case was E heard in the presence of the parties who were present in the morning. He wanted to file written objection statement and was permitted to file it before the rising of the court; at 4 P.M on 17.1.75; the secretary filed his written objection statement.” 40. After having lost in proceedings before the Director of Survey F and Settlement, the appellant Committee had preferred a revision before the Board of Revenue which was also dismissed. In the revision also no argument was raised that the directions issued by the High Court are without jurisdiction and not binding upon it. 41. The proceedings before the Director of Survey and Settlement G and the Board of Revenue as aforesaid clearly indicate that the appellant Committee had accepted the directions of the High Court and in pursuant thereof had participated in the proceedings without any hitch and as such disentitled itself from raising any objection in this regard at such a belated stage for the first time before this Court. H SALEM MUSLIM BURIAL GROUND PROTECTION 401 COMMITTEE v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU [PANKAJ MITHAL, J.] 42. The submission that the direction of the Division Bench of A the High Court is patently without jurisdiction and the issue of jurisdiction can be raised by the party aggrieved at any stage is also not of substance inasmuch as it would not apply to a case where the party has succumbed to the jurisdiction by participating in the proceedings thereto taking chance of success and failure. In the present case, the appellant B Committee has not challenged the directions of the Division Bench of the High Court as without jurisdiction rather consented/accepted to the said directions by participating in the consequential proceedings. Once the appellant Committee has accepted the and has participated in the proceedings, it is estopped in law from questioning the jurisdiction of the court in issuing such a direction. In such a view, C it cannot be said that the appellant Committee has a right to raise the question of jurisdiction at this stage. 43. The Principle of Acquiescence has been explained in Black’s Law Dictionary, 9th Edition, as a person’s tacit or passive acceptance or implied consent to an act. It has been described as a principle of equity D which must be made applicable in a case where the has been passed and complied with without raising any objection. Acquiescence is followed by estoppel. A Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court in Pannalal Binjraj v. Union of India9, six decades ago, had an occasion to explain the scope of estoppel. It says that once an is passed E against a person and he submits to the jurisdiction of the said without raising any objection or complies with it, he cannot be permitted to challenge the said , subsequently, when he could not succeed. The conduct of the person in complying with the or submitting to the jurisdiction of the of the Court by participation, disentitles him to any relief before the Court.