10. Respondent – defendants’ counsel per contra advanced the following arguments: H 266 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 10.1 He supported the impugned of the High Court and contended that the High Court rightly applied Section 20 of the Act and denied the relief of specific performance of the agreement dated 7th August, 2005. That the defendants’ daughter and son-in-law were desirous of building a house on the suit property and therefore, they would be put through great hardship if the suit for specific performance was decreed B in favour of the plaintiff; more so, given that market price of the suit property had increased manifold over a period of time and it would not be possible for the defendants to purchase rights over land similar to the suit property with the enhanced consideration awarded by the Trial Court. 10.2 It was further submitted that the High Court rightly C appreciated that the defendants had entered into the agreement when they were faced with a financial crisis and therefore, it was imperative that the plaintiff paid a significant portion of the consideration, if not the entire sale consideration, within the period of six months as stipulated in the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. That it was in D the said context that the fact as to payment of merely 4% of the sale consideration would be relevant to determine the plaintiff’s readiness and willingness to perform his obligations under the agreement of sale. That the object of agreement to sell the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property in the year 2005 was to receive the entire sale consideration within a period of six months, which would enable the E defendants to pay off certain debts which had been taken to enable the defendants to bear the medical expenses towards cardiac treatment of defendant no. 1. Since the plaintiff refused to pay the balance consideration within the time stipulated in the agreement, notwithstanding several requests by the defendants, the defendants were compelled to F sell their jewellery and ornaments to clear the debts. 10.3 That by refusing to pay sale consideration exceeding 4% of the total sale consideration within six months from the date of the contract, the plaintiff defeated the purpose of the agreement to sell the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. That the plaintiff was well aware of the fact that G the only reason compelling the defendants to sell the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over suit property at a nominal price agreed upon by the parties was the critical financial condition that the defendants were faced with at the time of entering into the agreement of sale. That freedom from financial pressure within a short span of time (six months) was the sole motive guiding the decision of the defendants to part with the suit H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 267 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] property. In that regard, it was contended that time was the essence of A the agreement and having failed to deposit the balance sale consideration within the stipulated period, the plaintiff could not subsequently seek the remedy of specific performance, having defeated the purpose of the agreement vis-à-vis the defendants.