…If the petitioner is denied promotion merely on the basis that a charge-sheet is contemplated or some investigation is ed by the bank, it would amount to interfering with or denying a right to which the petitioner was rightfully entitled to which is per se improper and opposed to principles of natural justice. No man can be denied his due without even letting him have an inkling as to why he is being denied it.” 36. In Govt. of India Ministry of Home Aff airs & ors. v. Tarak Nath Ghosh 1971 AIR SC 823 this Court while dealing with the disciplinary proceedings initiated against the respondent, an IPS offi cer, made the following remarks: “13. In substance, disciplinary proceedings can be said to be started against an offi cer when complaints about his integrity or honesty are entertained and followed by a preliminary enquiry into them culminating in the satisfaction of the Govt. that a prima facie case has been made out against him for the framing of charges. When the of suspension itself shows that the Govt. was of the view that such a prima facie case for departmental proceedings had been made 106 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. out the fact that the also mentions that such proceedings were contemplated makes no diff erence. Again, the fact that in other rules of service an of suspension may be made when ‘disciplinary proceedings were contemplated’ should not lead us to take the view that a member of an All-India Service should be dealt with diff erently.” 37. Similarly, in P.R. Nayak v. Union of India, (1972) 1 SCC 332 this Court had the opportunity to consider the meaning of contemplation of disciplinary proceedings under the All-India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969 and while doing so, this Court made the following observations: “69. …Rule 3 of the All-India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, which has already been set out in extenso, provides for suspension during disciplinary proceedings. Sub-rule (1) of this rule on its plain reading…does not suggest that suspension can be ed merely when disciplinary proceedings are contemplated. The language used in sub-rules (4) to (7) also suggests that these rules do not authorise of suspension of the delinquent member of the Service merely because disciplinary proceedings against him are contemplated. Suspension under those sub-rules may be ed only either after conviction [deeming provision under sub-rule (4)] or when criminal proceedings are actually in progress [sub-rule (5)] or when after the penalty imposed on him having been set aside, the disciplinary authority decides to hold further enquiry [deeming provision under sub-rule (6)]… The legislative scheme underlying Rule 3 is thus clearly indicative of the intention of the rule-making authority to restrict its operation only to those cases in which the Government concerned is possessed of suffi cient material whether after preliminary investigation or otherwise and the disciplinary proceedings have in fact commenced and not merely when they are contemplated. An of suspension before the actual initiation or commencement of disciplinary proceedings appears to us therefore, to be clearly outside the ambit of Rule 3 and we fi nd no cogent ground for straining the plain language of Rule 3(1) so as to extend it to cases in which disciplinary proceedings are merely contemplated and not actually initiated or commenced.