ETC. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] or challan had expired and whether the accused is prepared to and A does furnish bail. In other words, to claim default bail under Section 167 (2) first proviso CrPC, the accused does not have to make out any substantive grounds for securing bail nor does he have to file a detailed bail application. All he has to aver in the application is that since the stipulated 60/90 day period has expired and the chargesheet has not B been filed, he is entitled to bail and such indefeasible right cannot be defeated by filing the chargesheet after the accused has offered to furnish bail. 39. In S.Kasi vs. State (supra), the court discussed the applicability of the Limitation Act to Section 167 (2) CrPC, the right to personal C liberty, and the prosecution’s right to file a chargesheet. The court safeguarding individual freedom then held that Supreme Court’s earlier direction to relax limitation requirements, in light of Covid-19 pandemic,29 would not allow the State or the investigation agencies, any relaxation in terms of computing the investigation period and thereby allowing additional incarceration of the accused- curtailing their personal liberty. D 40. In construction of a penal statute in case of ambiguity, whether actual or assumed, in to, fulfill the legislative intent underlying Section 167(2) CrPC, the ambiguity must be resolved in favour of the accused person since liberty is at stake. This was the opinion expressed in M. Ravindran (supra) where the following was pronounced: E “whenever there is any ambiguity in the construction of a penal statute, the Courts must favour the interpretation which leans towards protecting the rights of the accused, given the ubiquitous power disparity between an individual and the State.” F 41. Similarly, In Rakesh Paul (supra), a three-judge bench of this court, in context of, Section 167, held that where, on reading the statute, two views are possible, then the provision that curtails individual liberty should be read strictly. It was observed that since Article 21 rights are involved, the Court should lean in favour of the interpretation that upholds G and protects personal liberty.30This interpretation is also supported by the idea that Constitutional law is logically, morally and legally superior 29 Suo Motu Writ Petition (Civil) No. 3/2020 30 Rakesh Kumar Paul vs. State of Assam, (2017) 15 SCC (109) para 72-73, (per Lokur J.) H 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A to the statutory law.31 Therefore, any statutory provision, must be in conformity with the constitutional law. Further, In the specific context of the right to default Bail, under the first proviso to Section 167 (2) of theCrPC, this court in Gautam Navlakha (supra) held that, right to default bail is a fundamental right and in case a remand is passed mechanically or in violation of law or be afflicted with vice of lack of B jurisdiction, a writ of habeas corpus would lie. 42.The 60/90 day limit is a statutory requirement which allows the State agencies to investigate serious offences beyond the 15-day police custody.