The very goal of town planning requires nothing less. Once the goal of executing the gift and the results it produces in law, are appreciated in the above manner, we find that the apprehensions and the contentions of the appellant/petitioner lose their sheen. We are unable to F accept, in the context of the Act of the Rules/ Regulations, that, in such a large project, when the layout is more than 10,000 square metres, executing a gift deed, which would ensure compliance, would fall foul of the requirement of either Article 14 or Article 300A. The developer/ owner, remained only a trustee even without a gift. The provision for setting apart 10 per cent, is invulnerable. The area will even without a G gift remain out of bounds for the project proponent/owner. The OSR, being an inviolable requirement, the additional requirement, meant and understood as a measure to ensure compliance and prevent misuse and or disuse, must not be understood as deprivation. As already discussed, the gift will not convert the Local Body into an absolute owner. Instead, H in place of the original owner, continuing as a trustee, the Local Authority ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1149 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] becomes the trustee. The purpose and the nature of the obligation will A remain and haunt both the Local Body as also the original owner. The Rule/Regulation at any rate also, is a law which sanctions deprivation even assuming there is deprivation. However, we are of the view that, in substance, the Rule/Regulation cannot be understood as deprivation under Article 300A. B 155. We have indicated earlier that this Court has recognised Right to Property as a Constitutional Right on account of insertion of Article 300A. In the context of the Principle of Unconstitutional Condition, as recognised in the United States, could it be said that the impugned Rule/ Regulation presents a case of an unconstitutional condition? While, as C already found by us, the impugned provisions, do not make out a case of acquisition as it is not a compulsory divesting of title and a gift is executed on the basis that the project proponent/owner volunteers to execute the gift deed andno doubt, in view of the Rule, the execution of the gift deed, finally, brings in the element of consent and takes the transaction out of the Doctrine of Eminent Domain, which requires compulsory acquisition D de hors the consent of the person having interest in the property, but then the question arises, whether the impugned provisions involves a person having a Constitutional Right under Article 300A, having to sacrifice his Right as a condition to obtain the development permit. This Court has declared the right of a person to construct a building, is a right E under the law, viz., the Statute, which governs the same. In the said sense, it becomes a Statutory Right. The right is hedged in necessarily with limitations and conditions. Now, superimposing the mandate of Article 300A, the question arises, whether the instant case involves employment of an unconstitutional condition.