F 40. In the said background it is necessary to note that as per the information furnished relating to the status of the petitioners in W.P. (C) No.891 of 2021 which is taken as an instance for demonstrating the situation of their affinity with India and the number of years they have been in India. The details are as provided in Annexure P/2 which is as G hereunder: - H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 289 ORS. A B C D E F G H 290 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 291 ORS. 41. The above extracted details would indicate that in all the cases A the petitioners have studied for more than six years in India and in most of the cases, almost the entire educational career up to the stage of the qualifying examination for the Pre-Medical Test has been undertaken in India. Apart from the specific cases noted herein, there are also petitioners/persons who had become citizens of a foreign country for B compelling reasons, but hold benefit of OCI card. This would demonstrate that though in terms of law, the petitioners were ‘foreigners’ due to the incident of birth in a foreign country or such other compelling circumstances, they continue to remain in India and to pursue their education and had fully justified the mid-path benefit given to them based on the OCI card. The manner in which they have conducted themselves C by being students in India would indicate that in addition to having the umbilical connection with the country, they being aware of the right conferred through the notifications dated 11.04.2005 and 05.01.2009 had positioned themselves to further their professional career by making a choice of their profession and undertaking the preparation for the same. D This was based on what was held out to that class of Overseas Citizens. In fact, their entire educational career has been of the same standard, with the same ‘advantages’ and ‘disadvantages’ as has been the case with the students who are Indian citizens. In such situation, though in the strict term of the word ‘legitimate expectation’, it may not fall, a statutory right conferred had sown the seed of hope recognising the affiliation to E this country, though they were not citizens in the strict sense. 42. Hence keeping this situation in the backdrop, the manner in which the impugned notification would affect the petitioners and the similarly placed citizens will have to be taken note to examine whether the withdrawal of the conferred right will be justified. It is no doubt true F as contended by the learned Additional Solicitor General, the right available to the OCI Cardholders is only the statutory right based on the right that is conferred through a notification in terms of Section 7B(1) of Act, 1955. Sub-section (2) thereto specifically indicates the right that cannot be conferred even under sub-section (1) through a notification.