The appellant was acquitted from the charge under Section 366 of the IPC and the sentence was set aside. 6. Ms. E.R. Sumathy, learned counsel submitted that the findings B of the courts below are unsustainable. Firstly, she relied on the circumstance that the victim M in her statement under Section 164 Cr.PC,clearly indicated that she left with the appellant of her own accord and that her sister and aunt knew these facts. It was pointed out that the same statement further acknowledged that M and the appellant had C known and loved each other for a year. In these circumstances, when she eloped with the appellant, the fact that she did not support her previous statement to the Magistrate and resiled from it, should have been an important aspect that cast serious doubts about the prosecution story. 7. The learned counsel highlighted that the trial court’s approach D in this regard was entirely erroneous because the findings recorded are that the prosecution was unable to show that M was not under some coercion from the appellant. Learned counsel pointed out that this reasoning is without logic. Learned counsel submitted that when the Magistrate recorded the statement, M was clearly not under the influence of the appellant; in fact, Magistrate recorded his opinion in this regard as E well. 8. Learned counsel next argued that the courts below fell into error in not appreciating that the prosecution failed to discharge the burden of proof, with respect to the victim’s age. Reference was made to Section 34 of the POCSO Act and Section 94 of the Juvenile Justice F (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 (hereafter “JJ Act”), to say that age determination has to be on the basis of settled statutory criteria. In the first instance, the school leaving certificate, or the matriculation certificate had to be seen; if that were not available, the birth certificate or records to that effect issued by the local or municipal authority are to be considered,and if neither of the first two classes of documents are G available, then, age determination depends on the ossification test. Learned counsel highlighted that in the present case, the ossification test indicated that M’s age was between 18 and 20, proving that she was not a minor. This aspect was deposed to by PW-9, who also produced the test report. H 484 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 9. The prosecution, however, did not provide any evidence to establish that the victim’s age was under 18. It was argued that,given the totality of these circumstances and that the victim had changed her version and deposed contrary to what she stated in her statement under Section 164 of Cr.PC, the appellant could not have been convicted for the offences he was charged with. It is lastly argued that the High Court B acquitted the appellant of the charge under Section 366 IPC which gives a complete lie to the prosecution story about the kidnapping or forceful abduction of the victim.