Each word in the defi nition clause has to be given some meaning and merely because promoting educational aspects is one of the functions of a municipality in terms of Article 243W of the Constitution read with Schedule XII appended thereto is no valid argument unless equity or control by the Government, to the extent of 90%, is shown to exist qua the relevant authority/board/ body. Incidentally, neither is there any indication in the petition nor has Ms. Bagchi been able to disclose the identity of any such authority/board/ other body which is covered by her argument. No such identifi ed authority/ board/body covered by the aforesaid construction of the defi nition of “governmental authority” in clause 2(s) of the Clarifi cation Notifi cation, which the appellants appeal to us to accept, having been brought to our notice, we are unable to fi nd any fault in the decisions of the Patna High Court and the Orissa High Court extending the benefi t of the Exemption Notifi cation to the educational institutions, and a fortiori, to SPCL. 29. We need not draw guidance from any of the decisions cited by Ms. Bagchi, except one, on the question of construction of the relevant clause because none of those decisions had the occasion to deal with the issue emanating from the Exemption Notifi cation and the Clarifi cation Notifi cation that we are tasked to consider. COMMISSIONER, CUSTOMS CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 441 PATNA v. M/S SHAPOORJI PALLONJI AND COMPANY PVT. LTD. & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 30. Ms. Bagchi heavily relied on the decision of a fi ve-judge Bench of this Court in Dilip Kumar (supra) to urge that in case of any ambiguity in interpreting an exemption notifi cation, the interpretation that favours the revenue must be adopted; also, the burden of proving applicability of the exemption notifi cation would be on the assessee to show that his case comes within the parameters of the exemption clause or exemption notifi cation. At the outset, we record that there is absolutely no quarrel with the proposition laid down therein. We, however, reject the contention of Ms. Bagchi based on Dilip Kumar (supra) because the ratio is not applicable to the facts and circumstances of this case. This, for the simple reason, that there exists no ambiguity insofar as the interpretation of clause 2(s) is concerned. We are endorsed in our opinion by the Latin maxim quoties in verbis nulla est ambiguitas, ibi nulla expositio contra verba expressa fi enda est, which means that when there is no ambiguity in the words, then no exposition contrary to the words is to be made. It is, therefore, clear as a sunny day that there arises only one plausible construction of clause 2(s) which is the one the Patna High Court adopted, and which we are inclined to uphold. 31. Ms. Bagchi had submitted that the impugned broadens the scope of the exemption to include vast number of statutory bodies; therefore, unfairly burdening the exchequer.