Lack of positive evidence in this respect would not result in throwing out the entire prosecution case, if the other circumstances clearly point out the guilt of the accused. 34. According to Modi’s Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 23rd Edition, Editors : K. Mathoharan and Amrit K Patnaik, the preserved materials should be sent to the concerned Forensic Science Laboratory, through the concerned police station as quickly as possible. Otherwise, the poison may not be detected during the analysis of the vis- cera, even though they may contain some poison. 35. Ken Kulig MD, in Critical Care Secrets (Fourth Edition), 2007 states that the gastric lavage must be performed soon after ingestion to be at all eff ective in removing the drugs from the stomach. For this reason, many clinicians do not lavage patients who have overdosed if more than 1 hour has elapsed since ingestion. 36. We are conscious of the legal proposition that while dealing with a case of circumstantial evidence, the Court has to be circumspect. A note of caution was sounded by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Raghav Prapanna Tripathi v. State of U.P. [AIR 1963 SC 74] quoting (AIR p. 89 para 60) from R. vs. Hodge [(1838) 2 Law CC 227]. “The mind was apt to take a pleasure in adapting circumstances to one another, and even in straining them a little, if need be, to force them to form parts of one connected whole; and the more ingenious BUDDHADEB SAHA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF WEST 343 BENGAL the mind of the individual the more likely was it, considering such matter, to overreach and mislead itself, to supply some little link that is wanting, to take for granted some fact consistent with its previous theories and necessary to render them complete.” 37. Thus, the Court should not unwittingly fall into the same dangerous trap which the Constitution Bench has cautioned to be guarded against. 38. Considering the overall evidence on record, we fi nd it diffi cult to take the view that in the absence of any positive viscera report, the prosecution could be said to have failed to establish its case. 39. For the foregoing reasons, we have reached to the conclusion that we should not interfere with the concurrent fi ndings recorded by the two Courts below. 40. In the result, this appeal fails and is hereby dismissed. 41. Pending applications, if any, stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal dismissed. Nidhi Jain