CCEA has decided the following guidelines in its meeting held on 06.02.2013 in respect of generating plants commissioned/to be commissioned during the period 1.4.09 to 31.03.15: i) CIL will provide imported coal on cost plus basis to all C producers willing to take such cost; ii) That the higher cost of imported coal will be allowed as a pass through. 3. In view of the circumstances stated above CERC is requested to advice the Government on the manner in which the issue of D fuel availability risk arising out of CIL’s inability to meet its LOA commitments could be addressed with regard to power producers who have already entered into long term PPAs with distribution companies based on such commitments and the feasibility of passing on the additional cost of procuring market fuel incurred by the E power developers on account of the circumstances stated in the aforesaid paras. CERC is also requested to suggest appropriate ways for issuing advisory to SERCs/State Governments which may necessitated to be issued by MoP for the implementation of the above. F 4. CERC’s considered advice is requested in this matter at the earliest. 5. This issues with the approval of MOSP (I/C).” 65. Perusal of the communication dated 9th May 2013 would clearly show that the NCDP 2007 mandates that CIL will meet 100% of G normative requirement of power sector. It states that, post NCDP 2007, MoC has granted linkages between 2008-2010 with the assumption that it would meet coal requirement at around 85% of the PLF. On that basis, the LoAs were issued by Coal Companies, after getting commitment guarantees in the form of Bank Guarantees from the H 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A developers, thereby undertaking an explicit obligation to supply coal to the extent of the specified quantify to the power developer. It further states that having obtained the LoA, the developers would have proceeded on the assumption of getting the requisite quantity of domestic coal with the disincentive trigger of 90% of LoA quantity prevailing under the then FSA with a provision for CIL resorting to import of coal to B bridge the gap, if any. It specifically mentions that the power producers would have factored in this assurance regarding coal supply while submitting their bids in response to Case-1 and Case-2 competitive bidding for long-term PPAs. 66. The said communication further records that it now transpires C that on account of the limited availability of coal, MoC has indicated that CIL may not be in a position to supply more than 60 to 65% of ACQ to those power producers who had been earlier issued LoAs of normative quantities corresponding to 85% of the PLF. It was proposed that the disincentive trigger for coal supply would be brought down from 90% to D 60 to 65% by CIL in the new FSAs to be signed with these power producers. It further states that in view of this scenario, PPAs which are already concluded between the developers and the DISCOMS as a result of competitive bidding in the last few years based on domestic coal linkage (LoA) may have to use imported coal to bridge the shortage of domestic coal in to fulfil their contractual obligations.