Reliance has also been placed on the seventh CoC meeting to submit that the concern of resolution plan not reflecting true H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 853 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] value of the corporate debtor was expressed by the CoC members. It A has also been submitted that the resolution professional under the pretext of maintaining the corporate debtor as a going concern, has allowed approval of an illegal resolution plan that hands over assets of the Corporate Debtor at severe undervaluation. 31.3.2. Further, it has been contended that the decision in B Maharashtra Seamless (supra) would not be relevant to the present case because it does not refer to a situation in which the determination of fair value and liquidation value is done in an illegal manner and in a way that grossly undervalues the assets of the corporate debtor. In the present case, the total debt of the corporate debtor is much lower than C the liquidation value of its assets. This apart, according to the learned counsel, the proposition concerning the application of principles of res judicata remains wholly misplacedsince the said proceedings in NCLAT were at the instance of a different party and the principal issue in the previous litigation had nothing to do with the resolution plan, or statutory violations in the CIRP. D 31.4.Dealing with the issue of non-publication of Form G on the website, it has been submitted that Regulation 36A(2)(iii) of the CIRP Regulations, which mandates the publication on the website of IBBI and the website of corporate debtor has been violated as it has been an admitted position that the same was not done by the resolution E professional. The actions of the resolution professional, therefore, had been in violation of Regulation 36A and Circular Bearing No. IP (CIRP)/ 006/2018 dated 23.02.2018. The resolution professional has claimed that the form could not be uploaded for technical reasons but has failed to explain the steps taken to rectify this deficiency in the CIRP. F 31.5. Coming to the issue of not placing the final resolution plan before the CoC, it has been submitted, with reference to the minutes of the ninth CoC meeting dated 22.01.2021, that when the resolution plan was put to vote, there was a requirement for the resolution professional to send the plan back to the resolution applicant to comply with Section G 30(2) IBC. However, after this, the revised plan was directly placed before the NCLT and not before the CoC which stands in violation of Sections 30(2), 30(4), 30(6) and 31 of the Code. Further, it has also been contended that Section 31 of the Code does not envisage any post facto ratification of a resolution plan. H 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 31.6. With reference to the application to bring on record the subsequent event of acceptance of his settlement proposal under Section 12-A IBC by CoC with 100% voting powers of the members in its nineteenth meeting, placing reliance on Section 12-A and Regulation 30- A of CIRP Regulations, learned counsel has submitted that there is neither any bar on the submission of multiple settlement proposals for withdrawal B under the said Section nor a cut-off date within which the proposal has to be made during the CIRP.