[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 107. The question would arise as follows: A i. A document containing the Arbitration Clause may not bear any stamp duty. We have already found that even an Arbitration Agreement, on its own, may be required to be stamped, as submitted by the learned Amicus. But then the Court can proceed on the basis that the amount of stamp B duty, which the Arbitration Agreement contained in an Arbitration Clause, would be exigible to being extremely meagre, there is very little likelihood of such an agreement not being stamped. Therefore, what the Court is to consider is, whether when the contract, in which the Arbitration C Clause is contained, is not duly stamped, it becomes the duty of the Court to act under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. ii. We have already indicated the background, consisting of the views expressed by this Court, about the nature of review undertaken under Section 11, which led to the D insertion of Section 11(6A). Parliament clearly intended to deal with the Court undertaking excessive review, in exercise of the power under Section 11(6) of the Act. It was to curtail excessive judicial interference, which was in keeping also with the principle enshrined in Section 5 of the E Act that Parliament interfered and enacted the amendment resulting in Section 11(6A) being inserted. Parliament was aware of the view taken by this Court in SMS Tea Estates (supra), namely that, if the Arbitration Agreement was not duly stamped, then, it had to be impounded and dealt with as provided therein. The mandate of the Stamp Act did not F conflict with the legislative command contained in Section 11(6A), viz., to examine whether an Arbitration Agreement existed. Proceeding on the basis, in fact, that a contract, containing the Arbitration Agreement, which is not duly stamped, could be said to exist in law, it would still not G dislodge the duty cast on the Court under Section 11 to follow the mandate of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act. In other words, on the aforesaid view, following the command under Section 11(6A), could not detract from, the Court also at the same time, following the equally binding mandate contained in the Stamp Act. H 370 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A iii. The question further arises, as to whether, in view of the power of the Court under Section 11, to find only prima facie, the existence of the Arbitration Agreement, it would enable the Court to make a Reference and appointment and relegate the issue of impounding of the document to the Arbitrator. B iv. Any shirking of the statutory duty by the Court under Section 11 to act in tune with the peremptory statutory dictate of the Stamp Act, appears to us unjustifiable. Such abdication of its plain duty is neither contemplated by the Law-Giver nor would it be justifiable as causing the breach of Section C 11(6A). v. The view that cases under Section 11 of the Act would consume more time and hinder the timely progress of arbitration and that the matter must be postponed so that the Arbitrator will more suitably deal with it, does not appeal D to us.