623 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (xiv) Even in jurisdictions where socio economic rights have been A elevated in status to that of constitutional rights, the enforcement of those rights were made available only against the State and not against private actors, as held by this Court in Society for Unaided Private Schools of Rajasthan vs. Union of India38; B (xv) On the issue of potential conflict of rights, it is important to bear in mind the distinction between constitutional rights and constitutional values. On a formal level, values are understood teleologically as things to be promoted or maximized. Rights, on the other hand, are not to be promoted C but rather to be respected. It would not show proper concern for a right to allow the violation of one right in to prevent the violation of other rights. This would promote the non-violation of rights, but it would not respect rights39; (xvi) Instead of values whose satisfaction is to be maximized, D rights act as constraints on the actions of the state. They confer individuals with a sphere of liberty that is inviolable. Rights thereby act as restrictions on the government on how to pursue values, including constitutional values. It is, therefore, crucially important that we draw a distinction between the constitutional rights and constitutional values. E Not every increase in liberty or every improvement in leading a dignified life is a constitutional right. This position has been accepted by this Court; (xvii) As held by this Court in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy, the Court will strike a balance, wherever a conflict between F two sets of fundamental rights is projected. Strictly speaking, what is actually conceived by some and noted in several decisions including Justice K.S. Puttaswamy, is not the conflict of rights in abstractum, at a doctrinal level, but the conflict in the notion/invocation/practice of rights; G (xviii) On the issue of statements made by Ministers and collective responsibility, a reference has to be made to Articles 75(3) and 164(2). Both these Articles speak of collective 38 (2012) 6 SCC 1 39 Frances Kamm, Morality, Mortality Vol.2, Oxford University Press, 1996 H 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A responsibility of the Council of Ministers. Though the language employed in these Articles indicate that such a collective responsibility is to the House of the People/ Legislative Assembly, it is actually a responsibility to the people at large. Since every utterance by a Minister will have a direct bearing on the policy of the Government, there B is an imperative need for a voluntary code of conduct. As pointed out by this Court in Common Cause (supra), collective responsibility has two meanings, namely, (i) that all members of the Council of Ministers are unanimous in support of its policies and exhibit such unanimity in public; C and (ii) that they are personally and morally responsible for its success and failure; (xix) Individual aberrations on the part of Ministers are serious threats to constitutional governance and as such the head of the Council of Ministers has a duty to ensure that such D breaches do not happen; (xx) A code of conduct to self-regulate the speeches and actions of Ministers is constitutionally justifiable and this Court can definitely examine its requirement.