These instruments in substance prohibit causing any physical disturbance to the bulls like beating and poking them with sharp objects, sticks, pouring chilli powder in their eyes, twisting their tails amongst other such pain inflicting acts. C 14.The main theme of the submissions of the petitioners/parties who are assailing the Amendment Acts are founded on two planks. Mr. Shyam Divan, Mr. Anand Grover, Mr. Sidharth Luthra, Mr. Krishnan Venugopal and Mr. V. Giri, learned Senior Advocates have appeared for the parties assailing continued performance of these sports which are considered to be cruel. The Respondents’ cases supporting the D continuation of these sports have been mainly argued by Mr. Tushar Mehta, ld. Solicitor General, Mr. Kapil Sibal, Mr. Mukul Rohatgi and Mr. Rakesh Dwivedi, learned Senior Advocates. For the petitioners, their main case is that even after the State Amendments, the activities sought to be legitimised still remain destructive and contrary to the provisions of E Sections 3, 11(1) (a) and (m) of the 1960 Act. It is their contention that the Amendment Acts do not cure the defects or deficiencies brought about by the of A.Nagaraja (supra). The ratio of the said is sought to be bypassed through these Amendment Acts, which is impermissible in law. It has also been argued that the expression “person” as used in Article 21 of the Constitution of India includes sentient F animals and their liberty is sought to be curtailed by legitimising the aforesaid bovine sports and the instrument of such legitimisation being the three Amendment Acts is unreasonable and arbitrary, thereby not meeting the standard of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. In fact, that is the fourth point of question of reference which we shall be G addressing in this . The petitioners seek to inter-weave Articles 14, 21, 48, 51-A (h) and (g) to set up a rights-regime for the animals. Their contention is that the Fundamental Duty of Indian citizens to have compassion for living creatures and to develop humanism result in corresponding rights for sentient animals to be protected for distress and pain inflicting activities only having entertainment value for human beings. H 458 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 15. The other argument advanced is that these sports cannot be held to be part of cultural heritage of the State of Tamil Nadu which is so provided in the Preamble of the Amendment Act of that State. Preamble of the Tamil Nadu Amendment Act provides that the object of the said Statute is to preserve the cultural heritage of the State of Tamil Nadu and to ensure the survival and wellbeing of native breeds of bulls. The B said Act inserted [clause 2(d)] in the definition clause of the 1960 Act and amended Section 11(3) of the same Statute, adding sub-clause (f) thereto. There are two more Amendments which would appear from the table we have given above, but those are primarily to exempt Jallikattu from the restrictive provisions of the 1960 Act. In the of A.