The fi rst deals with goods and the other with services. Both parts fi rst declare the meaning of goods and services by use of wide expressions. Their ambit is further enlarged by use of inclusive clause. For instance, it is not only purchaser of goods or hirer of services but even those who use the goods or who are benefi ciaries of services with approval of the person who purchased the goods or who hired services are included in it. The legislature has taken precaution not only to defi ne ‘complaint’, ‘complainant’, ‘consumer’ but even to mention in detail what would amount to unfair trade practice by giving an elaborate defi nition in clause (r) and even to defi ne ‘defect’ and ‘defi ciency’ by clauses (f) and (g) for which a consumer can approach 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the Commission. The Act thus aims to protect the economic interest of a consumer as understood in commercial sense as a purchaser of goods and in the larger sense of user of services. 21. We must, therefore, hold that: (i) The explanation added by the Consumer Protection (Amendment) Act 50 of 1993 (replacing Ordinance 24 of 1993) with eff ect from 18- 6-1993 is clarifi catory in nature and applies to all pending proceedings. (ii) Whether the purpose for which a person has bought goods is a “commercial purpose” within the meaning of the defi nition of expression ‘consumer’ in Section 2(d) of the Act is always a question of fact to be decided in the facts and circumstances of each case. (iii) A person who buys goods and uses them himself, exclusively for the purpose of earning his livelihood, by means of self-employment is within the defi nition of the expression ‘consumer’.” 11. A plain reading of the expression “consumer” indicates that any person who buys any goods for consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buy such goods. Such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment, when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods or services for resale or for any commercial purpose. It is amply clear from the above defi nition that the Parliament has excluded from the scope of ‘Consumer’ for igniting proceedings under the Act, a person who obtains goods or services for re-sale or for any commercial purpose. Going by the plain dictionary meaning of the words used in the defi nition section the intention of Parliament must be understood to be to exclude from the scope of the expression “consumer” any person who buys goods for the purpose of their being used in any activity engaged on a large scale for the purpose of making profi t. The words ‘for any commercial purpose’ must be understood as covering the cases other than those of resale of the goods.