The importance of the Service Rules cannot be belittled. The directions given in Malik Mazhar too emphasise that appointments have to be made as per the Service Rules of each State, as the procedure of selection and appointment may vary between diff erent states. This Court was conscious of this aspect. The concern of this Court was for timely recruitment to fi ll the judicial vacancies. Removing any doubt on a confl ict between the directions in Malik Mazhar and Service Rules, this Court in Reshma A. (supra) explained as under: “59. …………. The object and purpose of this Court in the decision 630 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. in Malik Mazhar (3) [Malik Mazhar Sultan (3) v. U.P. Public Service Commission, (2008) 17 SCC 703] was to ensure the expeditious fi lling up of judicial vacancies in the State Judicial Services. It was in this perspective, that the Court set down strict timelines for compliance. At the same time, it is evident that the decision did not provide for essential aspects such as eligibility, modalities for conducting the examination and the application of reservations in making appointments to State Judicial Services. Hence, a signifi cant fi eld in regard to the process of selection and appointments to the judicial services is not covered by the decision in Malik Mazhar (3) [Malik Mazhar Sultan (3) v. U.P. Public Service Commission, (2008) 17 SCC 703] for which one has to fall back upon construing the rules governing the State Judicial Service in question.” In Malik Mazhar, this Court had dealt with any probable confl ict of duties on interference with the independent functioning of State Commissions where it reiterated its sole purpose of timely fi lling up of judicial vacancies. This is what it said: “6. Though no submission was made by any learned counsel appearing for any State Government that the constitution of Selection Committee by the Chief Justice of the High Court to monitor the timely appointment of Judges at subordinate/district level would amount to interference with the independent functioning of the State Public Service Commission, but some State Governments in their responses have indicated so. In view of what we have already noted about the appointments to be made in accordance with the respective Judicial Services Rules in the States, the apprehension of interference seems to be wholly misplaced. A Committee constituted by the Chief Justice of the High Court to ensure that the vacancies are timely fi lled and the problem of delay in dispensation of justice is tackled to some extent can under no circumstances be said to be interference with the independent functioning of the authorities under the Rules or of independent functioning of the State Public Service Commission.” 20. In Reshma A. (supra) while dealing with a situation where there was an almost similar dichotomy between the Kerala Judicial Service Rules and the directions given in Malik Mazhar, this Court was of the opinion that VIVEK KAISTH & ANR v. THE STATE OF HIMACHAL 631 PRADESH & ORS [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.]