As regards the question as to whether a particular product is classifiable under Chapter 30 as ‘medicament’ or under Chapter 33 as ‘cosmetic’, one of the essential features would be as to whether the preparation is essentially for cure F or prevention of disease (medicament) or for care (cosmetic); and the preparation having only subsidiary curative or prophylactic value would fall under Chapter 33 [vide Alpine Industries and Sunny Industries (supra)]. 18.2. Ordinarily, we would not have delved into another decision G of the Tribunal but have found it appropriate to refer to the said decision in the case of Bakson Homeo Pharmacy(supra), which had all through been relied upon by the respondent, for the reason that it related to a similar product marketed in the name of “Sunny Arnica Hair Oil”, which was held to be a ‘medicament’. The said decision has also been relied upon by the Tribunal in the impugned. The significant feature H 340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of the said decision is that therein, in the leading opinion of majority, ingredient test has extensively been dealt with and the medicinal qualities; and therapeutic/prophylactic use of several of the ingredients have been analysed, which include all the ingredients of the product involved in the present case14. B 18.3. As regards the question of justification for re-classification or re-examination of the classification, this Court has clearly held that there is no good reason to change the classification merely on the ground of change of tax structure or tariff entries without showing a change in the nature and character of a product or a change in the use of the product [vide the decisions in BPL Pharmaceuticals and Vicco C Laboratories (supra)]. As noticed in Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. (supra), this Court rejected the contentions seeking reclassification of the product in question therein, DML, after enactment of new Tariff Act because the product in its composition, character and uses continued to remain the same even after insertion of new Sub- D Heading 3301.30. 19. Having thus summarised the discernible principles, so far as relevant for the present purpose, we may take up the points arising for determination. As noticed, the principal point arising for determination in this case is as to whether the product in question, AHAHO, merits E classification as a ‘medicament’ under Chapter 30 or as ‘cosmetic or toilet preparations’ under Chapter 33 of the First Schedule to the Central Excise Tariff Act, 1985. For determination of this point, the inquiry would be directed towards the twin tests as noticed above. Application of the principles and twin test F 20. Before applying twin tests for the purpose of the product in question, we may usefully recapitulate the divergent propositions presented in this case, where the findings of the Adjudicating Authority 14 It appears from the facts of the present case and the observations occurring in the said case of Bakson Homeo Pharmacy (supra) that all the ingredients of the product G involved in the present case (AHAHO) were equally the ingredients of the product under consideration therein, namely, Arnica Montana, Cantharis, Pilocarpine, Cinchona.