181 r/w. s. 50 of Electricity Act, 2003 is wide enough to enable the regulatory commission to provide for D a statutory charge in the absence of a provision in the plenary statute providing for creation of such a charge – The electricity utilities can create a charge by framing subordinate legislation or statutory conditions of supply enabling recovery of electricity arrears from a subsequent transferee – Such a condition is rooted in the importance E of protecting electricity which is a public good – Public utilities invest huge amounts of capital and infrastructure in providing electricity supply – The failure or inability to recover outstanding electricity dues of the premises would negatively impact the functioning of such public utilities and licensees – Electricity Act, 2003 – ss. 50 and 181– Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory F Commission (Electricity Supply Code and other Conditions of Supply) Regulations, 2005 – Regulation 10.5. Electricity Act, 2003 – s. 43 – Whether the duty to supply electricity is absolute – Held: s.43 begins with the words “Save as otherwise provided in this Act” – Hence, the operation of s.43 will G also be subject to compliance with the other provisions of the 2003 Act – Under s.43, the distribution licensee is obligated to supply electricity to the premises of an owner or occupier, provided that the owner or occupier pays all charges and complies with all conditions stipulated by the distribution licensee – The proviso to H s.43(2) further refers to the “price” payable by an applicant to K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 639 ORS. demand or to continue to receive the supply of electricity from a A distribution licensee – The term “price” has to be given a broad meaning to include all the ‘tariffs’ and ‘charges’ that may be determined by the appropriate commission – Thus, the duty to supply electricity u/s.43 is not absolute, and is subject to the such charges and compliances stipulated by the distribution licensees as part of B the application. Electricity Act, 2003 – ss.2(15) and 43 – Whether duty to supply electricity is with respect to the premises or to the consumer – Held: The definition of ‘supply’ specifically states that supply means the sale of electricity to a consumer – Considering the overall C scheme of the 2003 Act, the supply of electricity is to the consumer and not the premises – It is the owner or occupier who has the statutory right to “demand” electricity for the premises under their use or occupation – Thus, it is always the consumer who is supplied electricity and is held liable for defaulting on payment of dues or charges for supply of electricity D Auction – Auction sale of premises on “as in where is” basis – With or without reference to electricity arrears-Implication – Held: When a property is sold on an “as is where is” basis, encumbrances on the property stand transferred to the purchaser upon the sale – All prospective auction purchasers are put on notice of the liability E to pay the pending dues when an appropriate “as is where is” clause is incorporated in the auction sale agreement – While examining the effect of an “as is where is” clause, the facts and circumstances of each case individually, along with the terminology of the clauses governing the auction sales must be taken into consideration, to F arrive at an equitable decision.