A sale of property belonging to a minor being without any legal necessity, deserved to be set aside. 9. Further, argument raised is that a suit for possession fi led by the vendee in the year 1978, shows that the possession of the property always remained with the vendor. This clearly establishes that it was not an outright sale, rather it was a mortgage, which the father of the appellant could get redeemed within a period of fi ve years. The intention of the vendee is evident from the fact that she started demanding ₹ 7,000/- as against ₹ 5,000/- as is mentioned in the document at the time of execution of the Reconveyance Deed. It was not disputed that the property in-question is a vacant plot and the property tax thereof was not being paid by the appellant. 10. Learned Senior counsel appearing for the appellant placed reliance on the s of this Court in Indira Kaur (Smt.) and others v. Sheo Lal Kapoor, (1988) 2 SCC 488; Sunil Kumar and another v. Ram Parkash and others,(1988) 2 SCC 77; Ramlal and another v. Phagua and others, (2006) 1 SCC 168; and Ahilyabai and others v. Shantabai (Dead) and others, (2001) 10 SCC 583 in support of her arguments. RESPONDENTS’ ARGUMENTS 11. On the other hand, Mr. Aditya Sondhi, learned Senior counsel, appearing for the respondents, submitted that the argument raised by the learned counsel for the appellant that it is a case of mortgage, is not made out from the record. Section 58(c) of the 1882 Act4 clearly provides that it can be inferred from the document, in case it is a single document and the 5 The Limitation Act, 1963 PRAKASH (DEAD) BY LR. v. G. ARADHYA AND ORS. 1039 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] clauses are contained therein. In the case in hand, admittedly two separate documents were executed. The prayer in the suit was not to declare that the transaction between the parties was a mortgage. In the absence thereof, no relief for redemption could be claimed directly. The suit fi led by the appellant is clearly barred by limitation. Though exact date of birth of the appellant has not come on the record, however, his mother while appearing as PW-1, in her cross-examination stated that he was born in December 1962. Meaning thereby that he had attained the age of majority in the year 1980. The suit having been fi led in the year 1987 challenging the Sale Deed of 1973, was thus, clearly time-barred. It was further submitted that the appellant or his father who was the guardian had failed to avail of any appropriate remedy in case, the vendee had refused to get the Sale Deed registered back in terms of the Reconveyance Deed. Nothing hinges on the permission taken by the father of the appellant for re-mortgaging the property in-question as it is not disputed that at the time of sale of the property, permission was not taken. 12. A suit was fi led by the vendee seeking possession from the father of the appellant and also payment of rent in terms of the Lease Deed dated 24.12.1973.