It is submitted that the second respondent has requested the petitioner to transfer the 10% Open Space Reservation Area free of cost, through a registered gift deed in favour of the third C respondent as per the provisions of Development Control Rules 19 (b) (II) (VI - C), under group development regulations and not as contended by the petitioner under rule 19 (b) (I) (V), which related to special Buildings. The Development Control Rule 19 (b) (II) (VI - C) is as follows: “C) SITE EXTENT above 10,000 m2 D 10 percent. of the area excluding roads shall be reserved and this space shall be transferred to the authority or to the local body designated by it, free of cost, through a deed. It is obligatory to reserve the 10 percent of the site area and no charges can be accepted in lieu, in case of new developments E or redevelopments” Explanation: - (3) The land so reserved shall be free from any construction by the owner or promoter or developer. The land for communal and recreational purposes shall be restricted at ground level in F a shape and location to be specified by the MMDA” The Development Control Rule is the integral part of the Master Plan and was framed under section 17 of the Town and Country Planning Act. The second respondent exercised the power vested in it, since the total extent of the petitioner’s site is more than G 10,000 m2, the insisting of the requirements of reservation of 10 % Open Space Reservation Area and consequent direction to the petitioner to hand over the same to the third respondent through a registered gift deed as per Development Control Rules 19(b)(II) (VI- C) is well within the jurisdiction of the second respondent.” H 1040 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A “Para 8. The petitioner is challenging the concept of reserving the 10 % area for open space and recreational purposes. This is a statutory requirement under Development Control Rule 19 (b) (ii) (vi - c) for all the proposals of group development, where the extent of the site is more than 10,000 m2. Further the city is fastly developing and individual houses are being demolished and multi B family apartments are constructed in the same site where there was only one family residing therein earlier. The intense vertical developments make the city more dense demanding more water, pollution free air, noise free atmosphere etc. The city is already over congested and therefore more open spaces have to be created C wherever new developments or redevelopment takes place. The open spaces so created serve as long space to the city benefiting the community at large. The open space enable to make the environment clean and provide fresh air, besides facilitating the ground water recharge in a city where water scarcity is a perennial problem.” D “Para 9. The petitioner has also questioned the transfer of open space reservation in favour of the Madras Corporation. It is submitted that in practice, the developers take up the development of properties and construct the buildings providing necessary open spaces as per Development Control Rules.