17. If a decision is on the basis of reasons stated in the decision or , only the ratio decidendi is binding. The ratio or the basis of 1020 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. reasons and principles underlying a decision is distinct from the ultimate relief granted or manner of disposal adopted in a given case. It is the ratio decidendi which forms a precedent and not the fi nal in the , vide Sanjay Singh vs. Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission, Allahabad; (2007) 3 SCC 720. Therefore, the decision applicable only to the facts of the case cannot be treated as a binding precedent. 18. The doctrine of binding precedent helps in promoting certainty and consistency in judicial decisions and enables an organic development of the law besides providing assurance to individuals as to the consequences of transactions forming part of daily aff airs. Thus, what is binding in terms of Article 141 of the Constitution is the ratio of the and as already noted, the ratio decidendi of a is the reason assigned in support of the conclusion. The reasoning of a can be discerned only upon reading of a in its entirety and the same has to be culled out thereafter. The ratio of the case has to be deduced from the facts involved in the case and the particular provision(s) of law which the court has applied or interpreted and the decision has to be read in the context of the particular statutory provisions involved in the matter. Thus, an made merely to dispose of the case cannot have the value or eff ect of a binding precedent. 19. What is binding, therefore, is the principle underlying a decision which must be discerned in the context of the question(s) involved in that case from which the decision takes its colour. In a subsequent case, a decision cannot be relied upon in support of a proposition that it did not decide. Therefore, the context or the question, while considering which, a has been rendered assumes signifi cance. 20. As against the ratio decidendi of a , an obiter dictum is an observation by a court on a legal question which may not be necessary for the decision pronounced by the court. However, the obiter dictum of the Supreme Court is binding under Article 141 to the extent of the observations on points raised and decided by the Court in a case. Although the obiter dictum of the Supreme Court is binding on all courts, it has only persuasive authority as far as the Supreme Court itself is concerned. 21. In the context of understanding a , it is well settled that the words used in a are not to be interpreted as those of a statute. This is because the words used in a should be rendered and SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1021 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] understood contextually and are not intended to be taken literally. Further, a decision is not an authority for what can be read into it by implication or by assigning an assumed intention of the judges and inferring from it a proposition of law which the judges have not specifi cally or expressly laid down in the pronouncement.