848 SUPR[2E0M23E] C10O SU.RCT.R R. E8P4O8 R: T2S023 INSC 6[220423] 10 S.C.R. A INDRA BAI v. ORIENTAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. & ANOTHER (Civil Apeal No. 4492 of 2023) B JULY 17, 2023 [J. B. PARDIWALA AND MANOJ MISRA, JJ.] Employee’s Compensation Act, 1923 – s.2 and s.4 – Total disablement – Functional Disability – Appellant-employee was employed as a loading and unloading labourer with R-2-company C for truck insured with R-1 – While loading poles in a truck, the appellant suffered a severe injury on the left arm – There was no grip left in her left hand – Workmen’s Compensation Commissioner upon consideration of the evidence on record found the appellant rendered permanently unfit to do labour work, which she was doing D at the time of the accident and awarded total compensation of Rs.3,74,364/- – However, the High Court assessed her permanent disability as 40% and thereby reduced the compensation awarded – On appeal, held: If the disablement incapacitates a workman for all work which he was capable of performing at the time of the accident, it would be considered as total disablement for the E purposes of award of compensation – When the Board had certified that the appellant was rendered unfit for labour, there was no perversity in the decision of the Commissioner in awarding compensation by treating the disability as total on account of her functional disability – of High court set aside – of F the Commissioner restored. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. The definition of the term “total disablement” as provided by clause (l) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the Employee’s Compensation Act, 1923, it is the functional disability G and not just the physical disability which is the determining factor in assessing whether the claimant (i.e., workman) has incurred total disablement. Thus, if the disablement incurred in an accident incapacitates a workman for all work which he was capable of performing at the time of the accident resulting in such H disablement, the disablement would be taken as total for the 848 INDRA BAI v. ORIENTAL INSURANCE COMPANY LTD. & 849 ANOTHER purposes of award of compensation under section 4(1)(b) of the A Act regardless of the injury sustained being not one as specified in Part I of Schedule I of the Act. The proviso to clause (l) of sub- section (1) of Section 2 of the Act does not dilute the import of the substantive clause. Rather, it adds to it by specifying categories wherein it shall be deemed that there is permanent total B disablement. [Para 28][857-E-G] 2. On the basis of medical certificate provided by the Board, the Commissioner found the appellant unfit for labour inasmuch as there was complete loss of grip in appellant’s left hand. Prior to the accident, the appellant worked as a loading/unloading C labourer. Even if she could use her right hand, the crux is whether she could be considered suitable for performing her task as a loading/unloading labourer. Such a task is ordinarily performed by using both hands.