It appears that the sole object of going on deputation was to get a higher pay scale. 40. From the aforesaid conduct of the respondent No. 4, it is evident that despite being selected as a Research Assistant [re-designated as Assistant Scientifi c Offi cer (Medicine)], he was not interested to serve his parent organisation but was more interested in getting a higher pay scale while going on deputation. He came back to his parent department on 23.01.2007, only after the post on which he was working with the CSTT was granted a higher pay scale of ₹8,000-13,500, from the date of his appointment. Even the recommendations of the Commission which were relied upon to give a higher pay scale to the respondent No. 4, were not strictly applicable to him. 41. The chain of events which happened thereafter is more interesting. Representations were made by the appellants claiming that the respondent No. 4 having been granted a higher pay scale along with NPA, though not practising as a doctor, they were also entitled to the same as they were appointed on the same post, governed by the same Rules and were discharging the same duties. The nomenclature of the post and the duties were diff erent only with reference to the subjects they were dealing with. Respondent No. 4 had joined the service as a Research Assistant (Medicine) in pursuance of an advertisement issued, defi ning the qualifi cations, duties and the scale for the post. The result of grant of higher pay scale to him from the date he joined service would mean that even for the intermittent period when he remained in service with CSTT, though he remained on deputation for quite some time in a higher pay scale, he also got a higher pay. 42. The favouritism shown to the respondent No. 4 is evident from the fact that a portion of recommendations made by the Commission which were relied upon to grant him a higher pay scale, were with reference to DR. P.N. SHUKLA AND OTHERS v. UNION OF INDIA AND 907 OTHERS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] the Indian System of Medicines and Homeopathy for the Medical Offi cers working at diff erent levels. Admittedly, respondent No. 4 was neither appointed nor was he working as a Medical Offi cer, though his qualifi cation may have been the same. Non-application of mind by the respondent No. 1-Union of India is evident from the fact that though he was not practising in Medicine, respondent No. 4 was even granted NPA which is granted to doctors who are not allowed to carry on private practice while working as Medical Offi cer. 43. Para 52.32 to 52.34 of the report of Commission is extracted below: “PHYSICIANS OF INDIAN SYSTEMS OF MEDICINE & Homeopathy (ISM&H) ×× ×× ×× OUR RECOMMENDATIONS Central Indigenous 52.32. The Tikku Committee recommended & Homoeo Medical a separate organised service for ISM&H. Service The Consultancy Study has suggested integration of ISM&H doctors in the CHS with equal opportunity for high level posts.