We are in agreement with the High Court on this B score. It is also noticeable that in challenge to the award, the Government of Goa has not agitated the rejection of its counter claim. In fact, there remains no ambiguity as regards the Arbitral Tribunal attending on all the relevant aspects of the matter. In this regard, we may usefully reproduce paragraph 31 of the award where the Arbitral Tribunal specifically noticed the submissions made on behalf of the Government C of Goa about exercise having been undertaken to workout the details pertaining to the counter claim and permitted the Government to specify the amount with reference to different heads and with necessary particulars. Paragraph 31 of the award reads as under:- “31. In the course of hearing of the matter, on 18.10.2016, learned D counsel appearing on behalf of the Respondent stated that his client has undertaken an exercise to work out the details pertaining to the counter claim, since no specified amount had been claimed by the Respondent in its counter claim. He submitted that he would like that the figures be placed before this Tribunal by way of amendment of the pleadings, if necessary. The Tribunal permitted E the Respondent to convey to the Claimant in writing the amount which the Respondent claimed by way of counter claim in the instant proceedings under different heads and with necessary particulars. The Claimant was given liberty to file its objections.” 14.1. Another submission on behalf of the Government has been F that for non-production of certain documents by the claimant, an adverse inference ought to have been drawn against them by the Arbitral Tribunal. It is again a rule of evidence as to whether adverse inference is to be drawn or not; and to what effect. The High Court has dealt with this issue and has held that most of the documents were made available to G the Government of Goa. High Court has further held that the other documents sought for by Government of Goa were not made available to it because the claimant had clearly stated that such documents were not available with it at the relevant time or did not exist at the relevant time. It has further been held that in absence of Government of Goa establishing any serious prejudice, there was no breach of principles of H 426 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A natural justice merely because the Arbitral Tribunal had failed to make a formal on the application seeking production of documents. We are in agreement with the said observations and findings of the High Court. 14.2. Government of Goa’s contention that opportunity was not B granted by the Arbitral Tribunal to file additional written submission has also been dealt with by the High Court with the finding that sufficient opportunity was given by the Arbitral Tribunal since there were at least two meetings/hearings before the learned Arbitrator where the Government of Goa did neither file nor seek leave to file written submissions in response to the claimant’s written clarifications/ C submissions.