Finally, it is averred that any relaxation would pave the way for others to demand for relaxing the Rules in their favour. 27. In the additional affi davit fi led on 26.08.2023, the UPSC has averred that the result of the Preliminary Examination was prepared, keeping in view the relevant category of the candidates, and declared on 22.06.2022. According to the UPSC, as per the Rules of the Examination, the number of candidates to be admitted to the Civil Services(Main) Examination was to be about twelve to thirteen times the number of vacancies to be fi lled through the Examination. Accordingly, 13,090 candidates (12.8 times of 1,022 vacancies) were declared qualifi ed for the next stage i.e. the Main Examination. The cut-off marks for each Category were applied and the Category wise number of candidates who qualifi ed for admission to the written part of the Main Examination were set out. That it was averred that DIVYA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 59 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] the Category wise ‘cut-off ’ at every stage was fi xed by the UPSC, keeping in view the number of vacancies in each Category, the ratio required at that particular (intermediary) stage and the number of candidates available on particular point of marks. It is averred that, while determining the category wise cut-off to be applied at every intermediate stage, only the data is taken into consideration without the individual details of the candidates. It is averred that once the cut-off is determined by the UPSC on the basis of the details,all the candidates, who have secured marks equally or more than the cut-off , are shortlisted for the next stage of the Examination. It is averred that if any ineligible candidate is allowed to remain in the fray,an eligible candidate would be excluded from the zone of consideration. It is averred that if the number of candidates is changed to include extra candidates, the cut-off fi xed by the UPSC will be impacted and will result in inclusion of many such candidates, who ought not to have been included aff ecting the whole process of the Examination. 28. It is averred that out of 13,090 candidates, 13,051 candidates fi nally submitted their DAF-I. As per the result of the CSE (Main) Examination, 2022 which was declared on 06.12.2022, 2,529 candidates (2.5 times of 1022 vacancies), as per the Rules of the examination, were declared qualifi ed for the interview. That the documents of 2,529 candidates were scrutinized and the candidates were notifi ed of their defi ciency in the certifi cates; that 298 candidates qualifi ed the interview belonging to the EWS Category and the I&ACs of the 298 candidates were scrutinized; that 28 candidates were failed either due to their not possessing I&AC by 22.02.2022 or for failure to upload I&ACs issued on the basis of income for the F.Y. 2020-2021;that 14 candidates who fulfi lled the General Standard were adjusted against the General quota and their category was changed from EWS to General.