10.4. It is observed that the CrPC, 1898 did not contain any specifi c provision corresponding to the present Section 438 of CrPC. Under the old Code, there was a sharp diff erence of opinion amongst the various High Courts on the question of whether Courts had the inherent power to pass an of bail in anticipation of arrest, the preponderance of view being that it did not have such power. 10.5. The concept of ‘anticipatory bail’ was clearly explicated vide the 41st Law Commission Report in the year 1969, whereby the Law Commission observed as such: “39.9. The suggestion for directing the release of a person on bail prior to his arrest (commonly known as ‘anticipatory bail’) was carefully considered by us. Though there is a confl ict of judicial opinion about the power of a Court to grant anticipatory bail, the majority view is that there is no such power under the existing provisions of the Code. The necessity for granting anticipatory bail arises mainly because sometimes infl uential persons try to implicate their rivals in false causes for the purpose of disgracing them or for other purposes by getting them detained in jail for some days. In recent times, with the accentuation of political rivalry, this tendency is showing signs of steady increase. Apart from false cases, where there are reasonable grounds for holding that a person accused of an off ence is not likely to abscond, or otherwise misuse his liberty while on bail, there seems no justifi cation to require him fi rst to submit to custody, remain in prison for some days and then apply for bail. We recommend the acceptance of this suggestion. We are further of the view that this special power should be conferred only on the High Court and the Court of Session, and that the should take eff ect at the time of arrest or thereafter.” (emphasis added by us) PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 551 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 10.6. Thereafter, the 48th Law Commission of India Report, 1972 titled ‘Some questions under the Code of Criminal Procedure Bill, 1970’ discussed the legislative proposal for inclusion of a provision for the grant of anticipatory bail. The Law Commission termed the same to be a ‘useful addition’ while adding a caveat that it ought to be exercised only in very exceptional cases. The Commission opined that the initial should only be an interim . That reasons for grant of the relief must be recorded and the Court ought to be satisfi ed that the direction is necessary in the interest of justice. The Law Commission also expressed a view that it was imperative that the fi nal of grant of anticipatory bail should only be made after notice to the Public Prosecutor so as to prevent the abuse of the process of law at the ‘instance of unscrupulous petitioners.’ 10.7. Observing that the crimes, the criminals and even the complainants can occasionally possess extraordinary features, in Gurbaksh Singh Sibbia, it was stated that “when the even fl ow of life becomes turbid, the police can be called upon to inquire into charges arising out of political antagonism”.