This opinion of the Advocate General substantially endorsed the request made earlier by Legal Advisor to Chief Minister in the personal meeting with the Governor and the request of the Higher Education Minister in her letter. The eight-page opinion of the Advocate General which is addressed to the Additional Chief Secretary, Higher Education Department says 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. that there was no legal bar in reappointing Dr. Gopinath Ravindran as Vice Chancellor, Kannur University, and that the age bar of 60 years fi xed in the Kannur University Act, in as much as the same is contrary to the UGC Regulations, is without the authority of law and as such, inapplicable. The Advocate General summed up his opinion as under:- “1. If the Hon’ble Chancellor accepts this recommendation, the notifi cation dated 27.10.2021, appointing a Search Committee for identifying the person to be appointed as Vice Chancellor of the Kannur University may be withdrawn. 2. Pro-Chancellor may be permitted to submit necessary proposal for the re-appointment of the present incumbent of the post of Vice- Chancellor of the Kannur University as Vice Chancellor of the said University for a further continuous term of four years”. This opinion of the Advocate General was also forwarded separately to Kerala Raj Bhavan by the Minister for Higher Education on 22.11.2021 itself. In the light of the legal opinion thus received from the Advocate General, the fi le was processed and Hon’ble Governor agreed to accept the proposal of the Higher Education Minister. At 04.30 pm, Principal Secretary to Governor wrote to Additional Chief Secretary, Higher Education, conveying the decision of the Hon’ble Chancellor “to withdraw the Notification dated 27.10.2021 and subsequent Corrigendum dated 03.11.2021” and “to permit the State Government to submit necessary proposal for the reappointment of the present incumbent in the post of Vice Chancellor Kannur University”. At 10.10 pm on the same day Kerala Raj Bhavan received the next letter from the Minister for Higher Education, informing that “steps have been taken to withdraw notifi cation inviting applications” and that as Pro Chancellor, she was proposing the name of Dr. Gopinath Ravindran, the present incumbent Vice Chancellor to be re-appointed as Vice Chancellor of Kannur University for a second continuous term beginning from 24.11.2021. DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 409 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Accordingly, on 23rd November, 2021, Kerala Raj Bhavan issued notifi cation reappointing Dr. Gopinath Ravindran as Vice Chancellor, Kannur University. Thus, the argument in the news reports that the ‘Minister had only proposed a name in response to the Governor’s letter’, is far from the truth, which is clear from the chronology of events (which was also mentioned in Hon’ble Governor’s letter to Chief Minister on 08th December 2021). In brief, the process of selection of Vice Chancellor, Kannur University which was set in motion vide Kerala Raj Bhavan notifi cation dated 27.10.2021 came to an end consequent to the request from the Minister Higher Education, OSD to Chief Minister and Legal Advisor to the Chief Minister duly supported by the legal opinion of the Advocate General, Kerala, culminated in the reappointment of Dr. Gopinath Ravindran as Vice Chancellor, Kannur University.” (Emphasis supplied) 21.