2.60 crores is due and payable by BHEL to Entoma Hydro Systems, after the bank guarantee was invoked and the accounts reconciled; B (ix) that despite repeated requests of the CBI, the Management of BHEL refused to give sanction to prosecute A-3 and A- 4, on the ground that they acted in the best commercial interest of the Company; and (x) that once A-4 is not held guilty of the offence under Section C 120B, it was not possible to convict him for the other offences, especially in the facts and circumstances of the case. 26. Appearing on behalf of A-7, it was contended by Shri S. Nagamuthu, learned senior counsel:- D (i) that the confession statement of PW-16 was recorded by the XVIII Metropolitan Magistrate, Chennai, but pardon was granted by the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Madurai and the final report was filed directly before the Special Court for CBI cases; E (ii) that since the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate granted pardon in this case, this case is covered by Sub-section (1) of Section 306 and hence the prosecution ought to have followed the procedure prescribed under Section 306(4)(a) of the Code; F (iii) that there is no particular reason as to why the petition for pardon was made before the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, when the confession statement was recorded by the Metropolitan Magistrate and there is no reason why the prosecution chose to file the final report directly before the Special Court under section 5(1) of the PC Act 1988; G (iv) that neither the evidence of PW-44 (I.O.) nor the evidence of PW-16 (approver) had anything incriminating A-7; (v) that A-7 has been roped in, merely because of his relationship with A-5 and also on account of a sum of H 34 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Rs.1,52,50,000/- being transferred to the firm of which he is a partner, from out of the account of Entoma Hydro Systems; (vi) that while the Special Court, without going into the report of the handwriting expert marked as Exhibit P-68 and B without putting any question to A-7 under Section 313 of the Code in relation to his specimen signatures marked as Exhibit P-75 came to the conclusion that the applications for demand drafts bore his handwriting and signatures, the High Court rejected the said reasoning but took to the route available under Section 73 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872. C (vii) That the procedure under Section 73 of the Evidence Act is available to a Court only when there are admitted or proved handwritings, which were absent in this case; (viii) That in any case there was no loss caused to BHEL, which is a sine qua non for the offence under the PC Act; and D (ix) That by a strange logic A-7 was convicted for the offence under Section 13(1)(e) of the PC Act. 27. Countering the submissions made on behalf of the appellants, it was argued by Shri Padmesh Mishra, learned counsel for the State: E (i) that there was cogent evidence, both oral and documentary, to connect all the accused with the offences for which they were found guilty; (ii) that the evidence of the Approver (PW-16) stood corroborated by the testimonies of other witnesses, on all F aspects such as the deliberate act of going in for limited tender, predetermining the person in whose favour the contract was to be awarded, sanction of an interest free mobilisation advance far in excess of the normal business norm, diversion of such advance by the contractor to another G firm in which he was a partner along with is father and brother and the eventual termination of the contract on account of these malpractices; (iii) that there is no requirement in law that actual loss should have been suffered for an offence under Section 13(1)(d) H of the PC Act to be made out; A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 35 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.]