[Para 26][349-D-F] 2.11 When the product in question is intended to control hair fall as also to prevent dandruff and to induce good sleep, which all carry their own therapeutic and prophylactic F connotations, the picture of a lady with long black flowing hair cannot be said to be unrelated to the indications related with the product. In any case, such a picture, by itself, cannot make the product in question a cosmetic. Interestingly, right at the top of the said picture and below the name of the product, it proclaims G “Controls hair fall. Prevents dandruff”. The Adjudicating Authority has taken his process of analysis to further illogical heights by proclaiming that hair growth was at the best a cosmetic necessity rather than a disease requiring immediate attention or treatment. Such approach could only be disapproved. [Para 27][349-G-H; 350-A-B] H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 287 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY 2.12 The substance of the matter remains that in common A parlance, the product in question would be approached essentially for its claimed medicinal qualities and not as another hair oil. The tribunal rightly dealt with the matter in accordance with the law applicable to the facts of the instant case. [Para 27.1][350-C- D] B 2.13 The Adjudicating Authority also observed that drug licenses issued by respective authorities per se did not make AHAHO a preparation of Homeopathic medicine. However, the Adjudicating Authority failed to consider that such drug license issued under Schedule K to the Rules of 1945 had not been a C factor to be ignored altogether. Both in relation to common parlance test as also the ingredients test, this factor carries its own relevance even if not finally decisive of the matter. The submission about want of condition of sale by authorised medical distributor or retailer under prescription has its own shortcomings for it has not been shown if such a preparation falling under D Schedule K to the Rules of 1945 was also requiring such a mention in terms of Rule 97. In any case, any such requirements for adherence to the Act of 1940 and the Rules of 1945 could only be a matter for consideration of the authorities dealing with licensing and regulating the manufacture and sale of drugs. The only E relevant aspect for the present purpose is that the product in question being manufactured as a Homeopathy medicine, and being marketed and used as a Homeopathic medicine for its pharmaceutical value, would fall in Chapter 30 and cannot be branded as cosmetic, so as to fall under Chapter 33 of the First Schedule to the Act of 1985. [Para 28][350-D-G] F 2.14 The very product in question, in relation to the entry in the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957, has been accepted by this Court to be answering the description of a medicine and not being a cosmetic product, after it was found that the respondent-assessee’s assertion about its ingredients G and thereby the product qualifying to be a drug within the meaning of Section 3 of the Act of 1940 could not be refuted by the Revenue.