There is also a Madras decision in V. Rajaram v. Ramanujam Iyengar, AIR 1963 Mad 213 paragraphs 4 and 5 to the same effect.” G 61. Therefore, the principle, which emerges, is this. In that a suit may fall under Article 96, there must be a transfer by a Manager which would include a Mutawalli of a waqf. It must be for valuable consideration. In that there is a transfer, it must not be still born. It should not be a void transaction. This is for the reason that a void H 986 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A transaction would not amount to a transfer. An unauthorized alienation as understood in Mulla (supra), which we have referred to, viz., a transfer, which was made by a Mutawalli, for which, there was no authority in the waqf deed, would constitute a transfer to which Article 134B and Article 96 would have applied. With the advent of the laws relating to Waqfs which included the 1960 Act in Uttar Pradesh, the Mutawalli B was obliged to obtain the previous sanction of the concerned Board. In cases where a transfer is made under the 1960 Act without previous sanction of the Board, the transfer would be void. This is for the reason that the requirement of previous sanction is a statutory command conceived with a definite and sublime purpose and the transgression of C which can only result in a void transaction. There is no provision which enables the validating of such a sale. In fact, the stand of respondents 2 and 4 is that, the transfers were void. Therefore, the authorities have also proceeded on the basis that the transaction was void and we can therefore proceed on the said foundation. D 62. Proceeding on the basis that the sale executed in 1974 was a void transaction we are inclined to approve of the view taken by Chintamani Sahoo (Deceased by LR.) (supra) and Anisur Rahman (supra), which we have referred to and hold that Article 96 of the Limitation Act, 1963 cannot be invoked in the case of a void transaction. The impugned , proceeding on the said premise, cannot be said to E be flawed. 63. We are of the view that there cannot be any embargo against a beneficiary of a waqf claiming acquisition of title by adverse possession. Section 2(k) of the Waqf Act, 1955, reads as under: “2(k) “person interested in a waqf means any person who F is entitled to receive any pecuniary or other benefits from the waqf and includes- (i) Any person who has a right to offer prayer or to perform any religious rite in a mosque, idgah, imambara, dargah, khanqah, peerkhana and karbala, maqbara, graveyard or G any other religious institution connected with the waqf or to participate in any religious or charitable institution under the waqf; (ii) The waqf and any descendant of the waqf and the mutawalli; H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 987 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]