A Government u/s 16 that the right of the owner of the land is extinguished. Therefore the appellant’s contention that title to compensation is derived solely from and on the date of the award could not be accepted. (iv) The liability of the Government u/s 31 to pay B compensation to the person entitled thereto under the award does not imply that only the persons to whom compensation is directed to be paid under the award may raise a dispute u/s 30. The scheme of apportionment by the Collector under Section 11 is conclusive only between the Collector and the persons interested and not among the persons C interested. Payment of compensation u/s 31 to the persons declared in the award to be entitled thereto discharges the State of its liability to pay compensation leaving it open to the claimant to compensation to agitate his right in a reference u/s 30 or by a separate suit. D (v) Under the Bihar Land Reforms Act the title of the appellant to the land noticed for acquisition became vested in the State and therefore the right to compensation for the land acquired devolved upon the State. A dispute then arose between the State Government and the appellant “as to E the persons to whom” compensation was payable. The State had no right to the compensation payable for the land under a title existing before the date of the award of the Collector and no application could be made by it as a person interested within the meaning of Section 18. But a dispute between the appellant and F the State as to their conflicting claims to the compensation money was clearly a dispute which could be referred u/s 30 of the Act to the Court. There is nothing in Section 30 which excludes a reference to the Court of a dispute raised by a person on whom the title G of the owner of the land has since the award, devolved. 30. The scheme of the Act reveals that the remedy of reference u/s 18 is intended to be available only to a ‘person interested’. A person present either personally or through representative or on whom a notice is served u/s 12(2) is obliged, subject to H VINOD KUMAR & ORS. v. DISTRICT MAGISTRATE MAU & 407 ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] his specifying the test as to locus, to apply to the Collector A within the time prescribed u/s 18(2) to make a reference to the Court. The basis of title on which the reference would be sought for u/s 18 would obviously be a pre- existing title by reference to the date of the award. So is Section 29, which speaks of ‘persons interested’. Finality to the award spoken B of by Section 12(1) of the Act is between the Collector on one hand and the ‘persons interested’ on the other hand and attaches to the issues relating to (i) the true area, i.e. measurement of the land, (ii) the value of the land, i.e.