158.2. That a statement recorded under Section 67 of the NDPS Act cannot be used as a confessional statement in the trial of an off ence under the NDPS Act.” [emphasis laid] 10. In view of the aforesaid decision that declares that any confessional statement made by an accused to an offi cer invested with the powers under Section 53 of the NDPS Act, is barred for the reason that such offi cers are “police offi cers” within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act, a statement made by an accused and recorded under Section 67 of the NDPS Act cannot be used as a confessional statement in the trial of an off ence under the NDPS Act. BALWINDER SINGH (BINDA) v. THE NARCOTICS 115 CONTROL BUREAU [HIMA KOHLI, J.] (b) EFFECT OF TOFAN SINGH’S VERDICT ON BALWINDER SINGH’S CASE 11. Now that it has been declared in Tofan Singh’s case36 (supra) that the judgements in the case of Kanhaiyalal33 (supra) and Raj Kumar Karwal35 (supra) did not state the correct legal position and they stand overruled, the entire case set up by the prosecution against Balwinder Singh3, collapses like a House of cards. It is not in dispute that Balwinder Singh3 was not apprehended by the NCB offi cials from the spot where the naka was laid and that Satnam Singh5 alone was apprehended in the Indica car. The version of the prosecution is that after Satnam Singh5 was arrested, his statement13 was recorded under Section 67 of the NDPS Act wherein he ascribed a specifi c role to the co-accused - Balwinder Singh3 and the Sarpanch. The NCB offi cers claimed that they were on the lookout for both of them since they had managed to run away from the spot. While Sarpanch could not be apprehended, the NCB offi cers learnt from reports in the newspaper that Balwinder had been arrested by the Amritsar Police in an NDPS case and was lodged in the Central Jail, Amritsar. Permission was taken from the concerned Court to take Balwinder Singh3 into custody in the instant case and he was arrested. A notice21 was served on him under Section 67 of the NDPS Act and his statement22 was recorded. Treating his statement22 as a confessional statement, Balwinder Singh3 was arrested. 12. Once the confessional statement13 of the co-accused, Satnam Singh5 recorded by the NCB offi cers under Section 67 of the NDPS Act, who had attributed a role to Balwinder Singh3 and the subsequently recorded statement22 of Balwinder Singh3 himself under Section 67 of the NDPS Act are rejected in the light of the law laid down in Tofan Singh36 (supra), there is no other independent incriminating evidence that has been brought to the fore by the prosecution for convicting Balwinder Singh3 under the NDPS Act. On ignoring the said confessional statements13&22 recorded before the offi cers of the NCB in the course of the investigation, the vital link between Balwinder Singh3 and the off ence for which he has been charged snaps conclusively and his conviction cannot be sustained.