It could only impose a condition to keep such land as open for being used by the user of such building for their communal or recreational purpose. E 4. The provision for open space with respect to a special building is for the communal and recreational purposes of the people who shared their accommodation in the said building or otherwise lawfully use the same. It is not intended to take away the proprietary right of the owners. The F expression of willingness by the petitioner to provide the stipulated open space reserved for communal and recreational use of the occupiers will satisfy the public interest and object of the legislation. Petitioners undertake to keep 10% of the area to be developed excluding roads as open space for communal and recreational purpose. G 5. The further condition imposed by the 3rd respondent to provide exclusive frontage for the said open space area opening into the main road is unconscionable in law and contrary to the spirit of the Act. Such stipulation is in terrorum. H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1037 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] The relief sought is to declare Rule 19(b)(I)(v) of the DCR A void.That apart sanction is sought without insisting on the rule. 6. We may notice the relevant contents of the counter affidavit filed by the respondent State. The case set up inter alia is that the CMDA had carried out necessary survey and prepared the master plan which lays down policies and programmes which are necessary to regulate the B growth of the area and also to ensure its economic viability, social stability and sound management for the present and the foreseeable future and ly development required the same. The DCR was an integral part of the master plan. Any person wanting to develop a property within the Metropolitan area must apply for permission and the CMDA is C empowered to enforce such conditions and restrictions as was necessary under the rules. It is in public interest. If the ownership of the open OSR area were to be allowed to vest with the original land owner, then the concerned owner would have a chance to convert the same for construction, the area specially reserved as open space, for communal recreation by suppressing the said fact after passage of time. Hence, it D is necessary that the open space area should be vested with the civil authorities who are responsible for maintenance of parks and play fields in the sites. The open space reservation is provided to create lung space in the city and to have sufficient open space for the use of society. 7. A counter affidavit was filed by the Chief Planner of the CMDA E and the stand taken was to seek support under Section 17 of the Act read with Section 49. The impugned Rule has been also referred to. As regards the facts, it is stated as follows: - “Para 5. petitioner submitted the application on 17 .08.1994 for planning Permission for the proposed construction of Hotel F Complex consisting of group of two massive blocks of Basement plus ground plus three floors building and four small buildings at D.No.l& 2, Harrington road, Chetput, Madras - 31 in R.S.No.355 of Nungambakkam Village.