A to the country in which they were born to secure the professional education as they would not be in a position to compete with the students there either, keeping in view the study pattern and the monetary implication. 49. To put the matter in its context for better appreciation of the mischief caused by the impugned notification and the manner in which it B would irreversibly alter the situation, to which aspect there is non- application of mind by respondent No.1, it would be appropriate to refer to the existing facts of an individual petitioner. To demonstrate this aspect we shall take the details of the first petitioner in W.P. (C) No.891 of 2021 as an instance to demonstrate the case in point. From the tabular statement supra, it is noted, C (a) She was born on 31.12.2003 in California, USA. (b) Both her parents are Indian Nationals. (c) She has come to India in the year 2006 (d) Has lived thereafter in India for 15 years.” D (e) Presently she is at Pune, Maharashtra, (f) pursued her entire educational career in India (g) Passed the 12th standard which is the qualifying examination to appear for the Medical Entrance also in India. E As on the year of birth in 2003 the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2003 was brought in to introduce Section 7A of Act, 1955 w.e.f. 06.12.2004. The said amendment was based on the recommendations of a High-Level Committee on Indian diaspora. The Government of India decided to register the Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) of a certain F category as specified in Section 7A of Act, 1955 as Overseas Citizens of India. The OCI scheme was introduced with the issue of notification of 2005 which is in the background of the demands for dual citizenship by the Indian diaspora and the concept of dual citizenship is not recognized. 50. Therefore it is evident that the object of providing the right in G the year 2005 for issue of OCI cards was in response to the demand for dual citizenship and as such, as an alternative to dual citizenship which was not recognised, the OCI card benefit was extended. If in that light, the details of the first petitioner taken note hereinabove is analysed in that context, though the option of getting the petitioner No.1 registered as a citizen under Section 4 of Act, 1955 by seeking citizenship by descent H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 297 ORS. soon after her birth or even by registration of the citizenship as provided A under Section 5 of Act, 1955, was available in the instant facts to her parents, when immediately after the birth of petitioner No.1 the provision for issue of OCI cards was statutorily recognised and under the notification the right to education was also provided, the need for parents of petitioner No.1 to make a choice to acquire the citizenship by descent or to renounce B the citizenship of the foreign country and seek registration of the Citizenship of India did not arise to be made, since as an alternative to dual citizenship the benefit had been granted and was available to petitioner No.1 and the entire future was planned on that basis and that situation continued till the year 2021.