This court has considered the Rules, as they stand, closely; there is certainly some gaps. On point (i), this court’s discussion in paragraph 8 clarifi es the position – although the required amendment explicitly laying this out in the Rules, would be appropriate. Points (ii) and (iii) are cause for real concern. 21. Section 26(1) of the Act defi nes penalty to be imposed on the employer for failing to: constitute the ICC under Section 4, conduct inquiries under Section 13 and 14, submit annual compliance reports as per Section 22, or contravention of any other provision of the Act or Rules. Contravention of the Act, attracts a penalty of ₹ 50,000. However, the Rules are woefully silent on the reporting authority actually responsible for taking note of the non-compliance, and the public authority empowered to collect the said fi ne27. Given the scheme of the Act, it would be recommended that the 27 The other provision which contemplates penalty, is Section 17 [Penalty for publication or making known contents of complaint and inquiry proceedings] which states: “17. Where any person entrusted with the duty to handle or deal with the complaint, inquiry or any recommendations or action to be taken under the provisions of this Act, contravenes the provisions of section 16, he shall be liable for penalty in accordance with the provisions of the service rules applicable to the said person or where no such service rules exist, in such manner as may be prescribed.” Rule 12 of the POSH Rules has set the fi ne to be Rs. 5000, which is to be collected by the employer. INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.695 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] District Offi cer itself, be made this authority – however, presently since they are not empowered to take appropriate action against employers for non- compliance of the Act, it renders the framework rather toothless. Similarly under Section 26(2) which provides further penalty (including cancellation of business license or withdrawal of renewal or approval of cancellation of registration by the government or local authority required for carrying on their business/activity) on an employer for continuous violations of the same provisions – does not mention the authority under the Act responsible for carrying out this function. Conclusion and Directions 22. Having regard to the above discussion, it is appropriate for this court to issue the following directions (under the relevant heads) to ensure the eff ective implementation of the POSH Act, and render it workable: A. Coordination between Union Government and State/UT Governments i. The Women and Child Development Ministry of every State/ UT, through its Principal Secretary, should consider identifying a ‘nodal person’ within the Department, to oversee and aid in coordination as contemplated under the POSH Act. This person would also be able to coordinate with the Union Government on matters relating to this Act and its implementation. ii. Each State/UT Government is to submit a consolidated report of its compliance with the below directions to the Union Government within 8 weeks.