Further, the Preamble of the Constitution which envisages,inter alia, fraternity, assuresthat the dignity of individuals cannot be dented by means of unwarranted speech being made by H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 765 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] fellow citizens, including public functionaries. Thus, the A Preamble of the Constitution and the values thereof assuring the people of India not only justice, liberty, equality but also fraternity and unity and integrity of the nation, must remind every citizen of this Country irrespective of the office or position or power that is held, of the sublime ideals of the B Constitution and to respect them in their true letter and spirit. There is an inbuilt constitutional check to ensure that the values of the Constitution are not in any way undermined or violated. It is high time that we, as a society in general and as individuals in particular, re-dedicate ourselves to the sacred values of the Constitution and promote them not C only at our individual level but at the macro level. Any kind of speech which undermines the values for which our Constitution stands would cause a dent on our social and political values. Employing the Fundamental Duties under Part IV-A of the D Constitution as a means to check disparaging, unwarranted speech: 28. Every right engulfs and incorporates a duty to respect another’s right and secure mutual compatibility and conviviality of the individuals based on collective harmony, resulting in social . The concept of fraternity under the Constitution expects every citizen to respect the E dignity of the other. Mutual respect is the fulcrum of fraternity that assures dignity. In the context of constitutional fraternity, fundamental duties engrafted under Article 51-A of the Constitution gain significance. Sub- clause (c),(e) and (j) of Article 51-A of the Constitution which are relevant to these cases read as follows: F “Article 51-A. Fundamental Duties- .—It shall be the duty of every citizen of India— (a) xxx (b) xxx G (c) to uphold and protect the sovereignty, unity and integrity of India; (d) xxx (e) to promote harmony and the spirit of common brotherhood amongst all the people of India transcending H 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A religious, linguistic and regional or sectional diversities; to renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of women; (f) xxx (g) xxx B (h) xxx (i) xxx (j) to strive towards excellence in all spheres of individual and collective activity so that the nation constantly rises C to higher levels of endeavour and achievement;” Fundamental duties also constitute core Constitutional values for good citizenship in a democracy such as ours. The duties enumerated above, enjoin all citizens with the obligations of promoting fraternity, harmony, unity, collective welfare etc. Fundamental duties have a keen D bond of sorority with the Constitutional goals and must therefore be recognised not merely as Constitutional norms or precepts but as obligations, corelative to rights. In short, the permissible content of the right to freedom of speech and expression, ought to be tested on the touchstone of fraternity and fundamental duties as envisaged under our Constitution.