15. In his subsequent communication dated 20.10.1984, again the workman claimed bonus but still did not furnish any address. Same was the position in his subsequent communications also which we do not wish to expound upon in this as the sum and substance of the same is that instead of complying with the directing him to join duty at the Branch Offi ce, Bhagwantnagar, Unnao, the workman continued a running correspondence with the Bank. In these circumstances, it is apparent that the workman, who was legally trained, was trying to drag the Bank into avoidable litigation instead of complying with the s. The Bank, vide dated 05.12.1984, considering his conduct, had treated him to have voluntarily retired from service with immediate eff ect. The aforesaid was sent at the last two known addresses of the workman. Though the workman was claiming that he does not have any address for correspondence, but immediately after the dated 05.12.1984 was passed, he wrote a letter dated 07.12.1984 to the Bank giving reference of the aforesaid directing his deemed voluntary retirement. He claimed that he got knowledge of the aforesaid from a Union leader when he visited Lucknow on 05.12.1984. Even after gaining knowledge of his deemed voluntary retirement on 07.12.1984, the workman kept quiet for 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. a period of six years before raising a dispute before the Assistant Labour Commissioner on 28.08.1990. 16. The aforesaid conduct of the workman itself was suffi cient to non- suit him as has rightly been done. His argument that being on suspension, he could not have been treated to have been voluntarily retired as per the deeming provision, is merely to be noticed and rejected, as during his suspension also, the relationship of master and servant does not come to an end. All the rules and regulations governing the post continue to apply. Merely because the Bank had stopped paying subsistence allowance to the workman does not mean that the workman was no more an employee of the Bank. The action was taken by the Bank only to ensure that somehow or the other, the workman joined his duty. However, it seems that he had some other scheme in his mind. The idea seems to be to lay a claim on all his wages. Initially, to get subsistence allowance without working and then claim reinstatement and back wages. If Clause XVI in the Bipartite Agreement is seen, the workman could have been treated to have been voluntarily retired immediately upon expiry of 90 days from 28.09.1983 as he had failed to join duty. Letter dated 05.01.1984 issued by the Bank was duly acknowledged by him in his communication but still he failed to join duty and continued writing letters. Despite this fact, the Bank was magnanimous enough to have issued a fi nal notice to the workman on 05.10.1984, granting him 30 days’ time to report for duty. This is also acknowledged by the workman. But for reasons best known to him he failed to comply with the same.