A be returned by the Court on this aspect. In the above backdrop, there appears no justification for the respondents to have raised the spectre of a series of complaints received against the appellant during the course of his service that had weighed against him for compulsorily retiring him, more so, when these complaints were to the knowledge of the respondents and yet, his service record remained unblemished throughout. Nothing B has been placed on record to show a sudden decline in the work conduct of the appellant so as to have compulsorily retired him. 31. We may now proceed to examine the background in which vigilance clearances were initially given to the appellant and subsequently withheld by the respondents. It is not in dispute that in the year 2013, the C appellant had applied for the post of Member, ITAT and in the year 2014, the Selection Committee had placed him on the top of the list of 48 selected candidates. Based on the vigilance clearance issued by the department in August, 2013 and once again on 15th July 2015, the appellant was recommended by the respondents to the ACC for his appointment D to the subject post. 32. However, sometime later, the respondents withheld the vigilance clearance given earlier on the ground that there was an adverse IB Report against the appellant. It is not out of place to mention here that the aforesaid adverse IB report had also arisen from the complaint E received from the appellant’s wife during the very same matrimonial dispute which had already been amicably settled in Court. The factum of the said settlement was well within the knowledge of the respondents, who had stated in O.M. dated 15th July, 2015 that “the alleged acts of bigamy against Shri Bajaj emanating from matrimonial dispute is not established”. Aggrieved by the withholding of his vigilance report, F the appellant had approached the Tribunal for relief in OA No.95 of 2016. Vide interim dated 10th February, 2017, the Tribunal directed the respondents to resubmit the adverse IB report in respect of the appellant before the Selection Committee within one month for the said Committee to take a view in the matter. As noted earlier, the aforesaid G dated 10th February, 2017, passed by the Tribunal was upheld by the High Court, on 30th May, 2017 and affirmed by this Court, vide dated 15th November, 2017. 33. Undeterred by the aforesaid judicial s, the respondents continued to withhold the vigilance clearance of the appellant, this time claiming that there were some adverse findings against him in an H CAPTAIN PRAMOD KUMAR BAJAJ v. UNION OF INDIA 55 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] Inspection Report dated 20th April, 2018 stated to have been prepared A on the basis of an inspection of the office of the appellant conducted on 29th and 30th November, 2017 which was done within a few days of this Court upholding the dated 10th February, 2017 passed by the Tribunal, calling upon the respondents to place his adverse IB report before the Selection Committee, for it to take a view in the matter.