The neighbours Kamala and Jayaraman came running there, after hearing my scream. I touched B the child. She was dead…” 3.2. After registration of the FIR (Ex.P10), PW-12 Thiru G. Ayyanar, the first Investigating Officer4 reached the place of occurrence, photographs of the dead body (Ex. P11) were taken; the rough sketch (Ex. P12) and inquest report (Ex. P13) were prepared; and the dead C body was sent for post-mortem examination. As per the post-mortem report (Ex. P5), there was a wound around the neck of the victim child measuring 20 cm in length and 2 cm in breadth; and victim died due to asphyxia because of strangulation. 3.3. According to the first IO, PW-12 Thiru G. Ayyanar, the D appellant was arrested at about 5.00 p.m. near a ladies washroom at the Perambalur New Bus Stand, i.e., approximately nine hours after the occurrence. It was alleged that after her arrest, the appellant identified the saree by which the child was strangulated; that the saree allegedly carrying blood-stains was seized in the presence of attesting witnesses; and that following her arrest, the appellant made a confessional statement E that was recorded by PW-12 in the presence of witnesses. Later on, the investigation was taken over by PW-14 D. Sivasubramanian, who filed the charge-sheet for the offence under Section 302 IPC against the appellant. After committal, and upon denial of charge by the appellant, the case was tried as Sessions Case No. 9 of 2008 by the Sessions F Judge, Mahila Court, Perambalur. 4. In trial, a total of fourteen witnesses were examined by the prosecution. The first witness PW-1 Basheera, mother-in-law of the appellant and the informant, was examined as the key witness related with the occurrence. Four other witnesses, PW-2 Mumtaz, daughter of PW-1; PW-3 Asha Begum, other daughter-in-law of PW-1; PW-4 G Sharfunisha, landlord of PW-1; and PW-5 Thiru-Jothi, neighbour of PW- 1 were claimed to be the witnesses who reached the scene of crime immediately after the occurrence. PW-8 Dr. Saravanan and PW-13 Dr. 4 ‘IO’, for short. H 952 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Karthikeyan A. testified respectively to the post-mortem report and the report with respect to the thyroid cartilage bone of the victim child. PW- 9 Devaraj, Village Administrative Officer and PW-7 Sadiq Ali were examined as attesting witnesses related with the process of investigation. PW-10 Subbulakshmi had recorded the statement of PW-1 and scribed the FIR whereas PW-11 Mohammed Munwar Khan was the B photographer who had taken photographs at the scene of occurrence. As noticed, PW-12 Thiru G. Ayyanar carried out the initial investigation whereas PW-14 D. Sivasubramanian, SI, Perambalur completed the investigation and filed charge-sheet. Apart from these witnesses who supported the prosecution case, there had been another witness PW-6 C Jamal Mohammed, father of the appellant, who stated to the contrary and asserted that the appellant was with him at his village Kolakkudi. In other words, this witness supported the appellant’s plea of alibi. 5. Though elaboration of the entire prosecution evidence is not necessary for the purpose of the present appeal, but having regard to D the contentions urged, we may take note of the relevant part of depositions, particularly in reference to certain inconsistencies/ discrepancies in the assertions of the prosecution witnesses as also in reference to the appellant’s plea of alibi.