On 16.12.1958, Akbar Ali Khan passed away. He left behind him three sons, Qasim Ali khan, Kazim Ali Khan E and Raza Ali Khan. It appears that Qasim Ali Khan took over as the Mutawalli. His name was entered in the register of waqf. However, his younger brothers, i.e., Kazim Ali Khan and Raza Ali Khan got their names mutated in the Revenue Records as Bhumidhar in regard to the property. This led to the second suit again by Qasim Ali Khan, i.e., OS No. 421 of 1959. He sought a declaration that the plaint schedule property F was a waqf property. He further sought the relief of expunging the names of his two brothers. The said suit was decreed in favour of the plaintiff on 21.05.1962. Mohd. Kazim Ali Khan on 14.10.1960 during the pendency of the suit transferred his alleged one-third share to Mohd. Ahmad Ali Khan who was his nephew being the son of Raza Ali Khan. This shall G be referred to as the firstsale. 6. After a remand in an Appeal, when the Suit was pending, consolidation proceedings began in the village. Under the law, the Suit was to stand abated. The Suit stood abated. Shri Qasim Ali Khan filed objection seeking expunging of the names of the other sons, viz., his brothers. This was done on the basis that the properties were waqf H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 945 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] properties. The Consolidation Officer accepted the objection. He directed A that the entry of waqf be made in the Revenue record. It was his reasoning that upon the creation of the waqf, properties stood vested in the Almighty and the first sale was infirm. The Appeal filed by Shri Kasim Ali Khan and Shri Raza Ali Khan came to be dismissed by the Settlement Officer. The Revision filed by them also came to be dismissed by dated B 29.01.1969. However, it would appear that an application, seeking restoration, was filed in regard to the of the Deputy Director, Consolidation. The same stood dismissed on 02.03.1972. Another Application for Restoration, however, came to be filed. It is in the said Restoration Application, a compromise was entered into on 13.02.1974 between the three brothers, viz., Qasim Ali Khan, Kasim Ali Khan and C Raza Ali Khan. The compromise proceeded on the footing that the waqf was a paper transaction. It was the further basis that the waqf was never acted upon and further that the Bhumidars of the plots were Qasim Ali Khan, Raza Ali Khan and Mohammad Ahmad Ali Khan (the last being the alienee), who were entitled to one-third share each. The D Deputy Collector, Consolidation accepted the compromise, set aside the dated 29.01.1969, an passed on merit, and, disposed of the Revision on the basis of the compromise. No sanction was obtained from the Waqf Board within the meaning of Section 49A of the Uttar Pradesh Muslim Waqf Act, 1960 (hereinafter referred to as, ‘the 1960 Act’, for short).