Thus, all the requirements of Exception 4 are clearly met. That being so, the conviction of the appellant Jagrup Singh, under Section 302 of the Code cannot be sustained. 15. The result, therefore, is that the conviction of the appellant C under Section 302 is altered to one under Section 304, Part II of the Indian Penal Code. For the altered conviction, the appellant is sentenced to suffer rigorous imprisonment for a period of seven years.” (Emphasis supplied) D We have noticed something in the aforesaid observations made by this Court which, in our opinion, creates some confusion. We have come across such observations in many other decisions of this Court over and above the case of Jagrup Singh (supra). What we are trying to highlight is that in Jagrup Singh (supra), although this Court altered E the conviction from Section 302 to Section 304 Part II, it took shelter of Exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC. The question is, was there any need for the Court to take recourse to Exception 4 to Section 300 of the IPC for the purpose of altering the conviction from Section 302 to Section 304 Part II of the IPC. We say so because there is fine difference F between the two parts of Section 304 of the IPC. Under the first part, the crime of murder is first established and the accused is then given the benefit of one of the exceptions to Section 300 of the IPC, while under the second part, the crime of murder is never established at all. Therefore, for the purpose of holding an accused guilty of the offence punishable under the second part of Section 304 of the IPC, the accused need not G bring his case within one of the exceptions to Section 300 of the IPC. 47. In Jawahar Lal v. State of Punjab, (1983) 4 SCC 159, also the accused hit the deceased with a knife blow in front of left side of his chest and as per the autopsy report the injuries were found sufficient in an ordinary course of nature to cause death. This Court took a view that H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1119 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the accused could be attributed the knowledge that he was likely to A cause an injury which was likely to cause death. The relevant paras of the said is reproduced as under: “17…….we should also not further dilate on this point in view of the decision of this Court in Jagrup Singh v. State of Haryana : 1981 Cri LJ 1136. In that case after referring to B the evidence, this Court held that the appellant gave one blow on the head of the deceased with the blunt side of the gandhala and this injury proved fatal. The Court then proceeded to examine as to the nature of the offence because the appellant in the case was convicted for an offence under C Section 302.