vs. Modi Sugar Mills Ltd.13. The relevant passage therefrom reads as under: “10. […] In interpreting a taxing statute, equitable considerations are entirely out of place. Nor can taxing statutes be interpreted on any presumptions or assumptions. The court must look squarely at the words of the statute and interpret them. It must interpret a taxing statute in the light of what is clearly expressed : it cannot imply anything which is not expressed; it cannot import provisions in the statutes so as to supply any assumed defi ciency.” 21. It is a well-established principle of statutory interpretation that any authority, entrusted with the function of legislating, legislates for a purpose; it can, thus, safely be assumed that it will not indulge in 11 (1967) 2 SCR 170 12 (2011) 4 SCC 635 13 (1961) 2 SCR 189 COMMISSIONER, CUSTOMS CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 437 PATNA v. M/S SHAPOORJI PALLONJI AND COMPANY PVT. LTD. & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] unnecessary or pointless legislation. This Court, in Utkal Contractors & Joinery (P) Ltd. vs State of Orissa14, lucidly explained thus: “9. […] It is again important to remember that Parliament does not waste its breath unnecessarily. Just as Parliament is not expected to use unnecessary expressions, Parliament is also not expected to express itself unnecessarily. Even as Parliament does not use any word without meaning something, Parliament does not legislate where no legislation is called for. Parliament cannot be assumed to legislate for the sake of legislation; nor can it be assumed to make pointless legislation. Parliament does not indulge in legislation merely to state what it is unnecessary to state or to do what is already validly done. Parliament may not be assumed to legislate unnecessarily.” 22. Having noticed some of the precedents in the fi eld of interpretation of statutes, we now move on to a little bit of English grammar. The word “or” as well as the word “and” is a conjunction; and it is well known that a conjunction is used to join words, phrases, or clauses. On how the conjunctions “or” and “and” are to be read, guidance could be drawn from authoritative texts and judicial decisions. As per Justice GP Singh’s Principles of Statutory Interpretation, the word “or” is normally disjunctive while the word “and” is normally conjunctive. In English law, the position is clear as crystal, as explained by Lord Scrutton in Green vs. Premier Glynrhonwy Slate Co.15, that one does not read “or” as “and” in a statute unless one is obliged, because “or” does not generally mean “and” and “and” does not generally mean “or”. 23. When the meaning of the provision in question is clear and unambiguous by the usage of “or” in clause 2(s), there remains no force in the submission of Ms. Bagchi that “or” should be interpreted as “and”. In our opinion, the word “or” employed in clause 2(s) manifests the legislative intent of prescribing an alternative. Going by the golden rule of interpretation that words should be read in their ordinary, natural, and grammatical meaning, the word “or” in clause 2(s) clearly appears to us to have been used to refl ect the ordinary and normal sense, that is to denote an alternative, 14 (1987) 3 SCC 279 15 (1928) 1 K.B.