It emphasizes that the repairs should be carried out absolutely free of charge and the claims should be submitted H to the manufacturer for reimbursement. M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1291 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 7.7. The High Court affirmed the decision of the Kerala Sales A Tax Appellate Tribunal wherein the decision in Mohd. Ekram Khan was applied to confirm the assessment passed by the Revenue against the dealer who had replaced defective parts of automobiles for free, in the discharge of his obligations under the dealership agreement. The Tribunal had rejected the argument that the dealer was merely B discharging the obligations of the manufacturer in so far as the warranty was concerned and therefore, the transaction was not taxable. 7.8. The three impugned decisions, emanating from the Bombay High Court, follow the decision in M/s Navnit Motors Pvt Ltd. vs. State of Maharashtra, decided on 29.11.2011. The High Court recorded that C the Sales Tax Tribunal had declined to refer the matter to the High Court under Section 61 of the Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1959. It further noted that the Tribunal, while following the law laid down in Mohd. Ekram Khan found that the dealer was not an agent of the manufacturer, i.e., Maruti Udyog Ltd. Furthermore, it was observed that the title and risk in the goods pass to the dealer once it is purchased from Maruti Udyog D Ltd. and the delivered goods pass to him at the factory gate. Moreover, the replacement for defective parts covered by warranty is done by the dealer out of his stock of purchased goods. Also, the cost of parts incurred by the dealer in carrying out a repair, or replacement of the defective part is reimbursed by the manufacturer. The High Court rejected the E attempt of the assessee to distinguish the facts in Mohd. Ekram Khan as the attempt was premised on the assertion that in Mohd. Ekram Khan, the relationship between the dealer and manufacturer involved an agency whereas in the present case, the transaction was on a principal- to-principal basis. The High Court affirmed the reasoning of the Tribunal on this question by recording that the nature of the relationship as found F in the dealership agreement contested in Mohd. Ekram Khan was the same as that in the case at hand: principal-to-principal relationship. Therefore, the assessee cannot seek to take benefit of a sentence recorded in the in Mohd. Ekram Khan that the dealer was an agent of the manufacturer. The High Court further reasoned that the terms of G agreement in Mohd. Ekram Khan was similar to the case being considered as clause 49 of the Agreement of Dealership required the dealer to promptly and effectively deal with any claim made by the customer of any vehicle under the provisions of the warranty currently in force. In terms of the warranty, the cost of parts incurred by the dealer in carrying out repairs or replacement of defective parts is in H 1292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.