A careful reading of the impugned of the NCLT also reveals that this position was accepted. This is evident from the of the NCLAT which clarified that PVVNL also came under the definition of ‘secured operational creditor’ as per law. This finding was not disturbed, but rather affirmed by the impugned C . In these circumstances, the conclusion that PVVNL is a secured creditor cannot be disputed. 44. The counsel for the liquidator had submitted that dues owed to PVVNL were technically owed to the “government”, and thus occupied a lower position in the of priority of clearance. The expression “government dues” is not defined in the IBC - it finds place only in the D preamble. However, what constitutes such dues is spelt out in the ‘waterfall mechanism’ under Section 53(1)(e), which inter alia states that, “Any amount due to the Central Government and the State Government including the amount to be received on account of the Consolidated Fund of India and the Consolidated Fund of the State” E ranks lower in priority to the class of creditors described in Clauses (a) to (d) of Section 53(1). Thus, there exists a separate enumeration or specification of the Central Government and State Government dues, as a class apart from other creditors, including creditors who may have secured interest (in respect of which amounts may be payable to them). The repeated reference of lowering of priority of debts to F the government, on account of statutory tax, or other dues payable to the Central Government or State Government, or amounts payable into the Consolidated Fund on account of either government, in the various reports which preceded the enactment of the IBC, as well as its Preamble, means that these dues are distinct and have to be treated G as separate from those owed to secured creditors. The Central Government and State Government are defined by the General Clauses Act, 1897. The former is defined by Section 3(8),32 and latter by Section 32(8) “Central Government” shall,— (a) in relation to anything done before the commencement of the Constitution, mean the Governor General or the Governor General in Council, as the case may be; and shall H include,— PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1259 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 3 (60).33 The distinction between the governments has been recognized A and maintained by previous decisions of this court. For instance, in Shrikant v. Vasantrao & Ors.,34 this court underlined that while an entity or corporation may be “State” under Article 12 of the Constitution of India, nevertheless, its distinct entity, for other purposes, is always maintained, and fact-dependent: B “Both may answer the definition of ‘State’ under Article 12 for the limited purpose of Part-III of the Constitution. Further, the very inclusive definition of ‘State’ under Article 12 by referring to Government of India, the Government of each of (i) in relation to functions entrusted under sub-section (1) of section 124 of the C Government of India Act, 1935, to the Government of a Province, the Provincial Government acting within the scope of the authority given to it under that subsection; and (ii) in relation to the administration of a Chief Commissioner’s Province, the Chief Commissioner acting within the scope of the authority given to him under sub-section (3) of section 94 of the said Act; and (b) in relation to anything done or to be done after the commencement of the Constitution, D mean the President; and shall include,— (i) in relation to functions entrusted under clause (1) of article 258 of the Constitution, to the Government of a State, the State Government acting within the scope of the authority given to it under that clause; 1*** (ii) in relation to the administration of a Part C State 2[before the commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956], the Chief Commissioner or the Lieutenant E Governor or the Government of a neighbouring State or other authority acting within the scope of the authority given to him or it under article 239 or article 243 of the Constitution, as the case may be; and (iii) in relation to the administration of a Union territory, the administrator thereof acting within the scope of the authority given to him under article 239 of the Constitution”.