Jodha Mal Kuthiala Vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Patiala12. In the said E case, the appellant claimed losses for three assessment years. The losses were claimed on account of interest payable to the bank. The appellant assessee had availed the loan in connection with his business which was being conducted in erstwhile Pakistan. With the creation of Pakistan, the hotel which was a part of the appellant’s business came to be declared F as evacuee property and vested in the custodian in Pakistan. The claim of the appellant assessee in the said case was resisted by the Assessing Officer on the basis of that no income or loss from that hotel could be considered as the property stood vested with the custodian. In other words, since the appellant was resting his claim made under Section 9 of the Income Tax act, 1922 (which corresponds to Section 22 of the Act) G as the appellant was not the owner, no relief could be granted to the appellant. The contention of the appellant was that the property vested in the custodian wholly for the purpose of administration and the assessee continued to an owner. This Court, inter alia, held as under: 12 (1971) 3 SCC 369 H 564 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “9. The question is who is the “owner” referred to in this section? Is it the person in whom the property vests or is it he who is entitled to some beneficial interest in the property? It must be remembered that Section 9 brings to tax the income from property and not the interest of a person in the property. A property cannot be owned by two persons, each one having independent B and exclusive right over it. Hence for the purpose of Section 9, the owner must be that person who can exercise the rights of the owner, not on behalf of the owner but in his own right. 10. For a minute, let us look at things from the practical point of view. If the thousands of evacuees who left practically all their C properties as well as businesses in Pakistan had been considered as the owners of those properties and businesses as long as the “Ordinance” was in force then those unfortunate persons would have had to pay income tax on the basis of the annual letting value of their properties and on the income, gains and profits of D the businesses left by them in Pakistan though they did not get a paisa out of those properties and businesses. Fortunately no one in the past interpreted the law in the manner Mr Mahajan wants us to interpret. It is true that equitable considerations are irrelevant in interpreting tax laws. But those laws, like all other laws have to be interpreted reasonably and in consonance with justice. E 14. For determining the person liable to pay tax, the test laid down by the court was to find out the person entitled to that income.