The said states that the communication should mention that if the F proposals were not sent within a period of four weeks from the receipt of the communication from the Ministry, this Court may have to consider passing s for implementation of the decision that was taken on 21st January 2002, i.e., notification of the areas within 10 kilometres of the boundaries of the sanctuaries and National Parks as ESZs. G 21. The next of this Court is dated 21st April 2014 in the case of Goa Foundation v. Union of India and Others5. It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of this Court in the said : 5 (2014) 6 SCC 590 H IN RE: T.N. GODAVARMAN THIRUMULPAD v. UNION OF 615 INDIA AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] “49. ……The result is that the passed by this Court saying A that there will be no mining activity within one kilometre safety zone around national park or wildlife sanctuary has to be enforced and there can be no mining activities within this area of one kilometre from the boundaries of national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in the State of Goa.” B 22. The Court has clarified that there shall be no mining activity within one kilometre of the safety zone around National Park or Wildlife Sanctuary and that this has to be enforced. It is also reiterated that there can be no mining activities within this area of one kilometre from the boundaries of National Parks and Wildlife Sanctuaries in the State of C Goa. 23. The Court thereafter refers to the earlier dated 4th December 2006 (supra) in the said case and observed thus: “50. ……..It will be clear from the dated 4-12-2006 [Goa Foundation v. Union of India, (2011) 15 SCC 791] of this Court D that this Court has not passed any s for implementation of the decision taken on 21-1-2002 to notify areas within 10 km of the boundaries of national parks or wildlife sanctuaries as eco- sensitive areas with a view to conserve the forest, wildlife and environment. By the dated 4-12-2006 [Goa E Foundation v. Union of India, (2011) 15 SCC 791] of this Court, however, the Ministry of Environment and Forests, Government of India, was directed to give a final opportunity to all States/ Union Territories to respond to the proposal and also to refer to the Standing Committee of the National Board for Wildlife the cases in which environment clearance has already been granted F in respect of activities within the 10 km zone from the boundaries of the wildlife sanctuaries and national parks. There is, therefore, no direction, interim or final, of this Court prohibiting mining activities within 10 km of the boundaries of national parks or wildlife sanctuaries.” G 24. It could thus be seen that the Court has specifically observed that this Court had not passed any s for implementation of the decision taken on 21st January 2002 to notify areas within 10 kilometres of the boundaries of National Parks or Wildlife Sanctuaries as ESZs with a view to conserve the forest, wildlife and environment.