But where F the evidence has not been properly appreciated, material aspects have been ignored and the findings are perverse under Article 136 of the Constitution, this Court would certainly interfere with the findings of the courts below though concurrent. In a case based on circumstantial evidence, G circumstances from which inference of guilt is sought to be drawn should be fully proved and such circumstances must be of conclusive nature pointing to the guilt of accused. There shall be no gap in such chain of circumstances….” H 5 (2015)7 SCC 178 SHANKAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 671 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] 12. Heard, Mr. Sanjay Jain and Mr. Sunil Kumar Verma, learned A counsel for the appellant and Mr. Sachin Patil, learned counsel for the respondent-State. 13. In view of the law relating circumstantial evidence exposited under the decisions referred hereinbefore and the scope of interference in exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India in B respect of cases where concurrent findings are recorded by the Lower Courts, we are of the considered view if doubt lingers with respect to the probability or conclusiveness of any circumstance relied on by the prosecution, forming a link in the chain of circumstances pointing to the guilt of convict, despite the existence of concurrent findings, the evidence C has to be scrutinized by this Court so as to ensure that the totality of the evidence and circumstances relied on, did constitute a complete chain and it points to the guilt of the convict and it did not brook any hypothesis other than the guilt of the convict. Upon hearing the learned counsel on both sides and on careful consideration of the evidence and materials on record, we are of the considered view that the case at hand is a befitting D case where such an exercise is required. Before we undertake such an exercise, it is only proper to look into the questions whether the death of Rahul Pundlik Meshram is homicidal in nature. As a matter of fact, there is not much dispute on this aspect. 14. The evidence of PW-13 with Exhibit-54 postmortem report E made the Courts below to concurrently come to the conclusion that death of Rahul Pundlik Meshram is homicidal in nature. The postmortem report would reveal the presence of 22 ante-mortem injuries on the body of the deceased. It would also reveal that out of the 22 ante-mortem injuries, except 7 of these are incised wounds. The said 7 injuries are serious F stab injuries inflicted on different parts of the body. It is taking into account the nature of all those injuries that PW-13 opined that the cause of death of deceased was due to multiple injuries on the chest and back involving the vital organs such as heart and lungs. We have absolutely no hesitation to hold in the said circumstances that the Courts below have rightly arrived at the conclusion, in the light of the evidence that death of Rahul G Pundlik Meshram is homicidal in nature.