While refusing to condone the appellant’s delay, it was specifi cally 7 (2013) 12 SCC 649. 8 (2019) 10 SCC 408. SHEO RAJ SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LRS. 753 & ORS. V. UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] noted that condonation of delay at that stage would be prejudicial to public interest as one of the respondents therein (Delhi Metro Rail Corporation) had received large amounts of money years ago to carry out development on the subject land in question. 24. We may profi tably refer hereunder to some other decisions of this Court for the purpose of the present adjudication. 25. G. Ramegowda v. Spl. Land Acquisition Officer9, while summarising the position of law on ‘suffi cient cause’, had the occasion to observe that the contours of the area of discretion of the courts in the matter of condonation of delays in fi ling appeals have been set out in a number of pronouncements of this Court. It was observed to be true that there is no general principle saving the party from all mistakes of its counsel. Noting that there is no reason why the opposite side should be exposed to a time- barred appeal if there was negligence, deliberate or gross inaction or lack of bona fi des on the part of the party or its counsel, it was further observed that each case will have to be considered on the particularities of its own special facts. However, this Court reiterated that the expression ‘suffi cient cause’ in section 5 must receive a liberal construction so as to advance substantial justice and generally delays in preferring appeals are required to be condoned in the interest of justice where no gross negligence or deliberate inaction or lack of bona fi des is imputable to the party seeking condonation of the delay. This was followed by these words: “15. In litigations to which Government is a party there is yet another aspect which, perhaps, cannot be ignored. If appeals brought by Government are lost for such defaults, no person is individually aff ected; but what, in the ultimate analysis, suff ers is public interest. The decisions of Government are collective and institutional decisions and do not share the characteristics of decisions of private individuals. *** 17. Therefore, in assessing what, in a particular case, constitutes ‘suffi cient cause’ for purposes of Section 5, it might, perhaps, be somewhat unrealistic to exclude from the considerations that go into the 9 (1988) 2 SCC 142. 754 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. judicial verdict, these factors which are peculiar to and characteristic of the functioning of the government. Governmental decisions are proverbially slow encumbered, as they are, by a considerable degree of procedural red tape in the process of their making. A certain amount of latitude is, therefore, not impermissible. It is rightly said that those who bear responsibility of Government must have ‘a little play at the joints’. Due recognition of these limitations on governmental functioning — of course, within reasonable limits — is necessary if the judicial approach is not to be rendered unrealistic.