16. The defence taken by the respondent that the lack of experience C and the inefficiency on the part of the stenographer has to be blamed, for the whole text of the not getting ready even after several days of pronouncement of the result in open court, was entirely unacceptable. But unfortunately, the High Court not only accepted this panchatantra story, but also went to the extent of blaming the D administration for not examining the stenographer as a witness. Such an approach is wholly unsustainable. If it was the case of the respondent that the entire blame lay upon the stenographer, it was for him to have summoned the stenographer as a witness. The High Court unfortunately reversed the burden of proof. E 17. While considering a challenge to an of penalty imposed upon a judicial officer pursuant to the disciplinary proceedings followed by a resolution of the Full Court of the High Court, the Court is obliged only to go by established parameters namely, (i) whether the charges stood proved; (ii) whether the findings of the inquiry officer are reasonable and probable and not perverse; (iii) whether the rules of procedure and F the principles of natural justice have been followed; and (iv) whether the penalty is completely disproportionate, especially in the light of the gravity of the misconduct, his past record of service and any other extenuating circumstances. 18. Unfortunately, the High Court did not test the correctness of G the of penalty in this case, on the above parameters. Instead, the High Court has recorded a finding in Paragraph 26 of the impugned , as though the learned judges had first hand information about the problems that the judicial officers faced at the lower level. The opinion of the High Court in Paragraph 26 of the impugned that the acts of omission and commission attributed to the respondent do not constitute H THE REGISTRAR GENERAL, HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA v. 61 SRI M. NARASIMHA PRASAD [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] grave misconduct, is very-very curious. Adding fuel to fire, the High A Court has recorded in Paragraph 36 of the impugned that “dismissing him from service itself is very atrocious”. Such a finding is nothing but a veiled attack on the Full Court of the High Court. After holding so, the High Court has gone to the extent of certifying the respondent as an innocent and honest officer. We do not know wherefrom B the High Court came to such a conclusion. 19. One more reason articulated in the impugned of the High Court is that the second show cause notice indicated the penalty proposed and that therefore, the same was contrary to law. In this regard the High Court placed reliance upon the decision of this Court in Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited vs. Mahesh C Dahiya1. 20. But the decision of this Court in Himachal Pradesh State Electricity Board Limited (supra), is one where the disciplinary authority-cum-whole time members of the Electricity Board were found to have formed an opinion to impose a major penalty even before D forwarding the copy of the enquiry report to the delinquent.