It is clear from the s referred to supra that an objection relating to the mode or method G of proof has to be raised at the time of marking of the document as an exhibit and not later. The crucial test, as affirmed by this Court, is whether the defect could have been cured at the stage of marking the document. Applying this test to the present case, if an objection was taken to the CDRs being marked without a H 1042 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A certificate, the Court could have given the prosecution an opportunity to rectify the deficiency. It is also clear from the above s that objections regarding admissibility of documents which are per se inadmissible can be taken even at the appellate stage. Admissibility of a document which is inherently inadmissible is an issue which can be taken up at the appellate stage because B it is a fundamental issue. The mode or method of proof is procedural and objections, if not taken at the trial, cannot be permitted at the appellate stage. If the objections to the mode of proof are permitted to be taken at the appellate stage by a party, the other side does not have an opportunity C of rectifying the deficiencies. The learned Senior Counsel for the State referred to statements under Section 161 CrPC, 1973 as an example of documents falling under the said category of inherently inadmissible evidence. CDRs do not fall in the said category of documents. We are satisfied that an objection that CDRs are unreliable due to violation of the procedure D prescribed in Section 65-B(4) cannot be permitted to be raised at this stage as the objection relates to the mode or method of proof. (emphasis supplied) E 43. While the Court in Arjun Panditrao Khotkar did not directly deal with the issue of allowing objections against CDRs, due to a violation of the procedure under Section 65B, being raised at a belated stage, it kept it open for trial courts, in exceptional cases, to allow the prosecution to provide such certificate at a later stage.It held that: 54. Therefore, in terms of general procedure, the prosecution is F obligated to supply all documents upon which reliance may be placed to an Accused before commencement of the trial. Thus, the exercise of power by the courts in criminal trials in permitting evidence to be filed at a later stage should not result in serious or irreversible prejudice to the Accused. A balancing exercise in G respect of the rights of parties has to be carried out by the court, in examining any application by the prosecution Under Sections 91 or 311 of the Code of Criminal Procedure or Section 165 of the Evidence Act. Depending on the facts of each case, and the Court exercising discretion after seeing that the Accused is not prejudiced by want of a fair trial, the Court may in H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1043 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] appropriate cases allow the prosecution to produce such A certificate at a later point in time.