[Para 7.3, 8][1120-H; 1121-A-C] 1.2 As regards, the observations made by the High Court to the effect that the High Court cannot, in exercise of powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India extend the period under the Scheme, 2019, to some extent the High Court is right. D The High Court while exercising the powers under Article 226 of the Constitution of India cannot extend the Scheme. However, in the instant case it is not a case of extension of the Scheme by the High Court. It is a case of taking remedial measures. It is not a case where the appellant did not make any application within E the stipulated time under the Scheme. This is not a case where the Form No.3 determining the settlement amount was not issued during the validity of the Scheme. It is not a case where the appellant deliberately did not deposit the settlement amount and/ or there was any negligence on the part of the appellant in not depositing the settlement amount within the stipulated time. It F is a case where the appellant was unable to make the payment due to the legal impediment and the bar to make the payment during the period of moratorium in view of the provisions of the IBC. There may be extra ordinary cases which are required to be considered on facts of each case. The courts are meant to do G justice and cannot compel a person to do something which was impossible for him to do. [Para 8.1][1121-D-F; 1122-A] 1.3. As regards, the ground given by the High Court, that the Designated Committees are not in existence, is concerned, it is required to be noted that the CBCE has issued a circular H M/S. SHEKHAR RESORTS LIMITED (UNIT HOTEL ORIENT 1113 TAJ) v. UNION OF INDIA that in a case where the High Court/courts have passed an A setting aside the rejection of the claim under the Scheme after 30.06.2020, the applications can be processed manually. In many cases the High Courts have remanded the matter to the Designated Committees which consist of the officers of the Department and the applications thereafter are processed B manually. [Para 8.2] 1.4 As the appellant was not in a position to deposit the settlement amount at the relevant time, more particularly on or before 30.06.2020 due to legal impediment and the bar to make the payment of settlement amount in view of the mortarium under C the IBC, and as it is found that the appellant was otherwise entitled to the benefit under the Scheme as the Form No.1 submitted by the appellant has been accepted, the Form No.3 determining the settlement amount has been issued, the High Court has erred in refusing to grant any relief to the appellant as prayed. [Para D 9][1122-D-E] 1.5 The impugned and passed by the High Court is quashed and set aside. It is directed that the payment of Rs.1,24,28,500/- already deposited by the appellant be appropriated towards settlement dues under “Sabka Vishwas E (Legacy Dispute Resolution) Scheme, 2019” and the appellant be issued discharge certificate.