20. Mr. Rajesh Jain, appearing in-person has contended that there is a serious fl aw in the approach of the Courts below while appreciating the evidence on record. According to him, the signature on the cheque not being under dispute, and the presumption under Section 139 having been drawn against the accused, there was nothing available on record to suggest that the accused had discharged his onus of rebutting the presumption. He drew our attention to the reasoning given in the s of acquittal to contend that courts below had erroneously proceeded to appreciate the evidence as though the onus was on the complainant to prove that ‘the cheque was issued in discharge of a debt’. Once the presumption operates, the onus rests on the accused to prove the non- existence of debt/liability and the courts could not have doubted the complainant’s case from any point of view. He fi nally argued that the respondent cannot be said to have raised a ‘probable defence’ since the case set up in defence was full of inconsistencies and bereft of any evidence. He, accordingly, prays that concurrent fi ndings be set aside, and an of conviction be passed against the accused. 21. Mr. Yudhvir Dalal, learned counsel has contended that this Court, while hearing an appeal by special leave, must be extremely slow to interfere against concurrent fi ndings. Merely because another view can be taken on reappreciation of the evidence, is no ground to interfere; on the merits, he contends that the accused has discharged the burden fastened by 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. raising a ‘probable defence’, which meets the standard of ‘preponderance of probabilities. He has relied on a few s to contend that the presumption can be rebutted even without leading any rebuttal evidence. In this regard, he submits that it is always open to the accused to rely on the materials produced by the complainant for disproving the existence of a legally enforceable debt or liability. He submits that the complaint is lacking in material particulars-it fails to state the total sum loaned, the dates on which the loans were given, the basis on which the demand was made for a sum of Rs. 6,95,204/-. These facts coupled with other circumstances has justifi ably created a doubt in the mind of the court as to the genuineness of the complainant’s case and therefore, courts below were justifi ed in disbelieving the complainant’s version. On these grounds he prays for dismissal of the appeal. 22. We have taken note of the rival submissions canvassed and have perused the record. Question for Consideration 23. Since the execution of the cheque is, admittedly, not under dispute, the limited question to be considered, is (i) whether the accused can be said to have discharged his ‘evidential burden’, for the courts below to have concluded that the presumption of law supplied by Section 139 had been rebutted? 23.1 If the answer to this question is found in the affi rmative, the next question to be considered is (i) whether the complainant has, in the absence of the artifi cial force supplied by the presumption under Section 139, independently proved beyond reasonable doubt that the cheque was issued in discharge of a debt/liability?