E 29. Although the questions for consideration before the Constitution bench, were with specific regard to the possible restraints on unwarranted and disparaging speech by public functionaries, the observations made hereinabove, will apply with equal force to public functionaries, celebrities/ influencers as well as all citizens of India, more so because technology F is being used as a medium of communication which has a wide spectrum of impact across the globe. 30. The internet represents a communication revolution and has enabled us to communicate with millions of people worldwide, with no more difficulty than communicating with a single person, at a click or by G touch on a screen. Ironically, the very qualities of the internet that have revolutionised communication are amenable to misuse. The internet, through various social media platforms has accelerated the pace as well as the reach of messages, comments and posts to such an extent that the difference between a celebrity and a common man, has been H practically negated, in so far as the reach of their speech is concerned. KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 767 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 31. However, given the specific submission of the petitioners herein A that disparaging and vitriolic speech expressed at various levels of political authority have exacerbated a climate bing on intolerance and tension in the society, which perhaps may lead to insecurity, it may be appropriate to sound a strong word of warning in this regard. 32. It may be appropriate at this juncture to refer to the writings B of Michael Rosenfeld, on the key variables which determine the impact of hate speech. One of the key variables highlighted by the learned author in his paper titled “Hate Speech in Constitutional Jurisprudence: A Comparative Analysis,” published in Cardozo Law Review, is the question as to “who” the speaker is. The learned author notes that speech C made by a person of influence, such as a top government or executive functionary, opposition leader, political or social leader of following, or a credible anchor on a TV show carries far more credibility and impact than a statement made by a common person. Public functionaries and other persons of influence and celebrities, D having regard to their reach, real or apparent authority and the impact they wield on the public or on a certain section thereof, owe a duty to the citizenry at large to be more responsible and restrained in their speech. They are required to understand and measure their words, having regard to the likely consequences thereof on public sentiment and behaviour, and also be aware of the example they are setting for fellow citizens to E follow. 33. While there are no infallible rules that can be formulated by the Court to define the precise threshold of acceptable speech, every citizen’s conscious attempt to abide by the Constitutional values, and to preserve in letter and spirit the culture contemplated under the Constitution F will significantly contribute in eliminating instances of societal discord, friction and disharmony, on account of disparaging, vitriolic and derogatory speech, particularly when made by public functionaries and/or public figures.