The questions before the three- Judge Bench in Rakesh Kumar Paul v. State of Assam, (2017) 15 SCC 67: (2018) 1 SCC (Cri) 401, were whether, fi rstly, the 90-day remand extension under Section 167(2)(a)(i) would be applicable in respect of off ences where the maximum period of imprisonment was 10 years, though the minimum period was less than 10 years. Secondly, whether the application for bail fi led by the accused could be construed as an application for default bail, even though the expiry of the statutory period under Section 167(2) had not been specifi cally pleaded as a ground for bail. The majority opinion held that the 90-day limit is only available in respect of off ences where a minimum ten years imprisonment period is stipulated, and that the oral arguments for default bail made by the counsel for the accused before the High Court would suffi ce in lieu of a written application. This was based on the reasoning that the court should not be too technical in matters of personal liberty. Madan B. Lokur, J. in his majority opinion, pertinently observed as follows: (SCC pp. 95-96 & 99, paras 29, 32 & 41) ‘29. Notwithstanding this, the basic legislative intent of completing investigations within twenty-four hours and also within an otherwise time-bound period remains unchanged, even though that period has been extended over the years. This is an indication that in addition to giving adequate time to complete investigations, the legislature has also and always put a premium on personal liberty and has always felt that it would be unfair to an accused to remain in custody for a prolonged or indefi nite period. It is for this reason and also to hold the investigating 910 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. agency accountable that time-limits have been laid down by the legislature.… *** 32. … Such views and opinions over a prolonged period have prompted the legislature for more than a century to ensure expeditious conclusion of investigations so that an accused person is not unnecessarily deprived of his or her personal liberty by remaining in prolonged custody for an off ence that he or she might not even have committed. In our opinion, the entire debate before us must also be looked at from the point of view of expeditious conclusion of investigations and from the angle of personal liberty and not from a purely dictionary or textual perspective as canvassed by the learned counsel for the State. *** 41. We take this view keeping in mind that in matters of personal liberty and Article 21 of the Constitution, it is not always advisable to be formalistic or technical. The history of the personal liberty jurisprudence of this Court and other constitutional courts includes petitions for a writ of habeas corpus and for other writs being entertained even on the basis of a letter addressed to the Chief Justice or the Court.’ Therefore, the courts cannot adopt a rigid or formalistic approach whilst considering any issue that touches upon the rights contained in Article 21.