Shortly put, the syllogism runs thus: violation of a rule of natural justice results in arbitrariness which is the same as discrimination; where discrimination is the result of State action, it is a violation of Article 14: therefore, a violation of a principle of natural justice by a State action is a violation of Article D 14. Article 14, however, is not the sole repository of the principles of natural justice. What it does is to guarantee that any law or State action violating them will be struck down. The principles of natural justice, however, apply not only to legislation and State action but also where any tribunal, authority or body of men, not coming within the E definition of State in Article 12, is charged with the duty of deciding a matter. In such a case, the principles of natural justice require that it must decide such matter fairly and impartially.” (emphasis supplied) 70. In Cantonment Board v. Taramani Devi51, a two-judge F bench of this Court held that the rule of audi alteram partem is a part of Article 14. Similarly, in Delhi Transport Corporation v. DTC Mazdoor Congress52, this Court observed that the rule of audi alteram partem enforces the equality clause in Article 14. Therefore, any administrative action which violates the rule of audi alteram partem is arbitrary and G violative of Article 14. 71. Administrative proceedings which entail significant civil consequences must be read consistent with the principles of natural 51 1992 Supp (2) SCC 501 H 52 1991 Supp (1) SCC 600 STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 523 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] justice to meet the requirement of Article 14. Where possible, the rule of A audi alteram partem ought to be read into a statutory rule to render it compliant with the principles of equality and non-arbitrariness envisaged under Article 14. The Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly provide the borrowers an opportunity of being heard before classifying the borrower’s account as fraud. Audi alteram partem must then be B read into the provisions of the Master Directions on Frauds. 72. In Olga Tellis v. Bombay Municipal Corporation53, a Constitution Bench of this Court was called upon to adjudge the validity of Section 314 of the Bombay Municipal Corporation Act, 1888. The provision enabled the Municipal Commissioner to remove, without notice, C any object, structure or fixture which was set up in or upon any street. Chief Justice Y V Chandrachud delivering the of the Constitution Bench held that the impugned provision must be construed to ensure that the procedure contemplated is fair and reasonable. It was further held: D 44. […] What Section 314 provides is that the Commissioner may, without notice, cause an encroachment to be removed. It does not command that the Commissioner shall, without notice, cause an encroachment to be removed. Putting it differently, Section 314 confers on the Commissioner the discretion to cause an E encroachment to be removed with or without notice.