5.The learned Judicial Magistrate First Class vide dated 6th November 2004 dismissed the complaint. Being aggrieved thereby, the revision petition came to be filed. F 6. Learned Additional Sessions Judge, Nagpur vide dated 14th March 2005 has held that such a complaint could not have been filed except in writing of the Court concerned or some other Court, that too a subordinate one. G 7. Learned Additional Sessions Judge, however, found that the allegations made by the revision petitioners were serious in nature, and therefore, directed that if any application is filed by the appellant under Section 340 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 (for short, “Cr.P.C.”), the learned JMFC would make a suitable preliminary enquiry and H 822 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A thereafter, record his finding to that effect as contemplated under Section 340 of the Cr.P.C. 8. The said passed by the Revisional Court came to be challenged by the appellant before the High Court in an application filed under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C. The same came to be rejected. Hence, B the present appeal. 9.We have heard Mr. Sachin Patil, learned counsel appearing for the appellant and Mr. Rahul Chitnis and Mr. Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, learned counsel appearing for the respondents. 10.Mr. Sachin Patil submits that the alleged forgery had not been C committed during the pendency of the proceedings. It is submitted that it is the contention of the appellant that the respondents had forged the documents earlier and used them in the proceedings initiated against the appellant. It is, therefore, submitted that the bar of Section 195 of the Cr.P.C. would not be applicable. D 11.Mr. Sachin Patil has relied on the of the Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Iqbal Singh Marwa and Another v. Meenakshi Marwah and Another1. 12.Mr. Sachin Patil further submits that though the of the Constitution Bench was cited before the learned Single Judge of the E High Court, it did not consider the same in correct perspective. 13.Mr. Rahul Chitnis, on the contrary, submits that the appellant has already accepted the passed by the Revisional Court and filed an application under Section 340 of the Cr.P.C. before the learned Magistrate. He further submits that, on account of the interim relief F granted in the present appeal, the said application could not be proceeded further. He submits that as such, the question that is involved in the present matter is purely an academic question in which the Court should not go. 14.Mr. Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, supports the submission made G by Mr. Rahul Chitnis. 15. The narrow question that requires to be considered is as to whether the embargo under Section 195 of the Cr.P.C. would be applicable when the allegation that the documents which are sought to H 1 (2005) 4 SCC 370 ASHOK GULABRAO BONDRE v. VILAS MADHUKARRAO 823 DESHMUKH AND OTHERS [B. R. GAVAI, J.] be used as evidence were already fabricated and forged prior to filing in A evidence.