Three principles of law are discernible from the aforesaid D decision of this Court. First, ordinarily on the completion of the work, the right to receive the payment begins. Secondly, a dispute arises when there is a claim on one side and its denial/repudiation by the other and thirdly, a person cannot postpone the accrual of cause of action by repeatedly writing letters or sending reminders. In other words, ‘bilateral E discussions’ for an indefinite period of time would not save the situation so far as the accrual of cause of action and the right to apply for appointment of arbitrator is concerned. 38. In Union of India and Another v. M/s L. K. Ahuja and Co., reported in (1988) 3 SCC 76, this Court in paras 6 and 8 respectively of the has laid down the ratio with regard to the limitation period F applicable in arbitration proceeding. Paras 6 and 8 respectively read as under: “6. It appears that these questions were discussed in the decision of the Calcutta High Court in Jiwnani Engineering Works Pvt. Ltd. v. Union of India [AIR 1978 Cal 228] where G one of us (Sabyasachi Mukharji, J.) was a party and which held after discussing all these authorities that the question whether the claim sought to be raised was barred by limitation or not, was not relevant for an under Section 20 of the Act. Therefore, there are two aspects. One is whether the claim H made in the arbitration is barred by limitation under the M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 619 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] relevant provisions of the Limitation Act and secondly, whether A the claim made for application under Section 20 is barred. In to be a valid claim for reference under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, 1940, it is necessary that there should be an arbitration agreement and secondly differences must arise to which the agreement in question applied and, thirdly, that B must be within time as stipulated in Section 20 of the Act. xxx xxx xxx 8. In view of the well settled principles we are of the view that C it will be entirely a wrong to mix up the two aspects, namely, whether there was any valid claim for reference under Section 20 of the Act and, secondly, whether the claim to be adjudicated by the arbitrator, was barred by lapse of time. The second is a matter which the arbitrator would decide unless, however, if on admitted facts a claim is found at the D time of making an under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, to be barred by limitation. In to be entitled to ask for a reference under Section 20 of the Act, there must be an entitlement to money and a difference or dispute in respect of the same. It is true that on completion of the work, right to get E payment would normally arise and it is also true that on settlement of the final bill, the right to get further payment gets weakened but the claim subsists and whether it does subsist, is a matter which is arbitrable.