Extent of Court intervention- In matters governed by this Law, no court shall intervene except where so provided in this Law.” Section 5 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 reads as under: “5. Extent of judicial intervention.—Notwithstanding anything C contained in any other law for the time being in force, in matters governed by this Part, no judicial authority shall intervene except where so provided in this Part.” [emphasis supplied] D 35. Additionally, reflecting on the purpose of Article 5, Dr. Peter Binder in UNCITRAL Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, 198540 notes: “1-107 : According to the Commission Report, the purpose of Article 5 was “to achieve a certainty as to the maximum extent of judicial intervention, including assistance, in international E commercial arbitration, by compelling the drafters to list in the (model) law on international commercial arbitration all instances of court intervention. The Analytical Commentary describes the effect of Article 5 as being “to exclude any general or residual powers given to the courts in a domestic system which are not F listed in the model law” In addition to the great advantage of providing clarity of law, which is particularly important for foreign parties(protecting them from unwanted legal surprises, Article 5 also functions to accelerate the arbitral process in allowing less of a chance G of delay caused by intentional and dilatory court proceedings.” [emphasis supplied] 40 P. Binder, International Commercial Arbitration And Conciliation In UNCITRAL Model Law Jurisdictions 274 (2nd ed., Sweet & Maxwell London 2005) P. 50-51 H 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 36. A collective reading of the Statement of Object and Reasons of the Arbitration Act, 1996 r/w Section 5 of the Act, and Article 5 of the Model Law, would make it abundantly clear that the legislative intent behind the enactment was to inter alia,minimise the intervention of the Courts and provide for timely resolution of disputes. By adding a non- obstante clause, the Parliament through Section 5 made a significant B departure from Article 5 and gave an overriding effect over the provisions of any other law for the time being in force. It circumscribed the role of the judicial authority, especially in context of the Courts exercising any residual power that may accrue to them through any provision in any law. C 37. Let us now refer to the unamended Section 11(6)of the Arbitration Act, 1996 which is based on the Article 11 of the UNCITRAL Model law: “11 Appointment of arbitrators. — D (6) Where, under an appointment procedure agreed upon by the parties,— (a) a party fails to act as required under that procedure; or (b) the parties, or the two appointed arbitrators, fail to reach an E agreement expected of them under that procedure; or (c) a person, including an institution, fails to perform any function entrusted to him or it under that procedure, a party may request the Chief Justice or any person or institution designated by him to take the necessary measure, unless the agreement on the F appointment procedure provides other means for securing the appointment.” 38.