181. In the cases pertaining to Maharashtra, MSEB or its D successor the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd. placed specific reliance on Condition 23 of the statutory Conditions of Supply. Condition 23 is the only clause in the statutory provisions which pertains to the liability of a person who acquires the property of the erstwhile consumer in circumstances specified thereunder. Circular 607 dated 19 E December 1998 is stated to emanate from Condition 23(b) of the Conditions of Supply. The Bihar State Electricity Board in Isha Marbles (supra) did not have a specific condition having a similar effect as Condition 23. 182. In Hyderabad Vanaspathi (supra) this Court held that the Conditions of Supply in the State of Andhra Pradesh, notified in exercise F of the powers conferred by Section 49 of the 1948 Act, are statutory in character. The Court noted that no regulation has been made under Section 79(j) of the 1948 Act. 183. In the present case, the appellant-Board in exercise of its powers under Section 49 of the Electricity Supply Act formulated the G MSEB Conditions of Supply. Accordingly, the MSEB Conditions of Supply are statutory in nature. 184. When a provision having a statutory force and effect is relied upon by the Electric Utilities to impose the liability of clearing the outstanding dues of the erstwhile consumer on a third party, it is for the H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 731 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] courts to determine whether the said statutory provision is applicable to A the facts of the case before it. In Special Officer, Commerce, North Eastern Electricity Supply Company of Orissa v. Raghunath Paper Mills Private Limited,81 this Court observed that Regulation 13(10)(b) of the Orissa Electricity Regulatory Commission Distribution (Conditions of Supply), Code, 2004 was inapplicable to the facts of the case as the B auction purchaser had requested for a fresh connection, whereas in terms of the concerned regulation, previous dues had to be cleared only with respect to a reconnection or a transfer of service connection from the name of the erstwhile consumer. 185. The submission of the appellant on the applicability of C Condition 23 rests on the meaning and scope of Condition 23 in relation to the liability of a person who becomes the new owner or occupier of the premises of the erstwhile consumer, to which electricity was being supplied. Condition 23 is extracted below: “Clause 23: Assignment or Transfer of Agreement D a) The consumer shall not without previous consent in writing of the Board, assign, transfer or part with the benefit of his Agreement with the Board nor shall the consumer in any manner part with or create any partial or separate interest thereunder. b) A consumer who commits breach of condition 23(a) above E and neglects to pay to the Board any charges for energy or to deposit with the Board amount of security deposit or compensation and the supply of such consumer is disconnected under Section 24 of the Indian Electricity Act, 1910 or under condition no.