There is nothing in the language of Section A 269-UD or any other provision in the said Chapter which would negate such an opportunity being given. Moreover, if such a requirement were not read into the provisions of the said Chapter, they would be seriously open to challenge on the ground of violations of the provisions of Article 14 B on the ground of non-compliance with principles of natural justice. The provision that when an for purchase is made under Section 269-UD — reasons must be recorded in writing is no substitute for a provision requiring a reasonable opportunity of being heard before such an is made. C (emphasis supplied) 75. In Sahara India (Firm), Lucknow v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Central-I56, a two-judge bench of this Court was called upon to decide whether an opportunity of being heard has to be granted to an assesee before any direction could be issued under section 142(2- D A) of the Income Tax Act, 1961 for special audit of the accounts of the assessee. This Court held that since the exercise of power under section 142(2-A) of the Income Tax Act leads to serious civil consequences for the assesee, the requirement of observing the principles of natural justice is to be read into the said provision. E 76. In Kesar Enterprises Ltd v. State of Uttar Pradesh57, the Court dealt with a challenge to the validity of Rule 633(7) of the Uttar Pradesh Excise Manual which allowed the imposition of a penalty for breach of the conditions of a bond without expressly issuing a show- cause notice. D K Jain, J speaking on behalf of the two-judge bench held that a show-cause notice should be issued and an opportunity of F being heard should be afforded before an under Rule 633(7) is made. The Court held that the rule would be open to challenge for being violative of Article 14 of the Constitution unless the requirement of an opportunity to show cause is read into it. The Court observed: 30. Having considered the issue, framed in para 16, on the G touchstone of the aforenoted legal principles in regard to the applicability of the principles of natural justice, we are of the opinion that keeping in view the nature, scope and 56 (2008) 14 SCC 151 57 (2011) 13 SCC 733 H 526 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A consequences of direction under sub-rule (7) of Rule 633 of the Excise Manual, the principles of natural justice demand that a show-cause notice should be issued and an opportunity of hearing should be afforded to the person concerned before an under the said Rule is made, notwithstanding the fact that the said Rule does not contain B any express provision for the affected party being given an opportunity of being heard. […] 32. In our view, therefore, if the requirement of an opportunity C to show cause is not read into the said Rule, an action thereunder would be open to challenge as violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India on the ground that the power conferred on the competent authority under the provision is arbitrary.