Mesne profi ts accrue from day to day and the cause of action is a continuing one, and arises out of the continued misappropriation of the profi ts to which the plaintiff is entitled. …” (Emphasis supplied) 65. In the said passage, what has been considered, was the issue relating to the maintainability of the second Suit for pendente lite and future mesne profi ts, in a situation, where an earlier suit for recovery of possession and for past mesne profi ts had been decided. We notice that what the Court has essentially held is that but for IV Rule 870 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 210 of the CPC, as it stood specifi cally providing for joining a claim for mesne profi ts with one for recovery of possession of an immovable property, such a joining together of claims in one suit, may have been not allowed. It is thereafter stated that a claim for mesne profi ts can only be brought in respect of profi ts within three years of the institution of the suit. Still further, it is found that the date of cause of action for action for mesne profi ts may not coincide with the date of cause of action for recovery of possession. It is thereafter that the statement which is relied upon by the respondent has been made. The Court held that mesne profi ts accrue from day-to-day, and the cause of action is a continuing one. It arises out of the continued misappropriation of the profi ts, which a plaintiff is entitled to.” 16. If considered in the light of the facts of the case in hand, it is undisputed that the respondent-plaintiff is the absolute owner of the property in dispute at present. The lease of the property in favour of the appellants by the predecessors-in-interest of the respondents expired on 31.12.1997. After a prolonged litigation, the possession was handed over to the respondent only in June 2022. The fi rst suit was fi led seeking possession of the property. No claim was made regarding mesne profi ts. Subsequent suit was fi led claiming damages for use and occupation of the property from 1998 onwards. 17. In view of the enunciation of law, as referred to above, suit for possession and suit for claiming damages for use and occupation of the property are two diff erent causes of action. There being diff erent consideration for adjudication, in our opinion, second suit fi led by the respondent claiming damages for use and occupation of the premises was maintainable. The application fi led by the appellants for rejection of the plaint was rightly dismissed by the Courts below. However, the appellants are well within their right to raise the issue, if any part of the claim in the suit is time-barred but the entire claim cannot be said to be so. 18. The in Virgo Industries (Eng.) Private Limited’s case (supra), relied upon by learned counsel for the appellants is distinguishable as in that case, on the date the suit for injunction was fi led, even as per the averments in the plaint, the cause of action to fi le suit for specifi c 10 Apparently, there is an error.