H 1020 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Moreover, the court cannot be an indifferent by-stander in the process. The process and powers of the court may be utilised to ensure that such material is made available to it to form a just sentencing decision bearing on the probability of reform. [Para 79][1061-D-F] B 1.7 The duty of the court to enquire into mitigating circumstances as well as to foreclose the possibility of reformation and rehabilitation before imposing the death penalty has been highlighted in multiple s of this Court. Despite this, in the present case, no such enquiry was conducted and the grievous nature of the crime was the only factor that was considered while C awarding the death penalty. [Para 81][1062-H; 1063-A] 1.8 The fact remains that no mitigating circumstances were placed before any of the appellate courts. It cannot be said that there is no possibility of reformation even though the petitioner has committed a ghastly crime. The mitigating factors that the D petitioner has no prior antecedents, was 23 years old when he committed the crime and has been in prison since 2009 where his conduct has been satisfactory, except for the attempt to escape prison in 2013; that the petitioner is suffering from a case of systemic hypertension and has attempted to acquire some basic E education in the form of a diploma in food catering; that the acquisition of a vocation in jail has an important bearing on his ability to lead a gainful life, must be considered. Considering the above factors, even though the crime committed by the petitioner is unquestionably grave and unpardonable, it is not appropriate to affirm the death sentence that was awarded to him. The ‘rarest F of rare’ doctrine requires that the death sentence not be imposed only by taking into account the grave nature of crime but only if there is no possibility of reformation in a criminal. However, the Court is also aware that a sentence of life imprisonment is subject to remission. This would not be adequate in view of the gruesome G crime committed by the petitioner. [Para 88-90][1064-E-H; 1065- A] 1.9 There is no reason to doubt the guilt of the petitioner in kidnapping and murdering the victim. The exercise of the jurisdiction in review to interfere with the conviction is not warranted. However, the Court does take note of the arguments H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1021 POLICE regarding the sentencing hearing not having been conducted A separately in the trial court and mitigating circumstances having not been considered in the appellate courts before awarding the capital punishment to the petitioner. While weighing this argument, the gruesome nature of the crime of murder of a young child of merely 7 years of age has also weighed upon the Court B and the Court does not find that a sentence of life imprisonment, which normally works out to a term of 14 years, would be proportionate in the circumstances.