D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 567 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] from that of a non-owner in possession in that the latter’s interest A is subject to be determined at some future time. Fifthly, ownership has a residuary character. Salmond also notes the distinction between legal and equitable ownership. Legal ownership is that which has its origin in the rules of the common law, while equitable ownership is that which proceeds from rules of equity different B from the common law. The courts of common law in England refused to recognise equitable ownership and denied the equitable owner as an owner at all.” 53. The Court further took the view that it was not concerned with the expression ‘owner’ but it was dealing with the issue as to whether C the assets belonged to the assessee anymore. It was found that “mere possession or joint possession unaccompanied by the right of possession or ownership of property would not bring the property within the definition of net wealth for it would not be an asset belonging to “the assessee”. The decisions under the Income Tax Act were distinguished. In regard to R.B. Jodha Mal (supra),this Court finds the following discussion: D “17. This Court had occasion to discuss Section 9 of the Income Tax Act, 1922 and the meaning of the expression “owner” in the case of R.B. Jodha Mal Kuthiala v. CIT [(1971) 3 SCC 369 : AIR 1972 SC 126 : (1971) 82 ITR 570] . There it was held that for the purpose of Section 9 of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, the E owner must be the person who can exercise the rights of the owner, not on behalf of the owner but in his own right. An assessee whose property remained vested in the Custodian of Evacuee Property was not the owner of the property. This again as observed dealt with the expression of Section 9 of the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922. At p. 575 (SCC p. 373, para 11) of the report certain F observations were relied upon in to stress the point that these observations were in consonance with the observations of the Gujarat High Court which we shall presently note. We are, however, not concerned in this controversy at the present moment. It has to be borne in mind that in interpreting the liability for wealth G tax normally the equitable considerations are irrelevant. But it is well to remember that in the scheme of the administration of justice, tax law like any other laws will have to be interpreted reasonably and whenever possible in consonance with equity and justice. Therefore, specially in view of the fact that the expression used by the legislature has deliberately and significantly not used the H 568 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A expression “assets owned by the assessee” but assets “belonging to the assessee”, in our opinion, is an aspect which has to be borne in mind.” The question was, therefore, answered in favour of the revenue and it was found that the asset continued to belong to the assessee for B the purpose of Wealth Tax.