This Court held that the term “person” under Section 50 would mean a natural person or a living unit and not an artifi cial person i.e., a bag or a briefcase. 84. The case of the prosecution in Pawan Kumar (supra) was that two head constables namely, Hukum Singh and Munshi Ram and some police personnel were checking buses at the bus - stand, Mandi in the night of 18.07.1994. While checking a bus at about 8.45 p.m., they noticed that the RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 345 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] accused Pawan Kumar (respondent accused therein), who was carrying a bag, slipped out from the rear door of the bus and thereafter started running towards the Subzi Mandi side. The police personnel got suspicious and after a chase apprehended him near the gate of bus stand. They felt smell of opium emitting from the bag, and, therefore, telephonically informed Prem Thakur, Deputy S.P./S.H.O., P.S. Sadar, Mandi. Prem Thakur came to the spot and inquired from the accused whether he wanted to be searched by police or by a Magistrate. The accused disclosed his name and expressed his willingness to be searched by the police. A search of the accused and the bag being carried by him was then conducted and 360 gms. of opium wrapped in polythene was found inside the bag. 85. This Court interpreted Section 50 strictly and stated that the cardinal rule of interpretation of statutes is to read the statute literally and give the words their grammatical and natural meaning. In this regard, it was held as under:- “8. One of the basic principles of interpretation of statutes is to construe them according to plain, literal and grammatical meaning of the words. If that is contrary to, or inconsistent with, any express intention or declared purpose of the Statute, or if it would involve any absurdity, repugnancy or inconsistency, the grammatical sense must then be modifi ed, extended or abridged, so far as to avoid such an inconvenience, but no further. The onus of showing that the words do not mean what they say lies heavily on the party who alleges it. He must advance something which clearly shows that the grammatical construction would be repugnant to the intention of the Act or lead to some manifest absurdity (See Craies on Statute Law, Seventh ed. page 83-85). In the well known treatise - Principles of Statutory Interpretation by Justice G.P. Singh, the learned author has enunciated the same principle that the words of the Statute are fi rst understood in their natural, ordinary or popular sense and phrases and sentences are construed according to their grammatical meaning, unless that leads to some absurdity or unless there is something in the context or in the object of the Statute to suggest the contrary (See the Chapter - The Rule of Literal Construction -p. 78 – 9th Edn.). This Court has also followed this principle right from the beginning. In Jugalkishore Saraf v. Raw Cotton Co. Ltd.: (1955) 1 SCR 1369 , S.R.