Dealing with submissions made by the accused counsel apropos lack of suffi cient opportunity to defend the accused, this Court held in paragraph 8 and 9 as follows: - “8. There is nothing on the record to show that, after his appointment as counsel for the appellant, Sri Shukla was given suffi cient time to prepare the defence. The - sheet maintained by the Judge seems to indicate that, as soon as the counsel was appointed, the charge was read out to the accused and, after his plea had been recorded, examination of witnesses began. The counsel, of course, did his best 4 AIR 1968 SC 1313 986 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. to cross-examine the witnesses to the extent it was possible for him to do in the very short time available to him. It is true that the record, also does not contain any note that the counsel asked for more time to prepare the defence, but that, in our opinion, is immaterial. The Rule casts a duty on the court itself to grant suffi cient time to the counsel for this -purpose and the record should show that the Rule was complied with by granting him time which the court considered suffi cient in the circumstances of the case. In this case, the record seems to show that the trial was proceeded with immediately after appointing the amicus curiae counsel and that, in fact, if any time at all was granted, it was nominal. In these circumstances, it must be held that there was no compliance with the requirements of this Rule. 9. In this connection, we may refer to the decisions of two of the High Courts where a similar situation arose. In Re: Alla Nageswara Rao, Petitioner(1) reference was made to Rule 228 of the Madras Criminal Rules of Practice which. provided for engaging a pleader at the cost of the State to defend an accused person in a case where a sentence of death could be passed. It was held by Subba Rao, Chief Justice as he then was, speaking for the Bench, that:- “ a mere formal compliance with this Rule will not carry out the object underlying the rule. A suffi cient time should be given to the advocate engaged on behalf of the accused to prepare his case and conduct it on behalf of his client. We are satisfi ed that the time given was insuffi cient and, in the circumstances, no real opportunity was given to the accused to defend himself.” This view was expressed on the basis of the fact found that the advocate had been engaged for the accused two hours prior to the trial. In Mathai Thommen v. State the Kerala High Court was dealing with a sessions trial in which the counsel was engaged to defend the accused on 02nd August, 1958, when the trial was posted to begin on 04th August, 1958, showing that barely more than a day was allowed to the counsel to get prepared and obtain instructions from the accused.