(2) The Central Government may, by notifi cation in the Offi cial Gazette, delegate to the telegraph authority all or any of its powers under the fi rst proviso to sub-section (1). 408 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. The exercise by the telegraph authority of any power so delegated shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Central Government may, by the notifi cation, think fi t to impose.” (3) Any person who is granted a license under the fi rst proviso to sub-section (1) to establish, maintain or work a telegraph within any part of India, shall identify any person to whom it provides its services by-- (a) authentication under the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefi ts and Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016); or (b) offl ine verifi cation under the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefi ts and Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016); or (c) use of passport issued under section 4 of the PassportsAct, 1967 (15 of 1967); or (d) use of any other offi cially valid document or modes of identifi cation as may be notifi ed by the Central Government in thisbehalf. (4) If any person who is granted a license under the fi rst proviso to sub-section (1) to establish, maintain or work a telegraph within any part of India is using authentication under clause (a) of sub-section (3) to identify any person to whom it provides its services, it shall make the other modes of identifi cation under clauses (b) to (d) of sub-section (3) also available to such person. (5) The use of modes of identifi cation under sub-section (3) shall be a voluntary choice of the person who is sought to be identifi ed and no person shall be denied any service for not having an Aadhaar number. (6) If, for identifi cation of a person, authentication under clause (a) of sub-section (3) is used, neither his core biometric information nor the Aadhaar number of the person shall be stored. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 409 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] (7) Nothing contained in sub-sections (3), (4) and (5) shall prevent the Central Government from specifying further safeguards and conditions for compliance by any person who is granted a license under the fi rst proviso to sub-section (1) in respect of identifi cation of person to whom it provides its services. Explanation.-- The expressions “Aadhaar number” and “core biometric information” shall have the same meanings as are respectively assigned to them in clauses (a) and (j) of section 2 of the Aadhaar (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other Subsidies, Benefi ts and Services) Act, 2016 (18 of 2016). xxx xxx “8. Revocation of licences:- The Central Government may, at any time, revoke any licence granted under section 4, on the breach of any of the conditions therein contained, or in default of payment of any consideration payable there under.” xxx xxx “PART IV PENALTIES 20. Establishing, maintaining or working unauthorized telegraph:– (1) If any person establishes, maintains or works a telegraph within India in contravention of the provisions of section 4 or otherwise than as permitted by rules made under that section, he shall be punished, if the telegraph is a wireless telegraph, with imprisonment which may extend to three years, or with fi ne, or with both, and in any other case, with a fi ne which may extend to one thousand rupees.