PRESIDENT MAHESH 111 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] (h) equity shareholders or partners, as the case may be. A (2) Any contractual arrangements between recipients under sub- section (1) with equal ranking, if disrupting the of priority under that sub-section shall be disregarded by the liquidator. (3) The fees payable to the liquidator shall be deducted B proportionately from the proceeds payable to each class of recipients under sub-section (1), and the proceeds to the relevant recipient shall be distributed after such deduction. Explanation.—For the purpose of this section— (i) it is hereby clarified that at each stage of the distribution of C proceeds in respect of a class of recipients that rank equally, each of the debts will either be paid in full, or will be paid in equal proportion within the same class of recipients, if the proceeds are insufficient to meet the debts in full; and (ii) the term “workmen’s dues” shall have the same meaning as D assigned to it in Section 326 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013).” In view of the enactment of IBC and Section 53 of the IBC, it necessitated to amend the Act, 2013. As per Sub-Section (7) of Section 327, Sections 326 and 327 shall not be applicable in the event of liquidation E under the IBC. The object and purpose of amending the Act, 2013 and to exclude Sections 326 and 327 in the event of liquidation under the IBC seems to be that there may not be two different provisions with respect to winding up/liquidation of a company. Therefore, in view of the enactment of IBC, it necessitated to exclude the applicability of Sections 326 and 327 of the Act, 2013 which cannot be said to be arbitrary F as contended on behalf of the petitioner. 6.1 At this stage, it is required to be noted that Sub-Section (7) of Section 327 of which the vires are under challenge, shall be applicable in case of liquidation of a company under the IBC. Meaning thereby, in case of liquidation of a company under IBC, the provisions of Section 53 G of the IBC and other provisions of the IBC shall be applicable as the company is ed to be liquidated or wound up under the provisions of IBC. Therefore, merely because under the earlier regime and in case of winding up of a company under the Act, 1956/2013, the dues of the workmen may have pari passu with that of the secured creditor, the H 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A petitioner cannot claim the same benefit in case of winding up/liquidation of the company under IBC. The parties shall be governed by the provisions of the IBC in case of liquidation of a company under the provisions of the IBC. 6.2 Now so far as Section 53 of the IBC is concerned, it provides B for distribution of the assets in case of liquidation of a company under IBC.