she is landless poor person, and is in occupation of the land by using the said land for agriculture or as house site, as on the date of taking possession by eviction: Provided that the reassignment in case of transferee shall be limited to only such an extent that the total holding of the reassignee including any other land held by him/her does not exceed 5.00 Acres dry land or 2 ½ Acres wet land: Provided further that where the transferee who has purchased the land and got reassignment of it, or his legal heir, transfers the reassigned land, the land shall be resumed for assignment to the other eligible landless poor: (ii) restore the said assigned land, other than those lands/ areas as may be notifi ed by the Government from time to time in public interest and for public purpose, to the original assignee, subject to the condition that he or she is landless poor person as on the date of restoration for one time; or (iii) assign to other eligible landless poor person: Provided that the restoration of land shall be limited to only such an extent that the total holding including any other land held by him/her does not exceed 5.00 Acres dry land or 2 ½ Acres wet land: Provided further that where the original assignee or his legal heir, after fi rst restoration transfers the assigned land, the land shall be resumed for assignment to the other eligible landless poor: Provided also that if no eligible landless poor persons are available in the village/area, the resumed land will be utilised for public purpose. Explanation: For the purpose of this clause “Public Interest” and “Public Purpose” shall mean and include, the Weaker Section Housing, Public Utility, Infrastructure Development, promotion of industries and Tourism or for any other public purpose; YADAIAH AND ANR. v. STATE OF TELANGANA AND 651 OTHERS [SURYA KANT, J.] (c) In the areas which may be notifi ed by Government from time to time, time, lands resumed under clause 4(a) above, shall be utilized for public purpose. x-x-x-x (5) For the purposes of this section, where any assigned land is in possession of a person, other than the original assignee or his legal heir, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that there is a contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 3.” (Emphasis Applied) 67. The Appellants have argued that Section 4 of the 1977 Act as it stood on the date when the resumption s were passed, i.e. 27.01.2007, only stipulated that a breach under Section 3 would result in possession of the land being taken over from the third party to whom the land was transferred and restored back to the original assignees. In other words, the Appellants contend that the Subject Land should be re-assigned to them as they are the legal heirs of the Assignees. 68. We have thoughtfully considered the submission. It is important at this to draw attention to the provisions of The Andhra Pradesh Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Act, 2007 [Hereinafter, ‘2007 Amendment’] through which Section 4(1)(c) was introduced.