In its I.A. No.12 of 2018 dated 4th March 2018 in Petition No.97/MP/2017, the Haryana Utilities have reiterated thus: “It is submitted that the entire quantum of domestic coal available from MCL under the FSA dated 9.6.2012 was to be exclusively used for generation and supply of electricity to the Haryana Utilities H under the PPA dated 7.8.2008. UTTAR HARYANA BIJLI VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. S ADANI 481 POWER (MUNDRA) LIMITED [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 39. It is further to be noted that the learned APTEL had, during A the course of the hearing, put a pertinent query to the learned counsel appearing for Haryana Utilities, as to whether the entire actual coal received from MCL was used towards the power supplied under the Haryana PPAs. To this query, it was replied thus: “During the hearing, Mr. Ramachandran admitted that Adani B Power has been using entire actual coal received from MCL towards the power supplied under the Haryana PPAs” 40. In view of this factual position that the entire domestic coal linkage came to be utilized for supplying power to Haryana Utilities, it is unjust, in our opinion, on the part of Haryana Utilities to say that 70% of C the installed capacity should be further bifurcated and the Change in Law benefit should be restricted only to 70% of the 70% of the installed capacity which was allotted by the SLC (LT). 41. Even according to Haryana Utilities, the entire coal covered under FSA was required to be utilized for generating power to be supplied D to it as per the Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU” for short). Therefore, denial of the benefit of shortfall of the coal assured under FSA, in our view, would be contrary to the restitutionary principle, as held by this Court in the cases of Energy Watchdog (supra) and Jaipur Vidyut Vitaran Nigam Ltd. and others v. Adani Power Rajasthan E Limited and another4. 42. In any case, the learned APTEL has clarified that AP(M)L was neither claiming nor was entitled to claim any Change in Law compensation beyond the one which was covered by linkage coal, i.e. 1386 MW. 43. The other limb of argument in this regard is that AP(M)L had F MoUs with foreign companies for import of coal. 44. To a specific query by the learned APTEL, it was fairly conceded by the learned counsel for Haryana Utilities that the MoUs were general in nature and not specific for Phase IV Mundra Power Plant. As such, the finding of the learned APTEL that the MoUs annexed G with the bid were only to show its competence to participate in the bid, and that it cannot be stretched to hold that the bidder was to procure imported coal to the extent of 30% for the project, cannot be said to be perverse. 4 2020 SCC Online SC 697 H 482 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 45. In the case of MSEDCL v. APML and Others (supra), this Court has elaborately referred to the earlier s of this Court and observed thus: “132.