While examining the scope of the entries this Court must necessarily keep in mind the scheme of the Constitution relevant in the context of the Entry in question. 28. A broad pattern can be identifi ed from the scheme of the three lists, the salient features of which are (i) Fields of legislation perceived to be of importance for sustaining the federation, are exclusively assigned to the Parliament, (ii) State legislatures are assigned only specifi ed fi elds of legislation unlike the US Constitution, (iii) Residuary legislative THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 189 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] power is conferred in the Parliament; (iv) taxing entries are distinct from the general entries24, and (v) List III does not contain a taxing entry, 29. At the same time, it can also be noticed that there is no logical uniformity in the scheme of the three lists contained in the Seventh Schedule.” 88. In Bondu Ramaswamy (supra) the provision in question was Article 243 ZE. This was inserted, by way of amendment, in the 73rd and 74th amendments of the Constitution of India which came into force on 24.04.1993 and 01.06.1993. The object of the amendments - as indeed their enacted provisions was to strengthen the democratic political government and grass root level in urban and semi-urban areas by providing constitutional status to municipalities and panchayats. Article 243ZF’s wording is identical to Section 19 in the present case. This court discussed the eff ect of Article 243ZF and stated as follows: “40. Any statute or provision thereof which is inconsistent with any constitutional provision will be struck down by the courts. Consequently, if the BDA Act or any provision of the BDA Act is found to be inconsistent with any provision of Part IX-A of the Constitution, it will be struck down by the courts as violative of the Constitution. In regard to any provision of any law relating to municipalities, Article 243-ZF suspends such invalidity or postpones the invalidity for a period of one year from 1-6-1993 to enable the competent legislature to remove the inconsistency by amending or repealing such law relating to municipalities to bring it in consonance with the provisions of Part IX-A of the Constitution. 41. Article 243-ZF is a provision enabling continuance of any provision of a law relating to municipalities in spite of such provision being inconsistent with the provisions of Part IX-A of the Constitution for a specifi ed period of one year. It does not extend the benefi t of continuance to any law other than laws relating to municipalities; it also does not provide for continuance of a law for one year, if the violation is in respect of any constitutional provision other than Part IX-A; and it does not declare any provision of a statute to be inconsistent with it nor declare any statute to be invalid. The invalidity 190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. of a statute is declared by a court when it fi nds a statute or its provision to be inconsistent with a constitutional provision.