149. The article notes that, while on one hand, on account of heavy rains, many of the houses were submerged in water, on the other hand, the city faced a huge shortage of drinking water. E 150. The article further notes that rapid expansion of the city with no appropriate thought given towards transportation and ease of mobility has led to nightmarish traffic jams on its arterial roads. It notes that, almost overnight, Bengaluru’s municipal jurisdiction grew from 200 sq. km. to 800 sq. km. It observes that the only one to benefit was the politician-businessman-builder nexus, which has thrived. It further noted F that though posh colonies mushroomed in new areas, the infrastructure lagged, as roads remained narrow, the drainage poor, and no adequate provision for garbage disposal too. 151. The article notes that the primary canals known locally as rajakaluves were once natural rain-fed streams across which farmers built small bunds over time, to arrest the flow of water and create lakes. G It further notes that these interlinked man-made lakes worked as a storm-water drain network. However, in to meet the demand for space for construction and roads, the administrators allowed the lakes to be breached regularly. The lakes, which once numbered a thousand-odd, are now reduced to a paltry number. Worse, the rajakaluves that H channelized the storm water had buildings built over them. RESIDENT’S WELFARE ASSOCIATION AND ANOTHER v. 671 THE UNION TERRITORY OF CHANDIGARH [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 152. The warning flagged by the city of Bengaluru needs to be A given due attention by the legislature, executive and the policy makers. It is high time that before permitting urban development, EIA of such development needs to be done. XII. CONCLUSION: 153. Taking overall view of the matter, we are of the considered B view that permitting redensification in Phase-I, which has heritage value, on account of being “Corbusian Chandigarh”, without the same being approved by the Heritage Committee, is contrary to the CMP-2031 itself. The CMP-2031 on one hand does not permit apartmentalization, however, on the other hand, it estimates the number of dwelling units to be triple of the plots available. Though on account of repeal of the 2001 Rules in the C year 2007 and on account of Rule 16 of the 2007 Rules, the High Court itself holds that apartmentalization is not permissible; it goes on to hold that though the developers/builders are in effect indulging into construction of three apartments in a building, the same does not amount to apartmentalization. In our view, this would amount to permitting something indirectly which is not permitted directly. The authorities of the Chandigarh D Administration are blindly sanctioning building plans, when from the building plans itself it is apparent that the same are in effect converting one dwelling unit into three apartments. Such a haphazard growth may adversely affect the heritage status of Phase-I of Chandigarh which is sought to be inscribed as a UNESCO’s heritage city. It is further to be E noted that though the Chandigarh Administration is permitting one dwelling unit to be converted into three apartments, its adverse effect on traffic has not been addressed.