To arrive at a more accurate present value of the 3 flats, the respondent C has bifurcated the admitted purchase price in 1989 into land and building components, in terms of the allotment letter and thereafter, the building component is escalated in terms of the CPWD cost index and the land component is escalated in terms of the increase in circle rate for land. Thus, according to the learned counsel, the present value of 3 flats has D rightly been arrived at Rs. 9.06 crore. 9.6.3. In regard to such value indicators, it has also been submitted on behalf of the respondent that undervaluing of transaction was that of common knowledge and this apart, value of the project has depreciated over the decades due to factors such as deterioration of the property E upon usage, depression in rates due to multiple litigations etc. Thus, the respondent has rightly placed on record the present cost of alternative 3 flats at about Rs 6.48 crore and has computed the loss of rent for 31 years at Rs 1.94 crore. Viewed from any angle, according to learned senior counsel, the amount receivable under the s impugned remains the minimum towards entitlement of the respondent. F 9.7. As regards the alternative submission of limiting the award of compound interest until the year 2005 in terms of Dr. Monga’s case, the learned senior counsel has submitted that the said proposition remains inapplicable to the present case for the reason that initial refund of money in Dr. Monga’s case was by way of a pay and thus, the appellants G did not utilize or retain the money after 30.04.2005 whereas in the present case, they merely attempted to send a cheque with the reply dated 08.11.2005 which was never encashed and was promptly returned by the respondent with rejoinder dated 30.11.2005 and such returned cheque was duly accepted by the appellants. In regard to the later decision in the case of K.L. Suneja v. Dr. (Mrs.) Manjeet Kaur Monga (supra), it H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1123 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] has also been submitted that the appellants rather conceded before this A Court that in case money was lying in their account, they would be liable to pay compound interest @ 15% p.a. until the money was paid by them. It has been submitted that, in the present case, money was debited from the appellants’ account for the first time only on 25.11.2020 when they deposited 25% of the award amount pursuant to the direction of the B National Commission. Even if they have made further payment according to the of this Court to the tune of Rs. 1 crore, compound interest must run on the remainder of the portion of the award amount, which the appellants have continued to retain and enjoy. 9.8. It has, therefore, been contended that the facts of the present C case are more egregious than the facts of the Dr. Monga’s case and in the overall circumstances, it would be appropriate and just to determine the compensation in keeping with the formula for measure of such compensation adopted in Dr. Monga’s case in to avoid unequal treatment to the respondent.