Hence, the present case is distinguishable on this aspect E also, as no such distinction is warranted in the case at hand. 48. Even otherwise, the High Court and other authorities have proceeded on the premise of a valid approval. They are completely silent on whether the post facto approval could be granted and if so, who granted such approval. Again, no records are produced and its not known F whether any approval was ever actually granted and when or by whom? 49.In our opinion, a reasoned finding on both the nature of Sale Deed as well as whether the same was violative of conditions of the 1924 Lease Deed goes to the heart of the present dispute, because of which the issue of determination of lease remains unanswered. Hence, G in light of the same we must also note that the Respondents’ claim on 8 State of U.P. (n 3). 9 U.P. Avas Evam Vikas Parishad (n 1). 10 Life Insurance Corpn. of India v. Escorts Ltd. (1986) 1 SCC 264. 11 Lord Krishna Textiles Mills Ltd. v. Workmen AIR 1961 SC 860. H 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the strength of doctrine of holding over or through doctrine of acquiescence as well as the reliance on the conduct of Appellants, remains in doldrums as the same are hinged on the finding in respect of determination of lease. However, before moving forward, we must highlight another aspect which requires application of mind by the High Court. We observe so for the reason that decades have passed in litigation, B and it would be extremely iniquitous to remand the case to revenue authorities at such a belated stage. C.3 RESPONDENT’S TITLE CLAIM THROUGH TENANCY LAW: THE CONUNDRUM OFVALIDITY OF REVENUE ENTRIES C 50.In the present case, revenue entries starting from 1948 have recorded the Respondents’ predecessor as ‘Occupancy Tenant’ on the strength of which they were accorded the status of ‘Sirdars’ vide the Zamindari Notification. Consequently, this led to predecessor of Respondents being accorded the status of ‘Bhumidhar’ as per the D applicable statutory scheme. Since these entries carry the statutory presumption of correctness in their favour, we must address them. 51.However, before delving into the issue of the tenancy status of the Respondents, it would be appropriate to highlight the legislative history of the term ‘Occupancy Tenants’. Under the U.P. Zamindari E Abolition and Land Reforms Act, 195012, it is assigned the same meaning as employed in the 1939 Actwhich is as follows- 28. Occupancy tenants - Every tenant, who is not a fixed rate tenant or an exproprietary tenant and who, at the commencement of this Act, has acquired a right of F occupancy under the Agra Tenancy Act, 1926, or any previous enactment relating to Agra, or under the Oudh Rent Act, 1886, shall be called an occupancy tenant, and shall have the rights and be subject to the liabilities conferred and imposed on occupancy tenants by this Act. G Hence by virtue of this definition, ‘Occupancy Tenants’ are the ones who have acquired a right of occupancy under the Agra Tenancy Act of 1926 and its legislative pre-enactment, i.e.