It is also true that when Bisahu Singh was admitted and treated in the hospital with the history of alleged administration of poison, and when he subsequently expired on the same day at 3.30 P.M., which HARIPRASAD @ KISHAN SAHU v. STATE OF 225 CHHATTISGARH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] required post-mortem to be carried out, the concerned SHO in the police station also could have registered the FIR instead of registering the case with Merg number. However, the explanation off ered by the prosecution that the FIR was not registered as the cause of death was not stated by the Doctor who carried out the post-mortem and the report of Chemical examiner was awaited, seems to be reasonable and acceptable. It appears that there was no mala fi de intention on the part of any of the witnesses or the police not to register the FIR or to delay the registration of FIR. It was only when the report of Chemical examiner was received, the FIR was registered on 03.11.2004. We are, therefore, inclined to hold that the FIR being only a corroborative piece of evidence and not a substantive piece of evidence, mere delay in registering the FIR could not be held to be a ground adverse to the case of prosecution. 19. This takes us to the next issue as to whether the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that the deceased had died due to the administration of poison and that administration was by the appellant- accused. 20. Before delving into the evidence adduced by the prosecution, it may be noted that this Court way back in 1984, in Sharad BirdhiChand Sarda vs. State of Maharashtra (supra), which has been followed in catena of decisions, had observed that in the case of murder by poison, the prosecution must prove following four circumstances: - “(1) there is a clear motive for an accused to administer poison to the deceased, (2) that the deceased died of poison said to have been administered, (3) that the accused had the poison in his possession, (4) that he had an opportunity to administer the poison to the deceased.” 21. Hence, let us see whether the prosecution had proved the said four circumstances in the instant case. So far as the motive part is concerned, there is hardly any evidence adduced by the prosecution to show that there was any motive for the appellant to administer poison to the deceased. Though, the PW-2 Ganeshi Bai and PW-3 her daughter Anita had stated that there was some land dispute going on between the accused and the deceased, except their bare version there was no other evidence produced 226 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. to substantiate that allegation. That apart, if there was enmity between the accused and the deceased, the deceased would not have gone to the house of the accused for consuming liquor. 22. The second circumstance that the deceased died of poison also does not seem to have been proved by the prosecution.