What have you to say? (iv) It is further in evidence against you that on the said date, time and place, co-accused Babu Ram used a fi rearm while committing the off ences punishable under Section 302/307/34 I.P.C and thus committed an off ence u/s 27 of Arms Act. What have you to say?” Apart from the incriminating circumstances extracted above, various other pieces of evidence such as injury reports, recovery memorandums, autopsy/ medical reports, etc. were put to the accused appellants while recording their statements under Section 313 CrPC. 37. The appellants denied the incriminating circumstances and stated that, - they were not present at the spot; they have been falsely implicated in this case because of being relatives of Sushil and Babu Ram; there was commotion in the locality, therefore they went to the house of their relatives to know the truth; there they were detained by the police and falsely implicated at the instance of the complainant. 38.On perusal of the records pertaining to recording of statement under Section 313 CrPC, we fi nd that the gist of the testimony of various witnesses delineating the exact role played by the appellants was not put to the appellants for the purposes of recording their statement. However, whether this by itself would vitiate their conviction is a question which needs determination. 39. In Tara Singh v. State21, this Court had the occasion to deal with the object of Section 342 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1898 which is in pari materia Section 313 CrPC. In that context, speaking for the Bench, Vivian Bose, J. observed: 21 AIR 1951 SC 441: 1951 SCC Online SC 49 SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 409 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] “38. The whole object of the section is to aff ord the accused a fair and proper opportunity of explaining circumstances which appear against him. The questioning must therefore be fair and must be couched in a form which an ignorant or illiterate person will be able to appreciate and understand. Even when an accused person is not illiterate, his mind is apt to be perturbed when he is facing a charge of murder. He is therefore in no fi t position to understand the signifi cance of a complex question. Fairness therefore requires that each material circumstance should be put simply and separately in a way that an illiterate mind, or one which is perturbed or confused, can readily appreciate and understand. I do not suggest that every error or omission in this behalf would necessarily vitiate a trial because I am of opinion that errors of this type fall within the category of curable irregularities. Therefore, the question in each case depends upon the degree of the error and upon whether prejudice has been occasioned or is likely to have been occasioned.” (Emphasis supplied) 40. In Alister Anthony Pareira v. State of Maharashtra22, summarising the law relating to examination of an accused under Section 313 CrPC, this Court observed: “ 61.