After all they have limitless potential. Lip service, hollow statements E and inert and inadequate laws with sloppy enforcement are not enough for true and genuine upliftment of our half most precious population—the women. 44. In what we have discussed above, we are of the considered view that guidelines in Vishaka should not remain symbolic and F the following further directions are necessary until legislative enactment on the subject is in place: 44.1. The States and Union Territories which have not yet carried out adequate and appropriate amendments in their respective Civil Services Conduct Rules (by whatever name these Rules are G called) shall do so within two months from today by providing that the report of the Complaints Committee shall be deemed to be an inquiry report in a disciplinary action under such Civil Services Conduct Rules. In other words, the disciplinary authority shall 67 (2013) 1 SCC 297 H 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A treat the report/findings, etc. of the Complaints Committee as the findings in a disciplinary inquiry against the delinquent employee and shall act on such report accordingly. The findings and the report of the Complaints Committee shall not be treated as a mere preliminary investigation or inquiry leading to a disciplinary action but shall be treated as a finding/report in an inquiry into the B misconduct of the delinquent. 44.2. The States and Union Territories which have not carried out amendments in the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Rules shall now carry out amendments on the same lines, as noted above in para 44.1 within two months. C 44.3. The States and Union Territories shall form adequate number of Complaints Committees so as to ensure that they function at taluka level, district level and State level. Those States and/or Union Territories which have formed only one committee for the entire State shall now form adequate number of Complaints D Committees within two months from today. Each of such Complaints Committees shall be headed by a woman and as far as possible in such committees an independent member shall be associated. 44.4. The State functionaries and private and public sector E undertakings/organisations/ bodies/institutions, etc. shall put in place sufficient mechanism to ensure full implementation of Vishaka guidelines and further provide that if the alleged harasser is found guilty, the complainant victim is not forced to work with/under such harasser and where appropriate and possible the alleged harasser should be transferred. Further provision should be made F that harassment and intimidation of witnesses and the complainants shall be met with severe disciplinary action. 44.5. The Bar Council of India shall ensure that all Bar Associations in the country and persons registered with the State Bar Councils follow Vishaka guidelines. Similarly, the Medical Council of India, G Council of Architecture, Institute of Chartered Accountants, Institute of Company Secretaries and other statutory institutes shall ensure that the organisations, bodies, associations, institutions and persons registered/affiliated with them follow the guidelines laid down by Vishaka. To achieve this, necessary instructions/ H AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 813 [HIMA KOHLI, J.]