.... …. …. …. …. …. THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS 35. Council of Ministers to aid and advise the Governor. (1) There shall be a council of Ministers with the Prime Minister at the head to aid and advise the Sadar-i-Riyasat in the exercise of his functions. (2) All functions of the Sadar-i-Riyasat except those under sections 36, 38 and 92 shall be exercised by him only on the advice of the Council of Ministers. (3) The question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered by Ministers to the Sadar-i-Riyasat shall not be inquired into in any court. .... …. …. …. …. …. 53. Session of the Legislature, prorogation and dissolution. (1) The Sadar-i-Riyasat shall from time to time summon each House of the Legislature to meet at such time and place as he thinks fi t, but six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its fi rst sitting in the next session. (2) The Sadar-i-Riyasat may from time to time – IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 317 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] (a) prorogue the Houses or either House (b) dissolve the Legislative Assembly. .... …. …. …. …. …. BREAKDOWN OF CONSTITUTIONAL MACHINERY 92. Provisions in case of failure of constitutional machinery in the State.- (1) If at any time the Governor is satisfi ed that a situation has arisen in which the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution, the Governor may by Proclamation- (a) assume to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by anybody or authority in the State; (b) make such incidental and consequential provisions as appear to the Governor to be necessary or desirable for giving eff ect to the objects of the Proclamation, including provisions for suspending in whole or in part the operation of any provision of this Constitution relating to anybody or authority in the State: Provided that nothing in this section shall authorise the Governor to assume to himself any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the High Court or to suspend in whole or in part the operation of any provision of this Constitution relating to the High Court. (2) Any such Proclamation may be revoked or varied by a subsequent Proclamation. (3) Any such Proclamation whether varied under sub-section (2) or not, shall except where it is a Proclamation revoking a previous Proclamation, cease to operate on the expiration of six months from the date on which it was fi rst issued. (4) If the Governor by a Proclamation under this section assumes to himself any of the powers of the Legislature to make laws, any law made by him in the exercise of that power shall, subject to the terms thereof, continue to have eff ect until two years have elapsed from the date on which the proclamation ceases to have eff ect, unless sooner 318 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.