(7) Where a criminal proceeding is manifestly attended with mala fide and/or where the proceeding is maliciously instituted with an ulterior motive for wreaking vengeance E on the accused and with a view to spite him due to private and personal grudge.” 23. These categories of cases have been quoted with approval by a bench of three judges in Neeharika Infrastructure Pvt. Ltd. v. State of Maharashtra12. The principles in respect of the exercise of F power under Section 482 CrPC have been summarised as under: A. The Police has a statutory right as well as a duty under the Code of Criminal Procedure to investigate cognizable offences; B. Courts are not to stymie any investigation into a cognizable G offence; C. When the perusal of the FIR however, does not disclose any offense of any nature whatsoever, the court is not to permit the investigation to proceed. H 12 2021 SCC OnLine 315 PEETHAMBARAN v. STATE OF KERALA & ANR. 1153 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] D. The powers under this section are to be used ‘sparingly’ A and with due circumspection. While doing so, the Court ought to consider whether the allegations in the FIR disclose the commission of the cognizable offence or not, without going into the merits of the case. E. In exercise of this power, it is not for the court to go into B questions of legitimacy or reliability of the allegations made in the FIR/Complaint; F. Quashing of a complaint should not acquire the stature of the rule, and should be a rarity, and nor should, in exercise of such power, an investigation be unnecessarily cut short; C G. The Police and the Courts are two distinct organs of the State with perspicuous spheres of activities, with complementary functions, and so, unwarranted interference by the latter into the former’s work is loathe, save in the interest of securing justice and preventing miscarriage D thereof; H. It must be noted that procedure is well establish to deal with an FIR upon which, post investigation, no merit is found, then the officer can file the suitable application to that effect which will be considered by the learned Magistrate seized E of the matter; 24. The offence alleged in the FIR is Section 420 IPC which is a serious form of cheating include inducement in terms of delivery of property and/or valuable securities. The ingredients that must be met in to constitute an offence under the section have been noted by this F Court in Vijay Kumar Ghai and Ors. v. State of West Bengal and Ors.13by a bench of two judges (consisting one of us, Krishna Murari, J. ): “35.To establish the offence of cheating in inducing the delivery of property, the following ingredients need to be proved: G (i) The representation made by the person was false. (ii) The accused had prior knowledge that the representation he made was false. 13 (2022) 7 SCC 124 H 1154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (iii) The accused made false representation with dishonest intention in to deceive the person to whom it was made.