The legislature, thus, while prescribing the summons trial procedure for inquiry by Board or Committee on age F determination of a juvenile claimant has not mandated any specific procedure for inquiry by the Court. It follows, by implication, that the Court can formulate its own procedure for conducting inquiry on this count. So far as the present case is concerned, this Court had directed inquiry to be conducted by the Inquiring Judge at the first level, before G whom the applicant and the prosecution had sufficient opportunity to present their version. The report of the Inquiring Judge was subsequently examined by us, again giving adequate opportunity to both sides. We have ourselves called for the original admission register from the school. The principal-in-charge of the school, Namrata Prabhusingh had given a H 1096 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A statement in writing at the inquiry stage, and the translated version of which appears at page 311 of the Inquiry Report. She has stated:- “With reference to aforesaid, the name of Niranaram s/o Chetanram, Jalabsar has been recorded in the Student Admission Register of our Rajkiya Adarsh Higher Secondary B School, Jalabsar, Shreedungargad at Student Admission No. 568. In accordance with the said record, his date of birth is written as 01.02.1982. No student by name Narayan was in our school.” (quoted verbatim from paperbook) C 29.In Ashwani Kumar Saxena (supra) two-Judge Bench of this Court, dealing with the provisions of the 2000 Act observed and held:- “25. Section 7-A, obliges the court only to make an inquiry, not an investigation or a trial, an inquiry not under the Code of Criminal Procedure, but under the JJ Act. The criminal D courts, Juvenile Justice Board, committees, etc. we have noticed, proceed as if they are conducting a trial, inquiry, enquiry or investigation as per the Code. The statute requires the court or the Board only to make an “inquiry” and in what manner that inquiry has to be conducted is provided in the JJ Rules. Few of the expressions used in Section 7-A and Rule E 12 are of considerable importance and a reference to them is necessary to understand the true scope and content of those provisions. Section 7-A has used the expressions “court shall make an inquiry”, “take such evidence as may be necessary” and “but not an affidavit”. The Court or the Board can accept F as evidence something more than an affidavit i.e. the Court or the Board can accept documents, certificates, etc. as evidence, need not be oral evidence. 26. Rule 12 which has to be read along with Section 7-A has also used certain expressions which are also to be borne in G mind. Rule 12(2) uses the expression “prima facie” and “on the basis of physical appearance” or “documents, if available”. Rule 12(3) uses the expression “by seeking evidence by obtaining”. These expressions in our view re- emphasise the fact that what is contemplated in Section 7-A and Rule 12 is only an inquiry.