Demand was raised by the Estate Manager, Housing Board Haryana, Sonepat after about 10 years directing them to pay additional price on account of enhanced compensation pertaining to the land on which the tenements were constructed. Interpreting the aforesaid clause, G this Court held that as per the condition provided for in the hire-purchase tenancy agreement, the cost of the tenements can be increased either on account of cost of construction or enhancement of compensation for acquisition of land. However, interpreting the clause further it was held H 3 (2012) 1 SCC 753 THE BELGAUM URBAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY V. 867 DHRUVA & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] that the demand raised from the allottees was not justified for the reason A that the clause itself provided that such a demand could be raised within seven years of allotment. Relevant paragraphs therefrom are extracted below: “10. A conjoint reading of the allotment letter and Clause 2(w) of the hire-purchase tenancy agreement, which every B allottee is required to execute makes it clear that the price of the tenement specified in the allotment letter is tentative and the Board can revise the price after receiving final bills representing the cost of construction or if as a result of an of the court or an award made by the arbitrator it is C required to pay higher cost for the land used for construction of the tenements. In either case, the allottee is bound to pay the additional amount which would represent the final price of the tenement. If the cost of land is enhanced for any other similar reason then too the Board can revise the price and ask the allottees to pay additional price. In a given case, the D Board may revise the tentative price more than once and the allottees are bound to share the burdenof additional cost. 11-12. x x x x x x x x x x 13. Unfortunately, the learned Single Judge and the Division E Bench of the High Court did not give due weightage to the prohibition contained in Clause 2(w) of the hire-purchase tenancy agreement and negatived the appellants’ challenge to the demand of additional price by assuming that the Board is vested with the power to revise the price at any time. The use of the expression “or enhancement in cost of land on F any account” after the expression “the receipt of the final bill for the construction of tenements or as the result of land award or arbitration proceeding” shows that while framing the Regulations, the Board had kept in view all the eventualities which could lead to an increase in the cost of land made G available for construction of the tenements and yet thought it proper to put an embargo against the revision of price after 7 years. Therefore, the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench of the High Court were not right in deciding the writ petitions and the writ appeals on the premise that once the cost of land gets increased on account of payment of higher H 868 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.