The provisions of Section 245C being made applicable to an application fi led by an assessee, the prime ingredient would be disclosure of such income which had not been disclosed in the return of income. ii. That the Settlement Commission on receipt of an application fi led under Section 245C had to call for a report from the Commissioner and on the basis of the material contained in such report, the Commission ought to have proceeded to consider the application fi led by the assessee, as also the question of granting of immunity from penalty and prosecution. Since this procedure was not adhered to and the Settlement Commission, de hors any material to demonstrate that there was any wilful concealment on the part of the assessee to evade tax, went on to pass an granting immunity under Section 245H (1) to the appellant- assessee from imposition of penalty and prosecution under the Act, the learned Single Judge rightly set aside the of the Commission to such extent only and remanded the said aspect of the matter for fresh consideration. iii. That concealment of income before the Assessing Offi cer would have a bearing on the result of the application fi led before the Settlement Commission. That a perusal of Section 245H (1) would reveal that the same cannot be read in isolation as Section 245C is embedded in 245H (1). Therefore, the two provisions would have to be read harmoniously and when so read, it would emerge that in to qualify for immunity under Section 245H, the assessee must not only co-operate with the Settlement Commission, but must also disclose income which was not refl ected in the return of income, vide Ajmera Housing Corporation vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, (2010) 8 SCC 739. However, in the present case, the assessee has not disclosed any income which was not refl ected in the return of income, but has only brought to the notice of the commission the income that had escaped assessment, which was subsequently discovered by the Assessing Offi cer. 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. iv. Reliance was placed on the decision of this Court in Commissioner of Income Tax vs. B.N. Bhattacharjee, (1979) 4 SCC 121 to contend that the provisions of Chapter XIX-A of the Act, were to be construed as having legislative intent behind them. That the policy of law as disclosed in the said Chapter is not to provide a shelter for tax dodgers, to subsequently obtain immunity from facing the consequences of tax evasion by simply approaching the Settlement Commission. That the Commission would have to use its power under Section 245(C) read with Section 245H of the Act sparingly and only in cases where there was no intention on the part of the assessee to evade tax. However, in the present case, the Commission did not apply its mind to the issue as to, whether, the appellant-assessee had wilfully evaded tax, before proceeding to exercise its power under Section 245H of the Act.