As fundamentally, STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 183 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] justice not only has to be done but also must appear to have A been done, the residuary jurisdiction of a court to direct further investigation or reinvestigation by any impartial agency, probe by the State Police notwithstanding, has to be essentially invoked if the statutory agency already in charge of the investigation appears to have been ineffective or is B presumed or inferred to be not being able to discharge its functions fairly, meaningfully and fructuously. As the cause of justice has to reign supreme, a court of law cannot reduce itself to be a resigned and a helpless spectator and with the foreseen consequences apparently unjust, in the face of a faulty investigation, meekly complete the formalities to record C a foregone conclusion. Justice then would become a casualty. Though a court’s satisfaction of want of proper, fair, impartial and effective investigation eroding its credence and reliability is the precondition for a direction for further investigation or reinvestigation, submission of the charge-sheet ipso facto or D the pendency of the trial can by no means be a prohibitive impediment. The contextual facts and the attendant circumstances have to be singularly evaluated and analysed to decide the needfulness of further investigation or reinvestigation to unravel the truth and mete out justice to the parties. The prime concern and the endeavour of the court E of law is to secure justice on the basis of true facts which ought to be unearthed through a committed, resolved and a competent investigating agency.”. (Emphasis supplied) F NON-COMPLIANCE OF THE SECOND PROVISO TO SECTION 17 OF THE 1988 ACT 88. The Second proviso to Section 17 of the 1988 Act directs that the offence referred to under clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 13 of the 1988 Act shall not be investigated without the of a police officer not below the rank of a Superintendent of Police. Thus, from the G Second proviso, it is clear that an investigation into the offence referred to in clause (e) of sub section (1) of Section 13 of the 1988 Act even by any police officer enumerated in clauses (a) to (c) or any Police Officer authorized in that behalf by the State Government as per the first proviso, can be undertaken only by an of the police officer not below the H 184 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A rank of Superintendent of Police. Thus, the Second proviso is in the nature of additional safe guard for the public servant who are accused of the offence punishable under Section 13(1)(e) of the 1988 Act against an investigation by a police officer without the knowledge and consent of superior police officer not below the rank of Superintendent of Police. A superior police officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police or any B officer higher in rank is required to pass an before an investigation, if any, for such offence is commenced.