The court has to make an assessment of the relative claims of these different aspects of public interest. While there are overwhelming arguments for giving to the Executive the power to determine F what matters may prejudice public security, those arguments give no sanction to giving the executive an exclusive power to determine what matters may affect public interest. Once considerations of national security are left out, there are few matters of public interest which cannot safely be discussed in public. The administration G itself knows of many classes of security documents ranging from those merely reserved for official use to those which can be seen only by a handful of ministers or officials bound by oath of secrecy.” (emphasis supplied) H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 681 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 118. In SP Gupta v. Union of India91, a seven-Judge Bench of A this Court settled the position of law on claims of non-disclosure on the grounds of public interest. In this case, the Union of India claimed immunity against the disclosure of the correspondence between the Law Minister, the Chief Justice of the Delhi High Court and the Chief Justice of India. It was argued that the documents sought to be disclosed belong B to a class that is immune from disclosure, and thus the courts ought to allow the claim for non-disclosure irrespective of its contents. Justice Bhagwati, whose view five other judges agreed to,92 rejected the claim for non-disclosure.93 Justice Bhagwati observed that claim of class immunity is not absolute: C “The executive cannot by merely invoking the scriptural formula of class immunity defeat the cause of justice by withholding a document which is essential to do justice between the parties, for otherwise the doctrine of class immunity would become a frightful weapon in the hands of the executive for burying its mistakes, covering up its inefficiencies and sometimes even hiding its D corruption. Every claim for immunity in respect of a document, whatever be the ground on which the immunity is claimed and whatever be the nature of the document, must stand scrutiny of the court with reference to one and only one test, namely, what does public interest require — disclosure or non-disclosure. The E doctrine of class immunity is therefore no longer impregnable; it does not any more deny judicial scrutiny; it is no more a mantra to which the court pays obeisance. Whenever class immunity is claimed in respect of a document, the court has to weigh in the scales the one aspect of public interest which requires that the document should not be disclosed against the other that the court F in performing its functions should not be denied access to relevant documents and decide which way the balance lies. And this exercise has to be performed in the context of the democratic ideal of an open Government.” G 91 1981 Supp SCC 87 92 Justice Gupta (paragraph 142); Justice Tulzapurka (paragraph 662); Justice Desai (paragraph 855); Justice Pathak (paragraphs 941 and 942).