pardon is tendered after the proceeding is committed to the Court A of Session. 68. As seen from what is extracted above, the Chief Judicial Magistrate granted pardon to the accused in that case but he was not examined immediately after the grant of pardon and was only examined once before the Sessions Judge in the course of trial. Therefore, the B question that arose was whether it was necessary to comply with sub- section (4)(a) of Section 306, when an accused is granted pardon after the case is committed to the Court of Session. As seen from the argument advanced before this Court in A. Devendran was that the object of clause (a) of sub-section (4) of Section 306 is to provide a safeguard to C the accused so that he can cross examine even at the preliminary stage on knowing the evidence of the approver and can impeach the said testimony when the approver is examined in Court during trial. 69. For finding an answer to the said question, the Court in A. Devendran, first made a distinction between a case where tender of D pardon was made before the commitment of the same to the Court of Session and a case where pardon is tendered after commitment. After making such a distinction, on the basis of whether pardon was tendered before or after the committal, this Court held in Devendran (para 11) as follows:- E “11. … A combined reading of sub-section (4) of Section 306 and Section 307 would make it clear that in a case exclusively triable by the Sessions Court if an accused is tendered pardon and is taken as an approver before commitment then compliance of sub-section (4) of Section 306 becomes mandatory and non-compliance of such mandatory F requirements would vitiate the proceedings but if an accused is tendered pardon after the commitment by the Court to which the proceeding is committed in exercise of powers under Section 307 then in such a case the provisions of sub-section (4) of Section 306 are not attracted. …” G 70. To come to the above conclusion, this Court relied upon its previous decision in Suresh Chandra Bahri vs. State of Bihar16, whereinit was held as follows:- 16 1995 Supp (1) SCC 80 H 54 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A “30. A bare reading of clause (a) of sub-section (4) of Section 306 of the Code will go to show that every person accepting the tender of pardon made under sub-section (1) has to be examined as a witness in the Court of the Magistrate taking cognizance of the offence and in the subsequent trial, if any. Sub-section (5) further provides that the Magistrate taking cognizance of the B offence shall, without making any further enquiry in the case commit it for trial to any one of the courts mentioned in clauses (i) or (ii) of clause (a) of sub-section (5), as the case may be. Section 209 of the Code deals with the commitment of cases to the Court of Session when offence is tried exclusively by that court.