Allowing the appeal, the Court D HELD: 1. Preventive detention laws in India are a colonial legacy, and have a great potential to be abused and misused. Laws that have the ability to confer arbitrary powers to the state, must in all circumstances, be very critically examined, and must be used only in the rarest of rare cases. In cases of preventive detention, where the detenue is held in arrest not for a crime he E has committed, but for a potential crime he may commit, the Courts must always give every benefit of doubt in favour of the detenue, and even the slightest of errors in procedural compliances must result in favour of the detenue. The detenue, in cases of preventive detention under the COFEPOSA Act, has F the right to submit a representation to the detaining authority, the Government, and the Advisory Board. These representations then, as per Article 22(5) of the Constitution of India, must be decided at the earliest opportunity possible. If the representation is accepted either by the Government or the detaining officer, the detenue is released, however, if the representation is rejected, G then the detention period is continued. [Paras 21, 22][802-E-G; 803-A-B] 2. Whether there exists an incongruity between the Pankaj Kumar case and the Abdullah Kunhi Case and if such a friction exists should the point of law be referred to a Larger Bench? H PRAMOD SINGLA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 795 The Pankaj Kumar Case was passed in the context A of the Preventive Detention Act, 1960, and the Abdullah Kunhi Case was passed in the context of the COFEPOSA Act. Section 3 of the two acts provides for preventive detention. The detention under both laws can be passed either by the Government, or by the specially empowered officer. However, under Section 3 B of the Preventive Detention Act, the specially empowered officer, within 12 days of the detention, has to seek for an approval from the Government for continued detention, and only if the Government approves the same can the detention be continued. This process of seeking an approval from the Government is essentially a transfer of power from the empowered officer to the C Government, making the Government the detaining authority after the initial lapse of 12 days. In the COFEPOSA Act however, no such approval is required from the Government, and hence the detaining authority and the Government remain to be two separate bodies independent of each other. This difference D between the COFEPOSA Act and the other preventive detention laws has been upheld by this Court in the case of Kamlesh Kumar Ishwardas Patel vs Union Of India & Ors. If the Pankaj Kumar is read in light of this distinction between the specially empowered officer and the Government in the COFEPOSA Act, it is found that there exists no friction between the Pankaj Kumar E and the Abdullah Kunhi Judgement, since the Pankaj Kumar Judgement, while mandating the central Government to not wait for the decision of the Advisory Board, only does so because the central Government is the detaining officer in the Preventive Detention Act.