(ii) Whether the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that the deceased had died due to administration of poison? (iii) Whether the prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that the appellant accused had administered the poison in the liquor and made the deceased to drink it on 22.07.2003 i.e., on the previous date of his death? 220 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 8. So far as the first issue with regard to the delay occurred in registering the FIR is concerned, it is not disputed that though the incident in question had taken place on 22.07.2003, and the deceased Bisahu Singh had expired on 23.07.2003, the FIR (Ex. P/11) was registered after more than one year i.e., on 03.11.2004 against the appellant-accused alleging off ence under Section 302 of IPC. 9. It cannot be gainsaid that the First Information Report in a criminal case is an extremely vital and valuable piece of evidence for the purpose of corroborating the oral evidence adduced during the course of the trial. The object of insisting upon prompt lodging of the report to the police in respect of the commission of an off ence is to obtain early information regarding the circumstances in which the crime was committed, the names of actual culprits and the part played by them as well as names of the eye witnesses present at the scene of occurrence2. It is also an equally settled legal position that the receipt and recording of information report by the police is not a condition precedent to set into motion a criminal investigation3. The First Information Report under Section 154 of Cr.PC, as such could not be treated as a substantive piece of evidence. It can only be used to corroborate or contradict the informant’s evidence in the Court. As held by three-Judge Bench of this Court4, FIR is very useful if recorded before there is time and opportunity to embellish, or before the informant’s memory fades. Undue or unreasonable delay in lodging the FIR, therefore, may give rise to suspicion which put the Court on guard to look for the possible motive and the explanation for the delay and consider its eff ect on the trustworthiness or otherwise of the prosecution version. 10. Of course, the delay in lodging an FIR by itself cannot be regarded as the suffi cient ground to draw an adverse inference against the prosecution case, nor could it be treated as fatal to the case of prosecution. The Court has to ascertain the causes for the delay, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case. If the causes are not attributable to any eff ort 2 Thulia Kali vs. The State of Tamil Nadu; 1972 (3) SCC 393 3 The King Emperor vs. Khawaja Nazir Ahmad; AIR 1945 PC 18 4 Apren Joseph alias current Kunjukunju & Ors. Vs. State of Kerela; 1973 (3) SCC 114 HARIPRASAD @ KISHAN SAHU v. STATE OF 221 CHHATTISGARH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] to concoct a version, mere delay by itself would not be fatal to the case of prosecution.