It is to be noted that even according to the appellant, Rule 16 (iii) of the F CCA Rules is in pari materia to clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution of India. As noticed hereinbefore, the dismissal of the appellant from service invoking the aforesaid power was upheld by the Central Administrative Tribunal and it also got the seal of approval from the High Court. Therefore, the question is whether G it requires a further judicial review at the hands of this Court in exercise of power under Article 136 of the Constitution of India based on the various contentions raised by the appellant. The position with respect to the non-requirement of adherence to the principles of natural justice by complying with the mandate under Article 311(2) viz., holding an inquiry in which a person holding a civil post as referred to in Article 311(1) is H 782 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A informed of the charges against him and given an opportunity of being heard in respect of those charges when the second proviso to Article 311 (2) of the Constitution of India comes into play in the matter of dismissal, removal or reduction in rank and other facets in such eventuality have been considered by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Union of India and Anr. v. Tulsiram Patel and Ors.1. The exposition of laws on B such aspects thereunder have been reiterated many a times thereafter by this Court. The decision in Tulsiram Patel’s case (supra) would reveal the position that compliance with the mandate under Article 311 (2) and in that regard, issuance of charge sheet and hearing on the charges to be given to a Government servant, with respect to any of the aforesaid C three major penalties proposed to be imposed upon him, would not arise when clause (c) of the second proviso to Article 311 (2) comes into play and the same would be the position in the case of service rules reproducing the second proviso in whole or in part and whether the language used is identical with that used in the second proviso or not. D 9. It was also held in Tulsiram Patel’s case (supra) that clause (c) of second proviso to Article 311 (2) is based on public policy and is in public interest and for the public good and the Constitution makers who inserted Article 311 (2) were the best persons to decide whether such an exclusionary provision should be there and the situations in which this provision should apply. Furthermore, it was held therein that the law laid E down in the decision in Divisional Personnel Officer, Southern Rly. & Anr. v. T.R. Chellappan2 that having regard to the meaning of the word used in the context of the phrase “the Disciplinary Authority may consider the circumstances of the case and make such s thereon as it deems fit” under Rule 14(1) of the Railway Servants (Discipline and Appeal) F Rules, 1968, that an objective consideration is possible “only if the delinquent employee is heard and is given a chance to satisfy the authority regarding the final s that may be passed by the said authority” is not acceptable.