(iii) Originally Section 13(8) retained the right akin to s. 60 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. By amendment there was a conscious departure by the legislature. (iv) In Mathew Varghese (supra) this Court held that the original Section 13(8) retained the borrowers right to redeem. Thus, it is important to note that till the amendment took place under Section 13(8), there was nothing inconsistent between 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act and the Act 1882. It is only after the amendment of Section 13(8) the inconsistency arose between the two Acts on the said subject, which is clearly covered by Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act whereby now the amended Section 13(8) achieves supremacy over Section 60 of the Act 1882. Thus, leading to upholding of the SARFAESI Act as the special law against the Act 1882 which is a general law. [See Para 53 of S. Karthik (supra) also quoted above.] (v) That the secured creditor, borrower as well as the auction purchaser under the SARFAESI Act are equally bound by the provisions of the enactment including Section 13(8). The secured creditor cannot act de hors the Section 13(8). An interpretation that declares secured creditor not bound by 132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Section 13(8) makes it a bull in the china house and it leaves the entire process at the whims and fancies of the secured creditor. The auction purchaser is the most important actor of the enactment and it is on him the success of the enactment resides. Thus, any interpretation which discourages the auction purchaser to participate has a direct bearing on the implementation of the enactment and recovery of public dues and the same has to be avoided. The only caveat being that after the success of the auction bid the auction purchaser is required to comply with all the rules. c. The reliance on Section 37 of the SARFAESI Act is misplaced because this Court in Madras Petrochem (supra) has restricted its application to securities law only. (i) The relevant portion is as under:- “39. This is what then brings us to the doctrine of harmonious construction, which is one of the paramount doctrines that is applied in interpreting all statutes. Since neither Section 35 nor Section 37 of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 is subject to the other, we think it is necessary to interpret the expression “or any other law for the time being in force” in Section 37. If a literal meaning is given to the said expression, Section 35 will become completely otiose as all other laws will then be in addition to and not in derogation of the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002. Obviously this could not have been the parliamentary intendment, after providing in Section 35 that the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 will prevail over all other laws that are inconsistent therewith.