Further, the breakdown of the relationship of an unmarried couple will not lead to a change in applicable law because the child will continue to be a legitimate child even after the breakdown of the relationship. It is therefore unclear what the ‘disastrous outcomes’ referred to, are. My learned brother has also failed to address whether Regulation 5(3) is discriminatory for distinguishing between married and unmarried couples for the purpose of adoption and for the disproportionate impact that it has on the members of the queer community while simultaneously holding that “the State cannot, on any account, make regulations that are facially or indirectly discriminatory on the ground of sexual orientation.” 286 The provision confers legitimacy on a child born during the continuance of a valid marriage or within two eighty days since the dissolution of marriage. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1415 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] F* Directions to obviate discrimination 339. Counsel for the petitioners and some counsel for the respondents advanced extensive submissions on the various forms of violence and discrimination that society and the state machinery infl ict upon the queer community, and especially queer couples. This has been discussed in detail in the prefatory part of the . Counsel sought directions to obviate such violence and discrimination. a. The Union Government, State Governments, and Governments of Union Territories are directed to: i. Ensure that the queer community is not discriminated against because of their gender identity or sexual orientation; ii. Ensure that there is no discrimination in access to goods and services to the queer community, which are available to the public; iii. Take steps to sensitise the public about queer identity, including that it is natural and not a mental dis; iv. Establish hotline numbers that the queer community can contact when they face harassment and violence in any form; v. Establish and publicise the availability of ‘safe houses’ or Garima Grehs in all districts to provide shelter to members of the queer community who are facing violence or discrimination; vi. Ensure that “treatments” off ered by doctors or other persons, which aim to change gender identity or sexual orientation are ceased with immediate eff ect; vii. Ensure that inter-sex children are not forced to undergo operations with regard only to their sex, especially at an age at which they are unable to fully comprehend and consent to such operations; viii. Recognize the self-identifi ed gender of all persons including transgender persons, hijras, and others with sociocultural identities in India, as male, female, or third gender. No person shall be forced to undergo hormonal therapy or sterilisation or * Ed. Note: PART F 141 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. any other medical procedure either as a condition or prerequisite to grant legal recognition to their gender identity or otherwise; b. The appropriate Government under the Mental Healthcare Act must formulate modules covering the mental health of queer persons in their programmes under Section 29(1). Programmes to reduce suicides and attempted suicides (envisaged by Section 29(2)) must include provisions which tackle queer identity; c. The following directions are issued to the police machinery: i.