The interpreter having entered the witness box and tendered himself for cross-examination which resulted in nothing worthwhile having been elicited for discarding his evidence,it cannot be gainsaid by the accused that said statement at Ex.P-2 is to be ignored or rejected or discarded. Merely because PW-10 did not know how to read and write Malayalam does not ipso facto make the contents of Ex.P-2 G to be disbelieved. On the other hand, he states that he is from Kerala and he knows how to speak Malayalam. What was required to be performed by him was to pose the question as stated by the witness to the accused and the answers given to such questionsare to be stated to the police for being recorded as stated by the accused. In fact, there is H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 421 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] not even a suggestion made to PW-10 about the contents of Ex.P-2 A being incorrect. 20. It is pursuant to this voluntary statement as per Ex.P-2 which lead the police to recover the body of the victim from the compost pit, which has been proved through PW-1, PW-2, PW-4, PW-10 and PW- 25. Their admissions read as under: B PW-1: “I will show the place where I have murdered Jose CKafan with an iron rod and the place where I haveburied his dead body in the pit. PW-2:”On 21.01.2012, I had been to Kerodi Village due to some C personal work. Tahsildar and police were going there in a jeep. I greeted Tahsildar. He told me that a case is there and asked me to accompany him. The accused showed a place there. He showed a place and told that there is a dead body in a compost pit situated next to lemon tree and told that he has closed it. I, Devendra and Shivu opened the pit. While digging the pit, a cloth was found and D while removing the mud a blanket was found after cloth and again while removing the mud slowly a dead body wrapped with a blanket was found.” PW-4:”I have told Stanie that my father has not expired. Immediately, I and my brothers Ajith and Ranjith came to Kerodi E village with K.K. Shaabu of Kundapura. When we went to that place, neither my father nor the workers were there. Immediately we went to the rural Police Station of Sagar and lodged complaints. I have not lodged complaint about missing. We went to the station on 21st the Police were investigating Siju Kurian. The witness showed the accused and identified him as Siju Kurian. The accused F has stated before the police that he has killed my father by assaulting with an iron rod on his head and has buried in a pit by wrapping the dead body with a blanket. The accused told that he would show the place where he had buried the dead body and hence led us and showed the place where he had buried the dead G body.