The abovenamed seven accused were held guilty of the charges under Section 302 read with Section 149, Section 326 read with Section 149, Section 324 read with Section 149, Section 323 read with Section 149, Section 147 and Section 148 of IPC, and the remaining two accused, namely Diwan Singh and Siyaram were acquitted of the charges. 3.8 Consequently, the trial court, after considering the facts and circumstances of the case, convicted and sentenced the accused persons as aforesaid. All the sentences awarded to the accused were to run concurrently. 3.9 Aggrieved by the of the trial court, the accused persons (Parshuram & Others), preferred Criminal Appeal No. 243 of 2005, and accused Jalim Singh preferred Criminal Appeal No. 260 of 2005 before the High Court. The High Court vide common impugned and dated 14th March 2018, dismissed both the criminal appeals and affi rmed the and of conviction as recorded by the trial court. Aggrieved thereby, the present appeals are fi led by accused Parshuram and Jalim Singh. PARSHURAM v. STATE OF M.P. 191 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 4. We have heard Shri Rishi Malhotra, learned counsel appearing for the appellant-Parshuram in Criminal Appeal No. 524 of 2021, Shri A. Sirajudeen, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellant-Jalim Singh in appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 1718 of 2022 and Shri Abhimanyu Singh, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent-State of Madhya Pradesh. 5. Shri Malhotra submitted that both the High Court and the trial court have grossly erred in convicting the appellants. He submitted that the prosecution has failed to attribute any specifi c role to the appellants herein. In the absence of the same, he submitted that the conviction recorded under Section 302 of IPC would not be tenable. The learned counsel submitted that the role attributed to the present appellant Parshuram was only holding the lathi and as such, no injuries which had caused the death of the deceased, can be attributed to the appellant Parshuram. The learned counsel further submitted that two of the accused persons, who were attributed the role of holding hand-bombs, were acquitted by the trial court. As such, conviction of the present appellants was not sustainable. 6. Shri Malhotra submitted that many accused persons had sustained injuries. These injuries were not at all explained by the prosecution. He submitted that the FIR which was lodged by the accused persons against the complainant party arising out of the same incident was prior in point of time. The learned counsel, relying on a recent of this Court in the case of Nand Lal and Others v. State of Chhattisgarh1, submitted that non- explanation of injuries is fatal to the prosecution case and the appellants are entitled to be acquitted on the ground of non-explanation of such injuries. 7. Shri Sirajudeen, learned Senior Counsel for the appellant-Jalim Singh in appeal arising out of SLP (Crl.) No. 1718 of 2022, also advanced arguments on the same lines. 8. Shri Singh, on the contrary, submitted that both the trial court and the High Court have concurrently found that the prosecution has proved its case beyond reasonable doubt.