A power under Section 6(5) of the National Investigating Agency Act 2008. 3. The proceedings were thus disposed of by the High Court by directing the State police to ensure that all the FIRs, documents, material seized and CCTV footage, among other things, should be immediately handed over to the NIA which shall commence investigation and proceed B in accordance with law. The police authorities of the State of West Bengal were directed to hand over all material to the NIA within two weeks. 4. During the course of hearing, we have heard Mr Gopal Sankarnarayan, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the State of West Bengal, Mr Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India appearing on behalf C of the NIA, Mr PS Patwalia, senior counsel appearing on behalf of the original petitioner before the High Court and Ms Bansuri Swaraj, counsel appearing on behalf of an intervenor who had filed a complaint arising out of the incidents in question. 5. The principal submissions which have been urged on behalf of the petitioners are : D (i) Six FIRs were registered by the police in relation to six different incidents spanning four distinct dates; (ii) The High Court has dwelt at considerable length on the previous s which it passed for transfer of investigations E to the NIA; (iii) Two grounds have weighed with the High Court : (a) FIR 141 of 2023 dated 02 April 2023 contains allegations about the alleged use of bombs; and F (b) All four seizure memos appear to be in the same handwriting. (iv) As regards (a) above, the injuries sustained by the injured complainant indicate only abrasions which are inconsistent with such an incident. As regards (b) above, seven different G police officers had carried out the investigation involving, inter alia, the preparation of the seizure memos; (v) The police authorities in the State of West Bengal have duly acted in pursuance of the alleged incidents which took place during the course of the Ram Navami observances in the State; and H THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL & ORS. v. SUVENDU ADHIKARI & 845 ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (vi) The direction by the High Court for the transfer of investigation A to the NIA is not warranted and would demoralise the police in conducting investigation in accordance with law. 6. On the other hand, the Solicitor General of India appearing on behalf of the NIA and the counsel appearing on behalf of the original petitioners and the intervenors supported the of the High Court. B 7. Section 6(1) of the NIA Act requires an officer in-charge of a police station to forward a report to the State Government forthwith on the receipt of information and the recording thereof under Section 154 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, “relating to any scheduled offence”. The expression “relating to any scheduled offence” is an expression of C a broad amplitude. Sub-section (2) of Section 6 mandates that on receipt of a report under Section 6(1), the State Government shall forward the report to the Central Government “as expeditiously as possible”.