26. In the aforesaid context if we turn to the 1998 Rules, more specifically Rule 3(b), the stipulation is that in case of a nomination, the same is based on the result of the competitive examination held by the Commission in accordance with the Rules and the candidate is required C to have “successfully completed the training course.” Rule 6 provides for probation for a period of three years including two years of ACF training course and one year field training, as decided by the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests. Thus, even reading of these extant Rules makes the process for such direct recruitments quite clear. The Entrance D and Training Rules (Revised) for the State Forest Service Officers, 2004 (hereinafter referred to as the “2004 Rules”) are comprehensive in character and set forth how the recruitment process will take place. 27. We do believe that on behalf of the appellants there is over- emphasis on the expression “person appointed to the post by nomination” E under Rule 6 of the 1998 Rules, without appreciating the context in which such expression has been used. In contending that the interpretation given by the High Court would amount to making the opening part of Rule 6 otiose, what is lost sight of is that were the appellants’ plea to be accepted, it would amount to making the Proviso to Rule 2 of the 1984 Rules otiose. The Government resolutions issued by the Administrative F Department cannot have the status of a statutory rule although such resolutions may have their own effect. 28. It appears to us that the High Court’s view is the correct view. The resolutions have been passed in the context that the person who successfully completes the training effectively gets the monetary G compensation for his training period and is not deprived of the same. This cannot amount to giving seniority from the date of initial recruitment process to determine inter se seniority, when the Proviso to Rule 2 of the 1984 Rules makes the date of appointment for direct recruits clear. This is also in the background that while the direct appointees have no H ASHOK RAM PARHAD & ORS. v. THE STATE OF 913 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] experience in the field having been freshly recruited, the promotees have A been doing the task. 29. We fail to appreciate how the in Prafulla Kumar Swain8 case can be distinguished in this behalf merely by reason of the regulation therein containing the expression “only”. It is not necessary to refer to factual scenarios of different s and different rules or B general definition of what would amount to be on “duty”, when the rule in question is quite clear. We say so even in the context of the in R.S. Ajara & Ors.9 case as in any service, whether on the issue of appointment or promotion, it is what the rule says, which will matter. One cannot derive general principles to decide such issues. We do C appreciate that there can be scenarios where the rule specifically states to the contra.