The issue of applicability of regulatory regime on the assigned land stood settled by this Court’s judgement in Gudepu Sailoo5 whose relevant part in this context reads as follows:– “….Thus, under the original Laoni Rules, 1950 as also under the Revised Policy published in 1958, the alienation of the assigned land was prohibited. While under the Laoni Rules, 1950, the alienation or transfer without the previous sanction of the Collector was prohibited, under the Revised Policy, it was clearly provided that though the assigned lands would be heritable, they would not be transferred…” d) The Division Bench also distinguished the decision of a co-ordinate bench of the High Court in Letter sent from Plot No.338, Parvant Nagar v. the Collector and District Magistrate6 wherein it was held that land assigned under Rule 9 of Laoni Rules of 1950 by way of market value collection would not be hit by the provisions of the 1977 Act whereunder alienation of assigned land was prohibited. It was specifi cally noted that the Subject Land was granted free of cost to the Assignees without any action or payment of market value as envisaged under Form 9(G) of the Laoni Rules of 1950 which was relied upon by the Appellants. The Division Bench, therefore, upheld the condition mentioned in the assignment itself which barred transfer without the consent of the Collector. 5 Gudepu Sailoo (n 3). 6 Letter sent from Plot No.338, Parvant Nagar v. the Collector and District Magistrate 2008 SCC OnLine AP 477. 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. e) It was noted that the 1977 Act was in force when the GPA in favor of M.A. Baksh was executed by the Assignees as well as when M.A. Baksh executed the sale deeds in favour of subsequent purchasers for the small plots of land. Furthermore, it was held that subsequent cancellation of the GPA in favor of M.A. Baksh by some of the Assignees was immaterial as the sale deeds executed by him by then already constituted violation of the assignment condition. 25. The aggrieved Appellants are now before this Court. B. CONTENTIONS 26. We have heard an array of learned senior counsels representing different parties and perused the documents produced on record. Their written submissions have also been duly considered. 27. Leading the arguments on behalf of the Appellants, Mr. Jaideep Gupta, learned senior counsel made the following contentions- First, that the Single Judge was correct in concluding that the Second SCN was barred by the doctrine of res judicata. He argued that the substratum of both the First SCN and Second SCN is essentially identical, i.e. violation in respect of the bar on the alienability of Subject Land. Secondly, he argued that when unoccupied land is permanently granted or assigned under Section 54 of the 1317 Fasli Act as done in the present case, then Section 58 of the said Act expressly provided that the resultant occupancy right shall be ‘deemed to be heritable and transferable’. Even otherwise, he contended that for any restriction on the transfer of Subject Land under the Special Laoni Rules to be applicable, a separate notification under Section 58-A of 1317 Fasli Act was a necessary prerequisite as mentioned in the rules itself.