Reliance was also placed on Union of India vs. Bilash Chand Jain, (2009) 16 SCC 601 to submit that it is settled law that a Writ Court is D not an Appellate Court. Thus, the High Court exceeded the Writ Jurisdiction while setting aside the selection of the appellants herein. 7.7. It was averred that persons who participated in the selection process and interview cannot challenge the same upon being unsuccessful since they do not have a cause to challenge the same and a writ petition E filed by them is not maintainable, vide Madan Lal; Anupal Singh vs. State of Uttar Pradesh, (2020) 2 SCC 173; Sadananda Halo and Mohd. Mustafa. Reliance was also placed on D. Sarojakumari vs. R. Helen Thilakom, (2017) 9 SCC 478. That in the present case, none of the writ petitioners was selected on merit and they were not even on the F waiting list, therefore, the writ petitions filed by them were not maintainable on the ground of the same being devoid of any locus. 7.8. Learned counsel Sri Shoeb Alam submitted that in the absence of a large-scale systematic irregularity that denudes the legitimacy of the selection exercise, the entire selection cannot be set aside. That this Court in Sachin Kumar vs. Delhi Subordinate Service Selection G Board, (2021) 4 SCC 631; Inderpreet Singh Kahlon vs. State of Punjab, (2006) 11 SCC 356; Union of India vs. Rajesh P.U., (2003) 7 SCC 285 (Rajesh P.U.) has held that those who are innocent of wrongdoing should not pay a price for those who are actually found to be involved in irregularities and therefore, the selection as a whole cannot H 740 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A be set aside for specific instances of irregularities. It was submitted that unless there is a systematic malaise affecting the integrity of the selection and denying equal opportunity, the entire selection cannot be set aside by taking away the appointment of innocent and meritorious candidates. 7.9. That it was within the exclusive domain of the expert B committee to decide whether more marks should be assigned to the candidates and hence, it cannot be a subject-matter of an attack before a Writ Court, as it does not sit as a Court of appeal over the assessment made by the Committee so far as the candidates interviewed by them are concerned. To buttress this submission, the learned counsel cited the decisions of this Court in Madan Lal and Ashok Kumar Yadav vs. C State of Haryana, (1985) 4 SCC 417. 7.10. It was next submitted that appellants have been working as drug inspectors since their appointment on 12th November, 2009, i.e., for a period of over 13 years, without any complaint against them and no fault on their part has been attributed at any point. Thus, their appointment D should not be set aside due to the long period of service rendered. Further, the petitioners are now at an age where they will not be able to secure any alternate employment, vide Buddhi Nath Chaudhary vs. Abahi Kumar, (2001) 3 SCC 328.