The appellants have failed to discharge the said burden, in consequence of which the finding recorded by the competent authority duly supported with the material on record justify and support the of forfeiture F passed by the competent authority dated 31st December, 1997. (ii) Both N.A. Yusuf and appellant no. 2(P.M. Saheeda) failed to disclose any source of their capital contribution in the first appellant firm and have failed to disclose any books of accounts for the expenditure in construction of the subject theatre and also failed to disclose any bank G account from which money was disbursed for building the said theatre. In addition, appellant no. 2(P.M. Saheeda) failed to substantiate with proof the claim that the land was bought from her wedding gifts in 1969. In the facts and circumstances, the finding of forfeiture recorded by the competent authority has been rightly confirmed at all later stages in the course of proceedings. H 1090 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A (iii) The contribution of N.A. Yusuf was more than half of the total contribution of Rs.10.20 lakhs of capital infused in the partnership firm. Since more than 50% of the value remained unexplained, the appellants were not entitled to seek an option to pay a fine in lieu of forfeiture as contemplated under Section 9 of the Act. B (iv) There was no delay which could be attributed to the authority for the reason that proceedings were initiated in the first instance against the appellant firm by issuance of show cause notice dated 13th January, 1977 and since then the proceedings were continued one after the other. In reference to the instant proceedings, the show cause notice was served to the appellant firm and its partners(appellant nos. 2 to 5) on 16th October, C 1994 which finally culminated into forfeiture of the property under Section 7 by dated 31st December, 1997. In the given circumstances, there was no delay on the part of the respondent authorities in initiating the proceedings in reference to the forfeiture of the property under the Act, 1976 which, in no manner, be said to be fatal in the given facts and D circumstances to interfere in the instant proceedings. 8. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and with their assistance perused the material available on record. 9. The Act, 1976 has been enacted by the Parliament with an object to provide for the forfeiture of illegally acquired properties of E smugglers and foreign exchange manipulators and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. At the same time, to provide an effective prevention of smuggling activities and foreign exchange manipulations which are having a deleterious effect on the national economy, it is necessary to deprive persons engaged in such activities and manipulations of their ill-gotten gains. It also provides that such persons have been F augmenting such gains by violations of wealth-tax, income-tax or other laws or by other means and have thereby been increasing their resources for operating in a clandestine manner and to nail such persons who are holding the properties acquired by them through such gains in the name of their relatives, associates and confidants.