23.2. As per Section 36, for the purpose of liquidation, the Liquidator shall form an estate of the assets to be called the liquidation estate in relation to the corporate debtor and shall hold the liquidation estate as a fi duciary for the benefi t of all the creditors. 23.3. In addition to the above, there are various other powers and duties of the Liquidator. 24. From a conjoint reading of the above provisions, it is evident that the Liquidator virtually steps into the shoes of the management of the corporate debtor and oversees the liquidation process. In this process, he holds the liquidation estate of the corporate debtor as a fi duciary for the benefi t of all the creditors. While overseeing the liquidation process, he has the mandate to sell all movable and immovable properties and actionable claims of the corporate debtor in liquidation by way of either public auction or by private contract, though he cannot sell such property or claims to any person who is not eligible to be a resolution applicant. 25. While we are on the powers and duties of the Liquidator, it would be apposite to refer to certain provisions of the Regulations framed in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 5 and other sections of the Code read with Section 240 of the Code as per which the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India may make regulations to carry out provisions of the Code. Regulation 3 deals with eligibility for appointment as Liquidator. As per Regulation 3(1), an insolvency professional shall be eligible to be appointed as a Liquidator if he and every partner or director of the insolvency professional entity of which he is a partner or director is independent of the corporate debtor. Explanation below Regulation 3 (1) explains as to who are the persons considered independent of the corporate debtor. As per Explanation (b), a person shall be considered independent of the corporate debtor if he is not a related party of the corporate debtor. 25.1. Regulation 5 says that the Liquidator shall prepare and submit various reports to the adjudicating authority (Tribunal) regarding the EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 885 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] liquidation process. If in this process the books of account of the corporate debtor are incomplete on the liquidation commencement date, the Liquidator under Regulation 6 shall have them completed and brought up to date. That apart, the Liquidator is required to maintain various registers and books in relation to the liquidation of the corporate debtor. In addition to that, as per Regulation 7, he may appoint a professional to assist him in discharging his duties, obligations and functions. However, those professionals should not be his relative or related party of the corporate debtor or has served as an auditor to the corporate debtor in the preceding fi ve years. Under Regulation 8, the Liquidator is required to engage in consultation with the stakeholders and the stakeholders consulted under Section 35 (2) of the Code shall extend all assistance and cooperation to the Liquidator to complete the liquidation of the corporate debtor.