It was, in short, an utterly incorrect statement relied upon precisely owing to the failure of natural justice of which complaint is made.” B 38. Inherent value in fair procedure: Fair procedure is not only a means to the end of achieving a fair outcome but is an end in itself. Fair procedure induces equality in the proceedings. The proceedings ‘seem’ to be and are seen to be fair. In Kanda v. Government of Malaya18, an Inspector of Police challenged his dismissal on the ground that the C disciplinary proceedings were not conducted in accordance with the principles of natural justice. It was contended that he did not have knowledge of the contents of the enquiry report that was before the adjudicating officer. The crux of the case was whether his lack of knowledge of the contents of the report led to a likelihood of bias – both conscious and unconscious. The Court held that the likelihood of bias D test cannot be solely used to determine the violation of natural justice. The Court held that it is not necessary that the accused must prove bias or prejudice. Rather, it is sufficient if the non-disclosure would lead to a possibility of bias and prejudice since “no one who has lost a case will believe he has been fairly treated if the other side has had access to the E judge without his knowing.” The House of Lords held that non-disclosure of information is per se violative of the principles of fair trial. 39. Legitimacy of the decision and decision making authority: When a decision is formed following the principles of natural justice, there is a perception that the decision is accurate and just. It preserves the integrity F of the system as the decisions, in addition to being fair, also ‘appear’ to be fair. The perception of the general public that the decisions appear to be fair is important in building public confidence in institutions, which aid in securing the legitimacy of the courts and other decision making bodies.19 40. Dignity of individuals: Non-outcome values, that is, values that G are independent of the accuracy and soundness of the verdict, are intrinsically important. The principles of fairness ‘express the elementary idea that to be a person, rather than a thing, is at least to be consulted 18 (1962) 28 MLJ 169 19 Mark Elliotts, Jack Beatson, Martin Mathews, Administrative Law: text and Materials (3rd ed. Oxford University Press) H 634 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A about what is done with one’.20 D.J Galligan in his book “Due Process and Fair Procedures: A Study of Administrative Procedures”21 explains that to insist on fair treatment is implicit on a renewed understanding of the relationship between citizens and the State: “ It builds on the idea of decision-making as a social process rather B than a purely logical activity, on the inherent indeterminacy and contingency of standards… to insist on fair treatment of persons by administrative bodies is to draw on those implicit commitments and understandings at the very base of the relationship between the citizen and the State.” C TRS Allan argues that more often than not, the right outcome is itself a matter of controversy.