Appearances: Puneet Taneja, Manmohan Singh Narua, Amit Yadav, Advs. for the Petitioner. Ayush Negi, Ms. Vishakha Upadhaya, Shikhar Chanda, Advs. for the Respondent. / OF THE SUPREME COURT 1. The Petitioner-Bank is aggrieved by an dated 17th June, 2019 passed by the Division Bench of the High Court in an Intra Court Appeal1 1 Writ Appeal No.3255 of 2005 SYNDICATE BANK v. N. R. BHAT 477 whereby, while taking on record the Joint Memo dated 17th June, 2019 fi led by the parties, in view of the submission made by learned counsel for the respondent-employee that he would be submitting a request to the petitioner- Bank for opting for pension. The respondent-employee was permitted to exercise the option of availing retiral benefi ts and making a written request to the petitioner-Bank to pass appropriate s within eight weeks thereafter. 2. Before adverting to the submissions made by learned counsel for the parties, a brief reference to the relevant facts is necessary: 3. The respondent-employee joined the services of the petitioner-Bank as an Offi cer Trainee on 31st March, 1969. On completion of probation, he was posted as a Probationary Junior Offi cer on 3rd October, 1969. On 6th August, 1982, the respondent-employee was suspended in contemplation of disciplinary proceedings. After the disciplinary proceedings were concluded, the Disciplinary Authority passed an on 3rd March, 1997 dismissing the respondent-employee from service. The said has been upheld by the Appellate Authority vide dated on 6th April, 1997. Aggrieved by the aforesaid s, the respondent-employee preferred a writ petition2 before the High Court. Vide dated 23rd June, 2005, the High Court set aside the two s passed by the Disciplinary Authority and the Appellate Authority and the matter was remitted back to the Petitioner – Bank for reconsideration. 4. Aggrieved by the said , the petitioner preferred an Intra Court Appeal1 before the Division Bench of the High Court. During the pendency of the writ appeal, the parties arrived at an amicable settlement in terms of a Joint Memo dated 17th June, 2019 where under the petitioner-Bank agreed to substitute the penalty of dismissal from service imposed on the respondent-employee with the penalty of reduction of time scale of pay by four stages but without adversely aff ecting his retiral benefi ts. It was in the course of taking on record the aforesaid Joint Memo that the impugned came to be passed granting liberty to the respondent-employee to exercise the option of availing retiral benefi ts and with a further direction to the petitioner-Bank to consider and pass appropriate s on such a representation within eight weeks thereafter. 2 Writ Petition No.20386/1997 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 5. Aggrieved by the aforesaid liberty granted to the respondent- employee, the petitioner-Bank has fi led the present petition stating inter alia that the High Court ought not to have permitted the respondent-employee to apply for pensionary benefi ts considering the fact that the entire matter was settled between the parties by virtue of the Joint Compromise Memo dated 17th June, 2019; that there was no further scope of a settlement with the petitioner-Bank and that the respondent-employee had an opportunity to opt for a pension scheme in the year 1995 when the Syndicate Bank Employees (Pension Regulations) were fi rst notifi ed and at that time, he was an employee of the Bank but having failed to do so then, he cannot demand that pension be released in his favour.