In that case the finding of guilt concurrently recorded by the Trial Court and the High Court was challenged mainly on the ground of minor discrepancies in the evidence for which, this Court emphasised that excessive importance cannot be C attached to such minor discrepancies. This Court explained the reasons including that a witness cannot be expected to possess a photographic memory; a witness is likely to be overtaken by events particularly of unanticipated occurrence; the powers of observation differ from person to person; by and large people cannot accurately recall the conversations D or the sequence of events; and a witness howsoever truthful is liable to be overawed by the Court atmosphere and piercing cross-examination etc. The following passage from this decision could be usefully extracted thus: - “5……Their evidence has been considered to be worthy of E acceptance. It is a pure finding of fact recorded by the Sessions Court and affirmed by the High Court. Such a concurrent finding of fact cannot be reopened in an appeal by special leave unless it is established : (1) that the finding is based on no evidence or (2) that the finding is perverse, it being such as no reasonable person could have arrived at even if the evidence was taken at its face F value or (3) the finding is based and built on inadmissible evidence, which evidence, if excluded from vision, would negate the prosecution case or substantially discredit or impair it or (4) some vital piece of evidence which would tilt the balance in favour of the convict has been overlooked, disregarded, or wrongly discarded. The present is not a case of such a nature. The finding G of guilt recorded by the Sessions Court as affirmed by the High Court has been challenged mainly on the basis of minor discrepancies in the evidence. We do not consider it appropriate or permissible to enter upon a reappraisal or reappreciation of the evidence in the context of the minor discrepancies H 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A painstakingly highlighted by learned Counsel for the appellant. Overmuch importance cannot be attached to minor discrepancies. The reasons are obvious: “(1) By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a photographic memory and to recall the details of an incident. B It is not as if a video tape is replayed on the mental screen. (2) Ordinarily it so happens that a witness is overtaken by events. The witness could not have anticipated the occurrence which so often has an element of surprised. The mental faculties therefore cannot be expected to be attuned C to absorb the details. (3) The powers of observation differ from person to person. What one may notice, another may not. An object or movement might emboss its image on one person’s mind, whereas it might go unnoticed on the part of another. D (4) By and large people cannot accurately recall a conversation and reproduce the very words used by them or heard by them.