Balbir Singh, ASG, A. K. Shrivastava, Sr. Adv., Rupesh Kumar, Shyam Gopal, S. A. Haseeb, Divyansh H. Rathi, Ms. Monica Benjamin, F Ms. Sunita Sharma, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Advs. for the Appellant. Arijit Prasad, Sr. Adv., Ms. Supriya Juneja, Paritosh Gupta, Aditya Singla, Ms. A. Sahitya Veena, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by M. R. SHAH, J. G 1. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and dated 22.11.2016 passed by the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jaipur passed in DBITA No.96/2003 and DBITR No.6/ 1996 by which the High Court has allowed the said appeals, the Revenue has preferred the present appeals. H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 91 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 2. The facts leading to the present appeals in nutshell are as under: A 2.1 A search was conducted by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) officers at the premises situated at A-11, 12, Sector - VII, NOIDA taken on rent by the assessee, Shri Prakash Chand Lunia. The DRI recovered 144 slabs of silver from the premises and two silver ingots from the business premises of the assessee at 1397, Chandni B Chowk, Delhi. The assessee was arrested under Section 104 of the Customs Act for committing offence punishable under Section 135 of the Customs Act. The Collector, Customs held that the assessee Shri Prakash Chand Lunia is the owner of silver/bullion and the transaction thereof was not recorded in the books of accounts. The Collector of C Customs, New Delhi ed confiscation of the said 146 slabs of silver weighing 4641.962 Kilograms valued at Rs.3.06 Crores. The Collector Customs further imposed a personal penalty of Rs.25 Lakhs on Sh. Prakash Chand Lunia under Section 112 of the Customs Act. The Collector held that the silver under reference was of smuggled nature. D 2.2 During the course of the assessment proceedings the Assessing Officer observed that the assessee was not able to explain the nature and source of acquisition of silver of which he is held to be the owner, therefore the deeming provisions of Section 69A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act, 1961) would be applicable. The investment in this regard was not found recorded in the books of E accounts of the assessee that were produced before the then Assessing Officer. Accordingly, the Assessing Officer passed an assessment and made an addition of Rs.3,06,36,909/- under Section 69A of the Act, 1961. In appeals preferred by the Assessee against the assessment , the CIT(A) dismissed the appeal of the assessee. Feeling aggrieved the F assessee preferred the appeal before the ITAT. The ITAT, Jaipur also upheld the of the CIT(A) so far as Section 69A is concerned, however, partly allowed the appeal of the assessee. As regards some other minor additions, the ITAT set aside some minor other additions and remanded the matter to the AO for fresh examination. The AO re- examined the issue and addition was made.