4 Hereafter, the “1999 Agreement” H 748 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 5.1 It was further held that simply because the board took time in consideration of the application of the Appellants, this would not enable them to begin automatically paying a reduced amount. 5.2 In respect of the other examples cited by the Appellants B where similar applications by similarly placed persons were considered and decided upon by the Board with promptitude, it was held that such a plea was raised for the first time at the appellate stage. It was further observed that the manner in which the Appellant’s application was considered was not arbitrary or unfair and that interpretation of such an C agreement could not be undertaken in writ jurisdiction. 6. We have heard the Learned Senior Counsel; Mr. C.A. Sundaram, for the Appellant and Mr. K Radhakrishnan for the Respondents at length. 7. The 1999Agreement4 acknowledging the changed scenario vis- à-vis the allocation and the requirement of the supply of electricity, more D so, in view of the policy framed by the Central Government encouraging the industrial units to have captive power plants, while reducing the total energy quota to a maximum of 23000 KVA inter alia contained the following terms: “LOAD NOW IT HEREBY DECLARED AND E MAXIMUM AGREED AS FOLLOWS: DEMAND Subject to the provisions hereinafter contained, the Board supply and the consumer shall take from the Board electrical energy for a maximum demand F not exceeding 23000 KVA which shall be in contracted load for its exclusive use for the purpose above mentioned at the premises of its factory at P.N. Patty Village, Mettur Tk. Salem Dt. The contracted load shall be 23000 KVA for G their Smelter Plant and Extraction Plant HT SC No.20 (illegible). The consumer shall not effect any change in maximum demand as contracted load.” *** *** *** H THE MADRAS ALUMINIUM CO. LTD. v. THE TAMIL NADU 749 ELECTRICITY BOARD AND ANR. [SANJAY KAROL, J.] OBLIGATION OF 6. From the date this agreement comes A CONSUMER TO into force the consumer, shall be bound by PAY ALL CHARGES and shall pay to the Board, maximum LEVIED BY demand charges, energy charges, BOARD surcharges, meter rent and other charges, if any, in accordance with the tariff B applicable and the terms and conditions of Supply of Electricity notified by the Board from time to time for the appropriate class of consumers to which it belongs. BOARD’S RIGHT 7. The consumer agrees that the board TO VARY TERMS shall have the right to vary, from time to C OF AGREEMENT time, tariffs, general and miscellaneous charges and the terms and conditions of supply of electricity under this agreement, by special or general proceedings. The consumer, in particular, agrees that the D board shall have the right to enhance the rates etc. chageable for supply of electricity according to exigencies. It is also open to Board to restrict or impose powe cuts totally or partially at any time as it deems fit.