He would contend that victim in her statement recorded under Section 161 of the Cr.P.C. as well Section 164 of the Cr.P.C. has categorically stated that all the accused persons have committed gang rape and same has been reiterated in her deposition which has remained unshattered and therefore, prima facie, case for conviction has been made out. It is contended that one of the accused (Deepak) is son of a sitting MLA and the chances of tampering with the evidence during the trial if enlarged on bail is writ large; it is evident from the investigation that entries in the hotel register of the date of incident are missing; the CCTV footage of the hotel on the date of incident has been deleted; school records of the victim has been manipulated; telephone number of Deepak obtained by the police is a wrong number; name of Deepak had surprisingly disappeared from the charge-sheet though victim girl had specifi cally stated in all her statements before the investigating offi cer the role of Deepak and though his name appeared in FIR. 8. He would also contend that there has been threat posed to the father of the minor girl, who is an ordinary police constable to withdraw the complaint and other witnesses are also being threatened and none of these aspects has been considered by the High Court and as such it has resulted BHAGWAN SINGH v. DILIP KUMAR @ DEEPU @ DEPAK 475 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] in an erroneous being passed for granting bail. Hence, he seeks for cancellation of the bail which has been granted by the High Court. Contentions of the Respondent Counsel: 9. Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent would support the impugned passed by the High Court and would contend that fact of the complaint having been lodged after a lapse of one year after the date of alleged incident was a glaring defect in the prosecution theory; she would also contend that during the course of investigation it was found from school records where victim was studying was present at the school on the date of incident and prima facie complaint looks frivolous; in the data record of telephone related to the accused Dileep @ Deepak obtained during investigation revealed he was found to be 40 to 80 KM away from the place of incident on the date of incident and prima facie it reveals he has been falsely implicated; the fi rst respondent (Deepak) had no connection with or relationship with the prosecutrix and no call was ever made by him to the prosecutrix or vice versa. It is also contended that accused Vivek was known to the prosecutrix as is evident from various calls made by Vivek to her and during the course of the trial in her deposition she admitted that she was getting calls from Vivek and Netram but there was no connection whatsoever between the prosecutrix and respondent No.1 - Deepak. She would also contend that between the date of incident i.e.