1 before this Court. In this Appeal challenging the correctness of the decision of the learned Single Judge in F.A. No. 359/96 on the basis of the compromise petition dated 28.3.1991, which is flied and accepted by him is not signed by defendant no.2 and the same is signed by her advocate and not signed by the plaintiff and F her counsel. Therefore, it is urged that the same is not legal compromise as provided under 23, Rule 3, CPC and on behalf of defendant no.2 her advocate could not have signed the compromise petition as she has not executed special ‘vakalatnama’ giving the authorization in favour of her lawyer G to compromise the matter between defendant no.1 and 2 In the First Appeal. Therefore, First Appellate Judge should not have received the compromise petition and accepted the same. The acceptance of the compromise petition by the learned Single Judge should have entered between the parties including the plaintiff. In support of the said legal contention, H 78 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A reliance is placed by the learned counsel on behalf of defendant no.2 on the decisions of the apex Court in Ramasrey & Puspa Devi (supra). The compromise petition is in variance to the schedule properties of the suit and, therefore, it is voidable. The compromise was neither recorded by the first appellate court at the time-of filing compromise petition in B writing, nor the parties were present in the court nor signed the petition in court. Therefore, the alleged compromise cannot be termed as compromise between the parties in relation to the subject matter covered therein as the same is illegal for the reason that it is opposed to 23, Rule 3, CPC. Hence C the learned Single Judge could not have accepted the same. In support of this contention, learned Single Judge had rightly placed reliance upon the decisions of the Hon’ble Supreme Court In the case of Gurpreet Singh v. Chatur Bhuj Goel, AIR 1988 SC 400; and of this Court in the case of Sanyasi Jena and others v. Mina Jena and others, AIR 1984 Orissa D 213. Further the reliance placed by the learned counsel for the defendant no.1 upon the of Puspa Devi (supra) is distinguished by defendant no.2 counsel stating that compromise petition is being typed in English. Further the same is not signed by defendantno.2. Defendant no.1 with a E view to deprive allotment of share assigned in favour of defendant no.2 by the trial court in respect of the suit schedule properties in the absence of signing the compromise petition by defendant no.2 and there is no special ‘vakalatnama’ executed in favour of her lawyer, the said compromise petition is unlawful and the same could not have been accepted by F the first appellate court In the Impugned and modified the trial court . Therefore, the cross- objection/appeal filed by defendant no.2 has to be allowed by setting aside the compromise recorded by the first appellate court In the Impugned by modifying trial court G in relation to the share of the defendant no.2 allotted in respect of the suit schedule properties.