To do so would be contrary to the plain terms as well as the object of the statute.” 1 “CLAT” 2 “Consortium” 3 (2021) 5 SCC 370 4 “PwDs” 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 4. Apart from the above grievance, the petitioner submitted that the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment of the Union of India had, in its guidelines of 29 August 2018, prescribed that in case a candidate is allowed to bring his own scribe, the qualifi cation should be one step below the qualifi cation of the candidate taking the examination. On the other hand, in the present case, the Consortium had sought to prohibit scribes if they are (a) above the 11th grade in educational attainment; or (b) affi liated to any test-preparatory organisation or examination coaching centre. 5. As a consequence of the above restriction, it was urged that a PwD candidate cannot appoint a scribe who is currently enrolled in the 12th grade. Moreover, the exclusion of students enrolled in any examination coaching centre, it was urged, would eliminate nearly every 10th and 11th grade student since all students are likely to be enrolled in coaching centres for preparation of competitive entrance examinations. 6. The third and fi nal grievance is that the Consortium has abdicated its positive obligation to provide scribes for those candidates who are unable to engage or fi nd a scribe because of fi nancial and other accessibility constraints. 7. Bearing in mind the fact that the CLAT is a nationwide examination and the issues which were raised by the petitioner would aff ect PwD candidates in general, this Court entertained the proceedings on 15 December 2022. At that stage, the CLAT was scheduled two days thereafter, on 18 December 2022. In response to a suggestion of the Court, requesting the Consortium to resolve the issues which were raised before the Court, the following formulation was submitted on its behalf before the Court : “1 Pursuant to the of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in Vikash Kumar v Union Public Service Commission and Others (2021) 5 SCC 370, the Consortium of National Law Universities (the “Consortium”) make the following reasonable accommodation for candidates appearing for the CLAT 2023 : (i) with a specifi ed disability covered under the defi nition in Section 2(s) of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 ARNAB ROY v. CONSORTIUM OF NATIONAL LAW 469 UNIVERSITIES [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (the “Act”) but not covered under the defi nition under Section 2(r) of the Act, i.e., persons having less than 40% specifi ed disability, and (ii) who have diffi culty in writing. 2 Such candidates as aforesaid who have secured a government medical certifi cate/disability certifi cate indicating that they fall within the category described in para 1 above may be permitted the assistance of a scribe to write the CLAT 2023. Any such candidate may apply to the Coordinator having charge over their allotted Test Centre by email. 3 Any scribes must meet the qualifi cation criteria for scribes set out in the Consortium’s ‘Guidelines for Persons with Benchmark Disabilities (“PwDs”) / Specially Abled Persons (“SAPs”) dated November 24, 2022.