Unlike Diploma in elementary education (D.El.Ed. ), B.Ed. does not equip a teacher to teach at primary level. This fact is implicitly recognised in the Notifi cation as well (notifi cation dated 28.06.2018), which still requires a person, who is appointed as a teacher with B.Ed. qualifi cation to ‘mandatorily undergo a six-month Bridge Course in Elementary Education’. This defeats the very logic of including B.Ed. as a qualifi cation, as the very notifi cation which pushes for the inclusion of B.Ed., also recognises its inherent pedagogical weakness in its relation to primary classes. It is to cover this defect, that all such candidates, must undergo a mandatory six months Bridge Course in elementary education! The irony here is that all this is being done when the State of Rajasthan already has more than the required number of Diploma qualifi ed candidates available. This is besides the fact that there is presently no such “bridge course” available; at least there was none till the disposal of the petition by the Rajasthan High Court. 33. Under the secircumstances,we are unable to comprehend as to what was the pressing need to include B.Ed. candidates, who are admittedly not fully trained to take up Primary Classes! Consequently, the decision of the NCTE to include B.Ed. as a qualifi cation for teachers in a primary school seems arbitrary, unreasonable and in fact has no nexus with the object DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 191 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] sought to be achieved by the Act i.e. Right to Education Act, which is to give to children not only free and compulsory but also ‘quality’ education. 34. In our considered opinion therefore NCTE was not justifi ed in including B.Ed. as a qualifi cation for appointment to the post of primary school teacher (Level-1), a qualifi cation it had so far consciously kept out of the eligibility requirement. The Rajasthan High Court by way of the Impugned Judgement had rightly struck down the notifi cation dated 28.06.2018, on the following grounds:- “(i) The impugned notifi cation dated 28.06.2018 is unlawful because: - (a) it is under the direction of the Central Government, which power the Central Government under Subsection (1) of Section 23 of the RTE Act did not have; and (b) it is not in exercise of power of the Central Government under Sub-section (2) of Section 23 of RTE Act relaxing the eligibility criteria prescribed by the NCTE, nor there has been any exercise for ascertaining existence of the conditions precedent for exercising such power. (ii) The petitioners have locus standi to challenge the notifi cation dated 28.06.2018. Merely because an additional qualifi cation is recognized as one of the eligibility criteria, the petitioners cannot be prevented from challenging it. (iii) Accepting a candidate with B.Ed. degree as eligible for appointment and thereafter subjecting him to complete the bridge course within two years of appointment is in the nature of relaxing the existing eligibility criteria, which the Central Government could have done only within Sub-section (2) of Section 23 and subject to existence of circumstances necessary for exercise of such power.