Sub-section (2) of Section 13 further provides that before taking any steps in the direction of realising the dues, the secured creditor must serve a notice in writing to the borrower requiring him to discharge the liabilities within a period of 60 days failing which the secured creditor would be entitled to take any of the measures as provided in sub-section (4) of Section 13. It 92 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. may also be noted that as per sub-section (3) of Section 13 a notice given to the borrower must contain the details of the amounts payable and the secured assets against which the secured creditor proposes to proceed in the event of non-compliance with the notice given under sub-section (2) of Section 13.” 39. Section 35 of the SARFAESI Act contains the overriding clause and provides that the Act shall override any other law which is inconsistent with its provisions, and reads as under: - “35. The provisions of this Act to override other laws.–The provisions of this Act shall have eff ect, notwithstanding anything inconsistent therewith contained in any other law for the time being in force or any instrument having eff ect by virtue of any such law.” 40. Section 37 of the SARFAESI Act provides that the provisions of the SARFAESI Act shall be in addition to the Acts mentioned in or and any other law for the time being in force and that the other laws shall also be applicable alongside the SARFAESI Act, and reads as under: - “37. Application of other laws not barred.–The provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956), the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956 (42 of 1956), the Securities and Exchange Board of India Act, 1992 (15 of 1992), the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (51 of 1993) or any other law for the time being in force.” 41. This Court in Madras Petrochem Ltd. & Anr. v. Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction & Ors. reported in (2016) 4 SCC 1, recapitulated the object behind the enactment of the SARFAESI Act and in that context examined the purpose of Sections 13, 35 and 37 respectively of the SARFAESI Act with the following observations given as under: - “16. It is important at this stage to refer to the genesis of these three legislations. Each of them deals with diff erent aspects of recovery of debts due to banks and fi nancial institutions. Two of them refer to creditors’ interests and how best to deal with recovery of outstanding loans and advances made by them on the one hand, whereas the Sick Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, on the other CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 93 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] hand, deals with certain debtors which are sick industrial companies [i.e. companies running industries named in the Schedule to the Industries (Development and Regulation) Act, 1951] and whether such “debtors” having become “sick”, are to be rehabilitated.