The learned senior counsel pointed out that Section 3 of FERA provided for the appointment of diff erent classes/ categories of offi cers of Enforcement. He submitted that the appointment of offi cers made under Section 3 of FERA has not been saved by Section 49, which is a saving and repealing provision under FEMA. He submitted that the fi rst respondent-Enforcement Offi cer was appointed under clause (e) of Section 3 of FERA and thus, with eff ect from 1st June 2000, the said offi cer is not empowered to exercise powers of an Enforcement Offi cer under FERA as the said powers have not been saved. The learned senior counsel submitted that assuming that cognizance is taken within the sunset period provided under sub-section (3) of Section 49 of FEMA, in view of clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of Section 61 of FERA, only an authorised offi cer could have fi led the complaint and in the facts of the case, the Enforcement Offi cer who may have been authorised earlier, cannot perform duties of his offi ce as from 1st June 2000, he ceased to be an Enforcement Offi cer. He would, therefore, submit that the Court was powerless to take cognizance of the complaint which was fi led by an offi cer who was not authorised. 4. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, the learned Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondents, submitted that sub-section (4) of Section 49 of FEMA is a complete answer to the submissions made by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants. She submitted that the Enforcement Offi cer appointed under FERA continued to have the authority or competence to fi le a complaint for the off ences punishable under FERA before the expiry of the sunset period provided in sub-section (3) of Section 49 of FEMA. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 5. As can be seen from the statement of objects and reasons of FEMA, the legislature noticed that after 1993, there were signifi cant developments, such as a substantial increase in foreign exchange reserves of our country, growth in foreign trade, rationalisation of tariff s, liberalisation of Indian investment abroad, increased access to external commercial borrowings by Indian corporates and participation of foreign investors in the stock market. Keeping in view the entirely changed environment, by repealing FERA, FIRST GLOBAL STOCKBROKING PVT. LTD. v. ANIL 425 RISHIRAJ [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] FEMA was brought on the Statute book with the objective of facilitating external trade and payments and promoting the ly development and maintenance of the foreign exchange market in India. A perusal of the provisions of FEMA shows that there is a diff erence between its scheme and the scheme of FERA. There are elaborate provisions for penalty under Chapter IV of FEMA, and the penal provision is confi ned to sub-section (1C) of Section 13 of FEMA. Whereas Section 56 and Section 57 of FERA were more stringent in the sense that they covered a very large category of violations. 6.