As per Section 4(2) on receipt of a reference the Tribunal shall call upon the association affected by notice in writing to show cause, why the association should not be declared unlawful. Thereafter the Tribunal is required to hold an inquiry in the manner specified C in Section 9 and after calling for such further information as it may consider necessary from the Central Government or from any office- bearer or member of the association, it shall decide whether or not there is sufficient cause for declaring the association to be unlawful and make, as expeditiously as possible and in any case within a period of six months from the date of the issue of the notification under sub-section D (1) of Section 3, such as it may deem fit either confirming the declaration made in the notification or cancelling the same. 14.5 Thus from the aforesaid it can be seen that before any organization is declared unlawful a detailed procedure is required to be followed including the wide publicity and even the right to a member of E such association to represent before the Tribunal. As observed hereinabove the notification issued by the Central Government declaring a particular association unlawful, the same is subject to inquiry and approval by the Tribunal as per Section 4. Once that is done and despite that a person who is a member of such unlawful association continues to F be a member of such unlawful association then he has to face the consequences and is subjected to the penal provisions as provided under Section 10 more particularly Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA, 1967. 14.6 At this stage it is required to be noted that a particular association is declared unlawful only after the Central Government is G satisfied that such association is indulging to unlawful activity and the same is against sovereignty and integrity of India. ‘Unlawful activity’ is defined under Section 2(o) and ‘unlawful association’ is defined under Section 2(p). Thus, thereafter a person who is the member of such unlawful association cannot be permitted to say that still he may continue H to be associated with and/or continue to be a member of such unlawful ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 555 [M. R. SHAH, J.] association despite such an association is declared unlawful on the ground A of its unlawful activities which is found to be against the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India. At the cost of repetition, it is observed that the object and purpose of the enactment of UAPA is to provide for more effective prevention of certain unlawful activities. To punish such a person who is continued as a member of such unlawful association B which is declared unlawful due to unlawful activities can be said to be in furtherance of providing for effective prevention of the unlawful activities. Therefore, as such Section 10(a)(i) which provides that where an association is declared unlawful by a notification issued under Section 3 which has become effective under sub-section 3 of that Section, a person C who is and continues to be a member of such association shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2 years and shall also be liable to fine, can be said to be absolutely in consonance with Article 19(1)(2) & (4) of the Constitution of India and can be said to be in furtherance of the object and purpose for which the UAPA has been enacted.