16. It was submitted that no judicial or prohibited the licensees of the TIFC property from depositing monthly lease rent in the Escrow Account, nor the s held that the lender was disentitled from using the assigned receivables/rents. The transaction was not prohibited by the dated 15.10.2018, which was restricted to the assets of the IL&FS. Assigned receivables were not its assets. They were consequently outside the purview of the dated 15.10.2018. It was contended that former judge of this court by the (dated 03.07.2020) unduly broadened the ambit of the dated 15.10.2018. The committee overlooked that the distribution of the rentals/receivables was property of the lender and therefore, fell outside 6 5. Security and Repayment Specifi c Covenants: [..] (c) The Borrower agrees that the Receivables shall be exclusiveproperty of the Lender for the purpose of secured repayment ofthe Facility and as such the Borrower will not make any further borrowing on the strength of the Receivables on being Borrower’sproperty. INFRASTRUCTURE LEASING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 1043 v. HDFC BANK LTD. & ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the scope of any direction of the 15th October 2018 . The borrower was not entitled to any reliefs as claimed in I.A. No 2196/ 20207. 17. It was contended by HDFC that the transfer of ownership of a portion of the rent receivables by IL&FS in its favour was suffi cient to pay the principal and interest whenever it became due in terms of the Facility Agreement. It was not the entire rent receivables but only a portion of the same suffi cient to cover the principal and interest, was assigned. The balance portion was not assigned; it continues to be owned by IL&FS. The borrower hence continues to have title and interest in the residual receivables which too was secured. Analysis and Conclusions 18. For appreciation of the transaction (to determine whether the assignment or arrangement was a transfer, or security interest), it would be convenient to peruse portions of the impugned , which reproduced the relevant conditions in the various documents. 19. The parties entered into a Master Facility Agreement (MFA) on 25.06.2018. The defi nition clause in the MFA, inter alia, defi ned [Cl. 2 (1)] “due date”; Clause 2 (aa) defi ned “repayment” and clause 2 (cc) defi ned “security”. Per Clause 2 (cc),“Security”had to have the same “meaning as described in Clause-8 of this Agreement and also described in the Schedule- III”. Likewise, secured property inter alia, included immovable property described in Schedule III. The MFA envisioned that the borrower (IL&FS) entersinto an escrow agreement “on such terms as agreed by the lender. The power was to give irrevocable instructions to Escrow Bank. Clause 8 of the MFAdeals with the ‘security interest’.” Clause 8(8.1) is as follows: “8. SECURITY INTEREST- DESCRIPTION/CREATION/ PERFECTION 8.1. The Borrower create Security Interest in such form and manner as instructed by Lender on the asset/property more particularly described in Schedule-III to this Agreement as the principal Security for securing the repayment of the Facility.