C Multiple claims of OCs 27. With respect to the said objection, it only needs to be mentioned that other creditors would have their own right to avail such legal remedies as may be available to them under law with respect to their claims. The rights of the creditors for their respective claims do not get whittled D down or adversely affected if the settlement with the OC in the present case is accepted and the proceedings allowed to be withdrawn. Claims for expenses for IRP 28. Any amount spent by the IRP legally admissible to him could always be recovered in the same proceedings and the NCLT or the E Adjudicating Authority would be well within its power to get the same cleared under Clause 7 of Regulation 30A of IBBI Regulations. s relied upon: 29. In the facts and circumstances of the present case and for the F discussion made above none of the s relied upon by the intervenors are of any help to the intervenors. Briefly the same are discussed hereinafter. 30. The interveners have relied upon P.Mohanraj (supra), Swiss Ribbons (supra), Dena Bank (supra), MSTC Limited (supra), Indian G Overseas Bank (supra) and Manok K. Daga (supra), for the proposition that settlement would be in violation of moratorium as payments have been made after transferring money from the CD account after initiation of CIRP. As already recorded above, we have held that firstly, the NCLT itself was not satisfied that moratorium had been violated and even if it had been violated, at best it would amount to a wrongful trading/transaction H ABHISHEK SINGH v. HUHTAMAKI PPL LTD. & ANR. 611 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] and the same, if established, could always be recovered by the IRP or A the RP in appropriate proceedings for CIRP by other OCs under section 66 of IBC. However, the present settlement could not be stalled. Thus, these cases are of no help to the intervenors. 31. The case of Narayanamma and another (supra) has been relied upon for the proposition that this Court would not put a seal on an B illegal act of the suspended Directors of the CD as they have transferred funds out of CD’s account after application was admitted. Here also, we may only add that as NCLT itself was not satisfied with such violation, no benefit can be derived by the intervenors. 32. Lastly, the intervenors have relied upon Ram Saran Das C (supra) and Titaghur Paper Mills (supra) for the proposition that the appeal deserves to be dismissed as the appellant did not avail the alternative remedy. This aspect also, for the reasons recorded above, does not benefit the interveners in any way. Legality of the impugned : D 33. Now coming to the legality and the correctness of the impugned passed by the NCLT in the present appeal.Majority of the findings recorded in the impugned s are already covered above.An important issue remains to be considered is the finding recorded by the NCLT that Regulation 30A of IBBI Regulations was not binding upon it and could E not be of any help to the CD or its suspended Directors.