According to the Agency, IAPL – a lawyer’s body is a frontal organisation of the banned organisation. This communication records a proposed visit to Kerala on International Human Rights Day by AF and the author thereof. This is F followed by a further communication from Prakash to Surendra dated 16th July 2017 (“R-7”). This letter records a proposed visit of Arun to Chennai in connection with release of a detained party member as also raising of funds for the legal defence of detained persons. Here also, there is appreciation of AF and VG’s work. The next letter at Annexure “R-22” is claimed to have been written by Sudha Bharadwaj to Prakash G and this letter relates to a seminar titled “Udta Loktantra against the UAPA Act” in which Arun was to participate. Lastly there is a letter at Annexure “R-14” written by one Anantwa to Comrade Monibai which relates to the celebration of 50th Anniversary of the Great Proletarian revolution and Naxalites organisation in Mumbai (Bombay) and records H 902 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A that the party had sent revolutionary greetings to Comrades of various associations, including the appellant, Arun. 21.There is also a reference to an account statement alleged by the prosecution to have been recovered from the laptop of Rona Wilson (Annexure “R-3”). We reproduce below this statement in the same form B as it has been represented in the said Annexure:- “Surendra=R=2.5L from Milind Shoma & amp; Sudhir = R and D = 1L from Surendra Amit B = R = 1.5 for CPDR canvasing C And T = R = 90T from Surendra (Through Milind) Myself = R = 1.8L from Com Manoj Arun = R = 2L from Com Darsu VV = R = 5L from Com G.” D 22. Apart from these letters and statements, various literatures, books etc. have been referred to by the prosecution which they claim to have recovered from the residences of AF and VG. These mainly involve writings on extreme left-wing ideology including its application to India. Similar materials are alleged to have been recovered from other accused E persons as well. Recovery of different electronic communication devices like Mobile Phones, Tablets, Pen Drives and ancillary items is alleged to have been made. From these devices themselves, however, no evidence has been cited before us which would implicate AF and VG in terrorist acts and the other offences barring the letters on which emphasis has been laid by the agency. We have already referred to the letters which F the law enforcement agency alleges to have recovered from the devices of other accused persons in which there are references to AF and VG. Call Detail Records have also been referred to for establishing location of the accused and also their inter-association. 23. In pursuance of the of this Court in the case of G Zahoor Ahmad Shah Watali (supra) the documents relied upon by the prosecution at this stage ought to prevail until overcome or disproved by other evidences.