Reliance was placed on this court’s decision in M.C. Mehta v. Union of India13. 18. Counsel on behalf of the manufacturer of non-woven carry bags, contended that such bags are made out of poly-propylene granules by spun-bonding fi bres similar to polyester fi laments used for manufacturing of sarees, shirts etc. ; and non-woven fabrics have wide usage14. They have weak chemical structure and are made of a mono-polymer, making it easy to segregate and recycle. Non-woven polypropylene carry bags are reusable alternatives to plastic bags. They have a fabric like structure with air and water permeability. Therefore, even if the non-woven carry bags are discarded, there is no possibility for clogging or choking of water channel, drains, sewer lines etc., and aff ecting soil fertility. These fabrics are chemically inert and non-toxic and therefore, even burning these materials will not produce any poisonous gases or pollutants. The non-woven bags disintegrate on exposure to sun light and rainfall and can degrade within even 100 days. Even the test report issued by CIPET, it was argued, has 13 (2004) 12 SCC 118. 14 Non-woven fabrics have numerous applications – medical (surgical gown, face mask, shoe covers, caps, etc. ), fi lters (vacuum bags, hepafi lteration), agriculture (shade nets, crop covers, soil liners, tea bags, etc), and packaging (where porosity is needed, bags of all types namely WCUT, DCUT, handle loop bags used in malls, textile, retail, etc.) 114 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. proved that non-woven carry bags are 100% eco-friendly. The life Cycle Assessment study done by the Central Pollution Control Board, Ministry of Forest, and Climate Change, reveals that non-woven carry bags are the real substitute and alternate for plastics, as they are porous in nature and air and water can pass through freely, and there is a real global warming impact in recycling paper and plastic. 19. Counsel pointed out that non-woven carry bag fabric is classifi ed as Technical Textile by, and promoted by, the Ministry of Textile, Government of India (GOI). Further, the non-woven polypropylene carry bags can be manufactured as per the requirement of customer and there is no fi xed percentage of polypropylene i.e., all non-woven carry bags do not contain 98.2% polypropylene. It was argued that the non-woven carry bags contain less percentage of poly propylene, which varies from 57% to 70% while an average carry bag can be produced with 30% to 90% of polypropylene; and that the appellants are ready to manufacture the non-woven carry bags with any fi xed percentage as may be fi xed by this Court or any other authority. In this way, the state can regulate the ratio of polypropylene in non-woven carry bags by fi xing the percentage of GSM. But the total ban or prohibition by branding it as ‘one time use and throw’ was unwarranted and disproportionate. 20. Such a ban, it was argued, caused massive unemployment and rendered the machineries purchased useless as they could be used only to manufacture non-woven carry bags and not for any other purposes.