The Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act 1956 did away with the position of ‘Rajpramukh’ and introduced the ‘Governor’ in its place. The portion of CO 56 extracted above, like CO 48, was a clarifi catory provision introduced to recognise the state of aff airs which existed at the time. Both CO 48 and CO 56 did not attempt to change or modify the law as it then existed. Rather, they clarifi ed that the law would continue to apply in the same manner even after certain changes to the Constitution had been eff ected by other Amending Acts. They are most accurately classifi ed as consequential amendments to the Constitution, which bring it in line with an existing state of aff airs. 242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 412. CO 74 modified paragraph 2 of CO 48 for the second time by inter alia substituting the following sub-clauses of clause (4) of Article 367 as it applied to the State of Jammu and Kashmir: “(i) for sub-clause (b), the following sub-clauses shall be substituted, namely: - “(aa) references to the person for the time being recognized by the President on the recommendation of the Legislative Assembly of the State as the Sadar-i-Riyasat of Jammu and Kashmir, acting on the advice of the Council of Ministers of the State for the time being in office shall be construed as references to the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir; (b) references to the Government of the said State shall be construed as including references to the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir acting on the advice of his Council of Ministers: … (ii) for sub-clause (e), the following sub-clause shall be substituted, namely: - (e) references to a Governor shall include references to the Governor of Jammu and Kashmir: …” ” 413. It is evident from a plain reading of these substituted clauses that the effect of CO 74 was to clarify that references to the Sadar-i- Riyasat must be read as meaning references to the Governor of the State. Mohd. Maqbool Damnoo v. State of Jammu and Kashmir281 involved a petition challenging an of preventive detention under the Jammu and Kashmir Preventive Detention Act 1964. The District Magistrate passed an under Section 13A that it was against the public interest to disclose the grounds of detention to the petitioner. Among the grounds which were urged in support of the petition was that the Amending Act by which amendments were made to the Preventive Detection Act in the 281 (1972) 1 SCC 536 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 243 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] State was invalid since it was not assented to by the Sadar-i-Riyasat. Chief Justice S M Sikri speaking for the Constitution Bench noted that CO 44 was issued by the President on 16 November 1952 on the recommendation of the Constituent Assembly of the State of Jammu and Kashmir under Article 370 by which an explanation was introduced for the purposes of Article 370. The explanation stated that the Government of the State means the person recognised by the President as Sadar-i-Riyasat of Jammu and Kashmir on the recommendation of the Legislative Assembly, acting on the advice of the Council of Ministers for the State.