Contentions of HSIDC 10. Mr. Alok Sangwan, learned Additional Advocate General for D Haryana, urged this court not to interfere with the findings of the NCDRC. He submitted that the record would show that sufficient opportunity was granted to the appellant, and show cause notice too was issued to him, asking him why steps were not taken to construct the industrial unit upon the plot. Counsel relied on several letters exchanged E between the parties. He argued that the appellant did not show any, much less substantial progress or interest in carrying on industrial activity on the plot. 11. Mr. Sangwan submitted that the object behind allotment of plots in industrial areas, was to promote industrial activity, especially by F qualified engineers. He highlighted that allotment is based on appraisal of the project proposed by applicants, and having regard to their feasibility. The overall objective of the scheme under which plots were allotted was to promote industrialization and thereby promote economic growth, and also ensure employment. The persistent inaction of the appellant and his inability to show any inclination to fulfil these objectives, despite G grant of several opportunities, and most importantly his inability to take any initiative despite lapse of five years from allotment, meant that he was not interested in constructing upon, or using the plot for any industrial 7 Managing Director, Haryana Industrial Development Corporation & Ors. v Hari Om Enterprises & Ors, 2009 (16) SCC 208 H 136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A activity, but rather to speculate and wait for its value to increase, and thereafter dispose it off. 12. Learned counsel relied upon several conditions in the allotment letter and stated that the appellant was obliged to not only take swift and timely action towards putting up the unit, but also the allotment was B hedged with several conditions, many of which, upon violation, entailed cancellation. Therefore, there was nothing abhorrent or reprehensible in HSIDC’s action in resuming the plot. Analysis and Reasoning 13. The record in this case indicates that the appellant had applied C for allotment of the industrial plot on 28-02-1994. After he was interviewed and his credentials verified, he was issued with the letter of intent on 09- 09-1994. The final payment was made in respect of the plot on 06-09- 1995. Later the next month on 27-10-1995, an agreement was executed between HSIDC and the appellant in which he agreed to complete the project in 2 years. The agreement also contained the condition that D extension could be granted upon payment of a fee. The appellant took possession of the plot on 29-12-1995. The appellant was called upon to show cause why he did not complete construction and set up the unit, in 1997. Upon receiving this notice, he replied on 12-02- 1998 that he could not start the unit due to lack of infrastructural facilities. He alleged that E road and electricity facilities were not adequate, which had hindered his project. The HSIDC issued a show cause notice to the appellant, again on 23-03-1998.