The Jail Superintendent sought an opinion of E the concerned Sessions Court which had convicted the petitioners. The Special Judge, Durg, Chhattisgarh vide the letters dated 2.7.2021, 10.8.2021 and 1.10.2021 respectively gave his opinion stating inter alia that in view of the facts and circumstances of the case, it was not appropriate to allow remission of the remaining sentence of the said petitioners. F 4. The Law Department, Government of Chhattisgarh, also vide the note dated 27.11.2021 gave an opinion that in view of the opinion given by the presiding Judge of the Sentencing Court, the petitioner no. 1 and 3 ought not to be given the benefit of the provisions of Section 433-A Cr.PC. Thereafter, the Director General, Jail and Correctional G Services Chhattisgarh on 21.02.2022 referred the case of the petitioner no.2 to the Home Department, Government of Chhattisgarh and on 02.03.2022, addressed a letter to the Addl. Chief Secretary, Jail Department, Government of Chhattisgarh, for again moving the file of the petitioner no.1 and 3 for remission along with other convicts. On 22.3.2022, the Law Department, Government of Chhattisgarh once again H JASWANT SINGH & ORS. v. THE STATE OF CHHATTISGARH 597 & ANR [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] gave its opinion that since the presiding Judge of the Sentencing Court A had not given positive opinion, the petitioner no.1 and 3 should not be released on remission. The Director General, Jail and Correctional Services, therefore, rejected the applications of the petitioner no. 1 and 3 for their release on remission. It appears that the application of the respondent no.2 remained pending for consideration before the Home B Department, Government of Chhattisgarh. 5. In the meantime, one of the co-accused Ram Chander, who was also convicted along with the present petitioners in the said case, had preferred a writ petition being Writ Petition (Criminal) No.49/2022, in which this Court vide dated 22.4.2022 directed the respondents C to reconsider the case of the said petitioner and directed the Special Judge to provide an opinion afresh accompanied by adequate reasoning after taking into consideration the relevant factors laid down in Laxman Naskar vs. Union of India1. The Special Judge (Atrocities Act Durg), therefore, considering the guidelines given by this Court in Laxman Naskar vs. Union of India (supra) opined inter alia that the sentence D of the prisoner Ram Chander (co-accused) could be set-aside and accordingly recommended to remit his sentence. 6. We have heard learned counsels for the parties and carefully considered the and passed by this Court in Writ Petition (Criminal) No.49/2022 filed by the co-accused Ram Chander. In the E said , the Coordinate Bench has considered in detail the requirement of the factors laid down in case of Laxman Naskar vs. Union of India (supra), to be considered by the Presiding Judge while giving opinion under Section 432(2) Cr.P.C., and the powers of the appropriate Government to suspend or remit sentences under Sections 432 and 433-A of Cr.PC. The Court in the said judgement, after F considering the earlier judgements of this Court, more particularly of the Constitution Bench in case of Union of India vs. Sriharan @ Murugan2 and in case of Laxman Naskar vs. Union of India (supra) observed as under: - “20.