(iv) The appellant and Dharmendra are siblings no doubt; but they have three other siblings. If indeed the appellant was one of several co- G accused, it defies reason as to why the complainant knowing the appellant quite well would not name him and vaguely allege that the brother of Dharmendra too had assaulted and abused the complainant. (v) Falsity of the versions of PW-1 & PW-2 would be manifest if one were to read their depositions. The incident giving rise to the trial H occurred on 30th September, 2017 at 6.00 pm, which happened to be the JITENDRA NATH MISHRA v. STATE OF U.P. & ANR 645 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] day of Dussehra. Although, it was alleged that the accused persons A assaulted and abused the complainant and his wife in a public place while they were returning home, no other public witness has been cited to prove the prosecution case of assault and abuse. It is, therefore, a clear case of false implication. 5. Based on such contentions, Mr. Pandey argued that exercise B of power under Section 319, Cr. PC by the Special Court is arbitrary and that the High Court erred in law as well as on facts in not interfering with such in exercise of appellate jurisdiction. He, thus, prayed for quashing of the 16th October, 2021 of the Special Court, since affirmed by the High Court on 1st June, 2022. C 6. Opposing the appeal, Mr. Singh, learned senior counsel representing the State of Uttar Pradesh, contended that the law relating to summoning a person for being tried along with an accused is no longer res integra. He invited our attention to the Constitution Bench decision of this Court in Hardeep Singh vs. State of Punjab: (2014) 3 SCC 92 D and placed reliance on paragraphs 106, 117.4 and 117.6 thereof. It was his contention that the Special Court duly took into consideration the oral evidence adduced by the complainant and his wife and summoned the appellant under Section 319, Cr. PC; hence, such does not suffer from any illegality, far less patent illegality. He also contended that the points urged by the appellant to have the impugned set aside are E points which he can urge in defence before the Special Court. According to him, the impugned of the High Court, affirming the summoning of the Special Court, does not call for any interference and, as such, he prayed that the appeal be dismissed. 7. We have heard the parties and perused the materials on record. F 8. Having bestowed due consideration to the rival claims, we are of the view that any expression of ours while dealing with each and every point urged on behalf of the appellant could result in pre; and thereby hinder a fair trial hence, adopting a cautious approach, we propose to restrict our consideration solely to the question as to whether G the evidence adduced by the complainant and his wife in course of recording of their depositions did justify the Special Court to make the it did.