However, instead of being a check on the implementation, the lack of institutions has eff ectively brought the implementation of the Act to a total stand- still. This systematic neglect of the statute and inaction by the executive would reduce it to a dead letter. Each of the institutions is dealt with more specifi cally below- National Commission for Safai Karamcharis 69. The NCSK is a statutory commission which was created under the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis Act, 1993. Under this Act, the Commission was to function only till 1997. However, on amendments and executive instructions, the Commission remained functional till 2013. Section 31 of the 2013 Act, thereafter, bestowed certain powers and functions on the NCSK which are to be fulfi lled by it. Therefore, though the NCSK Act, 1993 does not envisage a longer term for the NCSK, by virtue of the 2013 Act, the NCSK must remain functional. The NCSK discharges vital DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1117 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] functions: it is to monitor the implementation of the 2013 Act; to enquire into complaints regarding the contravention of the Act; to advise the Central and State Governments for eff ective implementation of the Act; and to take suo motu notice of matter relating to non-implementation of the Act. The non-functioning of the NCSK would therefore paralyze the implementation of the Act. 70. It is in this light that the position of the NCSK must be seen. The NCSK is manned only by a Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson and one member. It is further a matter of fact that the Commission was not even functioning in the year 2022-23. Needless to state, the Commission is short-staff ed by executive inaction in appointing members to the Commission. State Commissions for Safai Karamcharis 71. In terms of the 2013 Act, at state level (by Section 31), all states are under a mandate to constitute State Commissions for Safai Karamcharis. The functions of the State Commission are identical to functions of the NCSK. The State Commissions, therefore, play an equally important role in the implementation of the Act at the State level. Repeatedly, the NCSK had noted that State Commissions were not constituted. In its Annual Report for the year 2019-20, the National Commission report that persons are approaching the NCSK because of the lack of State Commissions. It stated: “The Commission understands that separate State Commissions for Safai Karamcharis exist in very few States. In the absence of State level Commissions in other States, the petitioners from far off corners of the country are forced to take up their grievances with the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis. This, besides being inconvenient for the petitioners, also overburdens the National Commission. If there is State level Safai Karamchari Commission in every State, then the petitioners of that State can approach these State level Commissions for redressal of their grievances and the State level Commission, in turn, can take up the matter with the local authorities concerned in a more eff ective manner.” 111 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.