for the Appellant. Shamik Shirishbhai Sanjanwala, Adv. for the Respondent. 850 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. / OF THE SUPREME COURT ARAVIND KUMAR, J. 1. The proceedings initiated under the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Act’) against the respondent herein came to be questioned by him by filing an application for discharge on the ground of investigating officer (hereinafter referred to as ‘IO’) having failed to consider the written explanation offered by him with supporting documents and the conclusion reached by the sanctioning authority was also without considering the same reflecting non-application of mind and thereby the conclusion reached by the sanctioning authority that respondent accused possessed assets disproportionate to his known source of income is erroneous and the charge-sheet material do not reveal any circumstances or evidence to arrive at a conclusion that accused had disproportionate source of income. The said application having been rejected by the trial court by dated 13.04.2016, respondent moved the High Court under Section 397 read with Section 401 of Cr.P.C. by filing Criminal Revision Application No.387 of 2016 and same having been allowed by the impugned dated 11.01.2018, the State has approached this Court. 2. The sole question that arises for our consideration is whether the of the sanctioning authority dated 05.03.2015 is liable to be set aside and consequently, the charge-sheet filed by Anti-Corruption Bureau, Anand Police Station on 17.06.2015 is liable to be quashed? 3. The case of the prosecution as laid in the charge-sheet filed against the respondent is to the effect that during the period 2005 to 2011 the respondent by misuse of his power while discharging his duties as Sub-Inspector of Borsad Town Police Station and based on corrupt practices had acquired assets in his and his wife’s name to the tune of Rs.1,15,35,319/- which was beyond his known source of income and it was disproportionate to the tune of Rs.32,68,258/- which is more than 40% of his known source of income. STATE OF GUJARAT v. DILIPSINH KISHORSINH RAO 851 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] 4. An application for discharge (Annexure P-29) came to be fi led under Section 227 read with Section 228 of Cr.P.C. contending inter alia that during investigation, the IO had failed to consider the written statement dated 13.08.2014 and the permission obtained by him to visit Australia and also the details of the purchase of movable and immovable properties furnished to the department on every occasion of his investment, and yet, the IO had failed to consider the same in proper perspective. It was also contended that sanction granted by the department for purchase of the property has also not been taken into account by the I.O. It was further contended, that error in calculation of disproportionate asset though brought to the notice of the investigating agency, same had not been considered as also the statement of the witnesses who had loaned amounts to the respondent. It was further urged that the sanctioning authority had failed to consider the documentary proof furnished for purchase of properties from various sources of income and investigating agency had failed to take into consideration the amount which was obtained under loans from friends and family members which was duly supported by documentary evidences.