E Therefore, the allotment to RIICO is a statutory allotment, validated by the Rajasthan Land Revenue Act, and the 1959 Rules; vii) Respondent No. 1 acted pursuant to the approvals granted by RIICO and, hence, Appellants are now bound by the principles of Promissory Estoppel and Legitimate F Expectations. Respondent No. 1 has invested around Rs. 137.75 Crores in the LIA, Kota, and has also paid off the labour dues of the Appellant Unions, as agreed upon in the tripartite settlement agreements; viii) As Respondent No. 1 has acted on the presumption that G RIICO had validly approved the conversion of land and the sub-division of the plots, there is no scope for cancellation subsequently. Promissory estoppel squarely applies in favour of Respondent No. 1, and the Motilal Padampat (Supra) decision cited by Appellants is, on the contrary, beneficial H to Respondent No. 1’s position; BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 273 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] ix) The alteration in the ruling government cannot be the reason A behind the cancellation of a decision taken by the earlier government. Such behaviour is arbitrary, discriminatory, and untenable in law. This Court in State of Tamil Nadu v. Shyam Sunder8 had held that an instrumentality of the State cannot have a case whereby it pleads contrary to the position B adopted by the State itself. Policies adopted in regard to certain projects should not keep altering as per changing governments. In a matter of governance of a State or with the execution of a decision taken by the prior ruling establishment, when the decision in question does not involve political philosophy, the succeeding government is required C to see it through to its logical conclusion; x) Governments cannot blow hot and cold and are not permitted to approbate and reprobate. RIICO had already taken a detailed decision, in compliance with the 1979 Rules which are the applicable regulations. They cannot resile from this D on flimsy grounds which are merely afterthoughts. Governance is a continuous process and under the Constitution, there is no general power of review available to any government to examine, set aside, and recall the decisions of the earlier government. The Appellants’ E reliance on Krishna Ballav Sahay (Supra) is also misplaced as that case concerned an inquiry being conducted on the basis of serious allegations of corruption against government officers/ministers. It was only after these facts were ascertained did the government reverse the decision by the earlier ruling party. In the present F scenario, no such allegations have been made and no inquiry was conducted either; xi) The Appellants were also obliged to follow the Rules of Business framed under Article 166(3) of the Constitution when implementing their policies, which was once again G bypassed entirely. Rule 5 of the Rules states that the Governor, acting on advice from the Chief Minister, will allocate business of the government to various Ministers and assign specific departments to their portfolio. Rule 9 8 (2011) 8 SCC 737.