& Construction Co. Ltd., (2018) 17 SCC 607 : (2019) 2 SCC (Civ) 530], as followed by us.” Thereafter, a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Vidya Drolia v. Durga Trading Corporation,7 cited paragraph 29 of Garware Wall Ropes (supra) (extracted above) with approval for the proposition that an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal: “146. We now proceed to examine the question, whether the word “existence” in Section 11 merely refers to contract formation (whether there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes the question of enforcement (validity) and therefore the latter falls outside the jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage. On jurisprudentially and textualism it is possible to diff erentiate between existence of an arbitration agreement and validity of an arbitration agreement. Such interpretation can draw support from the plain meaning of the word “existence”. However, it is equally possible, jurisprudentially and on contextualism, to hold that an agreement has no existence if it is not enforceable and not binding. Existence of an arbitration agreement presupposes a valid agreement which would be enforced by the court by relegating the parties to arbitration. Legalistic and plain meaning interpretation would be contrary to the contextual background including the definition clause and would result in unpalatable consequences. A reasonable and just interpretation of “existence” requires understanding the context, the purpose and the relevant legal 7 (2021) 2 SCC 1 109 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. norms applicable for a binding and enforceable arbitration agreement. An agreement evidenced in writing has no meaning unless the parties can be compelled to adhere and abide by the terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights based on an unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons to hold that an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal. A void and unenforceable understanding is no agreement to do anything. Existence of an arbitration agreement means an arbitration agreement that meets and satisfi es the statutory requirements of both the Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and when it is enforceable in law. 147. We would proceed to elaborate and give further reasons: 147.1. (i) In Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. [Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engg. Ltd., (2019) 9 SCC 209 : (2019) 4 SCC (Civ) 324] , this Court had examined the question of stamp duty in an underlying contract with an arbitration clause and in the context had drawn a distinction between the fi rst and second part of Section 7(2) of the Arbitration Act, albeit the observations made and quoted above with reference to “existence” and “validity” of the arbitration agreement being apposite and extremely important, we would repeat the same by reproducing para 29 thereof : (SCC p. 238) […] Existence and validity are intertwined, and arbitration agreement does not exist if it is illegal or does not satisfy mandatory legal requirements. Invalid agreement is no agreement.” 3. N N Global 1 (supra) noted the decision of the co-ordinate Bench in Vidya Drolia (supra) and doubted the correctness of the view adopted in paragraphs 22 and 29 of Garware Wall Ropes (supra) and in paragraphs 146 and 147 of Vidya Drolia (supra) (extracted above).