The provision mandates the Lieutenant Governor to make a reference to the Central Government of every proposal which relates to the appointments stipulated in the provision. This is clear from the usage of the words “the Lieutenant Governor shall make a prior reference; b. Rule 55(2) begins with the phrase “subject to any instructions which may from time to time be issued by the Central Government”. The exercise of power by the Lieutenant Governor under Rule 55(2)(b) is subject to the control of the Central Government; c. As discussed above, Rule 55(2)(b) deals with proposals for the appointment of the Commissioner of Police and the Secretaries In-charge of the Home and Land Departments in addition to the Chief Secretary. The Chief Secretary has been brought within the purview of Rule 55(2)(b) because the Chief Secretary of the GNCTD exercises overall supervision and control over all the 480 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. departments including the departments which are relatable to the excluded subjects; and d. The Central Government has a veto over the proposal in terms of Rule 56. 24. The position which emerges from the above analysis is that unlike other States, the GNCTD only has the power to propose a candidate for the appointment as the Chief Secretary. The Lieutenant Governor is bound to refer the proposal to the Central Government and the decision of the Central Government on the proposal is fi nal. 25. Section 45A(d) defi nes the Chief Secretary to mean the Chief Secretary of the GNCTD “appointed by the Central Government”. At this stage, it may not be necessary to enquire into whether clause (d) of Section 45A is purely a defi nition section, as the petitioners submit, or whether it contains a substantive power of appointment, as is submitted by the respondents. At the present stage, it would suffi ce to note that there can be no dispute about the basic position that the Chief Secretary, as the head of the administration, exercises jurisdiction of an administrative nature over the entirety of subjects which fall within the domain of the executive functions of GNCTD which would include those subjects (Entries 1, 2 and 18 of List II) over which the Legislative Assembly and the State Government do not have jurisdiction. 26. In the 2023 Constitution Bench , this Court, while holding that the subject of services in Entry 41 of List II falls within the domain of GNCTD, has nonetheless clarifi ed that this would not extend to control over services insofar as they pertain to the excluded subjects. In the very nature of things, it would not be possible or for that matter practicable to divide these functions of the Chief Secretary or bifurcate them between those areas which fall within the domain of GNCTD and those which lie outside. Nor can such a bifurcation be logically attempted based on the numerical strength of the number of administrative subjects which lie within or outside the province of GNCTD. Once it emerges that the Chief Secretary performs important functions, among other things, in relation to the excluded subjects as well, it would be farfetched to postulate that the Central Government is divested of the power to appoint the Chief Secretary.