What G is the interplay of the same with respect to the provisions of the Tenth Schedule; h. Are intra-party decisions amenable to judicial review? What is the scope of the same;i. What is the extent of discretion 9 (2016) 8 SCC 1 H 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A and power of the Governor to invite a person to form the Government, and whether the same is amenable to judicial review; and j. What is the scope of the powers of the Election Commission of India with respect to the determination of a split within a B party. D. Submissions i. Submissions on whether Nabam Rebia’s case ought to be referred to a larger Bench 33. Learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the parties C addressed this Court on the first of the issues specified in the preceding paragraph, that is, on whether a notice of intention to move a resolution for the removal of a Speaker restricts them from continuing with disqualification proceedings under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution, as held by this Court in Nabam Rebia (supra). D 34. Mr. Kapil Sibal, Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi and Mr. Devadatt Kamat, learned senior counsel advanced submissions on behalf of the petitioners. Their submissions were opposed by Mr. Harish Salve, Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, Mr. Mahesh Jethmalani, Mr. Maninder Singh and Mr. Siddharth Bhatnagar, learned senior counsel appearing for the E respondents. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General, appeared on behalf of the Governor of the State of Maharashtra. 35. In Nabam Rebia (supra), a Constitution Bench of this Court inter alia ruled that it is impermissible for a Speaker to adjudicate upon disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule after a notice of F intention to move a resolution for their removal from the office of the Speaker is issued. The petitioners have urged that this aspect of the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) ought to be referred to a Bench of seven Judges of this Court because: a. In Kihoto Hollohan v. Zachillhu,10 a Constitution Bench G of this Court held that the Court cannot interfere in disqualification proceedings under Paragraph 6 of the Tenth Schedule at an interlocutory stage save in exceptional circumstances. In terms of the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra), the proceedings under the Tenth Schedule would H 10 (1992) Supp (2) SCC 651 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 883 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] be interdicted upon the issuance of a notice of intention to A move a resolution for the removal of the Speaker. This amounts to interference in disqualification proceedings at the interlocutory stage. The decisions in Kihoto Hollohan (supra) and Nabam Rebia (supra), therefore, conflict with one another; B b. The decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) is prone to be misused by defecting MLAs, whose consequent disqualification under the Tenth Schedule can be avoided by disabling the Speaker from proceeding with disqualification proceedings by issuing a notice of intention to move a resolution for C their removal under Article 179 of the Constitution.