The retention of the Mitakshara coparcenary property without including the females in it means that the females cannot inherit in ancestral property as their male counterparts do. The law by excluding the daughter from participating in the coparcenary ownership not only contributes to her discrimination on the ground of gender but also has led to oppression and negation of her fundamental right of equality guaranteed by the Constitution.” 31. The Parliamentary amendment, as the Statement of Objects and Reasons indicates, “proposed to remove the discrimination as contained in Section 6…by giving equal rights to daughters in the Hindu Mitakshara coparcenary property as the sons have”. The Amendment also omitted Section 23 which disentitled a female heir to ask for partition in respect of a dwelling house wholly occupied by a joint family until the male heirs chose to divide their respective shares. The impact of the substitution of Section 6 of Act 39 of 2005 is that a daughter of a coparcener shall (i) become a coparcener in her own right by birth in the same manner as a son; (ii) have the same rights in the coparcenary property as she would have if she had been a son; and (iii) be subject to the same liabilities in respect of the coparcenary property as a son. 32. Amended Section 6(3) provides as follows: “(3) Where a Hindu dies after the commencement of the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005, his interest in the property of a Joint Hindu family governed by the Mitakshara law, shall devolve by testamentary or intestate succession, as the case may be, under this 352 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Act and not by survivorship, and the coparcenary property shall be deemed to have been divided as if a partition had taken place and,― (a) the daughter is allotted the same share as is allotted to a son; (b) the share of the pre-deceased son or a pre-deceased daughter, as they would have got had they been alive at the time of partition, shall be allotted to the surviving child of such pre-deceased son or of such pre-deceased daughter; and (c) the share of the pre-deceased child of a pre-deceased son or of a pre-deceased daughter, as such child would have got had he or she been alive at the time of the partition, shall be allotted to the child of such pre-deceased child of the pre-deceased son or a pre-deceased daughter, as the case may be. Explanation.―For the purposes of this sub-section, the interest of a Hindu Mitakshara coparcener shall be deemed to be the share in the property that would have been allotted to him if a partition of the property had taken place immediately before his death, irrespective of whether he was entitled to claim partition or not.” 33. Before the Amendment, Section 6 provided that on the death of “a male Hindu”, his interest in Mitakshara coparcenary property would devolve by survivorship upon the surviving members of the coparcenary and not in accordance with the mode of succession provided in the Act.