3. To record the evidences by issuing the Commission instead of by presence before the court of law. For the purpose of the same under Section 75 of the CPC, commission can be issued for collecting evidence. 4. Time frame need to be provided for oral argument before the court of law. 5. Restriction on Right of appeal. 25. Similarly, the Delhi High Court undertook a pilot project titled ‘‘Zero Pendency Court Project Report’2 whereunder 22 specifi c pilot and reference courts were referred to collect data to examine meticulously the life cycles of the legal cases. At its core, the project sought to understand how the cases progressed through the legal system in the absence of any backlog. The Data collected from the pilot project led to suggestions of some major recommendations which included, primarily, the assessment of Judicial strength, which as per the report, is regarded as a vital attribute to the cause of delay. The report in this regard suggested to arrive at an optimal judge strength to handle cases pending in diff erent court and went on to provide the Ideal number of judges for diff erent court. The report also highlighted that in criminal cases, prosecution evidence hearings accounts for the Highest percentage of court hearings however when it comes to allocation of time, the courts tend to dedicate more minutes to fi nal arguments and the issuance 2 The Inspiration for the project was a remark by Justice M.N. Venkatachalaih (former CJI) in a conversation with Justice Ravindra Bhat, one of the members of the State Court Management System Committee (SCMS) of the Delhi HC. 964 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. of fi nal s. In civil cases, miscellaneous hearings are common, but fi nal proceedings receive more time nevertheless, judges allocate a greater amount of time to the fi nal or hearings. 26. Melvin M Belli, a member of the California Bar, in his article titled “The Law’s Delays: Reforming Unnecessary Delay in Civil Litigation”, which was prepared as a project for the Belli society, has noted “Trial delays or the period of the American Legal System”. The backlog of the system has become so typical that a plaintiff has to wait 5 years for trial of a simple personal injury claimed. In case, if there is an appeal, a fi nal disposition of the case may occur 10 years after plaintiff has been injured and the following factors were outlined as the major contributors to the delay: (i) The ineffi cient management of the court system by the judiciary. (ii) A Tremendous increase in litigation. (iii) The philosophy of procrastination of many judges and lawyers, and (iv) The priority of criminal or civil cases on the court calendar. To tackle the aforesaid problems, the following remedial measures were suggested as possible solutions: 1) Appointment of surrogate judges (auditors, referees, judges pro tempore) to handle certain cases. The idea of using surrogate judges is to avoid unnecessary adjudication under formal trials. This is followed in Massachusetts, where court appointed auditors or referees, who were practicing attorneys, used to adjudge motor vehicle tort cases.