whether to grant bail or reject bail to an accused in custody, it cannot be lost sight of that the Court concerned herein was not a ‘Court of Session’ but the High Court for the State of Madhya Pradesh, established under Article 214 of E the Constitution of India (hereinafter referred to as the “Constitution”). 11. This singular fact, for reasons elaborated hereinafter, leads us to decline interfering with the Impugned , but for different reasons. We have no hesitation in stating that had the Impugned been rendered by a Court of Session, the factors that would have weighed F with us would be starkly different. 12. A little digression is necessitated. The High Court is a Constitutional Court, possessing a wide repertoire of powers. The High Court has original, appellate and suo motu powers under Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution. The powers under Articles 226 and 227 of G the Constitution are meant for taking care of situations where the High Court feels that some direction(s)/(s) are required in the interest of justice. Recently, in B S Hari Commandant v Union of India, 2023 SCC OnLine SC 413, the present coram had the occasion to hold as under: H 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A “50. Article 226 of the Constitution is a succour to remedy injustice, and any limit on exercise of such power, is only self-imposed. Gainful refer- ence can be made to, amongst others, A V Venkateswaran v. Ramchand Sobhraj Wadhwani, (1962) 1 SCR 573 and U P State Sugar Corporation Ltd. v. Kamal Swaroop Tandon, (2008) 2 SCC 41. The High Courts, B under the Constitutional scheme, are endowed with the ability to issue prerogative writs to safeguard rights of citizens. For ex- actly this reason, this Court has never laid down any strait- jacket principles that can be said to have “cribbed, cabined and confined” [to borrow the term employed by the Hon. C Bhagwati, J. (as he then was) in E P Royappa v. State of Tamil Nadu, (1974) 4 SCC 3 : AIR 1974 SC 555] the extraordinary powers vested under Arti- cles 226 or 227 of the Constitution. Adjudged on the anvil of Nawab Shaqafath Ali Khan (supra), this was a fit case for the High Court to have examined the matter threadbare, more so, when it did D not involve navigating a factual minefield.” (emphasis supplied) 13. Returning to the present case, though usually the proper course of action of the High Court ought to have been to confine itself to the E acceptance/rejection of the prayer for bail made by the accused under Section 439 of the Code; however the High Court, being satisfied that there were, in its opinion, grave lapses on the part of the police/ investigative machinery, which may have fatal consequences on the justice delivery system, could not have simply shut its eyes. F 14. We are of the view that the learned Single Bench could have directed institution of separate proceedings taking recourse to Article 226 of the Constitution, after formulating reasons and points for consideration.