Under Clause 6 of the B Development Agreement, it was the responsibility of the developer to get various approvals and clearances from governmental departments. Clause 11 of the Development Agreement further stipulated that the builder was deemed to have inspected the site and its surroundings and checked the information available. This Court held that the auction sale on an “as is where is” basis and the specific clauses in the Development C Agreement “related only to physical issues pertaining to the project land and ancillary or peripheral legal issues pertaining to the actual construction activity”. It was observed: “34. When the DDA informed Kenneth Builders that the project land was available on an “as is where is basis” and D that it was the responsibility of the developer to obtain all clearances, the conditions related only to physical issues pertaining to the project land and ancillary or peripheral legal issues pertaining to the actual construction activity, such as compliance with the building bye-laws, E environmental clearances etc. The terms and conditions of “as is where is” or environmental clearances emphasized by learned counsel for the DDA certainly did not extend to commencement of construction activity prohibited by law except after obtaining permission of the Ridge Management Board and this Court. On the contrary, it was the obligation of the DDA to F ensure that the initial path for commencement of construction was clear, the rest being the responsibility of the developer. The failure of the DDA to provide a clear passage due to an intervening circumstance beyond its contemplation went to the foundation of implementation of the contract with Kenneth Builders and that is G what frustrated its implementation. 35. Reliance by the learned counsel for DDA on the “as is where is” concept as well as Clause 6 and 11 of the Development Agreement in this context is misplaced. As mentioned above, this primarily pertains to physical issues at site….” H (emphasis supplied) 714 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 137. Reliance placed by the auction purchasers on Raghu Nath Gupta (supra) and Kenneth Builders and Developers (supra)to contend that “as is where is” is a feature of physical property, limited to encumbrances or charges running with land, is misconceived. In both the cases relied upon by the auction purchasers, the s were rendered on the peculiar facts at hand. In Raghu Nath Gupta (supra) B this Court was dealing with the availability of basic facilities like parking, lights, roads, water and sewerage, but the application of the doctrine of “as is where is” was not limited to only physical features of the property. Further, in Kenneth Builders and Developers (supra) based on the facts, this Court opined that a sale on “as is where is” could not be C interpreted to mean that the auction purchaser would be responsible to take permission for the initial commencement of construction itself, which was the obligation of the DDA. The observation of this Court that “this primarily pertains to physical issues at site” was limited to specific clauses in the Development Agreement.