As a necessary corollary, we hold that there was a conditional bar on alienation of the Subject Land as provided in the 1958 Circular and the GOM 1122. The question whether the lands were assigned under ‘regular’ or ‘special laoni’ under the Laoni Rules of 1950 consequently becomes academic and we do not deem it necessary to express our opinion in relation thereto. 55. Finally, attention must be paid to the Appellant’s argument concerning non-compliance with the mandatory requirement of notifi cation as contemplated under Section 58-A of 1317 Fasli Act for invoking any condition in respect of alienability. Heavy reliance in this regard has been placed on the following paragraph of Letter sent from Plot No.33821, stating inter-alia that no notifi cation under Section 58-A was published for the district in which the Subject Land lies:– “45. Section 58-A of the Telangana Area Land Revenue Act puts a restriction for transfer of occupied land notifi ed in respect of any village or tract of the area to which Act extends that the right of occupation of any land under Sec. 54 given after the date of the notifi cation shall not be transferable without obtaining the previous sanction of the Collector. The Advocate General representing the State Government admitted that no notifi cation by the State Government under Sec. 58-A was published prohibiting transfer of the occupied land granted patta under Sec. 54. The same has been recorded by this court in WP No. 144/75 dt. 6-12-1976. x-x-x-x 55. For the aforesaid reasons, we are inclined to hold that though the Government framed rules and notifi ed the same cannot be 21 Letter sent from Plot No.338 (n 6). 642 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. treated as notifi cation as contemplated under Sec. 58-A of the Telangana Area Land Revenue Act where State Government has to notify any village or tract of the area, to which this Act extends, for obtaining previous sanction of the Collector. Therefore, Rule VI (ii) of the Revised Assignment Policy issued in G.O.Ms. No. 1406 dt. 25-7-1958 cannot be given eff ect to until such notifi cation is issued.” (Emphasis Applied) 56. However, it is pertinent to mention here that the decision in Letter sent from Plot No.33822 in its later part clarifi es the application of compliance with Section 58-A when it says that:- “56. Even if the rules are framed in exercise of rule making power unless notifi cation is issued as contemplated under Sec. 58-A notifying any village or tract of the area where sanction of the Collector for transfer of land is necessary, rules cannot be enforced. As already observed, the condition, if any imposed for sale of unoccupied land on payment of market value under Form-G is till the sale is confi rmed by the Collector, but not otherwise, as Sec. 58-A itself envisages sanction of right of occupation of land under Sec. 54 given after the date of the notifi cation, but the same does not cover the occupancy rights granted under Sec.