It is necessary that steps are taken to ensure that the POCSO Act and the mechanisms it creates, are functioning and eff ective. 10. The existing monitoring framework is spelt out in Rule 12, which is extracted below, for the ease of reference: 6 (2020) 7 SCC 108: dated 13.11.2019 in Suo Motu Writ Petition (Crl) No. 1/2019 with Writ Petition (C) No. 819/2019. 670 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “12. Monitoring of implementation of the Act.–– (1) The National Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (hereafter referred to as “NCPCR”) or the State Commission for the Protection of Child Rights (hereafter referred to as “SCPCR”), as the case may be, shall in addition to the functions assigned to them under the Commissions for Protection of Child Rights Act, 2005 (4 of 2006), perform the following functions for implementation of the provisions of the Act–– (a) monitor the designation of Special Courts by State Governments; (b) monitor the appointment of the Special Public Prosecutors by the State Governments; (c) monitor the formulation of the guidelines described in section 39 of the Act by the State Governments, for the use of non-governmental organisations, professionals and experts or persons having knowledge of psychology, social work, physical health, mental health and child development to be associated with the pre-trial and trial stage to assist the child, and to monitor the application of these guidelines; (d) monitor the designing and implementation of modules for training police personnel and other concerned persons, including offi cers of the Centre and State Governments, for the eff ective discharge of their functions under the Act; (e) monitor and support the Central Government and State Governments for the dissemination of information relating to the provisions of the Act through media including the television, radio and print media at regular intervals, so as to make the general public, children as well as their parents and guardians aware of the provisions of the Act. (f) call for a report on any specifi c case of child sexual abuse falling within the jurisdiction of a CWC. (g) collect information and data on its own or from the relevant agencies regarding reported cases of sexual abuse and their disposal under the processes provided under the Act, including information on the following:- (i) number and details of off ences reported under the Act; (ii) whether the procedures prescribed under the Act and rules were followed, including those regarding timeframes; BACHPAN BACHAO ANDOLAN v. 671 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (iii) details of arrangements for care and protection of victims of off ences under this Act, including arrangements for emergency medical care and medical examination; and, (iv) details regarding assessment of the need for care and protection of a child by the concerned CWC in any specifi c case; (h) use the information so collected to assess the implementation of the provisions of the Act. The report on monitoring of the Act shall be included in a separate chapter in the annual report of the NCPCR or the SCPCR.