Pertinently, in the counter affi davit fi led by the respondent No.1 – University, it has not been disputed that the appellant was working as a PTI/Sports Offi cer. Nor is there any specifi c denial to the averments made by the appellant, in the corresponding para of the counter affi davit regarding the duties discharged by the appellant, namely, imparting instructions to students of the College in Physical Education. The learned Single Judge has taken note of this position in the dated 26th April, 2005 and made the following observations : “The petitioner in ground No.4 of the petition has clearly stated Sports Offi cer is a Teacher because he imparts instructions to the students of the College in physical education and in reply to above ground the respondents has only submitted that the petitioner has no ground to get any relief from this Hon’ble Court. There is no specifi c denial P.C. MODI v. THE JAWAHARLAL NEHRU VISHWA 965 VIDYALAYA AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] on behalf of the respondent to this eff ect. It is clear from the duties of Sports Offi cer that he gives instructions and teaches the students with regard to sports and he is related with the sports activities of the University which is a part and partial of the education.” 6. Going further, the learned Single Judge sought to draw strength from the decision of a Division Bench of this Court in P.S. Ramamohana Rao (supra) where a similar issue relating to the entitlement of the appellant therein to continue in the service of the A.P. Agricultural University as a Director of Physical Education till he completed the age of 58 years or 60 years came up for consideration. After examining the relevant provisions of the A.P. Act and the Andhra Pradesh Agricultural University (Conditions of Service) Regulations, 1965, the appeal fi led by the appellant therein was allowed and it was held that the duties being discharged by him as a Physical Director brought him within the defi nition of a “teacher” and therefore, he was entitled to continue in service till he completed 60 years of age. The factors that weighed with the Court for holding so, have been expressed as below : “9. From the aforesaid affi davit, it is clear that a Physical Director has multifarious duties. He not only arranges games and sports for the students every evening and looks after the procurement of sports material and the maintenance of the grounds but also arranges inter- class and inter-college tournaments and accompanies the students’ team when they go for the inter-university tournaments. For that purpose it is one of his important duties to guide them about the rules of the various games and sports. It is well known that diff erent games and sports have diff erent rules and practices and unless the students are guided about the said rules and practices they will not be able to play the games and participate in the sports in a proper manner.