He submitted that Rule 4 thereof talks about ‘residential use’, which exhaustively deals with the entire details with regard to the maximum height of the building, maximum area, minimum area and the courtyards. D 34. Shri Tewari submitted that the High Court has rightly held that an apartment can be construed to be such only if it was an apartment as per the meaning of apartment given in the 2001 Rules. He submitted that the provisions of the 2001 Rules are similar to the provisions of the Haryana Apartment Ownership Act, 1983. He submitted that under the E 2001 Rules, each apartment owner is entitled to the exclusive ownership and possession of the apartment in accordance with the declaration. However, when more than one person jointly construct a building on a plot and occupy one floor each, they are not entitled to exclusive ownership of the apartment but have shares in the joint property. The learned Senior Counsel relies on the of this Court in the case of Kochkunju F Nair v. Koshy Alexander and Others3 in support of the proposition that all co-owners have equal rights and coordinate interest in the property, though their shares may be either fixed or indeterminate. He submitted that this Court has held that each co-owner has, in theory, an interest in every infinitesimal portion of the subject matter, and each has the right, G irrespective of the quantity of his interest, to be in possession of every part and parcel of the property, jointly with others. It is submitted that as such, the modus operandi adopted is wholly permissible, whereby, each of the co-sharers would be entitled to be in possession of the part assigned to them jointly with others. He relies on the of the Privy Council 3(1999) 3 SCC 482 H 620 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A in the case of Hardit Singh and Others v. Gurmukh Singh and Others4in support of the proposition. 35. Shri Tewari relies on the of the Division Bench of the High Court in the case of Sant Ram v. Daya Ram and Others5 in support of the proposition that though the Mitakshara School of Hindu B Law recognized ownership of each co-parcener over the whole of joint property and over each part thereof, which bears some similarity to joint tenancy of English law; the Dayabhaga School adhered to the doctrine of ownership in specified shares in the undivided property having similar features as in tenancy in common. It is therefore submitted that the co-sharers are entitled to jointly construct a building as per their own C shares. It is submitted that this Court in the case of Jai Singh and Others v. Gurmej Singh6has approved this legal position. Shri Tewari further relies on the of this Court in the case of Tilak Raj Bakshi v. Avinash Chand Sharma (Dead) Through Legal Representatives and Others7 in support of the proposition that D assignment in favour of a party would not amount to fragmentation. 36.