That decision therefore stands.” (Emphasis supplied) 111. Thus, apology is not just a word. The court should not accept the apology when it appears that saying sorry is nothing but a legal trick to wriggle out of responsibility. A true apology must be a deep ethical act of introspection, self-introspection, atonement and self-reform. In its absence, an apology can be termed as farce. 112. It is equally well-settled that apology tendered is not to be accepted as a matter of course and the court is not bound to accept the same. Although, the apology may be unconditional, unqualifi ed and bona fi de, yet, if the conduct is serious which has caused damage to the dignity of the institution the same need not to be accepted. 113. In the facts of the case, we are convinced that although the appellants might have tendered the apology before the High Court in the fi rst instance, yet such apology does not deserve to be accepted and was rightly not accepted by the High Court. It was nothing but a gamble on the part of the appellants. It is a lame excuse on their part to say that they were left with no choice but to execute the sale deeds. They have also highlighted few circumstances in this regard. However, we are not at all convinced with any such explanations off ered by the appellants. They took a calculated risk to transfer the properties and pocketed the sale consideration. If there was any impending urgency to execute the sale deeds, they could have come to the High Court and should have obtained appropriate clarifi cation or permission in that regard. This is the reason why we say that the appellants with a view to gain wrongfully gambled in the hope that ultimately, they would get away by tendering an apology. This is the reason why such fake apologies should not be accepted by the court and allow a person who has no regard for the Majesty of law to get away from the legal consequences. There is no occasion for us to show any compassion as contempt has been committed and proved beyond reasonable doubt and the eff ect of this contempt has been felt on the Majesty of the High Court. The litigating public cannot be encouraged that such a situation can continue or the court will not rise to the BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1133 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] occasion to book people violating its s. The law is very clear that the court should not get compassionate and dilute an indictment and not follow it with conviction. The fact that the appellants have committed contempt is not in doubt. The law enjoins that a punishment must follow. 114. We take notice of the fact that the issue of limitation to initiate the contempt proceedings was also raised before the High Court. The High Court has answered the same quite elaborately. In fact, this issue was not raised before us during the course of the hearing of these appeals.