This methyl alcohol is shown to be sold to several diff erent entities. However, PW28 to PW33, the alleged buyers, have denied making any such transactions or taking delivery of the alleged cans containing methyl alcohol. SAJEEV v. STATE OF KERALA 253 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 30. Therefore, it is entirely clear that the transactions refl ected in the register of RR distributors (Ex.P6) were fi ctitious and the record prepared was only to show sales ostensibly to genuine customers, as per the process of law. The natural corally, thereto, being that A11, through his fi rm purchased Biosole but failed to provide any valid source to whom it was supplied or where it was used, which fact he failed to rebut. 31. We now discuss the forensic evidence against these accused persons at this stage. 32. PW44, James Philipose is the Joint Director (General) at FSL, Trivandrum. He verifi ed having prepared the FSL Report (Ex.P30), which bears his signature. His examination of the plastic cans of MO15 and MO31 series revealed the same to have been cast from the same mould. Signifi cantly, this fact remains unrebutted on record. Also, from this testimony, it is seen that the cans of MO15 series [recovered from the residence of A1 by PW76], which, as discussed above, stand proved to have been supplied by A10 and A11 to the residence of A1 and the cans of MO31 series, which is the sample of the cans provided by PW27 in the sale of Biosole, are of the same make and mould. 33. The next witness to be discussed is PW51, Sindhu. In his testimony, he states that he conducted the FSL examination of MO33 series cans (35L each). Out of the 5 cans tested, ethyl + methyl alcohol was found in 2 cans and methyl alcohol was found in 3 cans. 34. These witnesses reveal two pertinent facts: (a) The cans supplied by A11 to A1 are from the same mould of cans that were supplied by PW27 to A11, on purchase of methyl alcohol; and (b) 3 out of 5 cans recovered from the residence of A1 tested positive for methyl alcohol. 35. After consideration of these depositions, we must decide whether the evidence on record is suffi cient to establish a conspiracy under Section 120B, IPC. The ingredients to constitute a criminal conspiracy were summarised by this Court in State through Superintendent of Police v. Nalini & Ors.6 (3-Judge Bench). They are as follows: 6 (1999) 5 SCC 253 254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. i. Conspiracy is when two or more persons agree to do or cause to be done an illegal act or legal act by illegal means. ii. The off ence of criminal conspiracy is an exception to the general law, where intent alone does not constitute crime. It is the intention to commit a crime and join hands with persons having the same intention. iii. Conspiracy is hatched in private or in secrecy. It is rarely possible to establish a conspiracy by direct evidence.