Ltd. on his mobile phone but the calls went unanswered. Appellant did not allow even the representative of Respondent No.2 to enter into the subject property. That apart, representative of Respondent No.2 had informed him that the appellant was wrongfully removing materials and equipments from the subject property. 6.13. It is further stated that subsequent to cancellation of the E-auction sale of the subject property, Respondent No.2 had received a letter dated 05.08.2021 from Sugna Feeds Pvt. Ltd., a well-established player in the poultry feeds sector, expressing its intention to participate in the auction of EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 873 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] the subject property. It is stated that in addition to the above, respondent No.2 had received an e-mail dated 20.08.2021 from IFFCO KISAN Delhi, a subsidiary company of Indian Farmers Fertilisers Cooperative (IFFCO) expressing its interest in the assets of the corporate debtor. 6.14. In the above circumstances, Respondent No.2 has contended that cancellation of E-auction was justifi ed and was done in the best interest of the stakeholders of the corporate debtor. 7. Appellant has fi led rejoinder affi davit to the counter affi davit of Respondent No.1. 7.1. While reiterating its contentions, appellant has stated that the adjudicating authority i.e., the Tribunal had rightly set aside the decision of the Liquidator (Respondent No.2). Respondent No.2 after issuing the certifi cate certifying that appellant had won the auction of the subject property, cancelled the E-auction without giving any justifi cation or reason for such cancellation. Referring to Clause 3 (a) of the E-Auction Process Information Document, appellant has contended that the said clause is contrary to the Regulations. In the facts and circumstances of the case, Respondent No.2 could not have cancelled the auction. Such act of cancellation of E-auction was wholly illegal and arbitrary. In this connection, reliance has been placed upon para 1(12) of Schedule I to the Regulations. Appellant was the highest and sole bidder in the second round of auction and its bid amount matched the reserve price as mentioned in the sale notice. Reserve price in the fi rst round of auction was fi xed at Rs.12,69,00,000/-. However, as the auction sale did not materialise, Respondent No.2 in the second round reduced the reserve price in to get bidders to at least match the reserve price. This was done successfully by the appellant whereafter appellant was informed that it had won the bid. Action of Respondent No.2 in cancelling the E-auction after e-mailing the appellant that it had won the bid is a clear case of abuse of the process. 7.2. Respondent No.2 vide public notice dated 24.12.2021 scheduled fresh E-auction on 17.01.2022 again fi xing the reserve price in relation to the subject property at Rs.10 crores which was the same amount as the reserve price in the second round of bidding and which was the bid amount of the appellant 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 7.3. Respondent No.1 has misinterpreted Clause 3 (k) to mean that since full amount was not paid, it was entitled to invoke the said clause and cancel the bid.