This court, in Bhayana Builders (supra), ruled that to attract service tax levy, a taxable service has to be provided to a recipient, by a service provider, for a consideration and in the absence of any nexus E to any service rendered, an amount charged, or value of service or goods provided without a consideration, would not be a taxing incident. The court held that: “Section 67 clearly indicates that the gross amount charged by the service provider has to be for the service provided. F Therefore, it is not any amount charged which can become the basis of value on which service tax becomes payable but the amount charged has to be necessarily a consideration for the service provided which is taxable under the Act. By using the words “for such service provided” the Act has provided for a nexus between the amount charged and the G service provided. Therefore, any amount charged which has no nexus with the taxable service and is not a consideration for the service provided does not become part of the value which is taxable under Section 67.” H 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 33. On 02.08.2011, the Airports Authority of India (Major Airports) Development Fees Rules 2011 (hereafter “the 2011 Rules”) came into force. They, by Rule 3, authorized the collection of development fees; by Rule 4 (1), an Escrow account had to be opened in respect of each airport into which the development fee collections were to be deposited; by Rule 4 (2), AAI is empowered to monitor and regulate the receipts B and utilization of fees; by Rule 4 (3), various sub accounts were to be opened [(a) Development Fees Receipt Account; (b) Development Fees Statutory Dues Account; (c) Development Fees Disbursement Account; (d) Development Fees Surplus Account]. By Rule 4 (4), the money collected as development fees is to be deposited in the Development C Fees Receipt Account. 34. Besides the rules, the assessee, in the case of DIAL, has placed on the record, a letter issued to it, by AAI which imposes controls on the utilization of amounts collected as development fee; apart from the fact that the amounts are deposited in an escrow, any plan for utilization D has to be approved. Unlike fees, rent, charges etc., provided under Section 22 of AAI Act, assessee companies are authorized on behalf of the AAI to levy and collect ‘development fee’ under Section 22A of the AAI Act on behalf of the AAI and was applied for generating revenue for utilization of the same for the specific purpose provided under sub- clause (a), (b) and (c) of section 22(A) of the AAI Act. The UDF collected by the E assessee is to bridge the funding gap of project cost for the development of future establishment at the airports. There is nothing on record to show that any additional benefit has accrued to passengers, visitors, traders, airlines etc., upon levy of UDF during the period in question in the present case.