Article 14 of the Constitution has no application having regard to the facts of the present case. 40. Mr. Lekhi, the learned Senior Council appearing for the appellants placed strong reliance on two decisions of this Court: (i) T.M. Sampath (supra) and (ii) Bhagwan (supra). Both these decisions have been relied upon to fortify the contention that the employees of autonomous bodies are 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. governed by their own rules and Bye-Laws and they cannot claim parity with the government employees. We must look into both these decisions. Paras 3, 15, 16 and 17 respectively of T.M. Sampath (supra) are as follows: “3. The facts of these appeals are briefl y stated hereinafter. The appellants herein are the employees of National Water Development Agency (“NWDA”) which was established as a society in July 1982 and was registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860. The Society NWDA, which falls under the aegis and control, both administrative and fi nancial, of the Ministry of Water Resources, is fully funded by the Government of India, headed by the Union Minister for Water Resources as the President. NWDA framed rules and regulations for its smooth functioning. Whatever emoluments have been prescribed for the government servants by the Central Government Office Memorandum (“the OM”, for short) the same apply mutatis mutandis to the employees of NWDA. Bye-law 28 of NWDA also mandates that the rules and s applicable to the Central Government employees shall apply mutatis mutandis to the employees of NWDA subject to modifi cation by the Governing Body concerning service conditions and only in case of any doubt, the matter has to be referred to the Governing Body for a decision. Bye-law 26(a) provides for the emoluments structure for all employees that will be adopted by NWDA, with the approval of the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure). Bye-law 28 provides that till such time NWDA frames its rules governing service conditions of the employees, rules and s applicable to the Central Government employees shall apply mutatis mutandis, subject to such modifi cations as made by NWDA from time to time. xxx xxx xxx 15. In light of the facts and circumstances of this case and the submissions made by the learned counsel on both sides, it can be concluded that NWDA had framed its regulation: the CPF Rules, 1982 and they were duly approved by the Governing Body of NWDA. As NWDA is an autonomous body under the Ministry of Water Resources, it has framed its own bye-laws governing the employees. It has been time and again reiterated that the court must adopt CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 769 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] an attitude of total non-interference or minimal interference in the matter of interpretation of rules framed by autonomous institutions. In Kerala SRTC v. K.O. Varghese [(2007) 8 SCC 231 : (2007) 2 SCC (L&S) 862], this Court held : (SCC pp. 240-41, paras 18 & 21) “18. … KSRTC is an autonomous corporation established under the Road Transport Corporations Act, 1950.