On the extent of scrutiny by the Court, Justice Subba Rao observed that the Court has the power to disallow a claim of privilege. For this purpose, the court has to determine D if the public interest in disclosure outweighs the public interest in non- disclosure. It was observed that the Courts should ordinarily accept the affidavit of the Minister claiming privilege but when the court has reason to disbelieve the claim, it can examine the Minister. Justice Subba Rao agreed with the opinion of Justice Gajendragadkar that the court shall E not inspect the document that is sought to be protected from disclosure. 117. In State of Uttar Pradesh v. Raj Narain90, the respondent sought to summon documents in an election petition. The State made a claim for immunity. Justice K K Mathew in his concurring opinion for the Constitution Bench raised doubts on the observation in Sodhi F Sukhdev Singh (supra) that the Court does not have the power to inspect documents for which the claim of privilege is made. It was held that it would be difficult to determine the effect of the disclosure on public interest without inspecting the document. The learned Judge classified such documents as those belonging to noxious classes and others. It was held that if the documents belong to noxious classes (such G as national security), it would per se infringe on public interest. For other documents that do not belong to noxious classes, the courts ought to survey aspects of public interest involved in both disclosure and non- 90 (1975) 4 SCC 428 H 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A disclosure to assess the relative claims of the different aspects of public interest: “71. Few would question the necessity of the rule to exclude that which would cause serious prejudice to the State. When a question of national security is involved, the Court may not be the proper B forum to weigh the matter and that is the reason why a minister’s certificate is taken as conclusive. “Those who are responsible for the national security must be the sole judges of what national security requires.” [ Lord Parker of Weddington in The Zamora, (1916) 2 AC 77, 107] As the Executive is solely responsible for national security including foreign relations, no other organ could C judge so well of such matters. Therefore, documents in relation to these matters might fall into a class which per se might require protection. […] 72. The power reserved to the Court is a power to production even though public interest is to some extent prejudicially D affected. This amounts to a recognition that more than one aspect of public interest will have to be surveyed. The interests of Government for which the minister speaks do not exhaust the whole public interest. Another aspect of that interest is seen in the need for impartial administration E of justice. It seems reasonable to assume that a court is better qualified than the minister to measure the importance of the public interest in the case before it.