In that view of the matter, we B are of the opinion that the mistake/error committed by this Court is to be corrected on the basis of the principle of restitution. 5.1 On the principle of restitution, the decision of Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Indore Development Authority Vs. Manoharlal and Others (2020) 8 SCC 129 is required to be C referred to. In paragraphs 335 to 339, it is observed and held as under: - “335. The principle of restitution is founded on the ideal of doing complete justice at the end of litigation, and parties have to be placed in the same position but for the litigation and interim , if any, passed in the matter. In South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. v. D State of M.P. [South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. v. State of M.P., (2003) 8 SCC 648] , it was held that no party could take advantage of litigation. It has to disgorge the advantage gained due to delay in case lis is lost. The interim passed by the court merges into a final decision. The validity of an interim , passed in E favour of a party, stands reversed in the event of a final going against the party successful at the interim stage. Section 144 of the Code of Civil Procedure is not the fountain source of restitution. It is rather a statutory recognition of the rule of justice, equity and fair play. The court has inherent jurisdiction to restitution so as to do complete justice. This is also on the principle F that a wrong should not be perpetuated by keeping it alive and respecting it. In exercise of such power, the courts have applied the principle of restitution to myriad situations not falling within the terms of Section 144 CPC. What attracts applicability of restitution is not the act of the court being wrongful or mistake or G an error committed by the court; the test is whether, on account of an act of the party persuading the court to pass an held at the end as not sustainable, resulting in one party gaining an advantage which it would not have otherwise earned, or the other party having suffered an impoverishment, restitution has to be made. Litigation cannot be permitted to be a productive industry. H BHUPINDER SINGH v. UNITECH LIMITED 959 [M. R. SHAH, J.] Litigation cannot be reduced to gaming where there is an element A of chance in every case. If the concept of restitution is excluded from application to interim s, then the litigant would stand to gain by swallowing the benefits yielding out of the interim . This Court observed in South Eastern Coalfields [South Eastern Coalfields Ltd. v. State of M.P., (2003) 8 SCC 648] thus : (SCC B pp. 662-64, paras 26-28) “26. In our opinion, the principle of restitution takes care of this submission. The word “restitution” in its etymological sense means restoring to a party on the modification, variation or reversal of a decree or , what has been lost to him in C execution of decree or of the court or in direct consequence of a decree or (see Zafar Khan v. Board of Revenue, U.P.