It would also follow as a natural corollary that the expression “Hair Oil” occurring on the label of the product C is only indicating the medium through which Homeopathic medicines comprising the product are to be applied. The submissions and the efforts on the part of the appellant to take the product in question to Chapter 33 merely because of its label carrying the expression “Hair Oil” while ignoring the preceding significant expressions “Homeo” and “Arnica” cannot be D accepted. Reference to Note 1(e) of Chapter 30 also turns out to be of no relevance because the product in question cannot be said to be a preparation of Heading 3305 and then having insignificant or subsidiary therapeutic or prophylactic properties. As regards the product in question, which is essentially made of E Homeopathic medicines which have therapeutic and prophylactic uses, it cannot be said to be carrying only subsidiary pharmaceutical value. Putting it differently, the product in question, AHAHO, is predominantly of pharmaceutical value and the item of cosmetic therein, i.e., hair oil, is nothing but a medium for appropriate use of that pharmaceutical value. [Para 23.1][345-C-G; 346-A-B] F 2.8 The submissions about specific entry to be preferred to the general entry do not take the case of appellant any further. The referred entry of Chapter 33 relating to the Tariff Item ‘Hair oil’ under the Heading 3305 is itself to be taken as a general entry and in any case, when hair oil is being used only as a medium G for use/administration/application of the medicine, the case would fall in the specific entry pertaining to medicament under Headings 3003 or 3004; and it being of the medicines of Homeopathic H 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A system, it would fall either in Tariff Item 3003 90 14 or Item 3004 90 14. In any case, the product cannot fall under Chapter 33. [Para 23.3][348-B-D] 2.9 On the other features of common parlance test, i.e., the manner in which the product in question is commonly B understood, it is noticed that one of the grounds placed at the forefront by the appellants and the Adjudicating Authority had been that AHAHO was accessible in both Medical and General Stores and could be bought across the counter. This feature of availability of the product in question has absolutely no relevance. Merely for being available across the counter, the product in C question, AHAHO, does not cease to be a medicament. [Para 25][348-G-H; 349-A-C] 2.10 When the preparation is for cure or prevention, it would be medicament but, if only for care, it would be cosmetic. Of course, a cosmetic would not become medicament even if D having subsidiary curative or prophylactic value. However, the product in question, AHAHO, does not fail on this count for the reason that it is a preparation of Homeopathic medicine and when it is marketed as carrying those medicines, in commercial as also common parlance, with its name carrying the significant E expressions “Homeo” and “Arnica”, the product could only be understood as the one carrying predominantly pharmaceutical value and not mere cosmetic value.