In other words, if a co-operative society is not conducting the business of banking as defi ned in clause (b) of Section 5 of the BR Act, 1949, it would not be a co-operative bank and not so within the meanings of a state co-operative bank, a central co-operative bank or a primary co-operative bank in terms of Section 56(c)(i)(cci). Whereas a co-operative bank is in the nature of a banking company which transacts the business of banking as defi ned in clause (b) of Section 5 of the BR Act, 1949. But if a co-operative KSCARDB v. THE ASSESSING OFFICER, TRIVANDRUM 367 AND ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] society does not transact the business of banking as defi ned in clause (b) of Section 5 of the BR Act, 1949, it would not be a co-operative bank. Then the defi nitions under the NABARD Act, 1981 would not apply. If a co-operative society is not a co-operative bank, then such an entity would be entitled to deduction but on the other hand, if it is a co-operative bank within the meaning of Section 56 of BR Act, 1949 read with the provisions of NABARD Act, 1981 then it would not be entitled to the benefi t of deduction under sub-section (4) of Section 80P of the Act. 15.9. Section 56 of the BR Act, 1949 begins with a non-obstante clause which states that notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the provisions of the said Act, shall apply to, or in relation to, co-operative societies as they apply to, or in relation to, banking companies subject to certain modifi cations. The object of Section 56 is to provide a deeming fi ction by equating a co-operative society to a banking company if it is a co-operative bank within the meaning of the said provision. This is because Chapter V of the BR Act, 1949, deals with application of the Chapter to co-operative societies which are co-operative banks within the meaning of the said chapter. For the purpose of these cases, what is relevant is that throughout the BR Act, 1949, unless the context otherwise requires, - references to a “banking company” or “the company” or “such company” shall be construed as references to a co-operative bank. Therefore, while considering the meaning of a co-operative bank inherently, such a co-operative society must be a banking company then only it would be construed as a co-operative bank requiring a licence under Section 22 of BR Act, 1949 in to function as such a bank. 15.10. Further, while considering the defi nition of a co-operative bank under Section 56(cci) of the BR Act, 1949, to mean a state co-operative bank, a central co-operative bank and a primary co-operative bank which is defi ned in (ccviii) thereof, to have meanings respectively assigned to them in the NABARD Act, 1981 would imply that if a state co-operative bank is within the meaning of NABARD Act, 1981 then it would be excluded from the benefi t under Section 80P of the Act.