modifi cations as was considered necessary, after such inquiry, as he deems fi t, unless otherwise directed by the Proper Offi cer, determine the duty payable on the goods intended to be removed in accordance with such list vide sub- rule (2) of Rule 173-B. Whereas the corresponding Rule 6 in the instant case does not indicate or remotely suggest declaration of such classifi cation is required to be made. However, Rule 6(2) only prescribes the description of the goods to be specifi ed by the declarant in his declaration. Hence, this would result in casting additional onerous responsibility on the Competent Authority to undertake the exercise of ascertaining as to the nature of the goods and its classifi cation under CETA for proper determination of production capacity of the machine. It would also be apposite to note the of this Court in CCE v. Srivallabh Glass Works Ltd. (2003) 11 SCC 341 whereunder the Cotspun’s case (supra) was distinguished on facts and held that Cotspun’s case (supra) only lays down that so far as classifi cation list subsists, the diff erential duty cannot be claimed on the same product mentioned in the classifi cation list, however, if the product being cleared is diff erent from the one mentioned in the classifi cation list, the principles enunciated in Cotspun’s case (supra) would not be applicable. In that view of the matter, we are of the considered view that the Revenue has the power and jurisdiction to determine the classifi cation for specifi c Entry within which the product is to be declared or classifi ed and the issue of classifi cation can be the subject matter of adjudication/ decision under sub-rule (2). A declaration made under Rule 6 resulting in the determination and passing of the under sub-rule (2) of Rule 6 would not preclude the Department or Revenue from issuing notice under Section 11A or Section 11AC of CE Act where there is wilful misstatement or suppression of fact leading to what levy or non-levy of the duty. 109. In the instant case, the declaration confi ned to ‘chewing tobacco’ falling under CET SH 2403 9910. However, during the course of such inquiry, the Competent Authority would be competent to examine as to whether the product would fall within the notifi ed goods. In the instant case, ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ was specifi ed as notifi ed goods under Section 3A by Notifi cation No.17 of 2010 dated 13.04.2010 and the CTPM Rules also correspondingly had been amended on the same day i.e., 13.04.2010 by Notifi cation No.18 of 2010. Thus, taking into within its sweep the said ‘notifi ed goods’ as defi ned under Rule 2(c) of CTPM Rules for the purposes COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 641 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] of classifi cation and this exercise undertaken by the Competent Authority cannot be found fault with. Hence, we record our fi nding on the questions formulated hereinabove as under: (1) What is the purpose of the declaration fi led under Rule 6 of CTPM Rules?