“A3 Thiagarajan and A4 Chandrasekaran had absolutely nothing to do in choosing the contractors in this case. Their only job was to negotiate with the three lowest tenderers. With that their job will be over. As the members of the committee A3 and A4 did F their job well. In this case the contractor awarded 50% as mobilization advance and that was reduced to 30% because of the negotiation by the committee. The negotiation committee had insisted the bank guarantee for the amount and obtained the bank guarantee also. Though the negotiations were completed as early G as in January, 1993 letter of intent came to be issued only in July 1994 i.e. after 18 months. It is true that because of the efforts of the negotiation committee the contractor was persuaded not to hike the rate because of the delay of 18 months in issuing the work .” H 68 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 112. Despite the above assertion on the part of PW-16 giving a clean chit to A-3 and A-4, the Trial Court found both of them guilty on a convoluted logic that they were part of a Tender Committee and that “every word and every description in Exhibit P-36 (Tender Committee proceedings) had been written by them with a view to cheat BHEL” and that “if A-3 and A-4 were innocent they should have questioned B and asked for details regarding the contractors.” Such a reasoning given by the trial Court and approved by the Trial Court and approved by the High Court was completely perverse. 113. As rightly contended by the learned counsel, A-4 had no role in choosing the tenderers, but entered the picture only after the offers C were received from the tenderers. Admittedly, A-4 was subordinate to both PW-16 and A-3. 114. At the cost of repetition, it should be pointed out that the competent authority refused to grant sanction to prosecute A-3 and A-4 for the offences under the PC Act. The Trial Court and the High Court D did not find A-4 as a co-conspirator, which is why he was not held guilty of the offence under Section 120-B IPC. Section 193 IPC had been included completely out of context. 115. For all the above reasons, we are of the view that the conviction of A-4 by the Trial Court as confirmed by the High Court is E wholly unsustainable and is liable to be set aside. As regards A-7 116. The role attributed to A-7 was that he applied for and obtained demand drafts, in the names of four different bogus firms, drawn in favour of BHEL for a sum of Rs.20,000/- each to make it appear as F though they were real firms, though they were not in existence. A-7 was also accused of causing wrongful loss to BHEL along with A-5 and A-6 to the tune of Rs.4.32 crores. A-7 was also accused of abetting A-1 and A-2 to commit criminal misconduct by misusing their official position and obtaining pecuniary advantage to themselves.