For the purpose of the provision, ‘law’ includes administrative action. The position of law that administrative action infringing fundamental freedoms F has to be tested on the proportionality standard has been established by this court in its earlier s.113 Thus, the action of the MIB denying renewal of permission will be judicially reviewed based on the proportionality standard. 165. The first test of the proportionality standard as laid down by G this Court in Modern Dental (supra) requires the court to assess if the measure restricting the right has a legitimate goal. Article 19, unlike other provisions of Part III of the Constitution, prescribes the purposes for which the rights recognised can be reasonably restricted. Thus, the 113 Om Kumar v. Union of India, (2001) 2 SCC 386; Union of India v. Ganayutham, H (1997) 7 SCC 463 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 707 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] purpose of the state action that is challenged must necessarily be A traceable to the grounds stipulated in Article 19(2) to test if the freedom of press has been reasonably restricted. Security clearance was denied on the basis of two grounds: the alleged anti-establishment stand of MBL, and the alleged link of MBL with JEI-H. 166. An independent press is vital for the robust functioning of a B democratic republic. Its role in a democratic society is crucial for it shines a light on the functioning of the state. The press has a duty to speak truth to power, and present citizens with hard facts enabling them to make choices that propel democracy in the right direction. The restriction on the freedom of the press compels citizens to think along C the same tangent. A homogenised view on issues that range from socio- economic polity to political ideologies would pose grave dangers to democracy. 167. The critical views of the Channel, Media-One on policies of the government cannot be termed, ‘anti-establishment’. The use of such D a terminology in itself, represents an expectation that the press must support the establishment. The action of the MIB by denying a security clearance to a media channel on the basis of the views which the channel is constitutionally entitled to hold produces a chilling effect on free speech, and in particular on press freedom. Criticism of governmental policy can by no stretch of imagination be brought withing the fold of any of the E grounds stipulated in Article 19(2). 168. The note that was submitted by the IB on the alleged role and activities of JEI-H states that the organisation was banned thrice and all the three bans were revoked. The organisation was banned last in 1992 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1947. This Court F had nullified the ban in 1994. Thus, when JEI-H is not a banned organisation, it would be rather precarious for the State to contend that the links with the organisation would affect the sovereignty and integrity of the nation, the security of the State, friendly relations with Foreign States, or public .