This is because in such a situation, the Central Government is not acting on the basis of a recommendation received from the Central Board of the Bank but it would be proposing the demonetisation. Precedent for the same may be found in the earlier demonetisations which were also through a legislative process and not through the D issuance of a gazette notification by the Executive/Central Government.When the process of demonetisation is carried out through a Parliamentary enactment and after being the subject of scrutiny by the Members of Parliament, any opinion sought by the Central Government from the Central E Board of the Bank before initiating the promulgation of the Ordinance or placing the Bill before the Parliament may also be additional material which could be considered by the Parliament. When the Central Government initiates the proposal for demonetisation and thereafter consults the Bank on such proposal, then it could be said that the F necessary safeguards were taken, as the Central Government would be fortified in its proposal for demonetisation having taken the advice of not only an expert body but the highest financial authority in the country, which handles not only the monetary policy but is also the sole G authority vested with the power of issuance of bank notes or currency notes in India. When the Central Government proposes to demonetise the currency notes, not only the view of the Central Board of the Bank is relevant and important but also that of the representatives of the people H 200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A in the Parliament. The Members of the Parliament hold the sovereign powers of “We, the People of India” in trust. 15.15 Of course, by contrast, there would be no difficulty if the proposal for demonetisation is initiated by the Central Board of the Bank by making a recommendation under sub-section B (2) of Section 26 of the Act, which the Central Government in its wisdom may consider and either act upon the recommendation or for good reason, decline to act on the same. That is a matter left to the wisdom of the Central Government. However, as noted above such recommendation by the Bank cannot relate to “all” series C of a denomination or “all” series of “all” denominations of bank notes. That is a prerogative of only the Central Government. 15.16 It is nobody’s case that the impugned gazette notification dated 8th November, 2016, of the Central Government was D published on the initiation of the proposal ofdemonetisation by the Central Board of the Bank. The proposal for demonetisation was initiated by the Central Government by a letter dated 7thNovember, 2016 addressed by the Finance Secretary to the Governor of the Bank.The Central E Government, having “obtained” the advice of the Bank on its proposal, proceeded to issue the impugnedgazette notification on the very next day, dated 8th November, 2016.The same was followed by an Ordinance and thereafter, an enactment was passed. 15.17 The contention of the petitioners could now be considered F and answered.The words in sub-section(2) of Section 26 of the Act would have to be interpreted/construed in their normal parlance.