The only requirement is that their evidence has to be scrutinized with greater care and circumspection. In the present case, both the High Court and the trial court have meticulously scrutinized the evidence and found the testimony of the eye witnesses trustworthy and reliable. We have ourselves scrutinized their evidence as discussed hereinabove. We fi nd that merely because there are certain inconsistencies in the evidence of the witnesses, their evidence cannot be discarded. 40. It will also be gainful to refer to the observations of this Court in the case of Waman and Others v. State of Maharashtra6, wherein this Court has surveyed the earlier s on the issue and held that if the evidence of interested witnesses is found to be consistent and true, the fact of being a relative, cannot by itself discredit their evidence. 41. It is further to be noted that all these witnesses are rustic villagers. In this respect, it will be relevant to refer to the observations of this Court in the case of State of Uttar Pradesh v. Krishna Master and Others7, which read thus: “24. The basic principle of appreciation of evidence of a rustic witness who is not educated and comes from a poor strata of society is that the evidence of such a witness should be appreciated as a whole. The rustic witness as compared to an educated witness is not expected to remember every small detail of the incident and the manner in which the incident had happened more particularly when his evidence is recorded after a lapse of time. Further, a witness is bound to face shock of the untimely death of his near relative(s). Therefore, the court must keep in mind all these relevant factors while appreciating evidence of a rustic witness.” 42. We are of the considered view that insofar as the fi rst incident is concerned, the prosecution has duly proved its case beyond reasonable doubt in view of the testimony of Lokendra (PW-1) being duly corroborated by 6 (2011) 7 SCC 295 7 (2010) 12 SCC 324 MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 791 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] the testimonies of Harpal Singh (PW-10) and Sudhir (PW-11). We are of the considered view that the testimonies of these witnesses duly establish that these witnesses have witnessed the fi ring on Satendra, Sunil and Masooq Ali, who died on the spot. These witnesses have also seen the accused persons assaulting Ram Kishan and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) who had received the fi rearm injuries, who ran to the house of Rizwan to take shelter. 43. We are further of the considered view that though Irshad Khan (PW-7) is a sole witness insofar as the fi ring on deceased Ram Kishan, Rizwan and Rihan is concerned, his testimony is cogent, reliable and trustworthy and can be made basis for coming to a conclusion that it is the present appellants along with other accused who have caused the death of deceased Ram Kishan, Rizwan and Rihan. In any case, his testimony is duly corroborated by the evidence of Lokendra (PW-1) who had immediately come to the second spot after the occurrence of the incident when Irshad Khan (PW-7) informed Lokendra (PW-1) about the incident occurring in his house.