Learned Senior Counsel submits that, when a fake currency note is detected by a Bank Officer, he is obliged to impound it, report it and give the same to the RBI. The RBI is required to destroy the note, thus taking the fake currency note out of possible circulation. It H 42 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A is submitted that the Annual Report of the RBI for the year 2016-2017 reported that only fake currency of the value of Rs.43.3 crore was detected in the nearly Rs.15.31 lakh crore of currency exchanged through the banking system. It is submitted that this represented 0.0028% of the total currency notes that were returned/exchanged through the banking system/RBI. B 36. Learned Senior Counsel submitted that, in fact, the Indian Express quoted a senior Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) official who said that, while fake currency seized before demonetization was of low quality and easily identifiable by the naked eye, the quality of fake notes considerably improved post-demonetization, making it harder C to identify. It is submitted that, as such, it is clearly seen that the said objective was false and, in any case, demonetization hopelessly failed to achieve the said objectives. 37. Learned Senior Counsel further submitted that the third objective was to arrest the use of fake currency for financing subversive D activities such as drug trafficking and terrorism, which cause damage to the economy and the security of the country. In this respect, learned Senior Counsel submits that new notes of denominational value of Rs.2,000/- were found on the bodies of two terrorists killed in an encounter in Bandipora on 22nd November 2016. Learned Senior Counsel submits E that nearly 99.3% of the demonetized notes were returned, whether they represented storage of accounted or unaccounted wealth. It is submitted that to facilitate the exchange of money, several brokers sprung up, who offered to exchange ‘demonetized’ notes for a price. As such, even honest people turned dishonest to make some money. 38. Learned Senior Counsel submits that, shortly after F demonetization, the Income Tax Department and the DRI conducted searches and raids and seized alleged unaccounted wealth in the form of Rs.2,000 notes. It is, therefore, submitted that all the stated objectives have utterly failed. 39. Shri P. Chidambaram further submitted that the impugned G Notification is liable to be set aside on another ground also. He submits that the doctrine of proportionality has now been recognised in Indian jurisprudence. Applying the test of proportionality to the impugned act of demonetization, he submits that there was absolutely no justification to demonetize 86.4% of the currency in circulation representing a value of H Rs.15,44,000 crore that caused enormous damage to the economy and VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 43 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] placed an intolerable and horrendous burden upon the people of the A country, especially the poor. It is submitted that, before resorting to such a drastic step, the Central Board as well as the Central Government ought to have taken into consideration as to whether an alternative method could have been resorted to achieve the purpose for which the exercise of demonetization was done.