We are very much alive to the legal position that it is true that there is no equity about a tax, there is no presumption as to a tax. Nothing is to be read in — nothing is to be implied. We can look D only fairly at the language used. Nonetheless, the tax laws have to be interpreted reasonably and in consonance with justice. This is well settled by numerous decisions of the Supreme Court itself. We have, therefore, to judge and interpret the language of Section 22 of the Act in the context of that particular section, and E that context we shall come back to hereinafter at a more appropriate place. In the meantime, it would not be irrelevant to go into the concept of ‘ownership’. What is ownership after all? Read from the Roman law up to the English law at the present stage, medieval stage F having been interspersed with different formulae, the position that now juristically emerges is this. The full rights of an owner as now recognised are: ‘(a) The power of enjoyment (e.g., the determination of the use to which the res is to be put, the power to deal with produce G as he pleases, the power to destroy); (b) possession which includes the right to exclude others; (c) power to alienate inter vivos, or to charge as security; (d) power to leave the res by will.’ H 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A One of the most important of these powers is the right to exclude others. The property right is essentially a guarantee of the exclusion of other persons from the use or handling of the thing…. But every owner does not possess all the rights set out above — a particular owner’s powers may be restricted by law or by an agreement he has made with another.’ (Refer to G.W. Paton B on Jurisprudence, 4th Edn., pp. 517-18.) While dealing with the concept of possession and enumerating the illustrative cases and rules in this respect, Paton says at p. 577 in clause (x): ‘To acquire possession of a thing it is necessary to exercise C such physical control over the thing as the thing is capable of, and to evince an intention to exclude others:….’ Reference in this connection has been made to the case of Tubantia: Young v. Hichens and of Pierson v. Post [(1805) 3 Caines 175 (Supreme Court of New York)] . D It would thus be seen that where the possession of a property is acquired, with a right to exercise such necessary control over the property acquired which it is capable of, it is the intention to exclude others which evinces an element of ownership. To the same effect and with a more vigorous impact is the E subject dealt with by Dias on Jurisprudence, (4th Edn., at p. 400): ‘The position, therefore, seems to be that the idea of ownership of land is essentially one of the ‘better right’ to be in possession and to obtain it, whereas with chattels the concept is a more F absolute one.