It is submitted that therefore the High Court has not committed any error in quashing and setting aside the sale with respect to the property Item No.8. C 4.2 It is further submitted that so far as other properties are concerned, as the said properties were agricultural lands / properties, in view of Section 31(i) of the SARFAESI Act, with respect to those properties / agricultural lands, the SARFAESI Act would not be applicable. It is submitted that in the revenue records, properties in D question were shown as agricultural lands and therefore, the said properties were exempted from the provisions of the SARFAESI Act in view of Section 31(i) of the SARFAESI Act. Making above submissions, it is requested to dismiss the present appeals. E 5. We have heard the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the secured creditor – Bank as well as the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the auction purchaser of property at Item No.8 and learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the borrower. 6. At the outset, it is required to be noted that what was challenged F before the High Court by the borrower in a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution of India was the and passed by the DRT-I. Against the and passed by the DRT-I dismissing the application, the borrower had a statutory remedy available by way of appeal before the DRAT. If the borrower would have preferred G an appeal before the DRAT, he would have been required to deposit 25% of the debt due. To circumvent the provision of appeal before the DRAT and the pre-deposit, the borrower straightway preferred the writ petition before the High Court under Article 226/227 of the Constitution. Therefore, in view of alternative statutory remedy available by way of appeal before the DRAT, the High Court ought not to have entertained H K. SREEDHAR v. M/S RAUS CONSTRUCTIONS PVT. LTD. 589 & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] the writ petition under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India A challenging the and passed by the DRT-I. By entertaining the writ petition straightway under Article 226/227 of the Constitution of India challenging the passed by the DRT-I, the High Court has allowed / permitted the borrower to circumvent the provision of appeal before the DRAT under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act. B 6.1 Even on merits also, for the reasons stated hereinafter, the impugned and passed by the High Court is unsustainable. 6.2 By the impugned and , the High Court has set aside the sale in favour of the auction purchaser with respect to the property at Item No.8 on the ground that there was a violation of Rules C 8(1) & (2) and 9(4) of the Rules, 2002. However, while observing so, the High Court has not properly appreciated that in the present case, the Possession Notices were published in two leading newspapers having sufficient circulation in the locality. Even the Possession Notices were also served upon the borrowers also.