Unlike the position obtaining in Vishakha, there is no dire need made out. The efficient working of the Election Commission unerringly points to independence, informing its functioning. Several elections have been conducted under its aegis. The Election Commission of India is recognised all over the world. A utopian model cannot be the B premise for inserting guidelines, when the existing provisions are working well. The extent of neutrality and transparency invoked by the petitioners cannot be a sound basis for the Court to interfere. ANALYSIS C I.‘THE FRAMING OF INDIA’S CONSTITUTION’ BY B. SHIVARAO 15. It is apposite that we understand the historical perspective including the debates in the Constituent Assembly. In the work, the ‘Framing of India’s Constitution’by B. Shivarao, we find the following narrative as regards the topic of Franchise and Elections. D “Election Commission In the Government of India Act, 1935, and in the earlier statues the conduct of elections was left to the executive – the Central or Provincial Governments, according as election to the Central or E State Legislature was concerned. In the discussions in the Constituent Assembly, there emerged almost from the beginning a consensus of opinion that the right to vote should be treated as a fundamental right of the citizen and that, in to enable him to exercise this right freely, an independent machinery to control elections should be set up, free from local pressures and political F influences. There was considerable discussion on these issues in the Fundamental Rights Sub-Committee and the Minorities Sub- Committee. K.M. Munshi’s draft articles on fundamental rights included the following clause: G Every citizen has the right to choose the Government and the legislators of the Union and his State on the footing of equality in accordance with the law of the Union or the unit, as the case may be, in free, secret and periodic elections. H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 37 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] This clause was considered by the Fundamental Rights Sub- A Committee at its meeting held on March 29, 1947. The sub- committee approved that (1) universal adult suffrage must be guaranteed by the Constitution; (2) elections should be free, secret and periodic; and B (3) elections should be managed by an independent commission set up under Union law. To give effect to these conclusions, the following recommendation was drafted for inclusion in the sub-committee’s report: (1) Every citizen not below 21 years of age shall have the right to C vote at any election to the Legislature of the Union and of any unit thereof, or, where the Legislature is bicameral, to the lower chamber of the Legislature, subject to such disqualifications on the ground of mental incapacity, corrupt practice or crime as may be imposed, and subject to such qualifications relating to residence D within the appropriate constituency as may be required by or under the law. (2) The law shall provide for free and secret voting and for periodical elections to the Legislature. (3) The superintendence, direction and control of all elections to E the Legislature, whether of the Union or of a unit, including the appointment of Election Tribunals, shall be vested in an Election Commission for the Union or the unit, as the case may be, appointed in all cases in accordance with the law of the Union.