[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule (in this A Constitution referred to as the “Concurrent List”). (3) Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State has exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as B the “State List”). (4) Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List. C *** 254. Inconsistency between laws made by Parliament and laws made by the Legislatures of States - (1) If any provision of a law made by the Legislature of a State is repugnant to any provision of a law made by Parliament which Parliament D is competent to enact, or to any provision of an existing law with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent List, then, subject to the provisions of clause (2), the law made by Parliament, whether passed before or after the law made by the Legislature of such State, or, as the case E may be, the existing law, shall prevail and the law made by the Legislature of the State shall, to the extent of the repugnancy, be void. (2) Where a law made by the Legislature of a State 1 *** with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the Concurrent F List contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the Legislature of such State shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that State: G Provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the Legislature of the State.” H 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 11.2. It is also useful to refer to Entry 66 of List I (Union List) and Entry 25 of List III (Concurrent List) of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India. The same read as under: - Entry 66 of List I -Union List “66. Co-ordination and determination of standards in B institutions for higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions.” *** Entry 25 of List III -Concurrent List C “25. Education, including technical education, medical education and universities, subject to the provisions of entries 63, 64, 65 and 66 of List I; vocational and technical training of labour.” 11.3. We shall now dilate on the aspect of interpretation of D legislative Entries in the context of List I and List III of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India referred to above.