started fi ring indiscriminately. As a result of the said fi ring, Satendra and Sunil fell down on ‘Khadanja’. When Masooq Ali s/o Abdul Gaff ur came out of his house upon hearing the sound of gunfi re, the accused persons shot fi re at him due to which he also fell down. Following which, Ram Kishan and Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) ran away to save their lives. Ram Kishan thereafter entered into the house of the Up-Pradhan Rizwan. 2.4 It is further stated in the FIR that the accused persons thereafter entered the house of Up-Pradhan Rizwan and fi red shots at Ram Kishan, Rizwan and Rihan. They also fi red shots at Sukhpal Singh (PW-2). Ram Kishan, Sunil and Satendra died on the spot. When Mumtaz Khan (PW- 5) s/o Imtyaz reached at the place of incident, the accused persons fi red shots at him as well. The accused persons further assaulted Jai Singh (PW-8), father of Lokendra (PW-1) with the ‘butt’ of the gun who then ran away to save his life. Following which, when the villagers were taking Rizwan, Rihan, Masooq Ali, Sukhpal Singh (PW-2) and Mumtaz Khan (PW-5) to the hospital; Rizwan, Rihan and Masooq Ali succumbed to their injuries and died on the way and their bodies were accordingly kept in their houses. When the accused persons were fi ring at the place of the incident, Ram Pal s/o Salet, Sudhir (PW-11) s/o Mahendra, Anil (PW-3) s/o Chandrapal, Mahesh Pal (PW-4) s/o Prahlad, Harpal Singh (PW-10) s/o Dhara, Mahipal s/o Atal Singh along with other villagers reached and saw the said incident. Lokendra (PW-1) also reached the place of the incident and witnessed the incident with his own eyes and requested to register the report and take legal action. 2.5 The FIR was registered and the investigation was subsequently taken over on 14th October 2003 by Mr. Raghunandan Singh Bhadauria (PW- 24), who was the then Station House Offi cer (for short ‘SHO’). He recorded the statement of Lokendra (PW-1) and proceeded to the place of the incident in front of the house of Rashid s/o Mustafa where he found the dead bodies of Satendra, Jai Singh (PW-8) and Sunil in a pool of blood. The dead body of Masooq Ali s/o Abdul Gafoor was on the cot in his house. When he reached the house of Rizwan, where he found the dead bodies of Rizwan and Rihan s/o Irshad Khan (PW-7) lying on the cot, whereas the body of Ram Kishan s/o Narain Singh was found lying in a pool of blood in the veranda of the said house. Upon inspection of the place of the incident, Raghunandan Singh 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Bhadauria (PW-24) found empty cartridges near the dead body which were taken into possession. Three empty cartridges of 12 bore 9 mm were found and taken into possession in the presence of witnesses Anil Kumar (PW-3) s/o Chandrapal Jat and Sri Dheer Singh s/o Prahlad Singh. The recovery memo (Ext.