500/- and Rs. 1,000/- was placed before the Central Board of the Bank in its 561st meeting. It was also stated that necessary recommendation to proceed with the said proposal, had been “obtained” from the Central Board of the Bank. C 17.4 On a comparative reading of the records submitted by the Union of India as well as the Reserve Bank of India, it becomes crystal clear that the process of demonetisation of all series of bank notes of denominational values of Rs. 500/- and Rs. 1,000/-, commenced/originated from the D Central Government. The said fact is crystalised in the communication addressed by the Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, dated 7th November, 2016 to the Governor of the Bank. The phrases and words emphasized hereinabove clearly E indicate that the proposal for demonetisation was from the Central Government. In substance, the Central Government sought the opinion/advice of the Bank on such proposal. The use of the words/phrases such as, “as desired” by the Central Government; Government had F “recommended” the withdrawal of the legal tender of existingRs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- notes; recommendation has been “obtained”; etc., are self-explanatory. This demonstrates that there was no independent application of mind by the Bank. Neither was there any time for the Bank to apply its mind to such a serious issue. This observation is G being made having regard to the fact that the entire exercise of demonetisation of all series of bank notes of Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- was carried out in twenty four hours. A situation where an independent authority such as the Bank, based on its own appreciation of the economic climate H 214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A of the country, recommends a measure to the Central Government, must be contrasted with another situation where a measure which originates from the Central Government is simply placed before such independent authority for seeking its advice or opinion on such proposed measure. A proposal of the Central Government on a certain B scheme having serious economic ramifications has to be placed before the Bank to seek its expert opinion as to the viability of such a scheme. The Bank as an expert body may render advice on such a proposal and on some occasions may even concur withthe same. However, even C such concurrenceto a proposal originating from the Central Government is not akin to an original recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, within the meaning of Section 26 (2) of the Act. 17.5 The following points emerge on perusal of the affidavits D submitted on behalf of the Union of India: 1) That the Central Board of the Bank made a specific recommendation to the Central Government on 8th November, 2016, for the withdrawal of legal tender character of the existing series of Rs.500/- and E Rs.1,000/- bank notes which could tackle black money, counterfeiting and illegal financing. That the Bank also proposed a draft scheme for the implementation of the recommendation. 2) That the consultations between the Central F Government and the Bank began in February, 2016; however, the process of consolidation and decision making were kept confidential.