“disproportionate to his demonstrated performance as revealed from the ARs and the offi cers placed above him on the basis of AR marks were given lesser board marks though these offi cers had varied exposure to the duties of the Adm Branch…” 6.2.5 As per the promotion policy, for the promotion to the current position of the Respondent as also AVM, the ARs of the last 10 years are to be taken in into consideration. But he was placed 9th. 6.2.6 Throughout his career, all promotions given to the Respondent have been with his course mates in the parent branch. The Respondent was not promoted to his current position as Air Commodore even when his predecessor at the same position, retired. He was only given the promotion more than a year later, along with his peers of the parent branch. 6.3 Taking such a view of the matter, the Respondent’s complaint was rejected as “devoid of merit” PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE ARMED FORCES TRIBUNAL 7. In the original application fi led before the Armed Forces Tribunal, the Respondent urged, mainly, the following grounds- 7.1 The Respondent (Appellant herein) has knowingly and deliberately not convened the promotion board in 2014 to facilitate the promotion of the Applicant (Respondent herein) in the legal branch. 7.2 The non-approval of recommendations of the Promotion Board of 2015 against the vacancy of AVM, JAG (Air) was illegal,arbitrary, and discriminatory particularly when the Respondent herein fulfi lled all the conditions required for such promotion to AVM since May, 2012. This action of non-fi lling of the position of AVM despite the availability of an eligible and qualifi ed candidate violates the fundamental rights of the Respondent. 7.3 It has been acknowledged by the Appellant herein that only a Judge Advocate qualifi ed offi cer could be appointed against the position of AVM earmarked for JAG (Air), then when the Respondents herein was the sole qualifi ed candidate, he could not be denied the said promotion. 8. In its counter affi davit, the Appellant herein submitted, chiefl y, as under: – UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. AIR COMMODORE NK 1033 SHARMA (17038) ADM/LGL [SANJAY KAROL J.] 8.1 In the names forwarded by the promotion board, the Respondent herein featured as 1 of the 5 persons recommended to be appointed as AVM. However, it was found that board had awarded the Respondent herein, disproportionate and excessive marks in comparison to other offi cers in the ‘zone of consideration’. This was done only with the aim to appoint him as JAG (Air). It is on this ground that, the Government did not fi nd the recommendation to be appropriate. 8.2 There is no provision, in either AFI 74/71 or AFO 08/05 or in the Promotion Policy dated 20thFebruary 2008 under which a separate promotion board for fi lling up legal vacancy, is provided for. The Respondents would be considered qualifi ed for AVM, JAG only if he is cleared for promotion in his parent branch. 8.3 There exists no provision for grant of substantive rank to an offi cer discharging legal duty against vacancy in the legal department.