or above is G specified in the building regulations/parameters then the same will be observed while considering the cases of the land use conversions. vii) …” H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 251 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] 11. Even after the Govt. dated 18.09.1979, JKSL continued A to deal directly with the District Collector, Kota. Another lease, extending JKSL’s utilization of the land in LIA, Kota, was signed in 06.10.1982 between the Collector and JKSL, and not RIICO. During the same period, the 1959 Rules were amended to introduce provisions that would effectuate the allocation of industrial areas to RIICO, and to then facilitate B the Company administering these lands under the 1979 Rules. Relevant sub-clauses of Rule 11A inserted on 23.12.1983, and Rule 12 added in 13.07.1982, are particularly important in this context: “11-A. Allotment of land to the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. or Rajasthan C Tourism Development Corporation- Land shall be allotted to the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. or Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation for setting up and developing Industrial Areas, on the following terms and conditions :- D (i) The land shall be allotted on lease hold basis for a period of 99 years; (ii) The premium to be charged for the allotment of government land for industrial purposes shall be equivalent to the prevailing market price of the same class of agricultural E land in the vicinity and shall be determined accordingly by the Colonization Commissioner in the Rajasthan Canal Project Colony Area and by the Collector concerned in other areas: Provided that no premium for allotment shall be charged F from Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation where the land has been purchased by the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation or acquired for Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation after its incorporation and the compensation is paid by the G Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation. (iii) …. (iv) The Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment H Corporation Ltd. [or Rajasthan Tourism Development 252 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A Corporation] may sub-lease the leased land or part thereof, for industrial purposes including essential welfare and supporting services, provided that in the case of Diamond and Gem Development Corporation to who the land has already been leased out by RIICO for 99 years, the sub- lessee i.e. DGDC may further sublet and the terms and B conditions and other provisions contained in the rules in so far as they relate to RIICO shall mutatis mutandis apply to DGDC also as if the land in question has been let out to them by State Government and rule 11-A ibid. Provided further that where land was allotted and converted C in favour of Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. [or Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation] after its incorporation for industrial purpose but land was used for essential welfare and supporting services, such allotment [xxx] shall be D deemed to be for industrial purpose.