There must be a reasonable likelihood of bias. In deciding the question of bias we have to take into consideration human probabilities and ordinary course of human conduct. ” 19. The concept of bias has been delved into by a two Judge Bench of this Court in N. K. Bajpai v. Union of India9 as follows:- “48 Bias must be shown to be present. Probability of bias, possibility of bias and reasonable suspicion that bias might have aff ected the decision are terms of diff erent connotations. They broadly fall under two categories i.e. suspicion of bias and likelihood of bias. Likelihood of bias would be the possibility of bias and bias which can be shown to be present, while suspicion of bias would be the probability or reasonable suspicion of bias. The former lead to vitiation of action, while the latter could hardly be the foundation for further examination of action with reference to the 8 (1969) 2 SCC 262 9 (2012) 4 SCC 653 SATHYAN v. STATE OF KERALA 103 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] facts and circumstances of a given case. The correct test would be to examine whether there appears to be a real danger of bias or whether there is only a probability or even a preponderance of probability of such bias, in thecircumstances of a given case. If it falls in the prior category, the decision would attract judicial chastisement but if it falls in the latter, it would hardly aff ect the decision, much less adversely. 20. In the present instance, nothing has been put forward to show that there may be a reasonable ground for the presence of bias or that there may be “a real danger of bias” and therefore the bald plea of the investigation not been fair, judicious does not support the case of the Appellant. 21. From the above discussion, it is clear that simply because the person who detected the commission of the off ence, is the one who fi led the report or investigated, such an investigation cannot be said to be bad in law. That particular submission therefore must necessarily be negatived. We also notice that, the judgement of the trial court categorically records that the person conducting the investigation was PW-4 and neither PW-1 nor PW-2, on whose testimonies the court has relied to hand down a verdict of conviction. On that ground also, the submission of the Appellant, must be negatived. 22. Conviction being based solely on the evidence of police offi cials is no longer an issue on which the jury is out. In other words, the law is well settled that if the evidence of such a police offi cer is found to be reliable, trustworthy then basing the conviction thereupon, cannot be questioned, and the same shall stand on fi rm ground. This Court in Pramod Kumar v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi)10 13. This Court, after referring to State of U.P. v. Anil Singh [1988 Supp SCC 686 : 1989 SCC (Cri) 48], State (Govt.