As such, vide dated 11th September 2017, the High Court permitted the withdrawal of the Second Appeal, and the Second Appeal stood dismissed as B withdrawn. 16. It could thus be seen that, since Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar was having Power of Attorney on behalf of the appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar, the appeal could have been filed only on his behalf. Appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar had cancelled the Power of C Attorney issued in favour of Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar on 20th June 2017, by issuing a Public Notice in daily newspaper, namely, ‘Sandesh’ on 21st June, 2017. As such, Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar had no authority in law to continue with the Second Appeal. 17. We are, therefore, of the considered view that the Civil D Application No.1 of 2018 (for restoration) filed by said Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar on 11th October 2018 itself was not tenable, inasmuch as the Power of Attorney executed in his favour by appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar on 20th November 2012 stood subsequently cancelled on 20th June 2017 by a issuing Public Notice. E 18. We, therefore, find that, by the impugned , an anomalous situation has arisen where the appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar, who does not desire to prosecute the Second Appeal, would be forced to pursue his appeal. Similarly, the legal heirs of the deceased original plaintiff, who also do not want to continue with the proceedings, would be forced to continue with the litigation. F 19. As discussed herein above, after the transposition of the other LRs was allowed, appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar was the sole appellant. As such, in his position as dominus litis, he was very well within his right to withdraw the Second Appeal. After the withdrawal of the Second Appeal by appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar, an G application for restoration, at the behest of the Power of Attorney Holder, whose Power of Attorney stood cancelled, was not at all tenable. 20. In any case, we find that the observations made by the High Court against appellant-Yogesh were totally unwarranted and uncalled for. H 288 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 21. In this view of the matter, we find that the impugned and passed by the High Court is not sustainable in law. The same is quashed and aside. 22. In the result, both the appeals are allowed. 23. For the reasons stated, I.A. No.129619 of 2020 for deletion of B respondent No.4 is allowed. All pending applications shall stand disposed of. No costs. Nidhi Jain Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA) C D E F G H