9. As to ceremonies and solemnisation, section 2 of the Anand Marriage Act, 190913, section 3(b) of the Parsi Marriage and Divorce Act, 193614, section 10, 11 & 25 of the Indian Christian Marriage Act, 187215 and section 7 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 explicitly recognize the central role that religious ceremonies play in solemnisation of marriages. The Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 193716 clearly saves the application of personal law to marriages, including the nature of the ceremony. Viewed in this perspective, the diverse religious practices involved in solemnizing marriages are undeniable. 13 2. Validity of Anand marriages.—All marriages which may be or may have been duly solemnized according to the Sikh marriage ceremony called Anand commonly known as Anand Karaj shall be, and shall be deemed to have been with eff ect from the date Of the solemnization or each respectively, good and valid in law.” 14 3. Requisites to validity of Parsi marriages.— (1) No marriage shall be valid if— (b) such marriage is not solemnized according to the Parsi form of ceremony called “Ashirvad” by a priest in the presence of two Parsi witnesses other than such priest;” 15 Section 10 of the Act reads: “10. Time for solemnizing marriage.—Every marriage under this Act shall be solemnized between the hours of six in the morning and seven in the evening:” Section 11 reads: “11. Place for solemnizing marriage.—No Clergyman of the Church of England shall solemnize a marriage in any place other than a church where worship is generally held according to the forms of the Church of England, unless there is no such church within fi ve miles distance by the shortest road from such place, or unless he has received a special license authorizing him to do so under the hand and seal of the Anglican Bishop of the Diocese or his Commissary.” Section 25 reads: “25. Solemnization of marriage.—After the issue of the certifi cate by the Minister, marriage may be solemnized between the persons therein described according to such form or ceremony as the Minister thinks fi t to adopt: Provided that the marriage be solemnized in the presence of at least two witnesses besides the Minister.” 16 Section 2 of the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat) Application Act, 1937 reads: “2. Application of Personal Law to Muslims.—Notwithstanding any custom or usage to the contrary, in all questions (save questions relating to agricultural land) regarding intestate succession, special property of females, including personal properly inherited or obtained under contract or gift or any other provision of Personal Law. marriage, dissolution of marriage, including talaq, ila, zihar, lian, khula and mubaraat, maintenance, dower, guardianship, gifts, trusts and trust properties, and wakfs (other than charities and charitable institutions and charitable and religious endowments) the rule of decision in cases where the parties are Muslims shall be the Muslim Personal Law (Shariat).” SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1521 OF INDIA [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] 10. The choice of the partner is not absolute and is subject to two- dimensional regulations: (i) minimum age of partners and (ii) the exclusions as to prohibited degrees.