It is already observed that issuance of such a notification under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act must be preceded by a recommendation of the G Central Board of the Bank and such recommendation is a condition precedent. The Central Governmentin its wisdom may accept the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank and issue a notification in the Gazette of India or it may decline to do so. This position is evident from the use of the word “may” in sub-section(2) to Section 26 of the H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 201 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Act. However, what is significant is that if demonetisation A of any bank note is to take place under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, it is only by issuance of a notification in the Gazette of India and not by any other method or manner. In other words, the Central Board of the Bank must first initiate the process by recommending to the B Central Government to declare that any series of bank notes of any denomination shall cease to be a legal tender by the issuance of a notification.If the Central Government accepts the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank, it issues a notification in the Gazette of India carrying out the same, which is in the nature of an executive functionand C the publication of the notification in the Gazette of India is only a ministerial act. 15.18 Therefore, under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act, the initiation of the process of demonetisation and the exercise of power originates from the Central Board of D the Bank which has to recommend to the Central Government and the latter may accept the recommendation and in such event it would issue a gazette notification. In case the Central Government does not accept the recommendation, there will be no further action on the E recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank.Thus, sub-section (2) of the Section 26 of the Act has inherently a very restricted operation, and is limited only to the initiation of demonetisation by the Central Board of the Bank and making a recommendation in that regard. Issuance of the notification, in the Gazette of India, would imply that the F Central Government has accepted the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank and therefore, has declared that the specified series of Bank notes of the specified denomination shall cease to be legal tender from the date to be specified in the notification. The operation of sub- G section (2) of Section 26 of the Act is thus in a very narrow compass and it is reiterated that the said power is exercised by the Central Government on acceptance of the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank. 15.19 The reason as to why a wide interpretation as contended by the Union of India cannot be given to sub-section(2) of H 202 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R.