[2023] 13 S.C.R. 1181 : 2023 INSC 918 CASE DETAILS MATHEWS J. NEDUMPARA & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. (Writ Petition (C) No. 320 of 2023) OCTOBER 16, 2023 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, C.T. RAVIKUMAR AND SUDHANSHU DHULIA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Designation of Advocates as Senior Advocates u/ss.16 and 23(5), Advocates Act, 1961 as well as u/Or. IV, r.2, Supreme Court Rules, 2013, if unconstitutional being violative of the mandate of equality u/Artilce 14 and Right to Practice any Profession u/ Article 19 as well as Right to Life u/Article 21 of the Constitution of India, as claimed. Advocates Act, 1961 – ss.16, 23(5) – Challenge to – Plea of the petitioners inter alia that designation of senior Advocates has created a class of Advocates with special rights, privileges and status and the same has been seen as a result only for kith and kin of Judges, Senior Advocates, politicians, Ministers, etc., resulting in the legal industry being monopolised by a small group of designated Advocates: Held: Pleadings are reckless, completely devoid of merit and justifi cation, making allegations against all and sundry – The classifi cation of advocates as senior advocates and other advocates u/s.16 is a classifi cation made by the legislature – It has a broad discretion to make such classifi cations, and while there must be a reason for classifi cation, the reason need not be a good one – The Court can only review the classifi cation if it is palpably discriminatory and arbitrary – The classifi cation of advocates u/s.16 is a tangible diff erence established by the practice advocates have over decades, and the Court has devised a discernible and transparent mechanism to adjudicate the seniority of advocates in the profession – Designation as a Senior Advocate is a recognition of merit by the Court, 1181 118 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. and the two s passed in Indira Jaising cases have endeavoured to make the process more transparent – The challenge that the classifi cation is violative of Article 14 is untenable – Constitutional validity of a specifi c provision cannot be challenged in abstract, but when the provisions violate any fundamental rights or contravenes any provision of the Constitution, or the legislature lacks law-making competence – The classifi cation of advocates and the mechanism to grant seniority to advocates is not based on any arbitrary, artifi cial or evasive grounds – Such a classifi cation is a creation of the legislature, and there is a general presumption of constitutionality, and the burden is on the petitioners to show that there is a clear transgression of the constitutional principles, which they have miserably failed to discharge – This rule is based on the assumption, judicially recognized and accepted, that the legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of the people – Present writ petition is a misadventure largely of petitioner No.1 in continuation of some of his past misadventures, dismissed– Constitution of India – Articles 14, 19, 21, 32.