(v) In case of multiple persons to be searched, each of them has to be individually communicated of their right, and each must exercise or waive the same in their own capacity. Any joint or common communication of this right would be in violation of Section 50. (vi) Where the right under Section 50 has been exercised, it is the choice of the police offi cer to decide whether to take the suspect before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate but an endeavour should be made to take him before the nearest Magistrate. (vii) Section 50 is applicable only in case of search of person of the suspect under the provisions of the NDPS Act, and would have no application where a search was conducted under any other statute in respect of any off ence. (viii) Where during a search under any statute other than the NDPS Act, a contraband under the NDPS Act also happens to be recovered, the provisions relating to the NDPS Act shall forthwith start 334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. applying, although in such a situation Section 50 may not be required to be complied for the reason that search had already been conducted. (ix) The burden is on the prosecution to establish that the obligation imposed by Section 50 was duly complied with before the search was conducted. (x) Any incriminating contraband, possession of which is punishable under the NDPS Act and recovered in violation of Section 50 would be inadmissible and cannot be relied upon in the trial by the prosecution, however, it will not vitiate the trial in respect of the same. Any other article that has been recovered may be relied upon in any other independent proceedings. Whether Section 50 is applicable while searching a bag of the accused? 65. Baldev Singh (supra), discussed above, gave rise to a debate as to what would be included within “search of a person” as stipulated under Section 50. This Court started interpreting the expression giving a literal or strict interpretation of the word “person”, thereby distinguishing the search of a person from that of a bag or vehicle or premises. As a result, even if there was no compliance with Section 50 while searching the accused person’s bag, the evidence of recovery would still be deemed admissible. However, over a period of time, this Court started reading the word “person” in a slightly broader sense so as to mandate that Section 50 be complied with even while conducting a search of anything that is inextricably linked to the accused. As a result, a bag which was being carried by the accused was considered to be inextricably linked to the accused, and therefore, any recovery of a contraband from such a bag without complying with Section 50 would be inadmissible. 66. We shall now look into the various decisions of this Court on the interpretation of Section 50. Section 50 does not cover a bag being carried by the accused RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 335 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J.