from C.B.I. Special Court, Kadapa, Andhra Pradesh to C.B.I. Special Court, Hyderabad or C.B.I. Special Court, New Delhi and also to direct the C.B.I. for duly completing the investigation in the aforesaid F.I.R. in the time bound manner. By a D detailed and dated 29.11.2022, this Court has allowed the said writ petition on the allegations of tampering with the evidence and the witnesses and even pressurizing the C.B.I. Officers by filing false complaints against them. 4. Therefore, the short question which is posed for the E consideration of this Court is:- Whether after an accused is released on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., under which circumstances, his bail can be cancelled and whether bail can be cancelled on merits having found committed non-bailable crime on conclusion of the F investigation and filing the chargesheet? 5. Shri K.M. Nataraj, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the C.B.I. has vehemently submitted that as such release of an accused on default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C., cannot be said to be releasing the accused on merits. It is submitted that an accused is released on G default bail under Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. on failure of the investigating agency to conclude the investigation within the time stipulated under the Cr.P.C. It is submitted that therefore, on filing of the chargesheet and curing the defects, it is always open for the Court to consider the application for cancellation of bail on merits on that basis and to consider H the seriousness of the offence. THE STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION V. T. 747 GANGI REDDY @ YERRA GANGI REDDY [M. R. SHAH, J.] 5.1 It is vehemently submitted that Section 167(2) Cr.P.C. fixes A the outer limit within which the investigation has to be completed and if the same is not completed within the period prescribed, the accused has a right to be released on bail, if he is prepared to and does furnish bail. It is submitted that as per clause (a)(ii) of sub-section (2) of Section 167, he is deemed to be released under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII of B the Cr.P.C. It is submitted that Chapter XXXIII of the Cr.P.C. includes Sections 437 and 439 whereunder the Court is empowered to cancel the bail granted to an accused in terms of Section 437(5) and Section 439(2). It is submitted that therefore, though the bail is granted under proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 167 Cr.P.C., by virtue of deeming fiction, the same can be cancelled by the Court in terms of Section 437(5) and C Section 439(2) Cr.P.C. 5.2 It is submitted that the purpose of the proviso to Section 167(2) is to impress upon the need for expeditious investigation within the prescribed time limit and to prevent laxity in that behalf. The object is to inculcate a sense of its urgency and on default the Magistrate shall release D the accused if he is ready and does furnish bail. It is submitted that therefore, an for release on bail under proviso to Section 167(2) Cr.P.C.