Rejecting the said contention, this Court observed thus: “50. Shri C. Aryama Sundaram argued that the FSA related G approximately 61 per cent of the fuel requirement. Thus, the change in law claim may be confined to 35 to 40 per cent. The argument cannot be accepted as bidding was not based on dual fuel, but was evaluated on domestic coal. There was no such stipulation that evaluation of bidding was done on domestic basis; H 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the tariff was to be worked out in the aforesaid ratio of 60 : 40 per cent of imported coal and domestic coal respectively. Apart from that, we find from the of the APTEL, that change in law provision would be limited to a shortfall in the supply of domestic linkage coal...... B 51. It was clarified that APRL would be entitled to relief under the change in law provision to the extent of shortage in supply in domestic linkage coal. Thus, we find no merit in the submission raised. We find the findings of the APTEL to be reasonable, proper, and unexceptional.” C 91. In the said case (i.e. Adani Rajasthan case) also, the provision with regard to the Change in Law was similar to the one that falls for consideration in the present case. This Court observed thus: “59. The change in policy and in the terms and conditions prescribed for obtaining any consents, clearances and permits or the inclusion of any new terms or conditions for obtaining such D consents, clearances, and permits are also included. The submission raised on behalf of appellant that there is no question seeking benefit due to change in foreign law is based on wrong factual premise. The relief was not claimed on the basis of change in foreign law. Apart from that, admission has been relied upon E change in law. The PPA was based on the domestic law and there was a change in domestic law. Thus, consequences must follow. The Government of Rajasthan entered into a MoU with APRL with respect to coal linkage in 2008 to provide coal linkage or coal from other sources. F 60. We find similarity in the present case as well as the Energy Watchdog. The factual matrix was similar with the present case. We find that the RERC and the APTEL have recorded the concurrent finding on facts. We find no ground to interfere. No substantial question of law is involved. It was held in Energy Watchdog, that change in law was brought about in the NCDP of G 2007 by the decision of 26.7.2013. It is provided in Article 10.2.1 how the change in law is to be applied to compensate for the impact.” 92. In the case of Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (UHBVNL) (supra), this Court observed thus: H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 129 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] “13. A reading of Article 13 as a whole, therefore, leads to the A position that subject to restitutionary principles contained in Article 13.2, the adjustment in monthly tariff payment, in the facts of the present case, has to be from the date of the withdrawal of exemption which was done by administrative s dated 6-4- 2015 and 16-2-2016.