25. In N.G. Dastane v. S. Dastane41, as early as 1975, a three judges’ bench of this Court, after referring to the provisions of the Indian Evidence Act, 1972, held that the fact is said to be established if it is proved by a preponderance of probabilities, that is, the court believes it F to exist or considers its existence so probable that a prudent man ought to, under the circumstances of a particular case, act upon the supposition that it exists. Often, the belief regarding the existence of a fact is founded on balance of probabilities, that is, the court is to weigh the various probabilities to discern the preponderance in favour of the existence of a particular fact. Holding that the proceedings under the Hindu Marriage G Act are civil proceedings, and referring to the provisions of Section 23 of the Hindu Marriage Act, it was held that the word ‘satisfied’ must 40 The bracketed portion was enacted vide Act No. 68 of 1976 with effect from 27.05.1976. 41 (1975) 2 SCC 326. H 200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A connote satisfaction on ‘preponderance of probabilities’ and not ‘beyond a reasonable doubt’. On the meaning of ‘cruelty’ as a ground for dissolution of marriage, reference was made to the High Court’s reliance on D. Tolstoy’s passage in The Law and Practice of Divorce and Matrimonial Causes. Therein, ‘cruelty’ has been defined as wilful and unjustified conduct of such character as to cause danger to life, limb or B health, bodily or mentally, or as to give rise to a reasonable apprehension of such danger. However, this Court felt that D. Tolstoy’s passage, which cites Horton v. Horton42, is not enough to show that the spouses find life together impossible even if there results injury to health. Accordingly, this Court elucidated that if the danger to health arises merely from the C fact that the spouses find it impossible to live together and one of the parties is indifferent towards the other, the charge of cruelty may perhaps fail. However, harm or injury to health, reputation, the working-career or the like, would be important considerations in determining whether the conduct of the defending spouse amounts to cruelty. The petitioner has to show that the respondent has treated them with cruelty so as to D cause reasonable apprehension in their mind that it will be harmful or injurious to live with the contesting spouse. In today’s context, two observations, while a court enquires into the charge of cruelty, are of some significance. First, the court should not philosophise on the modalities of married life. Secondly, whether the charge is proved or not cannot be E decided by applying the principle of whether a reasonable man situated similarly will behave in a similar manner. What may be cruel to one may not matter to another, and what may not be cruel to an individual under one set of circumstances may be extreme cruelty under another set of circumstances. Cruelty is subjective, that is, it is person, background, and circumstance specific.