The observations made in it are given below: “78. It is interesting to note that para 24 of the Report of the Joint Committee referred to above deals with the proposed amendment to Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act and gives a heading “Provisions to stop secure creditor to lease or assignment or sale in the prescribed conditions-Amendment to Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act.” 79. Thus the amendment was proposed w.r.t. when to stop the secured creditor from selling/transferring the secured asset. The words ‘when to stop the exercise of right of redemption by the borrower/mortgagor’ were not used. 80. In the said Report, at pg.12, Clause 11(ii) of the Bill which proposed to amend Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act is noted. After extracting the existing Section 13(8) of the Act which stands as under: — “If the dues of the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him are tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the date fi xed for sale or transfer, the secured asset shall not be sold or transferred by the secured creditor, and no further step shall be taken by him for transfer or sale of that secured asset.” 81. The proposed modifi cation to Section 13(8) is set out also at pg.12 as under:— “(8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him are tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the date fi xed for lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets,- (i) the secured assets shall not be leased, assigned or sold by the secured creditor; and CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 111 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured creditor for lease or assignment or sale of the assets before tendering of such amount under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken by such secured creditor for lease or assignment or sale of such secured assets.” 82. Strangely, on the next page at page 13, the following is stated:- “The Committee after examining the proposed amendment and the existing Rules in this regard decide to modify proposed Clause 11(ii) [section 13(8) of the principal Act] as under: “(8) Where the amount of dues of the secured creditor together with all costs, charges and expenses incurred by him is tendered to the secured creditor at any time before the date of publication of notice for public auction or inviting quotations or tender from public or private treaty for transfer by way of lease, assignment or sale of the secured assets,- (i) the secured assets shall not be transferred by way of lease, assignment or sale by the secured creditor; and (ii) in case, any step has been taken by the secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of the assets before tendering of such amount under this sub-section, no further step shall be taken by such secured creditor for transfer by way of lease or assignment or sale of such secured assets.” 83.