440 SUPR[2E0M23E] 1C0O SU.RCT.R R. E4P4O0 R: T2S023 INSC 6[210823] 10 S.C.R. A SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION v. ASHWANI KUMAR DUBEY & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 3856 of 2022) B JULY 05, 2023 [B. V. NAGARATHNA AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] National Green Tribunal Act, 2010 – s. 19(1) – Non-compliance of principles of Natural justice – Opportunity not given to file C objections to the recommendations made by the Committee – NGT constituted an expert committee and sought a report regarding the alleged violations complained by the first respondent – However, opportunity to raise objections to the report not given to appellants – Held:It is apparent that the appellants were not given an D opportunity to file their objections to the recommendations made by the Committee constituted by the NGT which is apparent by the fact that the recommendations were uploaded on 15.01.2022 and the final of the NGT was passed three days later on, i.e. 18.01.2022 – Thus, this is a clear case of there being non compliance with the principles of natural justice – NGT though is a special E adjudicatory body constituted by an Act of Parliament, nevertheless, the discharge of its function must be in accordance with law which would also include compliance with the principles of natural justice as envisaged in s.19(1) of the Act – Therefore, the impugned set aside, matter is remanded to the NGT for re-consideration from F the stage of the recommendations filed by the expert Committee constituted by the NGT. Doctrines/Principles – ‘Official notice’ – A device used in administrative procedure – The data on which an authority is acting must be apprised to the party against whom the data is to be used as such a party would then have an opportunity not only to refute it G but also supplement, explain or give a different perspective to the facts upon which the authority relies. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1. That the NGT is a judicial body and therefore H exercises adjudicatory function. The very nature of an 440 SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION v. 441 ASHWANI KUMAR DUBEY & ORS. adjudicatory function would carry with it the requirement that A principles of natural justice are complied with, particularly when there is an adversarial system of hearing of the cases before the Tribunal or for that matter before the Courts in India. The NGT though is a special adjudicatory body constituted by an Act of Parliament, nevertheless, the discharge of its function must be B in accordance with law which would also include compliance with the principles of natural justice as envisaged in Section 19(1) of the Act. [Para 15][455-B-C] 2. In this context, it would be useful to refer to what is known as the ‘official notice’ doctrine, which is a device used in C administrative procedure. Although an authority can rely upon materials familiar to it in its expert capacity without the need formally to introduce them in evidence, nevertheless, the parties ought to be informed of materials so noticed and be given an opportunity to explain or rebut them.