With reference to the phrase “this clause shall not apply” in second proviso to Article 311 (2) was held to be containing the key words in the second proviso and they would govern each and every G clause thereof and ultimately held that this phrase would leave no scope for any kind of opportunity to be given to a Government servant. It was also held that it would take away both the rights to have an inquiry held in which the Government servant would be entitled to a charge sheet 1 (1985) 3 SCC 398 H 2 1976 3 SCC 190 DR. V. R. SANAL KUMAR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 783 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] and also the right to make a representation on the proposed penalty. In A Tulsiram Patel and Ors. (supra), this Court further held that “interest of security of the State” might be affected by actual acts or even the likelihood of such acts taking place. The satisfaction of the President or Governor, as the case may be, must be with respect to the expediency or inexpediency of holding an inquiry in the interest of the security of the B State and an inquiry in which such an act would lead to disclosure of sensitive information and also the use of information and hence such an inquiry into the acts would be prejudicial to the interest of the security of the State as much as those acts would, it was held. 10. The relevant recitals where the Constitution Bench observed C and laid down the aforementioned positions of law in Tulsiram Patel’s case (supra) are as hereunder: - “59. The position, therefore, is that the pleasure of the President or the Governor is not required to be exercised by either of them personally, and that is indeed obvious from the D language of Article 311. Under clause (1) of that article a government servant cannot be dismissed or removed by an authority subordinate to that by which he was appointed. The question of an authority equal or superior in rank to the appointing authority cannot arise if the power to dismiss or remove is to be exercised by the President or the Governor E personally. Clause (b) of the second proviso to Article 311 equally makes this clear when the power to dispense with an inquiry is conferred by it upon the authority empowered to dismiss, remove or reduce in rank a government servant in a case where such authority is satisfied that for some reason, F to be recorded by that authority in writing, it is not reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry, because if it was the personal satisfaction of the President or the Governor, the question of the satisfaction of any authority empowered to dismiss or remove or reduce in rank a government servant would not arise. Thus, though under Article 310 (1) the tenure of a G government servant is at the pleasure of the President or the Governor, the exercise of such pleasure can be either by the President or the Governor acting with the aid and on the advice of the Council of Ministers or by the authority specified in Acts made under Article 309 or in rules made under such H 784 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R.