c) Further, the robbery has defi ned under section 390 IPC, which stipulates that Theft is “robbery” if, in to the committing of the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away property obtained by the theft, the off ender, for that end, MOHAMMAD WAJID AND ANR. v. STATE OF U.P. 331 AND ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] voluntarily causes or attempts to cause to any person death or hurt or wrongful restraint, or fear of instant death or of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint. In the present case, the other accused persons (total 6 accused persons) have looted & extorted the complainant. The contents of the FIR prima facie reveals that the Complainant, when they visited the house of the Petitioners, he was looted and wrongful restrained by the Petitioners. The petitioners and the other accused persons, as such, prima facie involved in the off ences as mentioned in the FIR. d) Recently, this Hon’ble Court has held in case Mahendra Prasad Tiwari Vs Amit Kumar Tiwari & Anr reported as 2022 SCC Online SC 1057 held that delay is registration of the FIR is not a ground to discharge. e) This Hon’ble Court has held in case Thakur Ram v. State of Bihar, reported as (1966) 2 SCR 740, that barring a few exceptions, in criminal matters the party who is treated as the aggrieved party is the State which is the custodian of the social interests of the community at large and so it is for the State to take all the steps necessary for bringing the person who has acted against the social interests of the community to book. f) This Hon’ble Court has held in case Sheonandan Paswan v. State of Bihar, (1987) 1 SCC 288 17. It is undoubtedly true that the prosecution against Dr. Jagannath Mishra was initiated by the successor government of Karpoori Thakur after Dr. Jagannath Mishra went out of power. But that by itself cannot support the inference that the initiation of the prosecution was actuated by political vendetta or mala fi des because it is quite possible that there might be material justifying the initiation of prosecution against Dr. Jagannath Mishra and the successor government might have legitimately felt that there was a case for initiation of prosecution and that is why the prosecution might have been initiated. There would be nothing wrong on the part of the successor government in doing so and the prosecution cannot be said to be vitiated on 332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. that account. This is precisely what Hidayatullah, J. speaking for the Constitution Bench pointed out in Krishna Ballabh Sahay v. Commission of Enquiry [AIR 1969 SC 258 : (1969) 1 SCR 387, 393 : 1969 Cri LJ 520] : “The contention that the power cannot be exercised by the succeeding Ministry has been answered already by this Court in two cases. The earlier of the two has been referred to by the High Court already.