A deference must be given to the Government’s decision when it is of the opinion that issues of national security are involved. However, it was held that the Court may call for records to satisfy itself that issues of national security are involved. Further, the in Council of Civil Service Unions v. Minister of Civil Service57 was relied on to hold that strict observance of the principles of natural justice may not be B possible when national security is involved. It is important to note that this Court did not decide on the factual considerations in the matter because the security clearance that was granted to the appellant had already expired. The relevant observation is extracted below: “16. What is in the interest of national security is not a question C of law. It is a matter of policy. It is not for the court to decide whether something is in the interest of the State or not. It should be left to the executive. To quote Lord Hoffman in Secy. of State for Home Deptt. v. Rehman [(2003) 1 AC 153 : (2001) 3 WLR 877 : (2002) 1 All ER 122 (HL)] : (AC p. 192C) D “… [in the matter] of national security is not a question of law. It is a matter of and policy. Under the Constitution of the United Kingdom and most other countries, decisions as to whether something is or is not in the interests of national security are not a matter for judicial decision. They are entrusted to the E executive.” 17. Thus, in a situation of national security, a party cannot insist for the strict observance of the principles of natural justice. In such cases, it is the duty of the court to read into and provide for statutory exclusion, if not expressly provided in the rules governing the field. Depending on the facts of the particular case, F it will however be open to the court to satisfy itself whether there were justifiable facts, and in that regard, the court is entitled to call for the files and see whether it is a case where the interest of national security is involved. Once the State is of the stand that the issue involves national G security, the court shall not disclose the reasons to the affected party. H 57 1985 AC 374 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 649 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 18. Be that as it may, on facts we find that the security clearance A granted to the appellant by dated 17-4-2007 for a period of five years has already expired. To quote: “I am directed to inform you that background check on the company has been conducted and nothing adverse has been found. The Company’s security clearance shall be valid for a period B of five years from the date of this letter at the end of which a fresh approval of this Bureau is mandatory.” (emphasis supplied) 19. In that view of the matter, it has become unnecessary for this C Court to go into more factual details and consideration of the appeal on merits.