(2) The Secretary in charge of Consumer Affairs of the State Government shall be the convener of the Selection Committee. (3) No appointment of the President, or of a member shall be invalid merely by reason of any vacancy or absence in the H 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Selection Committee other than a vacancy or absence of the Chairperson. (4) The process of appointments shall be initiated by the State Government at least six months before the vacancy arises. (5) If a post falls vacant due to resignation or death of a member B or creation of a new post, the process for filling the post shall be initiated immediately after the post has fallen vacant or is created, as the case may be. (6) The advertisement of a vacancy inviting applications for the posts from eligible candidates shall be published in leading C newspapers and circulated in such other manner as the State Government may deem appropriate. (7) After scrutiny of the applications received till the last date specified for receipt of such applications, a list of eligible candidates along with their applications shall be placed before the Selection D Committee. (8) The Selection Committee shall consider all the applications of eligible applicants referred to it and if it considers necessary, it may shortlist the applicants in accordance with such criteria as it may decide. E (9) The Selection Committee shall determine its procedure for making its recommendation keeping in view the requirements of the State Commission or the District Commission and after taking into account the suitability, record of past performance, integrity and adjudicatory experience. F (10) The Selection committee shall recommend a panel of names of candidates for appointment in the of merit for the consideration of the State Government. (11) The State Government shall verify or cause to be verified the credentials and antecedents of the recommended candidates. G (12) Every appointment of a President or member shall be subject to submission of a certificate of physical fitness as indicated in the annexure appended to these rules, duly signed by a civil surgeon or District Medical Officer. H THE SECRETARY MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS v. DR. 299 MAHINDRA BHASKAR LIMAYE [M. R. SHAH, J.] (13) Before appointment, the selected candidate shall furnish an A undertaking that he does not and will not have any such financial or other interest as is likely to affect prejudicially his functions as a President or member.” 2.5 The validity of the aforesaid rules, namely, Rules 3 (2)(b), 4(2)(c) and 6(9) were challenged before the High Court by the original B writ petitioner on the following grounds: - (a) Uncontrolled discretion and excessive power to the selection committee to determine its procedure to recommend candidates to be appointed is arbitrary, unreasonable and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. C (b) Considering the nature of work, the candidate’s competency needs to be tested before being recommended for the appointment to discharge judicial functions. Therefore, the candidates who are being appointed must have a legal background.