41. As far as the appointment of the Comptroller and Auditor A General is concerned, it is governed by Article 148 (1) and the Founding Fathers have provided beyond the pale of any doubt that the appointment of the Comptroller and Auditor General, vital and indispensable as he is for the affairs of the nation, his appointment is to be made by the President. The safeguard, however, considered suitable to ensure his independence B has been declared by providing that the CAG can be removed only in like manner and on like grounds as a Judge of the Supreme Court. In stark contrast, Article 324 (2) has, while it has provided for the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners by the President, it has been made subject to a law to be made by the Parliament.No such provision is provided in Article 148 (1). C We cannot be oblivious to the fact that this is apart from providing for the safeguard in the first proviso to Article 324 (5) that the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be removed except in like manner and like grounds as a Judge of Supreme Court of India. Still further, there is a third distinguishing feature between the Chief Election Commissioner and the D CAG again located in the first proviso to Article 324 (5). It is declared that the conditions of service of the Chief Election Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment. The Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners stand on a far higher pedestal in the constitutional scheme of things having regard to the relationship between their powers, functions and duties and the upholding of the E democratic way of life of the nation, the upkeep of Rule of Law and the very immutable infusion of life into the grand guarantee of equality under Article 14. 42. Article 187 provides for a Secretariat for the State Legislature. Except for the difference in the Legislative Body being the State F Legislature and the Governor taking the place of the President, it mirrors Article 98 of the Constitution. 43. Article 229 deals with Officers, servants and expenses of High Court. There cannot be any valid comparison between the Chief G Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners contemplated under Article 324 (2) and the Officers and servants of the High Court. The very fact that Officers covered by Article 229 (2) are not extended any protection against removal, itself not merely furnishes a significant starting point but may itself be conclusive of the dissimilarity between H 60 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the persons associated with the Central Election Commission and the employees covered by Article 229 (2). 44. Article 229(2) deals with the Officers, expense and servants of the High Court. Since Article 229 is pari materia with Article 146 (2), we would find merit in the same rationale, which we have furnished B for not comparing the employees with the persons governed by Article 324 (2).