A executed by all the five sisters together in favour of the first defendant – Sirajudeen. The execution of the agreement for sale is disputed by the plaintiff. Though the alleged agreement for sale relates to the interests of all the sisters. Ext.A1 sale relates to the rights of the plaintiff alone. This is under normal circumstances improbable. The defendants set up a case that the proposed B purchaser Sirajudheen sought for time for completing the sale and that the husband of the plaintiff was not agreeable and it was under such circumstances that Ext.A1, regarding the plaintiff’s share alone, was executed. There is nothing to indicate that the plaintiff or her husband were in urgent need of money. After having C entered into an agreement for sale in respect of a property, under ordinary circumstances a prudent purchaser would not purchase a mere 1/5 shares out of the property especially when the subject matter is a theatre. Further, though Ext.A1 sale deed recites the sale consideration as 6 lakhs, according to the defendants, the total consideration paid for Ext.A1 was 50 lakhs. There is D absolutely no evidence to prove the passing of consideration. According to the plaintiff, no consideration has passed since no sale deed was under contemplation. Relying on the decision of this Court in Pathu v. Katheesa Umma, [1990(2) KLT SN.51], it is argued by the respondents that since the document is a E registered one, its due execution is to be presumed. However, as held in Ponnan v. Kuttipennu[1987 (2) KLT 455], when the execution is denied, registration does not amount to proof of execution. 22. As against the above circumstances, there are various F circumstances, as pointed out by the defendant, which favour the genuiness of the sale. In addition to Ext.A1 sale deed, Ext.B17 sale note was executed regarding the furniture and other equipments in the theatre. This probabilises the execution of Ext.A1 sale. According to the plaintiff, the execution and registration of Ext.A1 did not take place at the Sub Registrar’s Office; she was G made to affix signatures while she was at the ground floor of the building. However, the Sub Registrar or the Document writer have not been examined. The document writer is the same person who executed sale deed in respect of the other two items(items 1 and 4) that belonged to the sisters under the partition. Though in H paragraph 3 of the plaint, it is alleged that the brother of the SIRAJUDHEEN v. ZEENATH & ORS. 11 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] plaintiff’s husband accompanied the plaintiff to the SRO, he has A not been examined. The plaintiff who is said to have been defrauded has not stepped into the witness box. Though under Section 120 of the Indian Evidence Act, the husband may be a competent witness to depose on behalf of wife, in the nature of the allegations as made, the plaintiff was a vital witness and her B non-examination looms large.” 5.2. After the observations aforesaid, the High Court expressed that the evidence necessary for proper determination of the suit had not been brought on record; and that the evidence on record was insufficient to arrive at a proper finding in favour of or against the sale deed.