Therefore, the Tribunal was not justifi ed in setting aside cancellation of auction by the Liquidator. Tribunal had further failed to notice that the terms of the auction sale notice provided absolute right to the Liquidator to accept or reject any bid or to cancel the auction without assigning any reason. While setting aside the of the Tribunal EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 883 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] as well as the steps taken in compliance thereto, Appellate Tribunal gave liberty to the Liquidator to initiate fresh process of auction. Pursuant thereto, Liquidator i.e. Respondent No.2 had issued a subsequent sale notice dated 24.12.2021 for E-auction sale of the subject property, the date of auction being 17.01.2022. Interestingly, in this round of auction, the reserve price was also maintained at Rs.10 crores. As we have noticed above, this Court by dated 10.01.2022 while issuing notice had stayed the auction scheduled on 17.01.2022. 23. Section-5 of the Code deals with the definition of various expressions used in the Code. As per section 5(18), ‘Liquidator’ means an insolvency professional appointed as a liquidator in accordance with the provisions of Chapter III or Chapter V of Part I of the Code, as the case may be. Chapter III deals with liquidation process, whereas Chapter V deals with voluntary liquidation of corporate persons. Section 34, which is under Chapter III, provides for appointment of Liquidator and the fee to be paid. Sub-section (1) of Section 34 says that where an adjudicating authority passes an for liquidation of the corporate debtor under Section 33, the resolution professional appointed for the corporate insolvency resolution process shall, subject to submission of written consent, act as the Liquidator for the purposes of liquidation unless replaced by the adjudicating authority. As per sub-section (2), on the appointment of a Liquidator under Section 34 all powers of the board of directors, key managerial personnel and partners of the corporate debtor, as the case may be, shall cease to have eff ect and shall be vested in the Liquidator. Sub-section (3) requires personnel of the corporate debtor to extend all assistance and cooperation to the Liquidator in managing the aff airs of the corporate debtor. Sub-sections (4) to (7) deal with replacement of a resolution professional whereas sub-sections (8) and (9) deal with fees to be charged by the Liquidator. 23.1. Powers and duties of Liquidator are provided in Section 35 of the Code. Sub-section (1) enumerates the various powers and duties that has to be performed and discharged by the Liquidator. Clause (f) says that the Liquidator has the power and duty to sell the immovable and movable properties and actionable claims of the corporate debtor in liquidation by public auction or private contract, with power to transfer such property to any person or body corporate, or to sell the same in parcels in such manner 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. as may be specifi ed. As per the proviso, the Liquidator shall not sell the immovable and movable properties or actionable claims of the corporate debtor in liquidation to any person who is not eligible to be a resolution applicant.