It was further observed that if a subject of legislation is covered by Entries 63 to 66 even if it otherwise falls within the larger field of E “education including universities,” as covered under Entry 11 of List II, the power to legislate on that subject must lie only with the Parliament. Acknowledging that Entry 11 of List II and Entry 66 of List I undoubtedly overlap, it was held that the said entries must be harmoniously construed F and to the extent of overlapping, the power conferred by Entry 66 of List I must prevail over the power of the State under Entry 11 of List II. The Majority on the Bench concluded that the power, having regard to the width of those items, must be deemed to vest with the Union. Power to legislate in respect to medium of instruction, in so far it G has a direct bearing and impact upon the legislative head of co-ordination and determination of standards in institutions of higher education or research and scientific and technical institutions, must also be deemed by virtue of Entry 66 of List I, to be vested with the Union. This Court rejected the H argument that prescribing the medium of instruction is not BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 953 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] a matter falling within determination and coordination of A standards of higher education in Entry 66 of List I. It held expressly that it is within the purview of the said Entry. Accordingly, it was held that the State Legislature was not competent to legislate in that behalf. ii) In State of Tamil Nadu vs. Adhiyaman Educational and B Research Institute, (1995) 4 SCC 104,(“Adhiyaman Educational and Research Institute”) this Court considered the question, whether, even after the coming into force of the All-India Council for Technical Education Act, 1987, which is a Parliamentary enactment, the State C Government had the power to grant and withdraw permission to start a technical institution, acting under the Tamil Nadu Private College (Regulation) Act, 1976, and the statutes and ordinances framed thereunder. The facts leading to the controversy were that the Respondent Institution applied to the Government of Tamil Nadu for D permission to start a new self-financing private Engineering College in terms of a Government Memorandum dated 17th April 1984, which permitted private managements to start new Engineering Colleges under the self-financing scheme without any financial commitment to the Government, but E subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions. The State Government by its of 9th June, 1987, granted permission to the Trust to start a private Engineering College under the name and style of Adhiyaman College of Engineering at Hosur in Dharmapuri district, beginning with the academic year 1987-88. One of the conditions imposed F by the Government was that the institution could admit candidates of its choice upto 50 per cent of the approved intake under the management quota, and the remaining 50 per cent of the seats would be allotted by the Director of Technical Education from among the candidates of the G approved list prepared for admission to Government and Government-aided Engineering Colleges.