46. Lastly, it was proposed that this court may consider issuing some directions to all States and Union Territories to ensure that measures (establishment of an Emergency Response Sanitation Unit (ERSU), designation of a Responsible Sanitation Authority, establishment of a Helpline Number35, assurance of mechanized cleaning methods and the availability of essential safety equipment and machines at the ERSU) are in place in each district within six months from the promulgation of the Court .36 Further, to issue appropriate directions to the States/Union Territories to fully implement the Act, including constitution of various committees under the Act and the implementation of the NAMASTE scheme, in to prevent deaths resulting from hazardous cleaning.37 Analysis and reasoning 47. The 2013 Act not only criminalizes manual scavenging but also provides for rehabilitation mechanisms to ensure that manual scavengers are emancipated. Chapter IV of the Act, titled ‘Identifi cation of Manual Scavengers in Urban and Rural Areas and their Rehabilitation’ spans from Section 11 to 16 and is an entire code in so far as rehabilitation is concerned. The fi rst step towards rehabilitation that the 2013 Act makes, is the identifi cation of manual scavengers through a survey. This survey is under Section 11 for municipalities and Section 14 for panchayats. 48. The methodology [and the institutions created] to conduct the survey are provided under the 2013 Rules. The Rules provide for specifi c authorities, i.e., the SLSC and DLSCs under Rule 11, to perform detailed roles. Under Rule 11(2), the SLSCs and DLSCs must carry out campaigns at various levels in all areas where insanitary latrines have been found. The 34 (pg. 52, Vol.3). 35 preferably 14420 36 Union of India’s Note dt.09.08.2023 (Vol. 10) 37 Union of India’s Note dt.26.07.2023 (Vol. 5) DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1107 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] local authority is mandate to join hands with community leaders and NGOs working for safai karamcharis for their identifi cation as per Rule 11(3). Rule 11(4) provides for self-declaration by manual scavengers whereas Rule 11(5) allows NGOs to submit lists of manual scavengers which may be verifi ed to identify them. A house-to-house survey is mandated under Rule 11(6) to identify manual scavengers who service the insanitary latrines in any area. Overseers are appointed under Rule 11(8) to ensure that the data collected in the survey is correct. Subsequently, a list is made of the manual scavengers after inviting objections and hearings. Ultimately, the list is compiled by the DLSC. After their identifi cation by a survey, a fi nal publication of the manual scavengers is to be published under Section 11(6). Notably, under Section 12, a person can apply to be added to the published list under Section 11. 49. On publication of the list, the emancipatory provision under Section 11(7) read with Section 6(2) takes eff ect. It declares that the manual scavengers stand discharged from any obligation to work as manual scavengers. This provision is the heart of the law – the declaration frees manual scavengers from the clutches of their historically oppressive professions.