Article 31 of the VCLT57 refl ects the general rules of treaty interpretation. India is not a signatory to the convention. However, the convention has been accepted by consensus as refl ecting the customary international law on general rules of treaty interpretation, and is thus still relevant in the Indian context. Article 31(3) of the VCLT provides that the following shall be taken into account, while interpreting the provisions of a treaty: (a) any subsequent agreement between the parties regarding the interpretation of the treaty or the application of its provisions; 56 For e.g., Art. 94 of the Dutch Constitution, Art. 55 of the French Constitution and for Luxembourg see Cour de Cassation of 14 July 1954, Pagani, 16 Pas. 150 57 “Article 31 General Rule of Interpretation 1. A treaty shall be interpreted in good faith in accordance with the ordinary meaning to be given to the terms of the treaty in their context and in the light of its object and purpose. 2. The context for the purpose of the interpretation of a treaty shall com- prise, in addition to the text, including its preamble and annexes: (a) any agreement relating to the treaty which was made between all the parties in connection with the conclusion of the treaty; (b) any instrument which was made by one or more parties in connection with the conclusion of the treaty and accepted by the other parties as an instru- ment related to the treaty.” 3. There shall be taken into account, together with the context: (a) any subsequent agreement between the parties regarding the interpreta- tion of the treaty or the application of its provisions; (b) any subsequent practice in the application of the treaty which establish- es the agreement of the parties regarding the interpretation of the treaty or the application of its provisions; (c) any relevant rules of international law applicable in the relations be- tween the parties.” ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1199 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (b) any subsequent practice in the application of the treaty which establishes the agreement of the parties regarding the interpretation of the treaty or the application of its provisions; (c) any relevant rules of international law applicable in the relations between the parties. 75. In 2018, the International Law Commission (ILC) adopted its Draft Conclusions on Subsequent Agreements and Subsequent Practice in relation to the Interpretation of Treaties (“ILC Draft Conclusions”).58 The ILC Draft Conclusions note that under the scheme of the VCLT, subsequent agreements and subsequent practice, being objective evidence of the understanding of the parties as to the meaning of the treaty, are authentic means of interpretation of treaties.59 76. The ILC Draft Conclusions defi ne ‘subsequent agreement’ as an agreement between parties, reached after the conclusion of a treaty, regarding the interpretation of a treaty and its provisions.60 A ‘subsequent practice’ is defi ned as consisting of conduct in the application of a treaty, after its conclusion, which establishes the agreement of the parties regarding the interpretation of the treaty.61 Such subsequent practice under Articles 31 and 32 may consist of any conduct of a party in the application of a treaty, whether in the exercise of its executive, legislative, judicial or other functions,62 and may take several forms.63 ‘Practice’ includes any type of positive action, whether physical or conduct —for instance, the reliance on the provisions of a treaty to support a State’s chosen course of action, or the adoption of legislation, or enforcement action based on a treaty, and abstention from action (omission) in the application of a treaty.