He had supplied tuners and saw fi lters to M/s Ganpati Overseas through his fi rm M/s Arise Enterprises from Hong Kong. 4.3. Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma admitted that the rate of tuners per piece as shown in the invoices by M/s Arise Enterprises did not refl ect the actual price. He had deliberately mentioned lower price with the intention of saving customs duty in respect of the goods imported by his co-brother, COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 177 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] Mr. Yashpal Sharma. The actual price of the tuners was quite high. The diff erential amount i.e. the diff erence between the actual price and the declared price was retained in India which he used to collect from Mr. Yashpal Sharma. 4.4. Mr. Yashpal Sharma was also summoned whereafter his statement was recorded under Section 108 of the Customs Act on 15.03.1999. Apart from narrating the factum of importing the goods by showing prices much lesser than the actual price meant to evade customs duty, he stated that the amount of payment disclosed in the import documents were sent by him to Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma through the banking channel, whereas, the balance diff erential amount used to be handed over to Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma on his visits to India. 4.5. It was mentioned that price of tuners so imported as per the sales vouchers was in the range of Rs. 40-60 per piece but the actual market value of these tuners was in the range of Rs. 200-325 per piece. In this manner, the respondents had evaded customs duty amounting to a total of around rupees twenty fi ve to thirty lakhs approximately. 4.6. Mr. Yashpal Sharma was arrested on 15.03.1999 under Section 135 of the Customs Act. He was enlarged on bail on 30.03.1999 by the Additional Sessions Judge, Patiala House, New Delhi subject to the condition that a sum of rupees ten lakhs should be deposited in the offi ce of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence on 30.03.1999 and a further sum of rupees twenty lakhs should be so deposited within a period of forty-fi ve days. Both the amounts were accordingly deposited. 4.7. From a scrutiny of the relevant materials including export declarations, it was found that the price of tuner as per the export declarations fi led by the exporter before the Hong Kong Customs and Excise Department was Hong Kong $67.67 per piece which was much higher as compared to the price declared in the invoice by M/s Ganpati Overseas before the Indian customs authority at the time of importation of the goods. In this connection, the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence prepared two charts; as per chart-I, M/s Ganpati Overseas had evaded customs duty to the extent of Rs. 1,07,41,419.00 on import of nineteen consignments. Likewise, Directorate of Revenue Intelligence prepared chart-II which dealt with importation of 3200 pieces of tuners which were made in Taiwan. It was noted that the 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R.