Therefore, the only course available with CoC after such rejection was to continue with the fresh CIRP; and the CoC had no legal authority to H 848 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A consider or vote on a new settlement proposal of the promoter after issuance of fresh Form G. Learned counsel would submit that the direction of the Appellate Tribunal as regards consideration of Section 12-A proposal of the promoter was exhausted when the settlement proposal was rejected by CoC in its eleventh meeting on 25.03.2022 and a fresh Section 12-A application could not have been entertained by the CoC in B any case. 29. On another aspect, in CA No. 1827 of 2022, learned senior counsel for the appellant, Mr. C. Aryama Sundaram, appearing against Dharani Finance (the related party), has relied on various decisions of this Court including those in Phoenix ARC, Pratap Technocrats, and C Kalpraj Dharamshi (supra) as also in Facor Alloys Ltd. v. Bhuvan Madan and Ors. :Civil Appeal No. 5129 of 2021 to submit that even though the resolution applicant has admitted certain dues towards related parties, the final resolution plan did not provide for any payment and the plan was upheld by this Court in these cases. On previous occasions, D this Court as well as other fora had differentiated between related and non-related parties under resolution plans. Learned senior counsel would argue against the proposition that a related party could be part of the CoC when it is a financial creditor. Further, it has been submitted that Article 14 of the Constitution in stricto sensu would not be applicable to the decision of the CoC, as it is not a ‘State’ as defined under Article 12 E of the Constitution. 30. Learned senior counsel Mr. Vijay Narayan appearing on behalf of the resolution professional has mainly questioned the findings and observations in the impugned as regards the process adopted and steps taken by RP and has made a variety of submissions as follows: F 30.1. As regards the question of valuation, it has been submitted that the only responsibility of RP under Regulation 35(2) of the CIRP Regulations has been to share the fair value and liquidation value with the members of CoC after obtaining a confidentiality undertaking, which was done in the present case. There is no requirement to provide a copy G of the report to the CoC or any other stakeholder. On the contention of valuation under the Companies (Valuation) Rules of 2017, it has been submitted that the interim resolution professional appointed three sets of valuers for the three main classes of assets. 30.1.1. With respect to the physical valuation of assets, learned H senior counsel emphasised on agenda item No. 4 of the fourth CoC M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 849 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] meeting, wherein it was clearly mentioned that the valuers visited the A property of the corporate debtor. 30.1.2. Insofar as the issue of non-core assets not being valued is concerned, it was submitted on behalf of RP that although the value of non-core assets was fairly insignificant, in the seventh CoC meeting dated 29.12.2020, the RP informed that the second valuer Mr. G Vaidya B Ramana, visited the premises for non-core assets and had subsequently submitted his report.