However, the plaintiff did not pay heed to the requests of the defendants and therefore, the defendants were constrained to raise the requisite funds by selling their jewellery and ornaments. G 5.3 That the defendants agreed to sell their Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property only with a view to urgently raise requisite finances to enable them to bear the medical expenses for the treatment of defendant no. 1. Therefore, it was additionally important for the plaintiff to have duly paid the balance consideration within six months from the date on which agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights was H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 261 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] entered into. Since the plaintiff failed to do so, it could not be concluded A that he was ready and willing to perform his obligations under the agreement dated 7th August, 2005. 5.4 That the plaintiff was by occupation, a real estate agent and frequently engaged in the practice of entering into agreements of sale in respect of properties and thereafter attempting to find buyers for smaller B extents or portions of such properties. That since the plaintiff could not find prospective buyers, he did not pursue the agreement dated 7thAugust, 2005 for over one year and had been attempting to evade the same. However, since the value of the suit property considerably increased over time, the plaintiff sought to claim the same at a price significantly C below the prevailing market rate by placing reliance on a stale agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. 5.5 With the aforesaid averments, it was prayed before the Trial Court that the suit filed by the plaintiff for specific performance of the agreement of sale dated 7thAugust, 2005, be dismissed. D 6. The Court of the Subordinate Judge, Tirur by its and decree dated 18thAugust, 2008 allowed the suit filed by the plaintiff and passed a decree of specific performance of the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights dated 7thAugust, 2005. Sale consideration was enhanced by 25% and it was directed that a sale consideration of E Rs. 11,000/- per cent, instead of Rs.8750/- per cent, be paid by the plaintiff. It was directed that on payment of the sale consideration, sale deed in respect of the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property be executed in favour of the plaintiff within a period of three months from the date on which the decree was passed. The salient findings of the Trial Court are as under: F i) That specifying the time for performance of an agreement is not sufficient to prove that time was indeed the essence of the contract. That if time was the essence of the agreement, either of the parties ought to have initiated due performance of the same within the specified period. G However, since neither of the parties to the agreement of sale had initiated timely steps in pursuance of the said agreement, it was held that time was not the essence of the contract.