1) , 1956 must be applied G for the interpretation of the Constitution unless the context otherwise requires. 132. The definition provided in the definition clause article should be applied and given effect to for the purposes of the relevant Part of the Constitution. However, when the definition clause is preceded by the phrase ‘unless the context otherwise requires’, there may be a need H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 569 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] to depart from the normal rule if there is something in the context in A which such expression occurs to show that the definition should not be applied.43 Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act, by virtue of Article 367(1) of the Constitution, applies to the construction of the expression ‘State’ in the Constitution, unless there is something repugnant in the subject or context of a particular provision of the Constitution. The burden B is on the party opposing the application of the definition under the General Clauses Act to the interpretation of a constitutional provision to prove that the context requires otherwise. The Union of India has been unable to suggest that the context of Part XIV suggests otherwise. There is nothing in the subject or context of Part XIV of the Constitution which would exclude its application to Union territories. Rather, the application C of the inclusive definition of “State” as provided under Clause 3(58) would render the constitutional scheme envisaged for Union Territories workable. (b) Omission in Part XIV by the 1956 Constitution Amendment D 133. The Union of India has argued that services for a Union Territory are not contemplated in Part XIV of the Constitution because of the conscious omissions by the 1956 Constitution Amendment in Part XIV. There are two prongs to this argument: (i) the words “Part A States” and “Part B States” in Article 308 were substituted by the word “State”, simpliciter, instead of States and Union territories; and (ii) while the E term ‘Raj Pramukh’ was omitted in different Articles in Part XIV, the term ‘Administrator’ was not added. 134. Under erstwhile Article 239, the President occupied in regard to Part C States, a position analogous to that of a Governor in Part A States and of a Rajpramukh in Part B States. Unamended Article 239 F envisaged the administration of Part C States by the President through a Chief Commissioner or a Lieutenant Governor to be appointed by them or through the Government of a neighbouring State. 135. The 1956 Constitution amendment was adopted to implement the provisions of the States Re-organization Act 1956. The Seventh G Amendment abrogated the constitutional distinction between Part A, B and C States, and abolished the institution of the Rajpramukh on the 43 SK Gupta v. KP Jain, (1979) 3 SCC 54; Ichchapur Industrial Coop. Society Ltd. v. Competent Authority, Oil & Natural Gas Commission, (1997) 2 SCC 42; Ratnaprova Devi v. State of Orissa, (1964) 6 SCR 301 H 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R.