Neither the Constitution nor the laws enacted by Parliament provide for a F mechanism by which disputes amongst members of a particular political party can be settled. They certainly do not empower the Governor to enter the political arena and play a role (however minute) either in inter-party disputes or in intra-party disputes. It follows from this that the Governor cannot act upon an inference G that he has drawn that a section of the Shiv Sena wished to withdraw their support to the Government on the floor of the House. [Para 186 & 189][959-C-E; 960-A-C] 2. In view of the discussion above, it is concluded as follows: (a) The correctness of the decision in Nabam Rebia is referred H 864 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A to a larger Bench of seven judges; (b) This Court cannot ordinarily adjudicate petitions for disqualification under the Tenth Schedule in the first instance. There are no extraordinary circumstances in the instant case that warrant the exercise of jurisdiction by this Court to adjudicate disqualification petitions. The Speaker must decide disqualification petitions within a reasonable period; B (c) An MLA has the right to participate in the proceedings of the House regardless of the pendency of any petitions for their disqualification. The validity of the proceedings of the House in the interregnum is not “subject to” the outcome of the disqualification petitions; (d) The political party and not the C legislature party appoints the Whip and the Leader of the party in the House. Further, the direction to vote in a particular manner or to abstain from voting is issued by the political party and not the legislature party. The decision of the Speaker as communicated by the Deputy Secretary to the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly dated 3 July 2022 is contrary to law. The D Speaker shall recognize the Whip and the Leader who are duly authorised by the Shiv Sena political party with reference to the provisions of the party constitution, after conducting an enquiry in this regard and in keeping with the principles discussed in this judgement; (e) The Speaker and the ECI are empowered to E concurrently adjudicate on the petitions before them under the Tenth Schedule and under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols respectively; (f) While adjudicating petitions under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols , the ECI may apply a test that is best suited to the facts and circumstances of the case before it; (g) The effect of the deletion of Paragraph 3 of the Tenth Schedule is that the F defence of ‘split’ is no longer available to members facing disqualification proceedings. The Speaker would prima facie determine who the political party is for the purpose of adjudicating disqualification petitions under Paragraph 2(1) of the Tenth Schedule, where two or more factions claim to be that political G party; (h) The Governor was not justified in calling upon Mr. Thackeray to prove his majority on the floor of the House because he did not have reasons based on objective material before him, to reach the conclusion that Mr. Thackeray had lost the confidence of the House.