Explanation 1.—A person who, by wilful misrepresentation, or by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing. Explanation 2.—Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the commission of an act, does anything in to facilitate the KAMALAKAR v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 793 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] commission of that act, and thereby facilitates the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act.” 8.2. Section 306 IPC penalizes abetment of commission of suicide. To charge someone under this Section, the prosecution must prove that the accused played a role in the suicide. Specifi cally, the accused’s actions must align with one of the three criteria detailed in Section 107 IPC. This means the accused either encouraged the individual to take their life, conspired with others to ensure the person committed suicide, or acted in a way (or failed to act) which directly resulted in the person’s suicide. 8.3. In Ramesh Kumar V. State of Chhattisgarh1, this Court has analysed diff erent meanings of “instigation”. The relevant para of the said judgement is reproduced herein: “20. Instigation is to goad, urge forward, provoke, incite or encourage to do “an act”. To satisfy the requirement of instigation though it is not necessary that actual words must be used to that eff ect or what constitutes instigation must necessarily and specifi cally be suggestive of the consequence. Yet a reasonable certainty to incite the consequence must be capable of being spelt out. The present one is not a case where the accused had by his acts or omission or by a continued course of conduct created such circumstances that the deceased was left with no other option except to commit suicide in which case an instigation may have been inferred. A word uttered in the fi t of anger or emotion without intending the consequences to actually follow cannot be said to be instigation.” 8.4. The essentials of Section 306 IPC were elucidated by this Court in M. Mohan v. State2, as under: “43. This Court in Chitresh Kumar Chopra v. State (Govt. of NCT of Delhi) [(2009) 16 SCC 605 : (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 367] had an occasion to deal with this aspect of abetment. The Court dealt with the dictionary meaning of the word “instigation” and “goading”. The Court opined that there should be intention to provoke, incite or encourage the doing 1 (2001) 9 SCC 618 2 (2011) 3 SCC 626 794 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of an act by the latter. Each person’s suicidability pattern is diff erent from the others. Each person has his own idea of self-esteem and self-respect. Therefore, it is impossible to lay down any straitjacket formula in dealing with such cases. Each case has to be decided on the basis of its own facts and circumstances. 44. Abetment involves a mental process of instigating a person or intentionally aiding a person in doing of a thing.