It has also been submitted that in fact the appellants did not argue against the award of compound interest before D the State Commission and thus, their challenge ought not be considered under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, for such an argument having been consciously given up by them. The decision of this Court in the case of Transmission Corp. of AP Ltd. v. P. Surya Bhagavan: (2003) 6 SCC 353 has been referred to in this regard. It has also been E argued in reference to the decision in Balram Prasad v. Kunal Saha: (2014) 1 SCC 384 that while awarding just compensation, merely the form of claim made by the complainant may not be considered decisive. 10. In rejoinder submissions, the learned senior counsel for the appellants has contended that the decision in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga F cannot be read as an authority for the proposition that compound interest is invariably to be granted in all these cases. Learned counsel has also submitted that the decision in the case of Indian Council for Enviro- Legal Action (supra) is also not applicable as the compound interest therein was awarded on the unique facts of that case and where the mandate of this Court was circumvented for more than a decade. G Learned counsel has also submitted that the judicial precedents of English Courts cannot be applied to the present case, in view of specific law in India that compound interest would be operated only if the statute or the contract provides for the same; and there being no such prescription in the statute or in the contract, awarding of compound interest cannot be said to be justified. H 1124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 11. We have given our anxious consideration to the rival submissions and have examined the record with reference to the law applicable. Matters of form and pleading not relevant in the present case 12. As noticed, in these appeals, a wide variety of rival submissions B have been presented before us on the question as to whether the Consumer Fora had been justified in awarding and approving compound interest at the rate of 14%. While dealing with these submissions, we may observe at the outset that, in our view, neither the submissions on behalf of the appellants about want of pleading and prayer for compound C interest nor the submissions on behalf of the respondent, about want of opposition before the State Commission by the present appellants, deserve much dilation. In this regard, it may be observed that in the complaint case as originally filed, the respondent did not make any prayer for award of compound interest; rather her prayer had essentially been for directions to the appellants to deliver the flats and to award damages. If at all, the D respondent claimed simple interest @ 18% p.a. It appears that such a submission seeking compound interest was properly made, with reference to the decision in Dr. Manjeet Kaur Monga’s case(supra), for the first time by the claimant-respondent only before the State Commission.