5. The learned counsel appearing for the appellants submitted that the State Commission and the National Commission had committed D an error in not appreciating the fact that in absence of any fault, imperfection, shortcoming or inadequacy in the performance, which was required to be maintained by the appellants’ bank, it could not be presumed that there was deficiency in service as defined under Section 2(1)(g) of the Consumer Protection Act, 1986 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘said E Act’) He has relied upon the decision of this Court in case of Ravneet Singh Bagga vs. KLM Royal Dutch Airlines and Another1 and in case of Branch Manager, Indigo Airlines Kolkata and Another Vs. Kalpana Rani Debbarma and Others2 to submit that the complaint filed by the respondent-complainant was not maintainable before the State Commission, and even otherwise the respondent had failed to F discharge the burden of proof that there was deficiency in service on the part of the appellants. He further submitted that the two demand drafts in question were issued in the name of “D-Cube Construction” only, and it was on the instructions of R. Thulasiram one of the Co- directors, the amounts of the said drafts were credited in the Current G Account No. 4160 opened in the name of “D-Cube Construction”. According to him, as per the letter dated 15.02.1997 addressed to the appellant-bank by the “D-Cube Constructions (P) Ltd.”, stating that the said Company had no objection if current account in the name of 1 (2000) 1 SCC 66 H 2 (2020) 9 SCC 424 THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING DIRECTOR, CITY UNION BANK 693 LTD. & ANR. v. R. CHANDRAMOHAN [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] “D-Cube Construction” was opened, the said account was opened by A Shri R. Thulasiram in his capacity as the proprietor of the proprietary concern. According to him, if any fraud was committed by the Co-director of the “D-Cube Constructions (P) Ltd.”, such disputes pertains to fraud would not fall within the jurisdiction of the State Commission or the National Commission to decide. B 6. However, learned counsel for the respondent-complainant submitted that when the two forums have consistently held the appellants liable for the deficiency in service, this Court should not interfere with the same. He further submitted that the bank would be vicariously liable for the acts of its employees. As per the General Banking Principles and C Guidelines laid down by the RBI, the account should not have been opened with the similar name of the company of which the complainant was the Managing Director. According to him, without the involvement of the officers of the Bank, R. Thulasiram would not have encashed the drafts in question by opening a new current account in the name of “D- Cube Construction”. He further submitted that there was a clear D deficiency in service on the part of the appellant -bank. In this regard he had relied upon the decision in case of Kerala State Cooperative Marketing Federation Vs. State Bank of India and Others3 and in case of Indian Overseas Bank vs. Industrial Chain Concern4.