His explanation that he went home and slept is uninspiring in confidence for the incident E took place in his presence and in close proximity of habitation, more specifically at a short distance i.e. just 3-4 minutes of walking distance from the Police Headquarters where constables are posted around the clock. He left his friend profusely bleeding on the spot but did not seek any help and immediately did not report the incident to the family members F of the deceased whose house he visited only the following day at around 8:00 – 9:00AM.His conduct of going off to sleep, having seen his friend being murdered right before his eyes and then not visiting the hospital forthwith is quite unnatural. Also he did not inform the incident to his parents. It was only when the police interrogated him that he named the accused. His testimony is not free from embellishments, nor is not G corroborated by any other evidence. Also, he admits not to have any information of any monetary transactions between the accused and the deceased. 10. This Court on multiple occasions has held that it is not the quantity but the quality of witnesses and evidence that can either make H NARENDRASINH KESHUBHAI ZALA v. STATE OF GUJARAT 753 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] or break the case of the prosecution. It is the duty of the prosecution to A prove that the testimonies of the witnesses that it seeks to rely upon are of sterling quality, i.e. fully trustworthy and absolutely free from any kind of blemish. [Prahlad v. State of M.P. (supra); Amrik Singh v. State of Punjab, (2022) 9 SCC 402; Pramila v. State of U.P., (2021) 12 SCC 550; Krishan Kumar Malik v. State of Haryana, (2011) 7 B SCC 130] 11. Examining the testimony of an independent witness, Munna bhai alias Krupal Rajnikant (PW-6), we find him to be the one to have firstly informed the father of the deceased (PW-1) of his son having sustained injuries and taken to MG Hospital, in such a condition. As per C his version, hearing cries of some fight, he rushed to the spot and noticed the deceased lying on the road bleeding profusely. On his asking, one autorickshaw driver took him to the hospital on the promise of paying the fare. Who is this person? Why he himself did not take the deceased to the hospital? All this remains unexplained. For after all, he knew him D and had informed the father of the deceased. Is it that he himself was a suspect? Significantly, the witness admits not to have heard the sound of the gun shot. He contradicts himself by stating that he had informed the police of the incident only on 15.05.2002. He does not identify the autorickshaw driver and was not familiar with him. Significantly, the autorickshaw driver has not been examined in the Court. E 12. When we examine the testimony of the Complainant (PW-1) we notice him to have deposed that around 11 PM, one person namely Munna Bhai alias Krupal Rajnikant (PW-6) came on a motorcycle and informed that in a critically injured condition, Ram, had been taken to MG Hospital in an autorickshaw.