In publication of the notifi cations and declaration under s.6, the public purpose gets crystalised and becomes conclusive. Thereafter, the State is entitled to authorise the Land Acquisition Offi cer to proceed with the acquisition of the land and to make the award. Section 11A now prescribes limitation to make the award within 2 years from the last of date of publication envisaged under s.6 of the Act. In an appropriate case, where the Govt. needs possession of the land urgently, it would exercise the power under s.17(4) of the Act and dispense with the enquiry under 25 (1995) 4 SCC 229 URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 573 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] s.5-A. Thereon, the State is entitled to issue notice to the parties under s.9 and on expiry of 15 days, the State is entitled to take immediate possession even before the award could be made. Otherwise, it would take possession after the award under s.12. Thus, it could be seen that the Act is a complete code in itself and is meant to serve public purpose. We are, therefore, inclined to think, as presently advised, that by necessary implication the power of the civil court to take cognizance of the case under s.9 of CPC stands excluded, and a civil court has no jurisdiction to go into the question of the validity or legality of the notifi cation under s.4 and declaration under s.6, except by the High Court in a proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution. So, the civil suit itself was not maintainable. When such is the situation, the fi nding of the trial court that there is a prima facie triable issue is unsustainable. Moreover, possession was already taken and handed over to Housing Board. So, the of injunction was without jurisdiction.” (Emphasis supplied) 57. In Laxmi Chand v. Gram Panchayat, Kararia26, validity of the acquisition and of the award was challenged by instituting a civil suit for a declaration that the land could not be acquired. In that suit, a preliminary issue was framed regarding maintainability of the suit. The trial court held that the suit was not maintainable. The of the trial court was affi rmed. The matter came before this Court. The contention raised on behalf of the petitioner before this Court was that once the acquisition proceedings were dropped by the Land Acquisition Offi cer, he had no jurisdiction or power to reopen the same and to make the award under Section 11 of the 1894 Act. It was argued that the award is squarely illegal for want of jurisdiction. After noticing the facts, this Court held: “2. … It is seen that Section 9 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 gives jurisdiction to the civil court to try all civil suits, unless barred. The cognizance of a suit of civil nature may either expressly or impliedly be barred. The procedure contemplated under the Act is a special 26 (1996) 7 SCC 218 574 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.