The of this Court in Hoechst Pharmaceuticals Ltd. and Others-vs- State of Bihar and H THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 445 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] Others [(1983) 4 SCC 45] was also cited by the petitioners to contend A that such assent of the President is relevant only if the legislation is relatable to an Entry in List III of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution. But in our view, the Amendment Statutes are relatable to Entry 17 of List III of Seventh Schedule and hence we do not consider it necessary to deal with the ratio laid down in the case of Hoechst B Pharmaceuticals (supra). Certain other s were also cited in support of this proposition. We shall express our opinion on this point in subsequent part of this . 10. In W.P. (C) No.1152 of 2018, the legality of the Karnataka Amendment Act has been challenged. This petition was tagged with C W.P. (C) No.1059 of 2017 by an dated 7.12.2018. W.P. (C) No.1059 of 2017 was heard along with T.C. (C) No.60 of 2021, a three-Judge Bench of this Court took cognizance of the Karnataka and Maharashtra Amendment Acts and in an passed by the said Bench on 16.12.2021, it was observed:- D “The entire matter in relation to similar amendments made by the State of Tamil Nadu and State of Karnataka is now referred to the Constitution Bench, including to consider the question whether these amendment Acts (of State of Tamil Nadu) overcome the defects pointed out in the two s of this Court. Similar question would arise in these writ petitions E and transferred case from Maharashtra concerning the provisions of State of Maharashtra. Hence, these writ petitions be heard along with writ petitions pertaining to the State of Tamil Nadu and State of Karnataka.” 11. In the of A. Nagaraja (supra), dealing with Jallikattu F and Bullock Cart Race in Maharashtra, the Division Bench of this Court found bulls to be non-suitable for being involved in any sports. The Bench found that the bulls were not performing animals having no natural inclination for running like a horse. The reasoning of the Bench in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra) would appear, inter-alia, from paragraphs G 33, 37, 41, 44, 53 and 73. It has been held by the Court in these paragraphs:- “33. The PCA Act is a welfare legislation which has to be construed bearing in mind the purpose and object of the Act and the directive principles of State policy. It is trite law that, in the matters of welfare legislation, the provisions of law should be liberally construed in favour of the weak and infirm. H 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A The court also should be vigilant to see that benefits conferred by such remedial and welfare legislation are not defeated by subtle devices. The court has got the duty that, in every case, where ingenuity is expanded to avoid welfare legislations, to get behind the smokescreen and discover the true state of affairs.