The cross-examination of this witness PW-18 Sunil Kumar reads as under: - “On 3.5.2009, I reached at the spot at Haiderpur Canal alongwith constable Het Ram around 7.45 p.m. When we reached there, Prem Singh alongwith 1-2 persons were present there. Inspector H Sudhir reached at the spot at about 8.30p.m and crime team officials PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 827 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] reached at the spot after sometime and remained there for about A 1 hour. I recorded the statement of witnesses namely Rajender Yadav and Sunita on 03-04/05/09 at police post Rohini. It is incorrect to suggest that doctor has given the opinion about the cause of death at my instance. It is wrong to suggest that no disclosure statement was made B by the accused. It is further wrong to suggest that I recorded statement of witnesses not as per their true version. It is wrong to suggest that I am deposing falsely or that accused is innocent and has been falsely implicated in this case or that I did not conduct the investigation and did not prepare the documents are prepared C by me. It is wrong to suggest that accused was apprehended on 03.5.2009 and illegally detained in the PS and later on he was falsely implicated in this case. It is further wrong to suggest that I am deposing falsely.” 6.6. The Investigating Officer PW-17 Inspector Pratap Singh D testified to various processes undertaken in the course of investigation. His cross-examinationreads as under: - “On 06.05.09 I reached the spot i.e., Haiderpur Water Treatment Plant at about 3-4 am along with complainant and SI Sunil and other staff and remained there about one hour. We were in uniform. Accused was pointed out at a distance of 20 meters. Voltd. At E that time we were hiding behind the bushes and were not visible to the accused. We immediately overpowered the accused. Firstly I apprehended the accused. All the writing work was done while sitting on the bus stand. It is correct that place of apprehension of the accused is thorough fair. We asked three/four passer by to F join the investigation but they refused. I did not give any notice to them and no action was taken against them. Voltd. I have no time to issue notice to public persons as accused was in our custody. All the memos were prepared either by me or under my supervision by the police staff available at the spot. Ex. PW7/D was not in my handwriting. It is wrong to suggest that accused was G apprehended on 03.05.09 from the Haiderpur water treatment plant. It wrong to suggest that no disclosure statement was made by the accused. It is wrong to suggest that all the proceedings were conducted while sitting in the police station. It is wrong to suggest that the accused is innocent who is falsely implicated in H 828 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A this case or that he did not commit the alleged offence or that I did not conduct investigation properly.” Stand of the appellant 7.