B 16.1. This Court in Lila Dhar vs. State of Rajasthan, AIR 1981 SC 1777 made the following pertinent observations as to the importance of a viva-voce or interview in a selection process: “It is now well recognised that while a written examination assesses a candidate’s knowledge and intellectual ability, an C interview test is valuable to assess a candidate’s overall intellectual and personal qualities. While a written examination has certain distinct advantage over the interview test there are yet no written tests which can evaluate a candidate’s initiative, alertness, resourcefulness, dependableness, cooperativeness, capacity for clear and logical presentation, effectiveness, in discussion, D effectiveness in meeting and dealing with others, adaptability, , ability to make decision, ability to lead, intellectual and moral integrity. Some of these qualities may be evaluated, perhaps with some degree of error, by an interview test, much depending on the Constitution of the interview Board.” E 16.2. The criteria for evaluation of a candidate’s performance in an interview may be diverse and some of it may be subjective. However, having submitted to the interview process with no demur or protest, the same cannot be challenged subsequently simply because the candidate’s personal evaluation of his performance was higher than the marks awarded by the panel. In this case the break up of the marks referred to F above is reiterated as under: G H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 763 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] A B C Only 20 out of 100 marks were allocated for interview/viva-voce. D The same is only 20% of the total marks which cannot be said to be an excessive proportion out of the total marks. Further Courts cannot sit in over the award of marks by an interview panel. That is best left to the and wisdom of the interview panel. In the above premise, we do not think there is any merit in the contention of the writ E petitioners regarding the award of marks to the candidates who appeared for viva-voce before the panel. Moreover, the award of 80% of the total marks is on objective criteria depending upon the educational qualification of the individual candidates. 16.3. Further, it appears to us the criteria was recast vide F Corrigendum dated 12th June, 2009, by increasing the weightage accorded to candidates possessing a Degree in pharmacy or pharmaceutical chemistry and advanced qualifications such as post-graduate degrees, Ph.D etc., with a view to incentivise more qualified persons who had applied for the said posts. Recasting the criteria was only with regard to allocation of marks for the respective educational qualification of the G candidates. In our view, it was with a view to preserve the standards of the selection process and was not motivated by mala fide or oblique motive. Higher the qualification a candidate possessed, higher marks were awarded. In other words, the minimum marks awarded for educational qualification was 65 and could increase to 80 depending on H 764 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.