Parliament has quickly on the heels of the Goswami Committee, stepped in with the 1991 Act. We have already noted the terms of the Act as D subsequently amended. It contemplates salary to be paid, not only to the Election Commissioner but also to the Chief Election Commissioners, which is to be equal to the salary of the Judge of the Supreme Court of India. The term as we have already noticed, both of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner, was to be six years, subject E to the proviso, which we have noticed. It also provides for other aspects relating to conditions of service. While unanimity of views among the members is statutorily contemplated in Section 10(1) as a desirable goal, the inevitable differences of opinion was contemplated and Section 10(3) has declared that in such an eventuality, it is the opinion of the majority of the Members, which would prevail. We have already noticed how in F T.N. Seshan (supra), this has been found to not militate against the Chief Election Commissioner being given the power to act as the Chairman of the Commission. It may be true that there is equality otherwise, which exists between the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners in various matters dealt with under the Act. However, G we must bear in mind, in law, Article 324 is inoperable without the Chief Election Commissioner [See T.N. Seshan (supra)]. In law, there may not be an insuperable obstacle for Parliament to decide to do away with the post of Election Commissioner. In fact, it happened, as can be seen in the in Dhanoa (supra) wherein it was found that the termination of service of the Election Commissioners following the H 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A abolition of the posts did not constitute removal of the Election Commissioner within the meaning of the second proviso to Article 324(5). More importantly, even on a plain reading of Article 324(5), we are of the view that in regard to the prayer that the Election Commissioner must be accorded the same protection as is given to the Chief Election Commissioner, the argument appears to be untenable. This prayer was B rejected, in fact, in T.N. Seshan (supra). It is clear as day light that the first proviso protects the Chief Election Commissioner alone from removal by providing for protection as is accorded to a Judge of the Supreme Court of India. It is still further more important to notice that the first proviso interdicts varying of the conditions of service of the Chief Election C Commissioner to his disadvantage after the appointment. It is, thereafter, that the second proviso appears. The second proviso exclusively deals with any other Election Commissioner, inter alia. The word ‘any other Election Commissioner’ has been provided to distinguish him from the Chief Election Commissioner.Therefore, for the Election Commissioners other than the Chief Election Commissioner, the protection which is clearly D envisaged, as against his removal is only that it can be effected only with the recommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner.