[2023] 11 S.C.R. 623 : 2023 INSC 768 CASE DETAILS M/S HINDUSTAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED v. M/S NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA (Civil Appeal No(s). 4658 of 2023) AUGUST 24, 2023 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND ARAVIND KUMAR, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: The issue is with respect to the interpretation of a contract condition, which required the measurement of quantities used for payment for embankment construction with soil or with pond; and the relevance of the dissenting opinion of the arbitrators. Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – ss. 34, 37 – Arbitral award – Scope of intereference u/ss. 34 and 37 – On facts, three technical member arbitration passed an award which was unanimous on most questions while, on others, there was a dissenting view – Single Judge of the High Court held that the tribunal’s majority opinion refl ected a plausible and reasonable view, however, the Division Bench holding that the tribunal’s majority opinion, and award, were based on an implausible interpretation of the contract, set aside the award – Correctness: Held: Awards which contain reasons, especially when they interpret contractual terms, ought not to be interfered with, lightly – Prevailing view about the standard of scrutiny- not judicial review, of an award, by persons of the disputants’ choice being that of their decisions to stand- and not interfered with, save a small area where it is established that such a view is premised on patent illegality or their interpretation of the facts or terms, perverse, as to qualify for interference – Judges tend to adopt a corrective lens; usually, commended for appellate review, however, it is unavailable when exercising jurisdiction u/s. 34 – Courts cannot, through process of primary contract interpretation, thus, create pathways to the 623 624 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. kind of review which is forbidden u/s. 34 – So viewed, the Division Bench’s approach, of appellate review, u/s. 37, and conclusions drawn by it, resulted in displacing the majority view of the tribunal, as also the unanimous view – As long as the view adopted by the majority was plausible and there is no reason to hold otherwise, such a substitution was impermissible – s passed by the High Court are set aside – Awards, which were the subject matter of challenge, and to the extent they were set aside, are upheld and restored. [Paras 22, 23, 28] Arbitration – Arbitral award – Dissenting opinion of the arbitrator – Relevance of: Held: Dissenting opinion cannot be treated as an award if the majority award is set aside – It might provide useful clues in case there is a procedural issue which becomes critical during the challenge – When a majority award is challenged by the aggrieved party, the focus of the court and the aggrieved party is to point out the errors or illegalities in the majority award – Minority award or dissenting opinion only embodies the views of the arbitrator disagreeing with the majority – There is no occasion for the party aggrieved by the majority award, or, more crucially, the party who succeeds in the majority award, to challenge the soundness, plausibility, illegality or perversity in the approach or conclusions in the dissenting opinion – Dissenting opinion would not receive the level and standard of scrutiny which the majority award is subjected to – Thus, the so-called conversion of the dissenting opinion, into a tribunal’s fi ndings, in the event a majority award is set aside and elevation of that opinion as an award, would, be inappropriate and improper.