22. The tenant has failed to bring on record any document during trial that petitioner is the owner of other properties No. C-603 and E-591, Majlis Park, Delhi. The tenant has contradicted himself by F saying in para no.11 of (page 6) of the written statement that petitioner is the owner of property no. 588, whereas in para no.18(a)(1), the devar of the petitioner has been shown the owner of property no. 588, Majlis Park. 23. The petitioner in her cross-examination averred that the suit G property has been constructed on two plots no. C-586 and C-587. On this aspect also, the respondent has failed to bring any contrary fact. Thus, the owner-ship of property No. C-587 also stands clarified to the effect that his devar’s wife property No. C- 587 is a part of the suit property.” H KUSUM LATA SHARMA v. ARVIND SINGH 503 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 5.2. In view of the above, the Rent Controller accepted the petition A and ed eviction of the tenant from the premises in question, being one room in the rear portion of the first floor of the building in question while granting him six months’ time to vacate. 6. It may be pointed out at this juncture that the other eviction petition bearing No. 03 of 2011 was filed by the appellant in relation to B the other tenant who was having two rooms on rent, each on the first and second floor of the same property. Almost identical averments were taken in the said petition and more or less the same grounds of opposition were stated by the tenant. The said matter proceeded on similar evidence and the Rent Controller passed a similar on the even date, i.e., C 21.11.2014, while accepting the case of the appellant and similarly ed eviction of the said tenant from the premises in question while granting six months’ time to vacate. In view of similarity of factors concerning both the cases, we need not elaborate on the pleadings, evidence and findings in relation to the other petition. D 7. The aforesaid two revision petitions before the High Court against the aforesaid s dated 21.11.2014 proceeded on similar grounds and came to be accepted by the High Court with almost identical s. The High Court took the view that the appellant-landlord had not been forthright and had taken the pleadings in a misleading manner; and the availability of other property had not been clearly disclosed. Hence, E the High Court formed the view that the appellant had failed to make out a case of bona fide requirement. The relevant part of the consideration and findings of the High Court could be usefully reproduced as under: - “5. A perusal of the eviction petition presented before the additional rent controller would show that the respondent had described herself F as a resident of ground floor of property No.C- 586, Gali No.12, Majlis Park, Delhi-110033, the tenanted portion in possession of the petitioner having been described as one room in middle on the first floor, in the rear portion of the property.