1240 SUPR[2E0M23E] 9C OSU.CR.RT . R1E2P4O0 R: T2S023 INSC 65[29023] 9 S.C.R. A ASHOK KUMAR v. NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. (Civil Appeal No. 4758 of 2023) B JULY 31, 2023 [J. K. MAHESHWARI AND K. V. VISWANATHAN, JJ.] Consumer Protection Act, 1986: s. 24 A – Insurance Claim – Repudiation of – Theft of insured vehicle of the appellant – FIR lodged by the appellant – Insurance company intimated about the C theft on the sixth day – Complaint filed by the appellant before the district forum alleging that the Insurance Company was delaying the settlement of the claim – During pendency, repudiation of the claim by the Insurance Company – Thereafter, the complaint dismissed as withdrawn– Filing of the fresh complaint – Award of D 75% of the sum assured to the complainant on a non-standard basis – Upheld by the State Commission – However, the National Commission set aside the same – On appeal, held: Having not argued, before the State Commission, as regards the complaint being barred in view of the withdrawal of the earlier complaint, the National Commission not justified, in allowing the Insurance E Company to urge that point – Moreover, the National Commission was under the wrong impression that the earlier complaint had challenged the of repudiation – Complaint was withdrawn by the counsel on the pretext of the case being prolonged by the advocate of the Insurance Company, without having express F instructions for withdrawal – For the fault of the counsel, the complainant cannot be made to suffer – Thus, the complaint cannot be thrown out on the threshold of Or.XXIII r.1(4) – Any violation of the condition should be in the nature of a fundamental breach – There was timely intimation to the insurance company about loss or damage – Time gap between the driver alighting from the vehicle G and noticing the theft, was very short – It cannot be said that leaving the key of the vehicle in the ignition was an open invitation to steal the vehicle – Even if there was some carelessness, it was not a fundamental breach of the condition warranting total repudiation – On facts, fit case to award the claim at 75% on a non-standard H 1240 ASHOK KUMAR v. NEW INDIA ASSURANCE CO. LTD. 1241 basis – District Forum and State Commission rightly ed so – A Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Or. XXIII r. 1(4). Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD : 1.1 Having not argued, before the State Commission, the point of the present complaint being barred in B view of the withdrawal of the earlier complaint, the National Commission was not justified, on the facts of the instant case, in allowing the respondent-Insurance Company to urge that point therefrom. It is very clear from the of the State Commission that only two points were argued by the Insurance Company. [Para 5][1250-D-E] C 1.2 In any event, interest of justice requires that the appellant, in the peculiar facts and circumstances of this case, should not be non-suited on the ground that his earlier complaint was withdrawn.