31. It was urged that Kothari Products Ltd. (supra) is a three- judge bench ruling which held “gutkha is a tobacco” and that gutkha, being covered by Explanation to Fourth Schedule to the State Sales Tax B Act (i.e., APGST Act) and the exemption contained in Section 8 of the Schedule to the State Act could not have been amended by including gutkha in the First Schedule. This court in Radheshyam Gudakhu Factory (supra) held that gutkha is a product of tobacco and that its essential and effective ingredient remains tobacco; it is also known as a product of tobacco in common parlance. Its essential character is that C of tobacco; “tobacco” falls under Entry 35 of the Schedule to the Orissa Sales Tax Act. The decision in Reliance Trading Company (supra) is a three-judge ruling rejecting the revenue’s submissions based on general and specific entries. It also held that the exemption operating in favour of goods in question in the Third Schedule of the Kerala General Sales D Tax Act, 1963 continued as it was not amended even after amendment of the First Schedule. The result consequently was that irrespective of any presumed intention of the Legislature in amending the First Schedule, as long as the Entry in the Third Schedule remained un-amended, there was not subject to levy. E 32. It was urged that so far as the other line of s mentioned are concerned, Agra Belting Works (supra) was a majority of two judges and one judge expressed a dissenting opinion. In that case there were no ‘tax free goods’ under the statute as in the present case. Instead, that was a case of an Exemption Notification where there was another Notification providing the rate. In the , the combined F effect of two Notifications was considered. This court relied on Agra Belting Works (supra) in Dealing Dairy Products (supra), and relied on both these cases, when deciding Krishna Kumar Kabra (supra). In all the three cases, there was no issue relating to ‘tax free goods’ as in the present case. G 33. It was next submitted that Entry 22 of the Third Schedule of the DST Act amounts to a ‘Legislation by way of Incorporation’ so far as it includes a specific provision from the CEA defining ‘tobacco’ for the purposes of formulating provisions under the DST Act. The Lt. H 23 (2011) 15 SCC 762 [hereafter ‘Reliance Trading Company’] M/S TRIMURTHI FRAGRANCES (P) LTD. THR. ITS DIRECTOR SHRI 1067 PRADEEP KUMAR AGRAWAL v. GOVT. OF N.C.T. OF DELHI THR. ITS PRINCIPAL SECRETARY (FINANCE) [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Governor is entrusted with the power to amend the Third Schedule of A the DST Act which incorporates the definition of ‘tobacco’. It was submitted that when the definition is so incorporated, subsequent changes in law, have no impact on the earlier, incorporated provisions. Counsel cited some decisions24 of this court, on this aspect. 34. Mr. Pawan Shree Agarwal, learned counsel appearing for P.J B Aromatics, relied on Pappu Sweets and Biscuits v. Commissioner of Trade Tax, U.P, Lucknow25, to argue that subsequent legislation can be looked at in to see the correct interpretation of an earlier legislation, especially when the earlier one is obscure or ambiguous or capable of more than one interpretation.