It cannot be gainsaid that the burden of proof lies on the accused for the purpose of the condition set out in the Section 45 that he is not guilty of such off ence. Of course, such discharge of burden could be on the probabilities, nonetheless in the instant case there being suffi cient material on record adduced by the respondent showing the thick involvement of the appellant in the alleged off ence of money laundering under Section 3 of the said Act, the Court is not inclined to grant bail to the appellant. 21. The apprehension of the learned counsel for the appellant that the trial is likely to take long time and the appellant would be incarcerated for indefi nite period, is also not well founded in view of the observations made by this Court in case of Vijay Madanlal (supra). On the application of Section 436A of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, it has been categorically held therein that: - “419. Section 436A of the 1973 Code, is a wholesome benefi cial provision, which is for eff ectuating the right of speedy trial guaranteed by Article 21 of the Constitution and which merely specifi es the outer limits within which the trial is expected to be concluded, failing which, the accused ought not to be detained further. Indeed, Section 436A of the 1973 Code also contemplates that the relief under this provision cannot be granted mechanically. It is still within the discretion of the Court, unlike the default bail under Section 167 of the 1973 Code. Under Section 436A of the 1973 Code, however, the Court is required 832 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. to consider the relief on case-to-case basis. As the proviso therein itself recognises that, in a given case, the detention can be continued by the Court even longer than one-half of the period, for which, reasons are to be recorded by it in writing and also by imposing such terms and conditions so as to ensure that after release, the accused makes himself/ herself available for expeditious completion of the trial.” 22. Lastly, it may be noted that as held in catena of decisions, the economic off ences constitute a class apart and need to be visited with a diff erent approach in the matter of bail. The economic off ences having deep-rooted conspiracies and involving huge loss of public funds need to be viewed seriously and considered as grave off ences aff ecting the economy of the country as a whole and thereby posing serious threat to the fi nancial health of the country. Undoubtedly, economic off ences have serious repercussions on the development of the country as a whole. To cite a few s in this regard are Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy vs. Central Bureau of Investigation8, Nimmagadda Prasad vs. Central Bureau of Investigation9, Gautam Kundu vs. Directorate of Enforcement (supra), State of Bihar and Another vs. Amit Kumar alias Bachcha Rai10. This court taking a serious note with regard to the economic off ences had observed as back as in 1987 in case of State of Gujarat vs. Mohanlal Jitamalji Porwal and Another11 as under:- “5… The entire community is aggrieved if the economic off enders who ruin the economy of the State are not brought to books.