“Clause (5) of Article 324 of the Constitution provides that the Chief Election Commissioner shall notbe removed from his office F except in the same manner and on the same grounds as a Judge of theSupreme Court. The Chief Election Commissioner and the two Election Commissioners enjoy thesame decision making powers which is suggestive of the fact that their powers are at par with eachother. However, Clause (5) of Article 324 of the G Constitution does not provide similar protection to theElection Commissioners and it merely says that they cannot be removed from office except on therecommendation of the Chief Election Commissioner. The reason for giving protection to a Chief Election Commissioner as enjoyed by a Supreme Court Judge in matters of removability H 88 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A from office was in to ensure the independence of Commissionfrom external pulls and pressure. However, the rationale behind not affording similar protection toother Election Commissioners is not explicable. The element of ‘independence’ sought to be achieved under the Constitution is not exclusively for an individual alone but for the whole institution. Thus, the B independence of the Commission can only be strengthened if the Election Commissioners are also provided with the same protection as that of the Chief ElectionCommissioner. Proposed amendment The present constitutional guarantee is inadequate and requires C an amendment to provide the sameprotection and safeguard in the matter of removability of Election Commissioners as is available tothe Chief Election Commissioner.” Q. SEPARATION OF POWERS AND JUDICIAL ACTIVISM D 78. In I. C. Golak Nath and Others v. State of Punjab and Another,15 Justice Subba Rao held speaking for this Court: “It (the Constitution) demarcates their jurisdiction minutely and expects them to exercise their respective powers without overstepping their limits. They should function within the spheres E allotted to them. No authority created under the Constitution is supreme; the Constitution is supreme and all the authorities function under the supreme law of the land.” 79. What is this jurisdiction which is demarcated? Justice R.S.Pathak speaking for the Bench in Bandhua Mukti Morcha v. Union F of India and Others16 held: “It is a common place that while the Legislature enacts the law the Executive implements it and the Court interpret it and, in doing so, adjudicates on the validity of executive action and, under our Constitution, even judges the validity of the legislation itself.” G The question would arise as to whether the powers/functions are cast in stone or whether the aforesaid powers/functions can legitimately be exercised/discharged by the other organs. We may in this regard again advert to what this Court held in the aforesaid case (supra): 15AIR 1967 SC 1643 H 16 (1984) 3 SCC 161 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 89 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] “And yet it is well recognized that in a certain sphere the Legislature A is possessed of judicial power, the executive possesses a measure of both legislative and judicial functions, and the court, in its duty of interpreting the law, accomplishes in its perfect action in a marginal degree of legislative exercise.