b. The contours of the power under Article 3 316 Paragraph 20, Report of the States Reorganisation Commission 1955 317 Summary and Conclusions, Report of the States Reorganisation Commission 1955 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 480. It is necessary to advert to the principles which animate the Constitution in general and Article 3 in particular and the Constituent Assembly Debates on Statehood. I. Federalism, representative democracy, and the signifi cance of States 481. Democracy and federalism are basic features of the Constitution. The term ‘federal’ is used to indicate the division of powers between the Union or Central Government and the State Governments. While there are certain ‘unitary’ characteristics present in the constitutional structure in terms of which the Union Government has overriding powers in some situations, the existence of federal elements in the form of governments envisaged by the Constitution is a cornerstone of the polity. This set-up has been described as quasi-federal, asymmetric federalism or cooperative federalism. This Court need not engage in a comprehensive discussion of the nature of federalism postulated by the Indian Constitution. The s of this Court in Bommai (supra), Kuldip Nayar v. Union of India,318 State (NCT of Delhi) v. Union of India,319 and Swaraj Abhiyan (V) v. Union of India320 extensively discuss the principles of federalism embodied in the Constitution. 482. The States neither derive their powers from the Union Government nor do they depend upon the Union Government to exercise their powers under the structure of the Constitution. Part V of the Constitution inter alia provides for the structure, functions and powers of the Union Government. Part VI inter alia provides for the structure, functions and powers of the States. The Constituent Assembly Debates reveal that the federal nature of our Constitution was considered to be one of its signifi cant features. Dr. B R Ambedkar observed: “… dual polity under the proposed Constitution will consist of the Union at the Centre and the States at the periphery each endowed with sovereign powers to be exercised in the fi eld assigned to them respectively by the Constitution. … the Indian Constitution 318 (2006) 7 SCC 1 319 (2023) 9 SCC 1 320 (2018) 12 SCC 170 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 275 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] proposed in the Draft Constitution is not a league of States nor are the States administrative units or agencies of the Union Government.”321 (emphasis supplied) In response to a remark complaining that the Constitution favoured too strong a Centre, Dr. B R Ambedkar stated in no uncertain terms that the States were not dependent upon the Centre for their legislative or executive authority: “A serious complaint is made on the ground that there is too much of centralisation and that the States have been reduced to municipalities. It is clear that this view is not only an exaggeration, but is also founded on a misunderstanding of what exactly the Constitution contrives to do. As to the relation between the Centre and the States, it is necessary to bear in mind the fundamental principle on which it rests.