In all such cases therefore the Court has to consider with care how far there is “functional integrity” meaning thereby such functional interdependence that one unit cannot exist conveniently and reasonably without the other and on the further question whether in matters of fi nance and employment the employer has actually kept the two units distinct or integrated.” (emphasis supplied) 11.Similar was the position in Regional Provident Fund Commissioner v. Naraini Udyog, (1996) 5 SCC 522, wherein this Court M/s MATHOSRI MANIKBAI KOTHARI COLLEGE OF VISUAL ARTS v. THE 545 ASSISTANT PROVIDENT FUND COMMISSIONER [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] found the functional integrity with common management of two diff erent establishments controlled by the same Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) and having a common head offi ce, even though located at a distance of three kilometres. Merely fact of having separate registration under the Factories Act 1948, Sales Tax Act 1956 and the ESI Act 1948, was held to be non- relevant for the purpose of clubbing and coverage under the EPF Act. 12. The Pratap Press’s case (supra) was also referred in Noor Niwas Nursery Public School (supra) wherein this Court held that no straight jacket formula or test can be laid down for the purpose of clubbing of the two establishments and coverage under the EPF Act. Relevant para 5 therein is extracted below: “5. In the present case, when two units are located adjacent to one another and there are only two teachers with an aaya, a clerk and a peon, it is diffi cult to believe that the society which runs 30 schools would run a separate school consisting of such a small number of staff . If the unit of the appellant School was not part of the unit of Francis Girls Higher Secondary School, the Head Clerk, Mrs Wadhavan could not have been in possession of the particulars of the appellant School and could not have furnished such particulars to the Inspector when he visited the school in connection with the grant of a code number. Undisputedly, the two units are run by the same society and they are located in one and the same address thereby establishing geographical proximity and nothing worthwhile has been elicited in the cross-examination of the Inspector in regard to inquiries made by him from Mrs P. Wadhavan. Mrs P. Wadhavan was not examined before the Provident Fund Commissioner. All these facts clearly point out to one factor that the two units constitute one single establishment. After all the appellant School caters to nursery classes, while the higher classes are provided in Francis Girls Higher Secondary School. Thus, the link between the two cannot be ruled out. In the facts and circumstances of the case, we hold that the view taken by the Provident Fund Commissioner as affi rmed by the High Court in this regard is correct.” (emphasis supplied) 13. The facts of the case in Noor Niwas Nursery Public School (supra) are almost identical to the case in hand. Therein, two educational 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.