75.The in Raj Kumar v. Ajay Kumar62 had discussed and declared the general principles relevant for the assessment of compensation or damages for personal injuries. These principles have been applied, in cases involving claims under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 as well as other cases, including medical negligence cases. The court observed: 62 2010 (13) SCR 179. CPL ASHISH KUMAR CHAUHAN (RETD.) v. COMMANDING 647 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “The court or the Tribunal shall have to assess the damages objectively and exclude from consideration any speculation or fancy, though some conjecture with reference to the nature of disability and its consequences, is inevitable. A person is not only to be compensated for the physical injury, but also for the loss which he suff ered as a result of such injury. This means that he is to be compensated for his inability to lead a full life, his inability to enjoy those normal amenities which he would have enjoyed but for the injuries, and his inability to earn as much as he used to earn or could have earned. [See C.K. Subramania Iyer v. T. Kunhikuttan Nair (1969) 3 SCC 64, R.D. Hattangadi v. Pest Control (India) (P) Ltd. (1995) 1 SCC 551 and Baker v. Willoughby (1969) 3 All ER 1528 (HL)]. 6. The heads under which compensation is awarded in personal injury cases are the following: Pecuniary damages (Special damages) (i) Expenses relating to treatment, hospitalisation, medicines, transportation, nourishing food, and miscellaneous expenditure. (ii) Loss of earnings (and other gains) which the injured would have made had he not been injured, comprising: (a) Loss of earning during the period of treatment; (b) Loss of future earnings on account of permanent disability. (iii) Future medical expenses. Non-pecuniary damages (General damages) (iv) Damages for pain, suff ering and trauma as a consequence of the injuries. (v) Loss of amenities (and/or loss of prospects of marriage). (vi) Loss of expectation of life (shortening of normal longevity). In routine personal injury cases, compensation will be awarded only under heads (i), (ii)(a) and (iv). It is only in serious cases of injury, where there is specifi c medical evidence corroborating the evidence of the claimant, that compensation will be granted under any of the heads 648 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (ii)(b), (iii), (v) and (vi) relating to loss of future earnings on account of permanent disability, future medical expenses, loss of amenities (and/or loss of prospects of marriage) and loss of expectation of life.” 76. The principles discussed and commended for general application have endured and have been consistently followed by this court, in calculating and awarding damages. 77. This court, in Nizam Institute of Medical Sciences (supra), outlined, briefl y, what damages a person who has suff ered due to medical negligence, can be awarded. This court held that: “92 [..] The kind of damage that the complainant has suff ered, the expenditure that he has incurred and is likely to incur in the future and the possibility that his rise in his chosen fi eld would now be restricted, are matters which cannot be taken care of under the multiplier method.” 78.