Corporate Law Group, Samir Ali Khan, D. Mahesh Babu, Jatinder Kumar Bhatia, Krishnam Mishra, Param Kumar Mishra, T. Mahipal, Gopal Singh, M. R. Shamshad, Manish Kumar, Ms. Shaswati 372 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Parhi, Ravi Shanker Jha, Ranjan Mukherjee, Ms. Sharmila Upadhyay, Sarvjit Pratap Singh, M/s. Coac, Ms. G. Indira, Abhisth Kumar, Ashok Kumar Singh, Ms. Hemantika Wahi, Shuvodeep Roy, Deepayan Dutta, Chanchal Kumar Ganguli, Praveen Agrawal, Mukesh Kumar Maroria, M. Shoeb Alam, M/s. Karanjawala & Co. Ms. Tulika Mukherjee, Sudarshan Rajan, Sunny Choudhary, V. K. Verma, Rajat Srivastav, T.C. Kaushik, Tarun Verma, Rajat Arora, Shibashish Misra, Hrishikesh Baruah, Saumitra Srivastava, Ms. Radhika Gupta, Ms. Ruchira Goel, Rajiv Kumar Sinha, Raj Kumar, Kapil Sahni, Sabarish Subramanian, Vishnu Unnikrishnan, C Kranthi Kumar, Naman Dwivedi, Danish Saifi , Ms. Vanshaja Shukla, Ms. Rachana Gandhi, Saurabh Trivedi, Ashutosh Kumar Sharma, Aravindh S., Abbas, Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar, Karun Shrama, Abhinav Mukerji, Raghvendra Kumar, Anand Kumar Dubey, Jainendra Ojha, Simanta Kumar, Pradeep Misra, Daleep Dhyani, Manoj Kumar Sharma, Suraj Singh, Bhuwan Chandra, Ashok Panigrahi, Merusagar Samantaray, Ms. Swarupama Chaturvedi, Subhasish Mohanty, Ms. Jaspreet Gogia, Ms. K. Enatoli Sema, G. Prakash, M. Yogesh Kanna, Ms. Pragati Neekhra, Arvind H. S., M/s Arputham Aruna & Co. V.K. Sharma, V.N. Raghupathy, M.K. Maroria, Krishnanand Pandey, Advs. for the appearing parties. Petitioner-in-person / OF THE SUPREME COURT 1. This batch of cases raises two signifi cant issues: (i) The procedure to be followed by the police in investigating police encounters; and (ii) The propriety and procedure of media briefings by police personnel. 2. The fi rst issue, governing police encounters, has since been dealt with in the of this Court dated 23 September 2014 in People’s Union for Civil Liberties v State of Maharashtra1. 1 (2014) 10 SCC 635 PEOPLE’S UNION FOR CIVIL LIBERTIES v. THE STATE OF 373 MAHARASHTRA 3. The second issue pertains to the modalities to be followed by the police in conducting media briefi ngs where a criminal investigation for an alleged off ence is in progress. The issue assumes signifi cance, particularly, in the context of the manner in which media reportage takes place, particularly in crimes involving a degree of public interest. 4. Having regard to the ramifi cations of the issues involved, the Court appointed Mr Gopal Sankaranarayanan, senior counsel, as Amicus Curiae. 5. A questionnaire was circulated by the Amicus Curiae in to elicit information from the States and Union Territories. Several States, including the States of Bihar, Goa, Haryana, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Uttarakhand have responded, besides the Administrations of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chandigarh and Puducherry. Observations have been submitted by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties, one of the appellants in the batch of cases. Other States, including the States of Assam, Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have served copies of the replies fi led by them in a connected petition2. 6. Media reporting on matters involving the commission of crimes involves several aspects bearing on public interest. At a basic level, the fundamental right to free speech and expression is directly implicated.