Initially, with the introduction of the e- filing Rules in 2020, e-filing was made optional at the first stage. In the second stage, e-filing was made compulsory by a notification dated 22 July 2022 where the pecuniary value of the subject matter in dispute F was in excess of Rs 100 crores. The introduction of mandatory e-filing in all cases irrespective of the value of the subject matter was introduced at the third stage on 31 January 2023. This indicates that the process has been gradual. Sufficient time was given to all stakeholders to adjust to the new regime. A stakeholder’s training has been carried out. The counter affidavit indicates the specific dates on which training G programmes have been conducted. 12. There can be no gainsaying the fact that e-filing provides transparency and efficiency in the administration of justice. E-filing provides for 24x7 access to the court system and, in fact, facilitates the convenience of lawyers as well as litigants. With the march of technology, H M P HIGH COURT BAR ASSOCIATION v. UNION OF INDIA & 353 ORS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] it would be too late in the day to postulate that e-filing should not be A adopted. As a matter of fact, the decision to take up e-filing must be replicated by other tribunals and courts in the country, including the High Courts in a phased manner and that it eventually becomes mandatory. 13. At the same time, the Court cannot be unmindful of the fact that there is a digital divide in the country and not all citizens have access B to the internet or the facilities required for the effective use of technology. Technology is an enabler and a facilitator. Hence, no segment of the citizens should be left behind in the adoption of technology, least of all, in terms of access to justice. The submission of Mr Siddharth R Gupta is borne out by realities at the grass roots in the legal profession. Not all C lawyers may have access to the facilities required. Their needs can and should be addressed by providing facilities in court establishments. 14. We are of the view that the grievance which has been portrayed in this proceeding can be addressed at two levels. Firstly, we would permit the Bar Associations representing the collective voice of D the lawyers in the DRTs/DRATs to submit their representations to the Department of Financial Services if any specific difficulties are encountered in the process of e-filing. The representations should focus on concrete suggestions which have to be implemented to facilitate to e- filing. In other words, we clarify that by permitting an opportunity to file representations, we are not questioning the need for mandatory adoption E of e-filing. The purpose is to ensure that any glitches that may arise are attended to effectively. Simultaneously, we would also direct all the Chairpersons of the DRATs and the Presiding Officers of the DRTs to submit reports to the Department of Financial Services on a monthly basis initially for a period of six months, pointing out the experience with F e-filing and suggesting, if any upgradation of the facilities or the software is necessary.