Gopalan (supra). Suffi ce it to observe that A.K. Gopalan (supra) was decided by this Court at the dawn of the Constitution, keeping in mind the then social realities, when the true and correct interpretation of the Constitution was yet to take shape and also without the benefi t of any precedent on the point, which permits understanding of various points of view of Hon’ble Judges 5 AIR 1950 SC 27 6 AIR 1970 SC 564 970 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. and thereby makes it easy for successors to evolve the dynamic facets of the Fundamental Rights enshrined in the Constitution. 13. This Court in Shibban Lal Saksena vs. State of Uttar Pradesh7 speaking through Hon’ble B.K. Mukherjea, J. (as the Chief Justice then was) quashed an of preventive detention under the Detention Act reasoning that if one of the two grounds for ing detention was illegal, the of detention could not survive on the other ground. Law was laid down in the following words: “8. The fi rst contention raised by the learned counsel raises, however, a somewhat important point which requires careful consideration. It has been repeatedly held by this Court that the power to issue a detention under Section 3 of the Preventive Detention Act depends entirely upon the satisfaction of the appropriate authority specifi ed in that section. The suffi ciency of the grounds upon which such satisfaction purports to be based, provided they have a rational probative value and are not extraneous to the scope or purpose of the legislative provision cannot be challenged in a court of law, except on the ground of malafi des. A court of law is not even competent to enquire into the truth or otherwise of the facts which are mentioned as grounds of detention in the communication to the detenue under Section 7 of the Act. What has happened, however, in this case is somewhat peculiar. The Government itself in its communication dated 13-3-1953, has plainly admitted that one of the grounds upon which the original of detention was passed is unsubstantial or non- existent and cannot be made a ground of detention. The question is, whether in such circumstances the original made under Section 3(1)(a) of the Act can be allowed to stand. The answer, in our opinion, can only be in the negative. The detaining authority gave here two grounds for detaining the petitioner. We can neither decide whether these grounds are good or bad, nor can we attempt to assess in what manner and to what extent each of these grounds operated on the mind of the appropriate authority and contributed to the creation of the satisfaction on the basis of which the detention was made. 7 AIR 1954 SC 179 AMEENA BEGUM v. THE STATE OF TELANGANA 971 & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] To say that the other ground, which still remains, is quite suffi cient to sustain the , would be to substitute an objective judicial test for the subjective decision of the executive authority which is against the legislative policy underlying the statute.