Similarly, a vexatious petition under the colour or PIL brought before the D court for vindicating any personal grievance, deserves rejection at the threshold. It is depressing to note that on account of such trumpery proceedings initiated before the courts, innumerable days are wasted which time otherwise could have been spent for the E disposal of cases of the genuine litigants. Though we are second to none in fostering and developing the newly invented concept of PIL and extending our Ione arm of sympathy to the poor, the ignorant. the oppressed and the needy whose fundamental rights are infringed and violated and whose grievance go unnoticed, unrepresented and unheard; yet we cannot avoid F but express our opinion that while genuine litigants with legitimate grievance relating to civil matters involving properties worth hundreds of millions of rupees and criminal cases in which persons sentenced to death facing gallows under untold agony and persons sentenced to life imprisonment and kept in G incarceration for long years, persons suffering from the undue delay in service matters, Government or private persons awaiting the disposal of tax cases wherein huge amounts of public revenue or unauthorized collection of tax amounts are locked up, detenus expecting their release from the detention s etc. etc. are all standing in a long serpentine queue for H ANIL AGARWAL FOUNDATION ETC. ETC. v. STATE OF 1009 ORISSA AND ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] years with the fond hope of getting into the courts and having A their grievances redressed, the busybodies, meddlesome interlopers, wayfarers or officious interveners having absolutely no public interest except for personal gain or private profit either for themselves or as proxy or others or for any other extraneous motivation or for glare of publicity break the queue B muffing their face by wearing the mask of public interest litigation, and get into the courts by filing vexatious and frivolous petitions and thus criminally waste the valuable time of the courts and as a result of which the queue standing outside the doors of the Court never moves which piquant situation creates a frustration in the minds of the genuine litigants and resultantly C they lose faith in the administration of our judicial system”. (Emphasis added) Further in a recent decision, in the case of State of Uttaranchal Vs. Balwant Singh Chaufal & Ors., reported in (2010) 3 SCC 402, the Supreme Court referring to large number D of its earlier decisions held as under: “33. The High Courts followed this Court and exercised similar jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. The Courts expanded the meaning of right to life and liberty guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The rule of E locus standi was diluted and the traditional meaning of “aggrieved persons” was broadened to provide access to justice to a very large section of the society which was otherwise not getting any benefit from the judicial system. We would like to term this as the first phase or the golden era of the public F interest litigation.