47. After pointing out that Susruta recommended the use of a E facial skin flap for repair of a cleft lip, the author of the Book states that Carl Ferdinand Von Graefe (1747-1840) popularised the Indian Surgical Technique of plastic reconstruction of the nose in Germany and Europe. 48. It is common knowledge that smallpox vaccine was invented by Dr. Edward Jenner, an English Physician in 1798. But on the occasion F of the opening ceremony of the King’s Institute of Preventive Medicine in February 1905 at Madras, the then Governor of Madras, Lord Ampthill, said the following:- “It is also very probable, so Colonel King assures me, that the ancient Hindus used animal vaccination secured by transmission G of the smallpox virus through the cow, and he bases this interesting theory on a quotation from a writing by Dhanwantari, the greatest of the ancient Hindu physicians, which is so striking and so appropriate to the present occasion that I must take the liberty of reading it to you. It is as follows: H STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. ETC. v. DR. P. A. BHATT & ORS. 319 ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] “Take the fluid of the pock on the udder of the cow or on A the arm between the shoulder and elbow of a human subject on the point of a lancet, and lance with it, the arm between the shoulders and elbows until the blood appears : then mixing the fluid with the blood the fever of the smallpox will be produced. This is vaccination pure and simple. It B would seem from it that Jenner’s great invention was actually forestalled by the ancient Hindus.” 49. Therefore, we have no doubt that every alternative system of medicine may have its pride of place in history. But today, the practitioners of indigenous systems of medicine do not perform complicated surgical C operations. A study of Ayurved does not authorise them to perform these surgeries. 50. Similarly, a post-mortem or autopsy is not carried out by/in the presence of Ayurved doctors. Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 19738deals with the procedure for the police to inquire and D report on suicide, etc. Sub-section (3) of Section 174 mandates that the police officer shall, subject to such rules as the State Government may prescribe, forward the dead body, with a view to its being examined, to the nearest Civil Surgeon, or other qualified medical man appointed in this behalf by the State Government, in certain types of cases such as, (i) suicide by a woman within seven years of marriage; (ii) death of a E woman within seven years of marriage in certain circumstances; and (iii) cases where there are any doubts regarding the cause of death. 51. Section 176 of Cr.P.C deals with inquiry by Magistrates into cause of death. Sub-section (5) of Section 176 uses similar words namely “Civil Surgeon or other qualified medical man”. We do not think that F the AYUSH doctors are normally notified as competent to perform post- mortem.