In these circumstances, if the trial court discarded the testimony of PW-15, the same was justified. [Para 29][475-H; 476-A-D] E 1.5 Adverting to the proven circumstances, what transpires is that the witnesses are consistent that there was a police action on that fateful night. Assuming that it is true that in the night there was an exchange of fire between men in uniform and members of the public, but there is no reliable evidence that the F exchange of fire was with a view to kill. Moreover, the deceased did not die of a rifle bullet injury. Rather, he died from a .12 bore gunshot which could not be ascribed to rifles issued to the accused persons. Therefore, even if empties of rifle cartridges relatable to service rifles issued to the accused were found at the spot, culpability of the accused persons in causing death of the deceased G is not inferable. Further, there is no recovery of a .12 bore gun from any of the accused persons facing trial. Notably, after the incident, villagers congregated at the scene of crime. The police arrived at the spot and took the injured to the hospital. According to the prosecution evidence, the accused persons were present H at the spot during this period. Therefore, if they were really CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. SHYAM BIHARI 467 & OTHERS involved they could have been identified by either PW3 or PW6, A but there was no such event. Further, the continued presence of the accused at the spot is a circumstance which goes in favour of the accused, being a conduct that belies a guilty mind. Another circumstance which goes in favour of the accused is that, according to the prosecution’s own case, the accused persons, three in B number, had a rifle each with 50 rounds. Admittedly, some of the empty cartridges found at the spot, as per the ballistic expert report, were not fired from the rifle issued to the accused. This is indicative of presence of some other rifle also. Whose rifle it was, the prosecution evidence is silent. Moreover, if the accused were to use their rifle to fire shots why would they use a country C made pistol to inflict injury to the deceased. [Para 30 & 31][476- E-H; 477-A-B] 1.6 The circumstance that the accused persons were required to patrol that area and had left the police station for that end on that fateful night is a circumstance which is not conclusive D as to turn the tables on the accused, inasmuch as the patrolling area covered two villages. It may be possible that the accused arrived at the spot late, when the incident had already taken place, and to chase away the miscreants, fired shots from their service rifles. Be that as it may, once the ocular account of PW-15 stood E discarded, to clinch a conviction on the basis of circumstances, the circumstances ought to have formed a chain so far complete as to indicate that in all human probability it were the persons facing trial and none else who committed the crime.