36. Insofar as the remaining decisions relied on by the petitioners as also the learned Additional Solicitor General, a cumulative perusal of the same would indicate that though this court has asserted with regard E to the legitimate expectation, right not to be discriminated keeping in view Article 14 of the Constitution etc., they are all essentially in the context while dealing with the rights of a citizen against the State or in a situation where a dispute was between a citizen against another citizen of this country and in that regard when the constitutional principles were F invoked. Further, the decisions relied on by the learned Additional Solicitor General would indicate that this Court while considering the right claimed by a foreigner or who is not a citizen of this country has dealt with the matter differently and declined to interfere and grant any relief. If in that light, the matter is looked into, when there is no dispute to the fact that the petitioners answer the definition of “foreigners” as defined under G the Foreigners Act, the said decisions relied upon by the learned senior counsel for the petitioner would not apply on all fours. But keeping in view the nature of right claimed by the petitioners as OCI Cardholders which is a status accorded despite being foreigners and the background circumstance which led to the situation the spirit of the principles laid H will have to be borne in mind while making further consideration since ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS. v. UNION OF INDIA & 287 ORS. the principles laid down therein disapproving non-application of mind, A arbitrariness etc. will hold good in the present circumstance as well. In the instant facts the statutory as OCI Cardholder subsists and it is in that light the validity of notification is to be tested which certainly can be raised by the petitioner and be addressed by this Court. 37. Therefore, with the said understanding on the aspect of the B applicability of the said decisions concluded as above, in the facts and circumstances arising in the instant case and the issue which is to be taken note and answered by us, the matter requires further consideration. No doubt, as pointed out by the learned Additional Solicitor General, Section 2(a) of the Foreigners Act, 1946 defines a ‘foreigner’ to mean a C person who is not a citizen of India. If the matter had rested at that, there was no difficulty. In the instant case, there is a different dimension which arises for consideration. The circumstance in which the petitioners have come to be classified as ‘foreigners’ and the right which was conferred on them is to be kept in view. D 38. To put the matter in perspective and understand the concept based on which the rights are being claimed by the petitioners, it is necessary to advert to the fact situation and the law governing them despite being classified as ‘foreigner’. Most of the petitioners are all persons who are either of full age or are yet to reach the full age but are all children, whose both parents or one of them are Indian citizens.