C Finally, disabling those exercising certain rights from participating in the advantages to be derived from contractual relations with the government may be a form of penalty lacking in due process. To avoid invalidation for any of the above reasons, it must be shown that the conditions imposed are necessary to secure D the legitimate objectives of the contract, ensure its effective use, or protect society from the potential harm which may result from the contractual relationship between the government and the individual.” 157. The Doctrine of Unconstitutional Condition involves a person E having to give-up a Constitutional Right as a condition to obtain a benefit he is otherwise entitled to. While it is in the context of Article 300A, to be understood that the Right to Property cannot be deprived except in accordance with law and even as held in K.T. Plantations (supra) that such law must be fair and reasonable,once it is found that there is such a law, then, even if there is deprivation, it cannot be found that Article F 300A is violated. We have already found, in fact, that there is no deprivation in the context of the impugned Rules/Regulations. In the conspectus of the DCR/ Regulation, the nature of the right to property available under the Constitution as expounded in K.T. Plantations (supra), the seemingly never ending imperative needs of an urban metropolis, the indisputable need to set apart 10% for the recreational purpose and the G discussion we have already made with regard to the effect of the gift and the purpose it serves, we are of the view that the rule/regulation may not give rise to any room for invoking the doctrine of unconstitutional condition.We must continue to remain alive to the vital dimension which we have already indicated that the impugned provision essentially pertains H 1152 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to what can be described as purely commercial projects though it is linked with property rights. In other words, particularly from the stand point of invoking the doctrine of unconstitutional condition, the distinction between the person putting up a residential building and the proponent of a complex, commercial project in a metropolis cannot be lost sight of. At any rate, we cannot in the conspectus of the Rule/Regulation and the B salutary purpose, it seeks to achieve hold the requirement as an “unreasonable condition in a special sense”. [See para 155] 158. The case of the CMDA is that in view of the benefits which accrue, it could be a case of nil compensation. The distinction between nil compensation and no compensation has been laid down to be that in C the former it is permissible on the basis that it becomes liable to discharge the liability in regard to the person/property. In the context of the rule/ regulation, we would not think that there would be violation of Article 300A on the basis of it being a deprivation of property involving breach of a mandate to pay compensation.