32. As the terms of proviso (a) with reference to the total C periods of detention can be interpreted on the plain language of the proviso itself we do not think it is necessary to invoke the provisions of the General Clauses Act or seek guidance from the Limitation Act to construe the terms of the proviso.” 26. However, noticing that some of the aforenoted decisions were D prior to the insertion of proviso (a) by the amending Act 45 of 1978, it was opined in Chaganti (supra) that those earlier case laws have no relevance. The Court then went on to state that the 90/60 days precribed in proviso (a) to Section 167 (2) can be reckoned only from the date of remand and it is made clear through the amendment that the legislature had intended to provide a 90/60 day remand period, for the purpose of E investigation. It was also expressly opined that the proviso (a) in reference to the total period of detention can be interpreted on the plain language of the proviso itself, being a complete code on its own and it being wholly unnecessary to invoke provisions of the General Clauses Act or Limitation Act. F 27. The above authoritative pronouncement in Chaganti (supra) was later considered in Gautam Navlakha (supra), wherein, for computing the prescribed 60/90 day remand period, the date of remand was included. 28. In the above context, let us now examine the decision in State G of M.P. vs. Rustam (supra), and Ravi Prakash Singh Vs. State of Bihar (supra) which are relied upon by the learned ASG to argue that the period specified in proviso (a) to Section 167 (2) of the CrPC should exclude the date of remand. On reading Rustam (supra), it comes to light that the Court while counting the period has considered Sections 9 H 938 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A and 10 of the General Clauses Act. But in doing so, the Court in Rustam(supra) failed to appreciate the ratio in Chaganti (supra) where it was categorically observed, that for the purpose of computing the period under Section 167 (2), the provisions of General Clauses Act will have no application. Insofar as Ravi Prakash Singh (supra) cited by Mr. Raju, it can be seen that the Court merely follows Rustam (supra) B and it does not lay down any law as such, which may have a bearing on the present consideration. 29. Considering the legislative intent behind Section 167 (2) CrPC, and the proviso (a) being a complete code in itself, as also elucidated in Chaganti (supra), the computation method laid down in Rustam (supra), C may not be the correct way . Further, since Rustam (supra) ignored the binding precedent in Chaganti (supra) on computing the prescribed 60/ 90 day period under proviso (a) of Section 167(2), from the date a Magistrate ed remand, it is a per incuriam decision. 30.The law of binding precedent provides that the rule of per D incuriam is an exception to the doctrine of judicial precedent.