58. The Act, 1940 contained many provisions similar to the provisions contained under the English Arbitration Act, 1934 but still it did not have any provision for enforceability of the foreign award. Also, the provisions contained in the Act, 1940 facilitated the intervention of C the judiciary at all the three stages of the arbitral proceedings, i.e., before the dispute was referred to the arbitration, during the pendency of the arbitral proceedings and after passing the arbitral award. 59. The ineffective functioning of the provision contained under the Act, 1940 was regularly criticised by the Judiciary. The following D observation by Justice D.A. Desai in the case of Guru Nanak Foundation v. Rattan Singh and Sons14 is quite relevant to be mentioned here: “1. Interminable, time consuming, complex and expensive Court procedures impelled jurists to search for an alternative Forum, E less formal, more effective and speedy for resolution of disputes, avoiding procedural claptrap and this led them to Arbitration Act, 1940. However, the way in which the proceedings under the Act are conducted and without an exception challenged in Courts, has made Lawyers laugh and legal philosophers weep.” F 60. ThisCourt further observed in the case of Food Corporation of India v. Joginderpal Mohinderpal and Another15 that the law governing arbitration is supposed to be less technical and more suitable to practical problems by ascertaining equity and fair play in the entire process. Despite such severe criticism by thisCourt, no amendment was brought in the Act, 1940 by the legislature for a long period of time. G 61. It was only by the late 20th century, there came a major shift in the development of arbitration in India. Due to the economic 14 (1981) 4 SCC 634 H 15 (1989) 2 SCC 347 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 407 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] liberalization and alike policies of the government in 1991, there was a A need felt to create a conducive environment for attracting foreign investments. Therefore, based on the 76th Report of the Law Commission of India as well as the Model UNCITRAL law, the Act, 1996 was enacted by the legislature. The Act,1996 came into force from 16th August, 1996 with anobject of making the process of arbitration cost effective, less B technical and in accordance with the prevalent international practices across the world. V. Intent behind incorporation of Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 62. A major shift for the development of arbitration in India C happened with the enactment of the Act, 1996. Based on the 76th Report16 of the Law Commission of India as well as the Model UNCITRAL law, the Act, 1996 was enacted with anobject of making the process of arbitration cost effective, less technical and in accordance with the prevalent international practices across the world. The legislative intent D was to provide effective and speedy procedure for dispute resolution among the parties as well as to limit the scope of judicial intervention in the process of arbitration.17 India is gradually moving in the direction of minimal judicial intervention keeping abreast with the developments of arbitration in other regimes.