In his case also, premature transfer for any extraordinary reason should be approved by the aforesaid Selection Committee headed by the Central Vigilance Commissioner. G 3. In view of the importance of the post of Director, Enforcement Directorate, it shall be upgraded to that of an Additional Secretary/Special Secretary to the Government. 4. Officers of the Enforcement Directorate handling sensitive assignments shall be provided adequate security to enable H them to discharge their functions fearlessly. 554 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 5. Extensions of tenure up to the level of Joint Director in the Enforcement Directorate should be decided by the said Committee headed by the Central Vigilance Commissioner. 6. There shall be no premature media publicity by the CBI/ Enforcement Directorate. B 7. Adjudication/commencement of prosecution shall be made by the Enforcement Directorate within a period of one year. 8. The Director, Enforcement Directorate shall monitor and ensure speedy completion of investigations/adjudications and launching of prosecutions. Revenue Secretary must review their C progress regularly. 9. For speedy conduct of investigations abroad, the procedure to approve filing of applications for Letters Rogatory shall be streamlined and, if necessary, Revenue Secretary authorised to grant the approval. D 10. A comprehensive circular shall be published by the Directorate to inform the public about the procedures/systems of its functioning for the sake of transparency. 11. In-house legal advice mechanism shall be strengthened by appointment of competent legal advisers in the CBI/Directorate E of Enforcement. 12. The Annual Report of the Department of Revenue shall contain a detailed account on the working of the Enforcement Directorate. III. NODAL AGENCY F 1. A Nodal Agency headed by the Home Secretary with Member (Investigation), Central Board of Direct Taxes, Director General, Revenue Intelligence, Director, Enforcement and Director, CBI as members, shall be constituted for coordinated action in cases having politico-bureaucrat-criminal nexus. G 2. The Nodal Agency shall meet at least once every month. 3. Working and efficacy of the Nodal Agency should be watched for about one year so as to improve it upon the basis of the experience gained within this period….” H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 555 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 51. In pursuance to the aforesaid directions issued by this Court, A the Government initially issued ordinance and finally enacted the CVC Act. 52. Section 3 of the CVC Act deals with constitution of Central Vigilance Commission. 53. Section 4 of the CVC Act deals with appointment of Central B Vigilance Commissioner and Vigilance Commissioners, which reads thus: “4. Appointment of Central Vigilance Commissioner and Vigilance Commissioners.—(1) The Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Vigilance Commissioners shall be appointed by the President by warrant under his hand and seal: C Provided that every appointment under this sub-section shall be made after obtaining the recommendation of a Committee consisting of— D E Explanation.—For the purposes of this sub-section, “the Leader of the Opposition in the House of the People” shall, when no such Leader has been so recognised, include the Leader of the single largest group in opposition of the Government in the House of the People.