The claim of the right to marry, de-hors the existing statutory framework, is nothing but a claim to create a legally and socially enforceable status. It is not a claim against criminalisation of sexual conduct, which was the issue in Navtej (supra). It is nothing but a prayer of mandamus to create the necessary legislative and policy space for recognition of relationships as marriages in the eyes of law. The prayer to recognize such a right is not one that expects the State to desist from pursuing an act, but one which will place positive obligations upon the State to erect new laws, or at least amend existing laws. I say laws, because marriage laws do not stand in isolation, they interact in multifarious ways with succession, inheritance and adoption laws, to name a few. The content of the right claimed by the Petitioners is such that it clearly places positive legislative obligations on the State, and therefore, cannot be acceded to. That there cannot be a mandamus to amend or enact laws, is such a deeply entrenched constitutional aphorism, which need not be burdened by quotational jurisprudence. We are afraid, that the creation of social institutions and consequent re-ing of societal relationships are ‘polycentric decisions’, which have “multiplicity of variable and interlocking factors, decisions on each one of which presupposes a decision on all others”18, decisions that cannot be rendered by one stroke of the judicial gavel. Re: The impermissibility of the creation of a right to a union or an abiding cohabitational relationship 18 Indian Ex-Service Movement v. Union of India, (2022) 7 SCC 323, 68. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1523 OF INDIA [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] 15. Having concluded that there exists no unqualifi ed right to marry, in the ordinary course, no occasion would have arisen for any further deliberation. However, as the learned Chief Justice, in his opinion, has arrived at a conclusion that there exists a constitutional right to a union or an abiding cohabitational relationship, it is necessary for me to express my opinion on this new construction. 16. The learned Chief Justice locates components of this right to union or an abiding cohabitational relationship under Article 19(1)(a), Article 19(1)(c), Article 19(1)(e), Article 21 and Article 25 of the Constitution. In my opinion, it would not be constitutionally permissible to identify a right to a union or an abiding cohabitational relationship mirroring the institution of marriage. The learned Chief Justice identifi es ‘tangible’ and ‘intangible’ benefi ts (bouquet of entitlements) that arise from state recognition and regulation of marriages. The Chief Justice further opines that the right to marriage is not fundamental. However, it is these very tangible and intangible benefi ts, the denial of which, according to the learned Chief Justice must inform the reading of a constitutional right to an abiding cohabitational union. In other words, the benefi ts of marriage, however fundamental to a fulfi lling life do not make marriage itself a fundamental right, but they render the right to an abiding cohabitational union fundamental.