D 23. In this regard, reference may be made to the decision of this Court in His Holiness Acharya Swami Ganesh Dassji vs. Sita Ram Thapar, (1996) 4 SCC 526 wherein this Court made a distinction between ‘readiness’ and ‘willingness’ and the manner in which the said parameters are to be scrutinised in deciding a suit for specific E performance. The relevant findings of this Court are extracted as under: “2. There is a distinction between readiness to perform the contract and willingness to perform the contract. By readiness may be meant the capacity of the plaintiff to perform the contract which includes his financial position to pay the purchase price. For determining his willingness to perform his part of the contract, the F conduct has to be properly scrutinised. [xxx] The factum of readiness and willingness to perform plaintiffs part of the contract is to be adjudged with reference to the conduct of G the party and the attending circumstances. The court may infer from the facts and circumstances whether the plaintiff was ready and was always ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. The facts of this case would amply demonstrate that the petitioner/plaintiff was not ready nor capacity to perform his part of the contract as he had no financial capacity to pay the H 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A consideration in cash as contracted and intended to bite for the time which disentitles him as time is the essence of the contract.” Thus, both readiness as well as willingness have to be established by the plaintiff on whom the burden is cast in a suit for specific performance of an agreement. Therefore, the question would arise as to B whether the plaintiff discharged such burden in the instant case. 24. Further, in J.P. Builders vs. A. Ramdas Rao, (2011) 1 SCC 429, this Court held as under, as regards the onus on a plaintiff claiming the relief of specific performance, to prove that he had complied with Section 16 (c) of the Act and had demonstrated ‘readiness’ and C ‘willingness’ to carry out his obligations under the agreement of sale: “25. Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 mandates “readiness and willingness” on the part of the plaintiff and it is a condition precedent for obtaining relief of grant of specific performance. It is also clear that in a suit for specific performance, the plaintiff must allege and prove a continuous “readiness and D willingness” to perform the contract on his part from the date of the contract. The onus is on the plaintiff. [xxx] 27. It is settled law that even in the absence of specific plea by E the opposite party, it is the mandate of the statute that plaintiff has to comply with Section 16(c) of the Specific Relief Act and when there is non-compliance with this statutory mandate, the Court is not bound to grant specific performance and is left with no other alternative but to dismiss the suit.