The relevant portion of the is extracted below: F “6. In pursuance of the earlier direction, the files were produced in the Court. 7. Mr Dushyant A Dave, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the petitioners, assailed the approach of the High Court G in declining to disclose the contents of the files to the petitioners. Mr Dave pressed the application for interim relief and submits that there is no objection to this Court perusing the files. Accordingly, during the course of the hearing, the files have been perused by the Court. H 10 AIR 2021 SC 5396 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 8. At the present stage, we are of the view that a case for the grant of interim relief has been made out on behalf of the petitioners having due regards to the contents of the files which have been perused by the Court. 9. We accordingly and direct that pending further s, B the s of the Union government dated 31 January 2022 revoking the security clearance which was granted to the petitioner, Madhyamam Broadcasting Limited, shall remain stayed. The petitioners shall be permitted to continue operating the news and current affairs TV channel called Media One on the same basis on which the channel was being operated immediately prior to the C revocation of the clearance on 31 January 2022.” This Court also observed that the issue of whether the contents of the files should be disclosed to the appellants is expressly kept open: “11. The issue as to whether the contents of the files should be disclosed to the petitioners in to enable them to effectively D pursue their challenge in these proceedings is expressly kept open to be resolved before the petitions are taken up for final disposal. […] 13. We clarify that perusal of the files by the Court at this stage is E not an expression on the tenability of the contentions of the petitioners that they would be entitled to inspect the files. The issue is kept open to be resolved at the stage of the final disposal.” B. Submissions 14. Mr Dushyant Dave, Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of F MBL made the following submissions: (i) The issued by MIB revoking the permission granted to uplink and downlink the channel, Media One, is unconstitutional for the following reasons: G (a)Security Clearance is a pre-condition only for the grant of permission to operate the channel and not for the renewal of the existing permission. Under Clause 10.2 of the Uplinking Guidelines, the renewal of the existing permission is subject only to the channel not having been found guilty of violating the terms and conditions of the Programme and H Advertising Code on five occasions or more; MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 623 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (b)Without prejudice to the above argument, security A clearance cannot be denied on grounds that exceed the reasonable restrictions on the freedom of the press prescribed under Article 19(2) of the Constitution.