19. In R.K. Garg v. Union of India8, it is observed as under: “7. Now while considering the constitutional validity of a statute said to be violative of Article 14, it is necessary to bear in mind certain well established principles which have been evolved by the courts as rules of guidance in discharge of its constitutional function of judicial review. The fi rst rule is that there is always a presumption in favour of the constitutionality of a statute and the burden is upon him who attacks it to show that there has been a clear transgression of the constitutional principles. This rule is based on the assumption, judicially recognised and accepted, that the legislature understands and correctly appreciates the needs of its own people, its laws are directed to problems made manifest by experience and its discrimination are based on adequate grounds. The presumption of constitutionality is indeed so strong that in to sustain it, the Court may take into consideration matters of common knowledge, matters of common report, the history of the 7 supra 8 (1981) 4 SCC 675 119 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. times and may assume every state of facts which can be conceived existing at the time of legislation.” 20. If one may say the indulgence to the junior members of the Bar, in a sense, is more than to the senior members because it is also part of the duty of the Bench to help with the evolution of the Bar. The underlying principle for ages has been that the credit should go to the junior counsel without the discredit going to him, and through ages, many lawyers have learnt in this process, including the persons who now form the Bench. 21. We have, thus, not the slightest hesitation in coming to the conclusion that this writ petition is a misadventure largely of petitioner No.1 in continuation of some of his past misadventures. It appears that the s and s passed earlier do not seem to have had any salutary or counselling eff ect on petitioner No.1 for any self-introspection, but he seeks to carry on a vilifi cation campaign against all and sundry. Obviously, the system is not able to correct petitioner No.1 in his approach. 22. We dismiss the petition with no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Petition dismissed. Divya Pandey