In addition, there tends to be a higher risk element of developing an injury if intubation is done in an emergency situation or multiple times. It could also be a result of being subjected to intubation for a prolonged period. 51. In this particular case, the patient was treated and underwent diff erent procedures at multiple hospitals. She underwent the ‘TT’ procedure at Gondia Hospital in an emergency situation. Subsequently, she was attended to by multiple medical experts at Suretech Hospital. Therefore, there is a possibility that these medical complications could have arisen at any of these hospitals or places where the patient underwent treatment. 52. It must be pointed out that the only medical report available in this case i.e., the RML Hospital Committee Report did not attribute any negligence to Suretech Hospital, Dr. Biviji, Dr. Jaiswal or Dr. Shendre with 3 (2004) 8 SCC 56 M.A BIVIJI v. SUNITA & ORS. 139 [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] respect to any of the charges levelled against them. If the ‘NI’ procedure had been conducted in a negligent manner or was a poor medical decision, it is likely that the RML Hospital Committee Report would have mentioned the same. However, no such observation was made either. Further, none of the doctors that treated the patient commented adversely with respect to the chosen course of treatment. Therefore, there is no substance to establish the causal link between the ‘NI’ procedure that was undertaken at Suretech Hospital and the subsequent medical complications that arose. 53. On the other hand, the medical team at Suretech Hospital has been able to show that the ‘NI’ procedure was carried out on 13.05.2004 only after due consideration. The existing ‘TT’ was removed after the bronchoscopy showed normalcy in the airways & trachea of the patient. It was expected that the patient would be able to breathe normally without any support after ‘TT’ decannulation. However, a stridor was observed in the airways of the patient, after the said decannulation took place. In light of the same, an alternative course of treatment in the form of an ‘NI’ procedure was opted for as a temporary measure. There is nothing to show that the procedure conducted was outdated or poor medical practice. 54. At this stage, we may benefi t by adverting to what the renowned author and surgeon Dr. Atul Gawande had to say on medical treatment. He said “We look for medicine to be an ly fi eld of knowledge and procedure. But it is not. It is an imperfect science, an enterprise of constantly changing knowledge, uncertain information, fallible individuals, and at the same time lives on the line. There is science in what we do, yes, but also habit, intuition, and sometimes plain old guessing. The gap between what we know and what we aim for persists. And this gap complicates everything we do.” 55. The above observation by Dr. Atul Gawande aptly describes the situation here. This is a classic case of human fallibility where the doctors tried to do the best for the patient as per their expertise and emerging situations.