In the present case, both the NCLT and NCLAT erred to fully recognise that under the Resolution Plan, the Corporate Debtor was set to be revived and not liquidated. Thus, the minimum mandatory component in the Resolution Plan was only a refl ection of the actual money, including upfront payment, which would go towards the FC(s). As discussed previously, the fi nal Resolution Plan provided for the monetization proceeds of the land as also the avoidance amounts to go to the FC(s) of the Corporate Debtor. 30. At this juncture, it also cannot be lost sight of that it is for the FC(s) who constitute the CoC to take a call, one way or the other. Stricto sensu, it is now well-settled that it is well within the CoC’s domain as to how to deal with the entire debt of the Corporate Debtor. In this background, if after repeated negotiations, a Resolution Plan is submitted, as was done by the appellant (Resolution Applicant), including the fi nancial component which includes the actual and minimum upfront payments, and has been approved by the CoC with a majority vote of 88.56%, such commercial wisdom was not required to be called into question or casually interfered with. Surprisingly, the discussion in both s is wanting, except for the diff erence in the fi gure of the total outstanding dues and the amount of money which the appellant was to put up initially for taking over the Corporate Debtor, for this Court to understand as to what other reasons, grounded in the Code’s provisions, compelled the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT to embark upon the novel path of ing revaluation by the OL. At the cost of repetition, nobody had moved before the NCLT or raised any objection challenging the Resolution Plan pending approval. Even the NCLAT has only indicated that when “fi gures of crores” are emerging stage-wise, “then there is no harm to look at the Expert opinion”, which the Adjudicating Authority-NCLT in this case has asked for. 692 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 31. It is worthwhile to note that the Adjudicating Authority has jurisdiction only under Section 31(2) of the Code, which gives power not to approve only when the Resolution Plan does not meet the requirement laid down under Section 31(1) of the Code, for which a reasoned is required to be passed. We may state that the NCLT’s jurisdiction and powers as the Adjudicating Authority under the Code, fl ow only from the Code and the Regulations thereunder. It has been held in Jaypee Kensington Boulevard Apartments Welfare Association v NBCC (India) Limited, (2022) 1 SCC 401: ‘273.1. The adjudicating authority has limited jurisdiction in the matter of approval of a resolution plan, which is well-defi ned and circumscribed by Sections 30(2) and 31 of the Code. In the adjudicatory process concerning a resolution plan under IBC, there is no scope for interference with the commercial aspects of the decision of the CoC; and there is no scope for substituting any commercial term of the resolution plan approved by the Committee of Creditors.