His concern is to find out the truth. The suppression of the statement given by the other witnesses would obviously go to the root of the matter. One does not know the clear picture, and therefore the benefit shall be extended to the appellants. [Para 29][852-E-G] D 2. P.W.20 is the one who recorded the statement. On the discussion made, it is highly doubtful as to whether the deceased would be conscious enough to give the statement, particularly in light of the injuries suffered by him. There are not only incise wounds, but there must have also been continuous bleeding, which would have naturally occurred, as the case was registered E a day after the occurrence. The statement of witnesses contradicts each other on this aspect. Furthermore, as rightly submitted by the counsel for the appellants, on a perusal of the records, there were writings over the thumb impression made under Ex. P-28. It is rather strange as a thumb impression would normally follow F the statement; it has to find place at the conclusion of the statement. It is found, on the scrutiny, that even after the thumb impression over which there were obviously writings found, there were some more sentences written. This obviously lends credence to the view that thumb impression must have been obtained on a blank paper and in a hurry, the contents were filled up G subsequently. [Para 31][856-H; 857-A-C] Dying Declaration 3. There is absolutely no explanation given by P.W.20 as to why he has not utilized the services of either a Magistrate or a H doctor, even after his first recording. The fact that he deposed RANVIR SINGH ETC. ETC. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 843 PRADESH that the statement was recorded once again which, however, was A not a part of the record. If the deceased ‘H’ was so badly injured, and therefore died within few days of his admission into the hospital, nothing prevented P.W.20 to record the statement in the presence of a Judicial Magistrate and duly certified by the doctor. The irresistible conclusion arrived at already, is that the B deceased was not in a state of consciousness fit enough to make a statement, and that is the reason why the thumb impression was obtained subsequently, and thereafter a statement was created. [Para 33][857-F-H; 858-A] Test Identification Parade C 4. Having found that Ex. P-28 cannot be believed, this Court is inclined to hold that the evidence adduced by the prosecution through the eye witnesses also is not trustworthy. The witnesses are not able to name the accused. However, they have identified the accused, only after 2 to 3 years for the first time in the Court. D This Court is quite conscious about the evidentiary value of a test identification parade. Certainly, in a case of this nature, it ought to have been done. Though a test identification parade is not a substantive piece of evidence, at times, it adds strength to the case of the prosecution by giving more credibility to the statements of the eye witnesses which this Court finds as grossly E lacking.