That his Hon’ble Court has jurisdiction to entertain the said writ petition as the cause of action arises in Sikkim only. Both the Petitioner and the Respondents are located within the territorial jurisdiction of this Hon’ble High Court.” C Apart from these two sentences, nothing more has been averred in support of territorial jurisdiction of the High Court. 13. From the above, it is clear that according to the petitioning company the cause of action has arisen in Sikkim only, meaning thereby the whole of the cause of action and not part of it; additionally, it is D stated that all the respondents are located within the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court which is factually incorrect. 14. While dealing with an objection as to lack of territorial jurisdiction to entertain a writ petition on the ground that the cause of action has not arisen within its jurisdiction, a high court essentially has to E arrive at a conclusion on the basis of the averments made in the petition memo treating the contents as true and correct. That is the fundamental principle. Bearing this in mind, we have looked into the petition memo of W.P. (C) No. 38 of 2017 and searched in vain to trace how at least part of the cause of action has been pleaded by the petitioning company to F have arisen within the territorial jurisdiction of the High Court. 15. This is a case where clause (2) of Article 226 has been invoked by the High Court to clothe it with the jurisdiction to entertain and try the writ petitions. The Constitutional mandate of clause (2) is that the ‘cause of action’, referred to therein, must at least arise in part within the G territories in relation to which the high court exercises jurisdiction when writ powers conferred by clause (1) are proposed to be exercised, notwithstanding that the seat of the Government or authority or the residence of the person is not within those territories. The expression ‘cause of action’ has not been defined in the Constitution. However, the classic definition of ‘cause of action’ given by Lord Brett in Cooke vs. H THE STATE OF GOA v. SUMMIT ONLINE TRADE SOLUTIONS 253 (P) LTD & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] Gill1 that “cause of action means every fact which it would be A necessary for the plaintiff to prove, if traversed, in to support his right to the of the court”, has been accepted by this Court in a couple of decisions. It is axiomatic that without a cause, there cannot be any action. However, in the context of a writ petition, what would constitute such ‘cause of action’ is the material facts which are B imperative for the writ petitioner to plead and prove to obtain relief as claimed. Determination of the question as to whether the facts pleaded constitute a part of the cause of action, sufficient to attract clause (2) of Article 226 of the Constitution, would necessarily involve an exercise by the high court to ascertain that the facts, as pleaded, constitute a material, essential or integral part of the cause of action.