The direction to conduct a judicial impact assessment, therefore, was of a general nature. It was not geared towards proposals to abolish specific tribunals such as the OAT. Rather, a need was felt to analyse the consequences of the restructuring of tribunals by the Finance F Act 2017 and a writ of mandamus was issued in this regard to the Ministry of Law and Justice. The judicial impact assessment was also directed to be conducted in to better understand the case load, efficacy, financial impact, and accessibility of tribunals at large, in addition to the filling of vacancies.42 We note that neither the majority opinion authored G by Ranjan Gogoi, CJI nor the opinions of Dr. DY Chandrachud, J. or Deepak Gupta, J. contain a direction to the effect that a tribunal shall not be abolished in the absence of a judicial impact assessment. In the present case, the Union Government issued the notification dated 2 August 2019 41 (2020) 6 SCC 1 H 42 See paragraphs 185, 222, 223.7, 234, 387 – 390. ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 803 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] in a valid exercise of its powers under Section 21 of the General Clauses A Act. The failure to conduct a judicial impact assessment does not vitiate its decision to abolish the OAT. Nothing in the in Rojer Mathew (supra) also indicates the need for the Union Government to obtain the permission of this Court before abolishing the OAT. 123. However, this is not to say that the Union Government and B more specifically, the Ministry of Law and Justice may dispense with the directions of this Court in Rojer Mathew (supra). The was delivered on 13 November 2019. More than three years have since passed and the Ministry of Law and Justice is yet to conduct a judicial impact assessment. C 124. An assessment such as the one directed to be conducted would only shed light on the impediments faced in the delivery of justice. The lack of an assessment precludes any well-informed, intelligent action concerning tribunals in the country (as a whole). This, in turn, has cascading effects for the citizenry, which is deprived of a well-oiled machinery by which it can access justice. We therefore reiterate the D directions of this Court in Rojer Mathew (supra) and direct the Ministry of Law and Justice to conduct a judicial impact assessment at the earliest. xi. Miscellaneous contentions 125. A miscellaneous contention remains to be considered. 126. The appellants have submitted that the so-called real reason E for the abolition of the OAT is that many top-ranking officials faced charges of contempt before the OAT, for the reason that they had failed to implement its s. It is averred that these officials influenced the State Government to abolish the OAT. The appellants argue that the State and Union Governments did not deny this allegation in their counter F affidavits before the Orissa High Court and that this allegation is true because of ‘non-traverse.’ 127.