We are of the view that in the context of the provision, the words ‘provided further’ cannot be perceived as an additional protection to the Election Commissioner. It is intended only to be a standalone provision, specifically meant to deal with the categories of persons mentioned therein. In fact, E the acceptance of the argument of the petitioners would involve yet another consequence, which to our minds, would appear to project an anomalous result. To put it mildly, if the Election Commissioner is accorded the protection available under the first proviso to the Chief Election Commissioner, the result will be as follows. He would be entitled F to not only claim immunity from removal except on being impeached like a Judge of the Supreme Court but he would be conferred with a further protection even after the impeachment or before the impeachment starts, that the Chief Election Commissioner must also recommend the removal. We would think that no more need be said and we reject the contention. However, we only would observe that in the light of the fact that Election G Commissioners have become part of the Election Commission, perhaps on the basis of the volume of work that justifies such an appointment and also the need to have a multi-Member team otherwise, it is for Parliament acting in the constituent capacity to consider whether it would be advisable to extend the protection to the Election Commissioners so as to safeguard and ensure the independence of the Election H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 181 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Commissioners as well. This goes also as regards variation of service A conditions after appointment. DD. REGARDING INDEPENDENT SECRETERIAT/ CHARGING EXPENDITURE ON THE CONSOLIDATED FUND OF INDIA 234. One of the contentions and, therefore, relief sought is, that B there must be an independent Secretariat to the Election Commission of India and the its expenditure must be charged on the Consolidated Fund of India on the lines of the Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha Secretariat. 235. In this regard, the second respondent (the Election Commission of India) has filed a counter affidavit in Writ Petition (C) C No. 1043 of 2017, in which Writ Petition, the contention and the prayer have been incorporated. In the Counter Affidavit of the Election Commission itself, the stand of the Election Commission can be stated in a nutshell as follows: It has sent a proposal that the expenditure of the Commission should be charged on the Consolidated Fund of India. It refers to the D Election Commission Charging of Expenses on the Consolidated Fund of India Bill, 1994, which provided for the various items of expenditure to be charged upon the Consolidated Fund of India. It reiterated its proposal for an independent Secretariat as also charging of the expenditure on the Consolidated Fund of India by letter dated 13.04.2012, as also in E December, 2016. It has also laid store by the recommendation of the Law Commission, which inter alia, recommended the insertion of Article 324(2A), which contemplated the Election Commission being provided with an independent and permanent secretarial staff.