The said applications are pending before the NCLT for adjudication. With regard to these avoidance applications, however, E reliance on a judgement of the Delhi High Court in Venus Recruiters Private Limited v. Union of India and Ors. : 2020 SCC Online Del. 1479 is of no avail as in the said case, the High Court has examined the jurisdiction of the Adjudicating Authority to entertain an application under Section 43 after the approval of the resolution plan. F 31. Learned senior counsel Mr. Mukul Rohatgi appearing on behalf of Dr. Perisamy Palani Gounder (promoter and erstwhile director), has supported the impugned while contesting the submissions made on behalf of the appellant. 31.1. Learned senior counsel has submitted that the CoC approved G the resolution plan in question without considering the settlement proposals put forth by the promoter under the letters dated 21.01.2021 and 08.03.2021, for settling with all creditors and for withdrawal of CIRP under Section 12-A of the Code. While placing reliance on the decision of this Court in Swiss Ribbons (P) Ltd. and Anr. v. Union of India and Ors. : (2019) 4 SCC 17, it has been submitted that the promoter’s H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 851 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] proposals were not even placed as agenda items and hence, the CoC A had not been given an opportunity to properly consider the corporate debtor as a going concern; rather CIRP was converted into a mere debt recovery process by ignoring other creditors and shareholders. It has been argued that the contesting promoter has been putting forth sincere efforts to preserve the corporate debtor as a going concern but his genuine B efforts were sought to be frustrated by hasty and illegally conducted CIRP and thereby, the approved resolution plan was essentially giving away the substantial assets of the corporate debtor at a highly undervalued price. Thus, the decision of the Appellate Tribunal in this case is correct on law as also on facts. C 31.2. It has also been vehemently argued that the resolution plan in question is contrary to law, as it clearly violates the underlying principles of Section 88 of the Trusts Act and Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act, 2013. The main plank of submissions with respect to violation of Section 88 of the Trusts Act has been that there is a conflict of interest, as the appellant is competing in his capacity as an individual with interests D of a trust in which he was the founding managing trustee. Further, it has already been ruled by the resolution professional that the said trust Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth was ineligible to be a resolution applicant due to its status as a charitable trust and a non-profit making entity. In the face of these facts, the appellant simultaneously submitting a resolution plan in E his individual capacity by taking support from financial credentials of the same trust, basically sought to achieve indirectly which he could not directly. Furthermore, the fact that the trust was a prospective resolution applicant and was found to be ineligible was a fact suppressed from the knowledge of the COC.