581,00,00,000 (rupees fi ve hundred eighty one crores only) as the fi xed fee.  The one time licence fee collected from 14 wholesale distributors was about Rs.70,00,00,000 (rupees seventy crores only).  Under the old policy 5% commission was payable to the wholesale distributors/licensees.  The diff erence between the 12%; minus 5% of the wholesale profi t margin plus Rs.70,00,00,000/-; it is submitted, would constitute proceeds of crime, an off ence punishable under the PML Act. The proceeds of crime were acquired, used and were in possession of the wholesale distributors who have unlawfully benefi tted from illegalgain at the expense of the government exchequer and the consumers/buyers.46Relevant description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fi ne; if punishable with imprisonment for life.—and if the off ence is punishable with imprisonment for life, or with imprisonment which may extend to ten years, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fi ne; if punishable with less than ten years’ imprisonment.—and if the off ence is punishable with imprisonment for any term not extending to ten years, shall be punished with imprisonment of the description provided for the off ence, for a term which may extend to one-fourth part of the longest term of the imprisonment provided for the off ence, or with fi ne, or with both. 46 We wish to clarify that not all distributor licensees may be involved or have committed an off ence under Section 3 of the PML Act. The fi gures quoted above relate to the 14 licensees, and have to be watered down/lowered to the sales made by the delinquent whole-sale distributor licensees who are being prosecuted. MANISH SISODIA v. CENTRAL BUREAU OF 505 INVESTIGATION [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] portion of the criminal complaint fi led by the DoE dated 04.05.2023, reads: “One of the reasons given by Sh Manish Sisodia is to compensate the wholesaler for increased license fee from Rs 5 lacs to Rs. 5 Cr. During this policy period, 14 LI licences were given by Excise Department, by raising the license fee for LI to Rs. 5 Cr in the entire period of operation of the Delhi Excise Policy 2021- 22, the Govt. has earned Rs. 75.16 Cr from the license fee of LI (as per Excise department communication dated 11.04.2023) (RUD 34). On the other hand the excess profi t earned by the wholesalers during this period is to the tune of Rs. 338 Cr. (7% additional profi t earned due to increase from 5% to 12%, Rs. 581 Cr being the total profi t of LI as informed by Excise department). Therefore there 1s no logical correlation between the license fee increase and the profi t margin increase. Whereas this excess profi t margin benefi t could have been passed on to the consumers in form of lower MRP. Contrary to the claim that the policy was meant to benefi t the public or the exchequer, it was rather a conspiracy to ensure massive illegal gains to a select few private players/individuals/entities.” 22.