Charges against the Judicial Officer D E F G H 56 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H THE REGISTRAR GENERAL, HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA v. 57 SRI M. NARASIMHA PRASAD [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] A B C D E F G H 58 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H THE REGISTRAR GENERAL, HIGH COURT OF KARNATAKA v. 59 SRI M. NARASIMHA PRASAD [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] A B 11. It is seen that among the charges held proved, some related to the judicial s passed by the respondent. Therefore, we are prepared C straightaway, to ignore those charges and see whether the of penalty of dismissal from service was justified qua the other charges and whether the Division Bench of the High Court was right in setting aside the same. 12. Once those charges which revolve around the manner of disposal of certain cases are ignored, what remains are certain serious charges that revolve around pronouncement of operative portion of the D in open court without the whole text of the being ready. Take for instance, Charge Nos. 1, 2, 4 and 5 in DI No.3/2005. These Charges are very serious in nature, where the respondent is alleged to have pronounced the operative portion of the in open court without the whole of the being ready. Similarly Charge No.1 in E DI No.5/2005 related to the conduct of auction sale of properties, seized during the investigation. These are very serious in nature and the reply given by the respondent to these charges is wishy washy. 13. A judicial officer cannot pronounce the concluding portion of his in open court without the entire text of the being F prepared/dictated. All that the respondent has done in the departmental enquiry is just to pass on the responsibility to the inefficient and allegedly novice stenographer. We do not know how the findings with regard to such serious charges have been completely white-washed by the High Court in the impugned . G 14. A look at the impugned of the High Court shows that the Division Bench of the High Court was swayed away unduly by the animosity attributed by the respondent to a member of the local Bar and the Assistant Public Prosecutor. Let us assume for a minute that the charges were on the basis of complaints initiated by persons bearing ill- will and motive against the respondent. Even then, such ill-will and motive H 60 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A may not make the conduct of the respondent in not preparing s but pronouncing the outcome of the case, a condonable conduct. 15. It is true that some of the charges revolve around judicial pronouncements and the judicial decision-making processes and that they cannot per se, without anything more, form the foundation for B departmental proceedings. Therefore, we are ignoring those charges. But the charges which revolve around gross negligence and callousness on the part of the respondent in not preparing/dictating s, but providing a fait accompli, is completely unacceptable and unbecoming of a judicial officer.