73. In somewhat similar situation, in Lachhman Singh & Others A v. State24, the arguments on behalf of defence were as follows: “13. The learned counsel for the appellants cited a number of rulings in which Section 27 has been construed to mean that it is only the information which is first given that is admissible and once a fact has been discovered in consequence of B information received from a person accused of an offence, it cannot be said to be re-discovered in consequence of information received from another accused person. It was urged before us that the prosecution was bound to adduce evidence to prove as to which of the three accused gave the C information first. The Head Constable, who recorded the statements of the three accused, has not stated which of them gave the information first to him, but Bahadur Singh, one of the witnesses who attested the recovery memos, was specifically asked in cross-examination about it and stated: “I cannot say from whom information was got first”. In the circumstances, D it was contended that since it cannot be ascertained which of the accused first gave the information, the alleged discoveries cannot be proved against any of the accused persons.” In the context of the above arguments, this Court expressing a note of caution observed thus: E “14.It seems to us that if the evidence adduced by the prosecution is found to be open to suspicion and it appears that the police have deliberately attributed similar confessional statements relating to facts discovered to different accused persons, in to create evidence against all of them, the F case undoubtedly demands a most cautious approach. …” (Emphasis Supplied) 74. Seen in that light, a confusing picture emerges from the statement of PW15, that is, whether it was Neeraj who first disclosed the spot from where blood-stained clothes were recovered or it was G Santosh who disclosed it first. What is most damaging to the prosecution is PW15’s statement that he wrote the disclosure statements on instructions of Inspector J.L. Meena (PW28) and not on basis of what he heard the accused state. In our view, this creates a serious possibility 24 (1952) 1 SCC 362 : 1952 SCC OnLine SC 30: AIR 1952 SC 167 H 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A of the disclosure evidence being fabricated for using it against both the accused which seriously dents its credibility thereby rendering it unworthy of acceptance. More so, when the first disclosure resulted in no discovery. 75. Insofar as recovery at the instance of the accused is concerned, both the accused have denied recovery of the concerned articles at their instance. As regards recovery of clothes at the instance of Santosh, B PW4, a witness to that recovery, has been declared hostile. There is thus no support to that recovery from any public witness. And since we have already doubted the disclosure statements set up by the police witnesses, it would be unsafe to place reliance on their testimonies in respect of the recoveries pursuant thereto, particularly, when the place C from where recovery of clothes is shown is none other than the rooftop of the building from where 13 days ago the body of the deceased was found.