For clarity, 3 For short, Code. 4 The mortgage by JIL in favour of creditors of JAL were, in fact, set aside in terms of Section 43 of the Code, albeit this Court had opined on the legal issue on the assumption even if the mortgage was valid. 5 For short, CIRP. H M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD v. MR. DINKAR 819 VENKATASUBRAMANIAN [M. R. SHAH, J.] we may state that L&T had subsequently assigned the debt to Phoenix A ARC (P) Ltd., who were the appellants before this Court. 5.3 A three judges’ bench of this Court in Phoenix ARC (supra) observed that the pledge agreement was in respect of 40,160 shares of Doshion Veolia, which were pledged to L&T as security, thereby restricting the liability of Doshion Veolia, albeit, this cannot constitute B ‘financial debt’ as defined in Section 5(8) of the Code and, therefore, the appellant would not be a financial creditor of the corporate debtor. 5.4 Phoenix ARC (supra) also refers to Chapter VIII of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 which deals with the definition of ‘indemnity’ and ‘guarantee’ under Sections 124 and 126 therein. It was observed: C “25. As is clear from the definition a “contract of guarantee” is a contract to perform the promise, or discharge the liability, of a third person in case of his default. The present is not a case where the corporate debtor has entered into a contract to perform the promise, or discharge the liability of borrower in case of his default. D The pledge agreement is limited to pledge 40,160 shares as security. The corporate debtor has never promised to discharge the liability of the borrower. The facility agreement under which the borrower was bound by the terms and conditions and containing his obligation to repay the loan security for performance are all contained in the E facility agreement. A contract of guarantee contains a guarantee “to perform the promise or discharge the liability of third person in case of his default”. Thus, key words in Section 126 are contract “to perform the promise”, or “discharge the liability”, of a third person. Both the expressions “perform the promise” or “discharge the liability” relate to “a third person”. F Reference is made to the expression ‘pledge’ as defined in Section 172 of the Contract Act and it has been held: “26. …..The pledge agreement dated 10-1-2012 does not contain any contract that the corporate debtor has contracted to perform the promise, or discharge the liability of the third person……. G 30. The words “guarantee” and “indemnity” as occurring in Section 5(8)(i) has not been defined in the Code. Section 3 clause (37) of the Code provides that words and expressions used but not defined in the Code but defined in the Contract Act, 1872 shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them.” H 820 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 5.5 The decision in Phoenix ARC (supra) has also relied upon and reproduced paragraphs 46-50.2 of the decision in Anuj Jain (supra) (referred to as Jaypee Infratech Interim Resolution Professional v. Axis Bank in the aforesaid ), and thereupon observes: “36.