Meanwhile, the plots were transferred by the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation to the first respondent on 4 February 2005. The appellant, however, relied on the MSEB Conditions of Supply and E the agreement entered with the erstwhile consumer to decline granting electricity connection until the arrears of the erstwhile consumer were cleared. The respondent filed a writ petition before the Aurangabad Bench of the Bombay High Court, seeking a direction to the appellant to supply electricity to the respondent at its premises. F 212. By the impugned judgement dated 20 July 2005, the Bombay High Court allowed the writ petition. The High Court held that the respondent could not be made liable for the dues of the erstwhile owner as a prerequisite for obtaining a new electricity connection as there was neither any statutory provision nor an agreement creating any charge over the property in relation to the electricity arrears. G 213. This Court granted leave on 24 October 2005. As discussed above, Condition 23 of MSEB Conditions of Supply is a specific provision applicable to the case of the first respondent. In view of the above, we allow this appeal, and set aside the and of the High Court. H K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 741 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Item 101.12: Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. A Ltd. v. M/s Zia Iron Store; SLP(Civil) No. 6068 of 2006 214. The original consumer, M/s Sumit Re-Rolling Mills Pvt. Ltd, Nagpur, defaulted in the payment of a loan taken from the Nagpur Nagrik Sahakari Bank. The bank filed a dispute before the Co-operative court at Nagpur. The Judge, Cooperative court at Nagpur by an dated B 23 February 2005 granted permission to sell the hypothecated plant and machinery and mortgaged land and building of M/s Sumit Re-Rolling Mills Pvt. Ltd. In the execution of the award, the property belonging to M/s Sumit Re-Rolling Mills Pvt. Ltd was purchased by the first respondent. C 215. The authorised officer of the bank handed over the physical possession of the entire moveable plant and machinery and immovable land and building, mortgaged with the bank, to the respondent on 21 March 2005 on “as is where is” and “as is what is” basis. 216. A deed of assignment and sale dated 17 February 2006 was D entered between the Nagpur Nagarik Sahakair Bank Ltd. and the respondent. Clause 2 of the indenture notes that the bank would not take any liability for any dues like electricity dues and charges for fresh power connection. The relevant clause is extracted below: “The liabilities, if any and the liabilities which may arise in future E in respect of the dues of Local authorities and dues of Revenue Authority, MIDC Authority and Sales Tax etc. and also for transfer of property in question, shall be for transfer of property in question shall be payable by the purchaser. The property hereby assigned in on “as is where is” and “as is what is” basis.