Further, in our view, it is inherent in the duties of a Physical Director that he imparts to the students various skills and techniques of these games and sports. There are a large number of indoor and outdoor games in which the students have to be trained. Therefore, he has to teach them several skills and techniques of these games apart from the rules applicable to these games. ××× ××× ××× ××× 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 19. ……... It may be that the Physical Director gives his guidance or teaching to the students only in the evenings after the regular classes are over. It may also be that the University has not prescribed in writing any theoretical and practical classes for the students so far as physical education is concerned. But as pointed by us earlier, among various duties of the Physical Director, expressly or otherwise, are included the duty to teach the skills of various games as well as their rules and practices. The said duties bring him clearly within the main part of the defi nition as a “teacher”. We, therefore, do not accept the contention raised in the additional counter-affi davit of the University.” 7. It is noteworthy that the defi nition of the word “teacher” as contained in Section 2(n) of the A.P. Act is para materia with Section 2(x) of the J.N.K.V.V. Act. Both the provisions are extracted below for comparison: Section 2 (n) of the A.P. Act: “2. (n) ‘teacher’ includes a professor, reader, lecturer or other person appointed or recognised by the University for the purpose of imparting instruction or conducting and guiding research or extension programmes, and any person declared by the statutes to be a teacher;” Section 2(x) of the J.N.K.V.V. Act : “2 (x) Teacher of the Vishwa Vidyalaya” means a person appointed or recognised by the Vishwa Vidyalaya for the purpose of imparting instructions and /or conducting and guiding research and/or extension programmes and includes a person who may be declared by the Statues to be teacher” 8. Thus, it can be seen that the defi nition “teacher” is inclusive in nature and not just confi ned to a Professor, Associate Professor or Assistant Professor, as defi ned in Statute 32. When Section 2(n) of the A.P. Act is read in conjunction with Statute 32, the word “teacher” encompasses one who is enjoined to impart instructions and/or conduct and guide research and/or extension programmes. The defi nition being inclusive in nature would have to be read expansively and when read in the context of PTI/Sports Offi cer, it cannot be denied that the appellant while discharging his duties was required to impart instructions relating to the rules and practices adopted for various categories of sports. Besides that, the appellant was also required to impart diff erent skill sets and playing techniques depending on the nature of the sport, for training the students. Merely because the appellant as a PTI/ P.C. MODI v. THE JAWAHARLAL NEHRU VISHWA 967 VIDYALAYA AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.]