Reliance is placed upon the decisions of this Court D in the case of J.K. Cotton Spg. and Wvg. Mills Co. Ltd. Vs. CCE; (1998) 3 SCC 540and BHEL Vs. Mahendra Prasad Jakhmola; (2019) 13 SCC 82. Learned counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee has also relied upon the decision of the Gujarat High Court in the case of Elecon Engineering Vs. State of Gujarat; (1994) 93 STC 397. E 4.4 Relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Director of Elementary Education Vs. Pramod Kumar Sahoo; (2019) 10 SCC 674, it is submitted that as held by this Court any concession in law made by either counsel would not bind the parties, as it is legally settled that advocates cannot throw away legal rights or enter into arrangements contrary to law. F 4.5 It is contended that in the present case, since the penalty and interest were proposed to be waived by following the decision in case of Brooke Bond India Limited(supra), the advocate of the dealer did not press the issue of demand on merits. That in case the of High Court is proposed to be reversed and penalty is proposed to be G imposed, it will become necessary to adjudicate the dispute on merits as the same is detrimental to the imposition of penalty. 4.6 It is further contended that Section 45(5) of the Act, 1969, provides that in case difference between assessed tax and tax paid by the dealer is more than 25%, the dealer shall be deemed to have failed to H 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A pay the tax to the extent of the difference. That therefore, Section 45(5) creates presumption against the dealer. 4.7 It is submitted that as held by this Court in the case of Nandlal WasudeoBadwaik Vs. Lata Nandlal Badwaik; (2014) 2 SCC 576, there is a clear distinction in law between a legal fiction and presumption. B Legal fiction assumes existence of a fact which may not really exist. However, a presumption of a fact depends on satisfaction of certain circumstances. In support of above submissions, reliance is also placed on another decision of this Court in case of Bhuwalka Steel Industries Ltd. Vs. Union of India; (2017) 5 SCC 598. C 4.8 It is next submitted that even otherwise Section 45(5) of the Act creates a presumption against the dealer and such presumption is rebuttable in nature. That the term “burden of proof” connotes the obligation to prove a fact or facts, by adducing the necessary evidence. It is submitted that any statutory provision by way of which penalty is imposed by tax authorities, the burden of proof to prove mens rea lies D with revenue, however, a statute can shift the burden on the dealer in certain circumstances. That therefore, such presumption would be rebuttable in nature. 4.9 It is submitted that Section 45(5) provides a presumption that in case differential tax is more than 25%, the dealer shall be deemed to E have failed to pay the tax.