If the claimant-plaintiff loses that right or the vendee improves his right equal or above the right of the E claimant before the adjudication of the suit, the suit for pre- emption would fail. [Para 17][579-G; 580-A-B] 1.4 It is difficult to subscribe the view taken by the High Court in the impugned that since no instrument of partition was drawn on the date of passing of the decree by the trial court, F the joint status of the parties had not come to an end. Having duly considered the provisions contained in the Punjab Land Revenue Act and also the Haryana Land Records Manual, it clearly emerges that as per Section 118 of the Land Revenue Act, when there is a question as to the property to be divided, or G the mode of making a partition, the Revenue Officer after such inquiry as he deems necessary, is required to record an stating his decision on the question and record his reasons for the decision. [Para 26][589-G; 583-A-B] H JHABBAR SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LEGAL HEIRS v. 567 JAGTAR SINGH S/O DARSHAN SINGH 1.5 Section 121 states that when the partition is completed, A the Revenue Officer shall cause an instrument of partition to be prepared, and the date on which the partition is to take effect to be recorded therein. If the said provision contained in Section 121 is closely read, it clearly appears that it deals with the procedure to be followed by the Revenue Officer, after the B partition is completed. Meaning thereby, the Revenue Officer after the Partition is completed, has to cause an instrument of partition to be prepared and record therein the date on which the partition is to take effect. When the inquiry as contemplated in Section 118 on the question as to the property to be divided, or the mode of making partition is made by the Revenue Officer, C and an stating his decision on the question along with the reasons for such decision is passed, the partition is deemed to have completed, subject to the decision of appeal that may be preferred against such as contemplated in sub-section 2 of Section 118. Section 117 of the Punjab Land Revenue Act confers D discretion upon the Revenue Officer to decide the question as to the title in any property of which the partition is sought, either by himself or to refer the question to be determined by the competent court. Thus, the jurisdiction of the Revenue Officer in the cases of partition is concurrent with that of the civil court. Therefore, for the purpose of interpreting Section 121, the Court can safely E draw an analogy from the provisions contained in XX, Rule 18 C.P.C. which pertain to the procedure to be followed on the passing of the decree for the partition of the property. [Paras 27 and 28][583-D-H] 1.6 If the said analogy is applied to the provisions contained F in the Punjab Land Revenue Act pertaining to the Partition, when a decision is taken by the Revenue Officer under Section 118 on the question as to the property to be divided and the mode of partition, the rights and status of the parties stand decided and the partition is deemed to have completed.