So far exercising of power for rectification F within its field there could be no doubt the Court as referred under Section 155 read with Section 2 (11) and Section 10, it is the Company Court alone has exclusive jurisdiction…But this does not mean by interpreting such “court having exclusive jurisdiction to include within it what is not covered G under it, merely because it is clocked under the nomenclature rectification does not mean the court cannot see the substance after removing the cloak. 28. Question for scrutiny before us is the peripheral field within which the Court could exercise its jurisdiction for H 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A rectification. As aforesaid, the very word “rectification” connotes something what ought to have been done but by error not done and what ought not to have been done was done requiring correction. Rectification in other words is the failure on the part of the company to comply with the directions under the Act. B … 31. Sub-section (1)(a) of Section 155 refers to a case where the name of any person is without sufficient cause entered or omitted in the Register of Members of a company. The word C “sufficient cause” is to be tested in relation to the Act and the Rules. Without sufficient cause entered or omitted to be entered means done or omitted to do in contradiction of the Act and the Rules or what ought to have been done under the Act and the Rules but not done. Reading of this sub-clause spells out the limitation under which the court has to exercise its D jurisdiction. It cannot be doubted that in spite of exclusiveness to decide all matters pertaining to the rectification it has to act within the said four corners and adjudication of such matters cannot be doubted to be summary in nature. So, whenever a question is raised the court has to adjudicate on E the facts and circumstances of each case. If it truly is rectification, all matters raised in that connection should be decided by the court under Section 155 and if it finds adjudication of any matter not falling under it, it may direct a party to get his right adjudicated by a civil court.….” F 20. It is evident from the above that while interpreting Section 155, this Court has held that the power of CLB is narrow and can only consider questions of rectification. If a petition seeks an adjudication under the garb of rectification, then the CLB would not have jurisdiction, and it would be duty-bound to re-direct the parties to approach the relevant G forum. The Court also held that the words ‘sufficient cause’ cannot be interpreted in a manner which would enlarge the scope of the provision. 21. The decision in Ammonia was followed by this Court even after the deletion of Section 155 and insertion of Section 111A. This Court, in Standard Chartered Bank v. Andhra Bank Financial Services H IFB AGRO INDUSTRIES LTD. v. SICGIL INDIA LTD. AND 545 OTHERS [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.]