Obviously, the distinction lies between a bodily injury likely to cause death and a bodily injury sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. The distinction is fine but real, and, if overlooked, may result in miscarriage of justice. The difference between 9 1977 SCR (1) 601 H 254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A clause (b) of Section 299 and clause (3) of Section 300 is one of the degree of probability of death resulting from the intended bodily injury. To put it more broadly, it is the degree of probability of death which determines whether a culpable homicide is of the gravest, medium or the lowest degree. The word “likely” in clause (b) of Section 299 conveys the sense B of “probable” as distinguished from a mere possibility. The words “bodily injury … sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death” mean that death will be the “most probable” result of the injury, having regard to the ordinary course of nature. C For cases to fall within clause (3), it is not necessary that the offender intended to cause death, so long as the death ensues from the intentional bodily injury or injuries sufficient to cause death in the ordinary course of nature. Rajwant v. State of Kerala [AIR 1966 SC 1874: 1966 Supp SCR 230: 1966 Cri LJ 1509.] is an apt illustration of this point.” D The court then quoted the decision in Virsa Singh (supra), and held that: “Thus according to the rule laid down in Virsa Singh’s case (supra) even if the intention of accused was limited to the infliction of a bodily injury sufficient to cause death in the E ordinary course of nature and did not extend to the intention of causing death, the offence would be murder. Illustration (c) appended to S. 300 clearly brings out this point. Clause (c) of S. 299 and clause (4) of S. 300 both require knowledge of the probability of the causing death. It is not F necessary for the purpose of this case to dilate much on the distinction between these corresponding clauses. It will be sufficient to say that cl. (4) of S. 300 would be applicable where the knowledge of the offender as to the probability of death of a person or persons in general—as distinguished from a particular person or persons—being caused from his G imminently dangerous act, approximates to a practical certainty. Such knowledge on the part of the offender must be of the highest degree of probability, the act having been committed by the offender without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as aforesaid.” H PRASAD PRADHAN & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 255 CHHATTISGARH [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] A later decision, Pulicherla Nagaraju @ Nagaraja Reddy v. A State of Andhra Pradesh10 considered these aspects and held that: “29. Therefore, the Court should proceed to decide the pivotal question of intention, with care and caution, as that will decide whether the case falls under Section 302 or 304 Part I or 304 Part II.