(3) If, in respect of any such person as aforesaid, a question arises whether it is reasonably practicable to hold such inquiry as is referred to in clause (2), the decision thereon of the authority empowered to dismiss or remove such person or to reduce him in G rank shall be final.” 32. To provide a sense of security of tenure to Government servants, the Framers of the Constitution have incorporated safeguards in respect of the punishment or dismissal or removal or reduction in their rank as provided for in Clauses (1) and (2) of Article 311. At the same H time, being mindful of the very same public interest and public good AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 797 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] which does not permit that Government servants found to be corrupt, A dishonest or inefficient be continued in service, a remedy is provided under the second proviso to Clause (2) of Article 311 whereunder their services can be dispensed with, without conducting a disciplinary inquiry. 33. Thus, the golden thread that weaves through Articles 309, 310 and 311 is public interest, directed towards larger public good. Together, B they form a triad and symbolize the overarching Doctrine of Public Policy. G. ARTICLE 14 : BEDROCK OF THE PRINCIPLES OF NATURAL JUSTICE 34. Principles of natural justice that are reflected in Article 311, C are not an empty incantation. They form the very bedrock of Article 14 and any violation of these principles tantamounts to a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution. Denial of the principles of natural justice to a public servant can invalidate a decision taken on the ground that it is hit by the vice of arbitrariness and would result in depriving a public servant of equal protection of law. D 35. Article 14, often described as the ‘Constitutional Guardian’ of the principles of natural justice, expressly forbids the State, as defined in Article 12, from denying to any person, equality before the law or equal protection of the laws. Article 14 provides an express guarantee of equality before the law to all persons and extends a protection to them against E discrimination by any law. Article 13(3)(a) defines law to include any ordinance, , bye-law, rule, regulation, notification, custom or usages having in the territory of India, the force of law. Thus, principles of natural justice guaranteed under Article 14, prohibit a decision-making adjudicatory authority from taking any arbitrary action, be it substantive or procedural in nature. These principles of natural justice, that are a F natural law, have evolved over a period of time and been continuously refined through the process of expansive judicial interpretation. H. THE TWIN ANCHORS : NEMO JUDEX IN CAUSA SUA AND AUDI ALTERAM PARTEM G 36. The twin anchors on which the principles of natural justice rest in the judicial process, whether quasi-judicial or administrative in nature, are Nemo Judex In Causa Sua, i.e., no person shall be a judge in his own cause as justice should not only be done, but should manifestly be seen to be done and Audi Alteram Partem, i.e.