It is in the context of the views expressed by the Courts, as aforesaid, that the Law Commission of India submitted the Two Hundred and Forty-Sixth Report in August, 2014. In the said Report, after referring to the H 324 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A in SBP (supra) and the views expressed in National Insurance (supra), the Law Commission, inter alia, submitted the following recommendations: “31. The Commission is of the view that, in this context, the same test regarding scope and nature of judicial intervention, as B applicable in the context of Section 11, should also apply to Sections 8 and 45 of the Act - since the scope and nature of judicial intervention should not change upon whether a party (intending to defeat the arbitration agreement) refuses to appoint an arbitrator in terms of the arbitration agreement, or moves a proceeding before a judicial authority in the face of such an arbitration agreement. C 32. In relation to the nature of intervention, the exposition of the law is to be found in the decision of the Supreme Court in Shin Etsu Chemicals Co. Ltd. v. Aksh Optifibre,(2005) 7 SCC 234, (in the context of Section 45 of the Act), where the Supreme Court has ruled in favour of looking at the issues/controversy only prima D facie. 33. It is in this context, the Commission has recommended amendments to Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. The scope of the judicial intervention is only restricted to situations where the Court/Judicial Authority finds that the E arbitration agreement does not exist or is null and void. In so far as the nature of intervention is concerned, it is recommended that in the event the Court/Judicial Authority is prima facie satisfied against the argument challenging the arbitration agreement, it shall appoint the arbitrator and/or refer the parties to arbitration, as the case may be. The amendment envisages that the judicial authority F shall not refer the parties to arbitration only if it finds that there does not exist an arbitration agreement or that it is null and void. If the judicial authority is of the opinion that prima facie the arbitration agreement exists, then it shall refer the dispute to arbitration, and leave the existence of the arbitration agreement G to be finally determined by the arbitral tribunal. However, if the judicial authority concludes that the agreement does not exist, then the conclusion will be final and not prima facie. The amendment also envisages that there shall be a conclusive determination as to whether the arbitration agreement is null and void. In the event that the judicial authority refers the dispute to arbitration and/or H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 325 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] appoints an arbitrator, Under Sections 8 and 11 respectively, such A a decision will be final and non-appealable. An appeal can be maintained Under Section 37 only in the event of refusal to refer parties to arbitration, or refusal to appoint an arbitrator.” (Emphasis supplied) B 32.