(2) The amount apportioned to a State under clause (1) shall not form part of the Consolidated Fund of India. (3) Where an amount collected as tax levied under clause (1) has been used for payment of the tax levied by a State under article 246A, such amount shall not form part of the Consolidated Fund of India. (4) Where an amount collected as tax levied by a State under article 246A has been used for payment of the tax levied under clause (1), such amount shall not form part of the Consolidated Fund of the State. 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. (5) Parliament may, by law, formulate the principles for determining the place of supply, and when a supply of goods, or of services, or both takes place in the course of inter-State trade or commerce.” Section 12 of the Amendment inserted Article 279-A, which reads as follows: “279A. Goods and Services Tax Council --- (1) The President shall, within sixty days from the date of commencement of the Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act, 2016, by , constitute a Council to be called the Goods and Services Tax Council. (2) The Goods and Services Tax Council shall consist of the following members, namely:- (a) the Union Finance Minister.......Chairperson; (b) the Union Minister of State in charge of Revenue or Finance...... Member; (c) The Minister in charge of Finance or Taxation or any other Minister nominated by each State Government .....Members. (3) The Members of the Goods and Services Tax Council referred to in sub-clause (c) of the clause (2) shall, as soon as may be, choose one amongst themselves to be the Vice-Chairperson of the Council for such period as they may decide. (4) The Goods and Services Tax Council shall make recommendations to the Union and the State on--- (a) the taxes, cesses and surcharges levied by the Union, the States and the local bodies which may be subsumed in the goods and services tax; (b) the goods and services that may be subjected to, or exempted from the goods and services tax; (c) model Goods and Services Tax Laws, principles of levy, apportionment of Goods and Services Tax levied on supplies in the course of inter-state trade or commerce under article 269-A and the principles that govern the place of supply; THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 155 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (d) the threshold limit of turnover below which goods and services may be exempted from goods and services tax; (e) the rates including fl oor rates with bands of goods and services tax; (f) any special rate or rates for a specifi ed period, to raise additional resources during any natural calamity or disaster; (g) special provision with respect to the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Jammu and Kashmir, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand; and (h) any other matter relating to the goods and services tax, as the Council may decide. (5) The Goods and Services Tax Council shall recommend the date on which the goods and services tax be levied on petroleum crude, high speed diesel, motor spirit (commonly known as petrol), natural gas and aviation turbine fuel.