After carefully examining the entire records, the learned Single Judge has made the following pertinent observations:- “Having considered the rival submissions, in my view, the hostile discrimination and arbitrariness is writ large on the face of the records. No one with any amount of reasonable certainty knew the selection procedure or the process. It stands undisputed that the criterion were laid down only on the date of interview even then it was not made known to people. This is a clear cut case of bad and wrong administrative action. There is absolutely no transparency and such process cannot be sanctifi ed by the Court. On top of it to say that petitioner, Nutan Kumari had participated in the selection process and, as such, could not challenge it after appointments were made, would be travesty of justice. Anyone could have challenged the criteria if they were disclosed in the advertisement or before the interview or before the selection but all that was kept secret. That came to be known much later after appointments were made. That cannot estop Nutan Kumari from challenging what she did not know and what 714 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. was never made public. This objection by the University and the other petitioners cannot be sustained. In my view, the law is settled. If a person participates in selection process with his eyes open knowing the selection process then upon failure to get selected he cannot turn around and challenge the same. He would be deemed to have acquiescence to the same. That is not at all the case in the present as noted above. Nutan Kumari challenged the process even before the enquiry committee gave its report. The challenge cannot be said to be belated in any aspect of the matter. The criterion were not disclosed. It is only after the criterion were disclosed to some extent can it be said that a person was in a position to challenge. If that is kept in mind it would be seen that there was no unreasonable delay in the challenge at all. Moreover, the extent of arbitrariness in the selection process, as would be noticed, fully justifi es in setting aside the selection process and the selection itself. Now, coming to the markings in respect of Graduation. As noted above, there are three types of physical education courses. One is a three year course after Intermediate and the other two being one year courses after three years Graduation in any subject. It matters little whether it is a one year Diploma course or one year degree course because under statute University alone can grant degree, the School Examination Board cannot and that is the only reason for this distinction. If classifi cation had to be made, subject to it being reasonable, it could be between the three years physical education course and the one year physical education course but the moot point to be noted here is that in the advertisement all are treated similarly for eligibility with no preference.