E 34. The learned SG submits that the appointment of the Director of Enforcement in the ED is required to be made by the Central Government on the recommendation of the Committee consisting of: (i) The Central Vigilance Commissioner - Chairperson (ii) Vigilance Commissioners - Members F (iii) Secretary to the Government of India in-charge of the Ministry of Home Affairs in the Central Government - Member (iv) Secretary to the Government of India G in-charge of the Ministry of Personnel in the Central Government- Member (v) Secretary to the Government of India- in-charge of the Department of Revenue, H 546 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Ministry of Finance in the Central Government - Member 35. Learned SG further submits that the Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Vigilance Commissioners, prior to being appointed by the President are required to undergo the process of recommendation B by a High-Level Committee consisting of: (a) the Prime Minister - Chairperson (b) the Minister of Home Affairs - Member (c) the Leader of the Opposition in C the House of the People - Member 36. Learned SG further submits that the provision for removal of Central Vigilance Commissioner and Vigilance Commissioners are very stringent. It is submitted that they can be removed from the office only by an of the President on the ground of proved misbehaviour or incapacity or after this Court, on a reference made to it by the President, D has, on inquiry, reported that the Central Vigilance Commissioner or any Vigilance Commissioner, as the case may be, ought to be removed on such ground. It is, therefore, submitted that the Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Vigilance Commissioners constitute a body which is totally independent, impartial, impeccable and isolated. E 37. Learned SG submits that, equally, the Director of CBI, prior to appointment, has to undergo the process of recommendation by the Committee consisting of: (a) the Prime Minister - Chairperson (b) the Leader of Opposition recognised F as such in the House of the People or where there is no such Leader of Opposition, then the Leader of the single largest Opposition Party in G that House. - Member (c) the Chief Justice of India or Judge of the Supreme Court nominated by him - Member H DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 547 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 38. Learned SG further submitted that the extension can be granted A to the incumbents in both the offices only if the High-Level Committees (mentioned supra) recommend the same, and that too, in public interest and for the reasons to be recorded in writing. It is submitted that the provision of granting extension of one year at a time is made so that the incumbent functions effectively. Learned SG further submits that the B argument that incremental extensions would lead to the incumbents working under the pressure of the Government is totally untenable. He submits that the extensions could be granted only in a case when the Committee, as provided in Section 25 of the CVC Act, recommends such an extension.