223. Shri Hemendranath Reddy, learned senior counsel appearing for the applicant herein contended: (i) that the High Court went overboard in holding the preliminary F decree to be vitiated by fraud, after the same had attained finality in several proceedings, including those initiated by the State Government; (ii) that on the basis of the division made by the Revenue Divisional Officer, in terms of Section 54 CPC and on the G basis of the report of the Receiver-cum-Commissioner, the land was identified, sub-divided and possession handed over; (iii) that mutation was effected way back in 1989, but when it was cancelled, the applicant filed writ petition and got the mutation restored; H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 375 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] (iv) that even the land grabbing proceedings ended in favour of A the applicant; (v) that all the appeals that the Division Bench of the High Court was dealing with, in the impugned , concerned only the land in Survey No.172 of Hydernagar. B (vi) that by declaring the preliminary decree to be vitiated by fraud, the High Court, under the impugned has struck a severe blow to settled issues which have attained finality; and (vii) that the High Court could not have declared the preliminary C decree to be vitiated by fraud, when there were no pleadings with regard to fraud and that by the impugned in these appeals, the High Court has created a cloud over the rights of third parties over other parcels of land, when those third parties like the applicant herein were not even parties to the impugned . D 224. Shri Hemendranath Reddy, learned senior counsel appearing for the applicant herein also relied upon another of the Division Bench of the High Court dated 30.03.2021 passed in Writ Petition No.20707 of 2018 (batch), wherein the Division Bench clarified that the findings relating to fraud in the impugned , were confined only E to land in Survey No.172. 225. We have carefully considered the submissions of Shri Hemendranath Reddy. But we are unable to agree with his contentions for the following reasons: F (i) Even according to the learned senior counsel, the finding recorded in the impugned that the preliminary decree is vitiated by fraud, was confined only to the land in Survey No.172 of Hydernagar. According to the learned senior counsel, this position was clarified by another Division Bench (presided over by the same G Presiding Judge who authored the impugned ) in its dated 30.03.2021 in Writ Petition No.20707 of 2018 (batch). In paragraph No.169 of the said dated 31.03.2021, the subsequent Division Bench recorded as follows: H 376 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “169. Whatever observations were made by this Court in Shahanaz Begum (10 supra) were specifically made only in the context of the special facts in relation to Sy.No.172 of Hydernagar Village only, and they cannot be read out of context by the respondents and made applicable to land in Hafeezpet Village as well.” B Therefore, we do not know why the applicant-Society is before us; (ii) In any case, the procedure adopted by the applicant-Society before us, is unknown to law.