Hence, it has been contended that the award would be liable to be set aside on the ground of patent illegality under Section 34(2A) of the Act of 1996 because an Arbitral Tribunal cannot rewrite the contract between parties and the award was made in ignorance of vital evidence. F 10.3. As regards procedural aspects, it has been argued on behalf of the State that there had been clear violation of the principles of natural justice since the application seeking appointment of an expert in terms of Section 26 of the Act was not disposed of by the Arbitral Tribunal, although an was passed by the Tribunal that it would be decided at an appropriate time. It has been contended that failure of the Tribunal to G consider the application for appointment of expert had resulted in denial of equal opportunity to the State to the present its case, in violation of Section 18 of the Act. It has also been submitted that the High Court overlooked the purpose and intent behind appointment of an expert under Section 26 of the Act of 1996. H 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 10.3.1. Another application was filed by the State seeking production of 13 documents by the claimant, including drafts of progress and developments in negotiations of each Fuel Supply Contract, minutes of meetings with fuel suppliers as well as the OEM recommendations with respect to downrating of net generating capacity. It has been submitted that this application was also not disposed of by the Arbitral B Tribunal. Learned Attorney General would submit that non-production of documents has seriously prejudiced the State because certain documents like the OEM manual were crucial for its defence; and it was incumbent upon the claimant to produce the documents in its exclusive possession; and an adverse inference ought to have been drawn against C the claimant for want of production of these documents. 10.3.2. It has further been submitted that the request of the State to file additional written submissions was not granted by the Arbitral Tribunal even after additional written submissions were placed on record by the claimant. Merely because a joint exercise was done D and 24 permutations of calculation were submitted by the parties, at no point did the State give up its claims regarding interest or the quantum thereof. 10.4. In regard to variable charges, learned Attorney General has submitted that applicability of clauses 12.4 to 12.7 of the PPA was not E considered or discussed in the award. These clauses had a material bearing on the question of liability of the Government of Goa to pay Rs. 24.66 crore on account of variable charges relatable to change in fuel from Naphtha to RLNG; and there had not been any finding by the Arbitral Tribunal that the aforesaid clauses were not applicable when there was change to RNLG from Naphtha. It has further been contended F that the claimant was obligated to keep the Government updated about its negotiations with fuel suppliers and provide the correspondence with potential suppliers and other drafts.