In Martin Burn Ltd. vs. Corporation of Calcutta3, this Court held that a court has no power to ignore that provision to relieve what it considers a distress resulting from its operation. C 4. The challenge in these civil appeals by the Appellants herein, daughter and son of Mrs. Tara Cherian (“Mrs. Cherian”, hereafter), is to the common interim of the Principal Sub-Judge, Kottayam, (“the Executing Court”, hereafter) dated 29th June, 2018. The Executing Court was seized of an execution application under Section 47 read with D XXI Rule 97 of the Civil Procedure Code, 1908 (“CPC”, hereafter) filed by the Appellants, seeking enforcement of the decree dated 21st October, 2000 (“Decree”, hereafter) and removal of resistance put forth by the contesting respondents herein (“Respondents”, hereafter). By the impugned , the Executing Court held several objections filed by the Respondents to be maintainable and deemed it necessary to adjudicate E the same on their own merits, after due recording of evidence. 5. Having regard to the nature and extent of controversy raised, a decision on these appeals should not have necessitated noting the facts triggering the appeals and the rival contentions advanced across the bar in any great depth; however, since the parties have addressed us at F length, we propose to briefly narrate the essential facts and refer to the rival claims as advanced by learned senior counsel for the parties before recording our conclusions on such claims. 6. The basic facts arising from the two sets of proceedings, which we would presently advert to, are intertwined; hence, it is considered G appropriate to dissect the same for facility of appreciation. 7. The first part of the factual matrix is that: a. Mrs. Cherian, as the original plaintiff, instituted OS No. 28/ 1987 (“the Suit”, hereafter) inter alia against Mr. V.T. H 3 AIR 1966 SC 529 JINI DHANRAJGIR & ANR. v. SHIBU MATHEW & ANR. ETC. 559 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] Mathew [defendant no.1], his sons [defendant no. 2, Mr. A Thomas Mathew (“Mr. Thomas”, hereafter) and defendant no. 3, Mr. Abraham Mathew (“Mr. Abraham”, hereafter), and Mr. Mathew’s assistant defendant no. 4, Mr. K.T. Joseph (“the Defendants”, wherever referred to collectively, hereafter) for declaration of title of Mrs. Cherian in respect B of land measuring in excess of 2.81 acres in Village Nattakom, Kottayam, Taluk, Kottayam District, Kerala (“Suit Property”, hereafter), and recovery of possession with mesne profits from the Defendants. b. Mrs. Cherian contended that Mr. Mathew, the caretaker of C the Suit Property, had intended to purchase the same from her deceased husband, that the sale had not been completed as balance consideration was still to be paid, and that in the interim the Defendants had made constructions on the Suit Property. The Defendants contended that they were tenants in respect of the Suit Property through an oral lease D agreement with Mrs. Cherian’s deceased husband and his brothers and were entitled to fixity of tenure under the provisions of the Kerala Land Reform Act, 1963 (for brevity “KLR Act”, hereafter).