The position of law, even F following the amendment of 2018 remains that the provisions of Section 16 of the Act have to be mandatorily complied with by the party seeking the relief of specific performance. The relief of specific performance cannot be granted in favour of a party who has not performed his obligations under the contract. It is therefore necessary to ascertain whether, the plaintiff had G complied with the statutory prerequisites under Section 16 (c), before claiming the relief of specific performance. [Para 12,18][268-B-C; 270-H; 271-A-B] 1.2 Clause (c) of Section 16 of the Act, which is relevant in the instant case, though amended w.e.f. 01st October, 2018 clearly H states that unless the plaintiff establishes his readiness and C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 247 KURUP willingness to perform his part of the contract, he would not be A entitled to a decree of specific performance. Prior to the amendment, the expression “who fails to aver and prove” was on the statute book and its substitution by the words “who fails to prove” does not bring about any drastic change to the object and intent of the clause. This is because failing to prove readiness B and willingness to perform the essential terms of the contract would first require averments to that effect to be made in the plaint by the plaintiff. The absence of such averments regarding readiness and willingness to perform the essential terms of the contract by the plaintiff would not permit him to let in any evidence on that aspect. It is a settled principle of law that no evidence can C be permitted to be let in in the absence of averments in the plaint / pleadings. [Para 19][271-G-H; 272-A-C] 1.3 Notwithstanding the amendment to Section 16 of the Act whereby the expression “who fails to aver and prove” has been substituted with the phrase “who fails to prove,” the law D remains that no evidence can be let in on a plea that was never put forward in the plaint/pleadings. But, it is necessary to sound a caveat. Even the absence of the words “ready and willing to perform the contract” in the plaint would now not have an adverse impact on the plaintiff’s case, so long as plaintiff’s readiness and E willingness to perform the essential terms of the contract could be gathered on a holistic reading of the plaint. In fact, even in relation to the earlier scheme of Section 16 of the Act which required a plaintiff seeking the remedy of specific performance to ‘aver and prove’ that he was ready and willing to perform his obligations under an agreement, it was sufficient if the averments F in substance indicate continuous readiness and willingness on the part of the person suing, to perform his part of the contract language in Section 16 (c), as it stood prior to the Amendment Act of 2018, did not require any specific phraseology to be followed in relation to the averments as to readiness and willingness.