There is, in that sense, a need to have a uniform policy which can be adopted for nominating nodal offi cers who would be available to share the offi cial version at the stage of investigation, consistent with the need to ensure that the disclosure itself does not derail the course of the investigation. The nature of the disclosure cannot be uniform since it must depend upon the nature of the crime and the profi le of the stake holders, including PEOPLE’S UNION FOR CIVIL LIBERTIES v. THE STATE OF 379 MAHARASHTRA victims, witnesses and the accused themselves. The age and gender of the accused as well as of the victims would have a signifi cant bearing on the nature of the disclosure to be made. It is equally important to emphasise that the nature of the disclosure which is made by the police in the course of media briefi ngs should be objective in nature and should not consist of a subjective opinion pre-judging the guilt of the accused. The guidelines must duly factor in the need to ensure that the disclosure does not result in a media trial so as to allow for the pre-judging of the guilt of the accused. Media trials are liable to result in a derailment of justice by impacting upon the evidence which would be adduced and its assessment by the adjudicating authorities. 18. Bearing in mind the above aspects, we are of the view that the Union Ministry of Home Aff airs should prepare a comprehensive manual on media briefi ngs by police personnel. Some of the considerations which would weigh in balancing various issues of public interest while the framing of guidelines have been fl agged in the earlier part of this as well as in the questionnaire and the guidelines which have been prepared by the Amicus Curiae. The Amicus Curiae has collated, for the purposes of formulation, the practices which have been followed by police departments in other jurisdictions and by the Central Bureau of Investigation and Union Ministry of Home Aff airs in India. 19. We direct that all the Directors General of Police shall, within a period of one month from the date of this , communicate to the Union Ministry of Home Aff airs their suggestions for the preparation of appropriate guidelines. Thereafter, the Union Ministry of Home Aff airs shall proceed to prepare the guidelines after considering the views which have been received from the Directors General of Police and after consulting other stake holders including representative segments of the print and electronic media who may have suggestions on the issue. Organisations representing the print and electronic media should also be consulted. 20. The National Human Rights Commission which has been represented by Ms Shobha Gupta, counsel, has also prepared its response to the questionnaire which was circulated by the Amicus Curiae. The view point of the National Human Rights Commission shall also be duly taken into consideration. 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.