For example, when a person owning an apartment in a residential complex applies for supply of electricity to such an apartment, they become a consumer only with B respect to the apartment for which the application is made and to which electricity is supplied. Such a person may own another apartment to which electricity may already be supplied, but they will be considered a separate consumer with respect to the second apartment. For an application to be considered as a ‘reconnection’, the applicant has to C seek supply of electricity with respect to the same premises for which electricity was already provided. Even if the consumer is the same, but the premises are different, it will be considered as a fresh connection and not a reconnection. 62. In Gujarat Inns. (supra), this Court held that an application D for electricity by an auction-purchaser will constitute fresh connection even though the premises are the same. The reasoning is based on the correct assumption that supply of electricity is with respect to the consumer, and not the premises. Therefore, even if the premises may be the same to which electricity had already been supplied, it will be considered as a fresh connection in the situation where a different applicant, in that case E an auction-purchaser, applies for supply of electricity. IV. Regulatory power of the Electricity Boards/ State Commissions 63. The Electric Utilities have submitted that: (i) Section 49 of the 1948 Act empowered the Board to supply electricity upon such terms F and conditions as it thinks fit; (ii) the phrase “regulate” in Section 79 of the 1948 Act has a wider implication allowing the State Commission to do everything necessary to prescribe the principles governing the supply of electricity; (iii) the Electricity Supply Code notified under Section 50 read with Section 181(2)(x) of the 2003 Act governs all matters relating G to the supply of electricity to premises; and (iv) the Conditions of Supply which provide for payment of outstanding dues of the previous consumer have a clear nexus to the scheme of the 2003 Act and the objectives sought to be achieved. 64. From the other side, the auction purchasers have urged that: H (i) the provisions of the 1910 Act, 1948 Act, and the 2003 Act do not K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 681 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] empower the Electricity Board or, as the case may be the distribution A licencee to recover the arrears of electricity of the previous consumer from the new owner or occupier of the premises; and (ii) the conditions of supply prescribed under the 1948 Act do not have the character of regulations and are not statutory. 65. Section 2(h) of the 1910 Act defined “licensee” as any person B licensed under Part II to supply energy. Section 21 provided that a distribution licensee shall not interfere with the use of energy by any person. Section 21(2) empowered the licensee to make conditions for the purpose of regulating its relations with the consumer with the previous sanction of the State Government.