In viscera report FSL has detected poison, in such situation the burden was on accused to prove whether deceased herself consumed poison and whether the deceased was under mental stress due to which she might have consumed poison, but defence did not make any statement of such kind during the whole trial. In the end DW-2 has presented this evidence that deceased was distressed because of her illness, but during the whole trial defence argued that deceased was a heart patient and was on treatment for it. Defence has argued that deceased was on medication and that because of chemical reaction medicine can naturally convert into poison, but no evidence was produced by defence regarding this, and no medical opinion was taken that deceased was taking medicine of such nature which due to chemical reaction could convert into poison in the body. As this was brought up by defence, in such situation burden was on them to prove it, but no statement was made about it. According to Indian Evidence Act section 114(g) - that evidence which could be and is not produced would, if produced, be unfavourable to the person who withholds it. 25. In the presenting case this is argued by defence that because of chemical reaction medicine can turn into poison in deceased’s body, therefore the burden of proof was on defence, but regarding this no evidence was produced by defence. In such situation under section 114(g) it is important to presume that if any evidence was produced by accused then it would have been against him, because of which no evidence was produced by defence. But deceased’s death took place at Delhi. Accused Balvir Singh brought dead body from Delhi to Kotdwar. PW-1 in his examination-in-chief has said that “it is true that my daughter was living with accused at Delhi”. On the basis of statement given by PW-1, deceased’s death took place at Delhi, where she was living with accused Balvir Singh. On the basis of viscera report deceased died of poison. At the time of death only accused Balvir Singh was present. Accused Maheshwari Devi was not in Delhi. Since, deceased died at Delhi, in such situation charge under, section 302 of Indian Penal Code is not found against Maheshwari Devi. 26. As far as the question of dowry is concerned, PW-1 and PW-2 have adduced evidence in this matter against accused Balvir Singh BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 829 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] and Shrimati Maheshwari Devi that they are demanding dowry. This fact is also proved by document letters exhibit A-1 and exhibit A-2 present in the fi le. Charge under section 498A of Indian Penal Code against accused Balvir Singh and Shrimati Maheshwari Devi is proved beyond doubt. 27. After above arguments I have reached the conclusion that prosecution has proved that accused Balvir Singh and Maheshwari Devi mistreated and harassed deceased for dowry and demanded rupees 1 lakh from deceased. Therefore accused Balvir Singh and Maheshwari Devi are fi t to be convicted under section 498A/34 Indian Penal Code.