The suit as it was originally filed was in the year 1955-56, but the withdrawal and transfer took place in the year 1958 and the suit was re-numbered as CS No.14 of 1958. C 34. Since the genesis of the present dispute should be traced to the plaint in CS No.14 of 1958, it is necessary to extract the main part of the plaint as such. Therefore, paragraphs 6 to 17 of the plaint read as follows:- “6.After the death of Nawab Khurshid Jah in 1320-H, neither the D Paigah Estate nor the Mathruka was permitted to be divided through claims were advanced by his two sons and later by their children. The reason for not permitting the division of the Paigah Estate or the Mathruka of Nawab Khurshid Jahappears to be that His Exalted Highness the Nizam was against further partition and wanted to preserve this ancient family as a whole and preserve E its integrity, and grandeur. This is evident from the two Farmans of His Exalted Highness dated 11thRajab 1337H, Corresponding to 8thKhurdad 1328 Fasli and 5thShaban 1347 H, corresponding to 15thIsfandar 1338 Fasli (17. 1.1929). Copies of the said two Farmans are herewith filed and marked II and III. F 7. In connection with the claims of various heirs His Exalted Highness the Nizam appointed as many as three Royal Commissions namely: (1) The Egerton Committee, (2) Glancey Commission, and G (3) Railey Commission After considering the Reports of these three Commissions, His Exalted Highness issued the last mentioned Farman dated 1 Hereinafter referred to as”CPC” H 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 17-1-1929, (marked III supra) with a view to preserve the Paigah Estate and perpetuate the Paigah Family. 8. In para 2 of the above-said Farman dated 17-1-1929 (marked III) His Exalted Highness the Nizam directed as follows:- “Whatever property has hitherto been acquired or article B purchased or building constructed out of the income of the Paigahs will be considered the property of the Paigahs and not that of any individual, and it will not be liable to division as an inheritance (Mathruka)” 9. H.E.H the Nizam further directed as per the said Farman in C III Para 9 thereof as follows:- “Precious Stones, Jewellery, and rare articles which in accordance with the principles laid down in the above (Farman para 2) are the property of the Paigahs from olden times, or have been purchased with money belonging to the Paigahs, will remain with the Paigah D Amir in Trust as heirlooms of Paigah family. The Paigah Amir shall not have the right to sell, pledge, or give them to any person. They can however be lent for temporary use to members of the Paigah family, after obtaining my sanction from time to time, provided the Amir holds himself responsible for their safe and careful use.” E 10. In III, Para (2) of the Farman (marked III supra) H.E.H. the Nizam referred to another and third class of property and directed as follows:- “If there is any property left as intestate property (Mathruka) in F any Paigah the distribution thereof shall also be settled by the same Committee” The Committee referred to in the portion of the Farman extracted above is Nawab Mirza Yar Jung Committee whose report was submitted on 9th April 1929.