The exact mode of conveyance should be consistent with the relevant enactment and regulations. E (b) In cases of industrial estates developed by Government agencies the Authority reserves the right to allow them to retain the spaces set apart for roads and the recreational spaces as parks/play grounds and maintain them for the purposes to the satisfaction of the Authority. F (c) The Authority reserves the right to reserve space for recessed bus stops as part of the road space in the layouts exceeding 2 hectares, where found necessary on public interest and this part of the road space also be transferred free of cost as stated in the sub rule 7(a) above.” G 115. Regulation 29(3)(b) deals with the width of the streets and roads within the layout. It inter alia provides for the width and the streets of the roads and passages. Thereunder, in the remarks column, it is provided that starting with the minimum width of 7.2 meters in regard to streets intended to serve not more than 16 plots / or subject to a maximum H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1123 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] length of 120 meters, all the streets become public. The common refrain A found in the remarks column is that that all such streets shall become public. We must next specifically advert to Regulation 29(6): “29(6) Reservation of land for recreational purposes in a layout or sub’ division for residential, commercial, industrial or combination of such uses shall be as follows. B C D (a) The land for community recreational purposes shall be restricted to ground level, in a shape and location to be specified E by the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. The land so reserved shall be free from any ·construction by the layout owner, developer or promoter (b) The building and use of land shall conform to the conditions that may be imposed while sanctioning the layout. The space set F apart for commercial, institutional, industrial or other uses shall be deemed to be zoned for commercial, institutional; industrial or corresponding uses under the Master Plan.” 116. We may notice at this juncture that there is no challenge to Regulation 29(6). The second most important aspect we notice is that the land for community recreational purposes shall be restricted to the G ground level in a shape and location to be specified by the CMDA. Further the land reserved is to be free from any construction by the layout owner, developer and promoter. Further the use of the land shall conform to the conditions that may be imposed while sanctioning the layout. H 1124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 117. Before we pass on to the impugned regulation, namely, Regulation 29 (7) (a), we must also undoubtedly notice Annexure XX which is also under challenge. “ANNEXURE XX Reservation of land for community recreational purposes in case of special buildings/ Group Developments/ multi-storeyed building B developments (1) The reservation of land for community recreational purposes such as park / playground shall be as given below at gr9und level in a shape and location ‘abutting a public road to be specified by Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority: C D E F G H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1125 V. GOPINATH & ORS.