89 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (d) time and place of public auction or the time after which sale by any other mode shall be completed; (e) deposit of earnest money as may be stipulated by the secured creditor; (f) any other terms and conditions, which the authorised offi cer considers it necessary for a purchaser to know the nature and value of the property. (8) Sale by any methods other than public auction or public tender, shall be on such terms as may be settled between the secured creditors and the proposed purchaser in writing. 9. Time of sale, issue of sale certifi cate and delivery of possession, etc.–(1) No sale of immovable property under these rules, in fi rst instance shall take place before the expiry of thirty days from the date on which the public notice of sale is published in newspapers as referred to in the proviso to sub-rule (6) of rule 8 or notice of sale has been served to the borrower: Provided further that if sale of immovable property by any one of the methods specifi ed by sub-rule (5) of rule 8 fails and sale is required to be conducted again, the authorised offi cer shall serve, affi x and publish notice of sale of not less than fi fteen days to the borrower, for any subsequent sale. (2) The sale shall be confi rmed in favour of the purchaser who has off ered the highest sale price in his bid or tender or quotation or off er to the authorised offi cer and shall be subject to confi rmation by the secured creditor: Provided that no sale under this rule shall be confi rmed, if the amount off ered by sale price is less than the reserve price, specifi ed under sub-rule (5) of rule 8: Provided further that if the authorised offi cer fails to obtain a price higher than the reserve price, he may, with the consent of the borrower and the secured creditor eff ect the sale at such price. 90 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. (3) On every sale of immovable property, the purchaser shall immediately, i.e. on the same day or not later than next working day, as the case may be, pay a deposit of twenty fi ve per cent. of the amount of the sale price, which is inclusive of earnest money deposited, if any, to the authorised offi cer conducting the sale and in default of such deposit, the property shall be sold again; (4) The balance amount of purchase price payable shall be paid by the purchaser to the authorised offi cer on or before the fi fteenth day of confi rmation of sale of the immovable property or such extended period as may be agreed upon in writing between the purchaser and the secured creditor, in any case not exceeding three months. (5) In default of payment within the period mentioned in sub-rule (4), the deposit shall be forfeited to the secured creditor and the property shall be resold and the defaulting purchaser shall forfeit all claim to the property or to any part of the sum for which it may be subsequently sold.