Nonetheless a fine and delicate balance is envisaged under our Constitution between these B primary institutions of the State.” 80. The High Courts and this Court make Rules under the power granted to them. No doubt, they will be acting as delegates of the Legislature but the exercise of power in such cases would be legislative in nature. When an Ordinance is made under Article 123 by the Executive, that is, the Union of India, it is a case of the Executive exercising legislative C power.When Parliament adjudges a man guilty of contempt of itself and punishes him, the proceedings are informed by the attribute of judicial power. 81. It cannot be disputed that there is no strict demarcation or separation of powers in India unlike the position obtaining in the United D States of America and Australia. (See In Re. Delhi Laws Act, 191217).The doctrine of separation of powers, no doubt, has been eloquently expounded by Montesquieu in his work “The Spirit of Laws” and the basis on which it rests is the imperative need to avoid concentration of power in one or two organs. Undoubtedly, an observance of doctrine E of separation of powers has been traced to the principle of equality (See Madras Bar Association v. Union of India18. Justice Y.V.Chandrachud, as His Lordship then was, speaking in Indira Nehru Gandhi v. Raj Narain & Ors.19 held inter alia as follows: “But the principle of separation of powers is not a magic formula for keeping the three organs of the State within the strict confines F of their functions.” 82. Separation of powers as understood as prevailing in India constitutes a part of the basic structure of the Constitution of India (See His Holiness Kesavananda Bharati Sripadagalvaru v. State of Kerala and Another20) and I.R. Coelho (Dead) by LRs v. State of G T.N.21 17 AIR 1951 SC 332 18 2021 SCC OnLine SC 463 19 (1975) Suppl. SCC 1 20 (1973) 4 SCC 225 21 (2007) 2 SCC 1 H 90 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 83. In Indian Aluminium Co. and others v. State of Kerala and others22, this Court, while dealing with the alleged encroachment by the Legislature of the boundaries set by the Doctrine of Separation of Powers laid down, inter alia, as follows: “(1) The adjudication of the rights of the parties is the essential B judicial function. Legislature has to lay down the norms of conduct or rules which will govern the parties and the transactions and require the court to give effect to them; (2) The Constitution delineated delicate balance in the exercise of the sovereign power by the legislature, executive and judiciary; C (3) In a democracy governed by the rule of law, the legislature exercises the power under Articles 245 and 246 and other companion articles read with the entries in the respective lists in the Seventh Schedule to make the law which includes power to amend the law. D (4) Courts in their concern and endeavour to preserve judicial power equally must be guarded to maintain the delicate balance devised by the Constitution between the three sovereign functionaries.