Failing which, the G Court, in exercise of power of judicial review, shall term the executive action as arbitrary, unfair, unreasonable and capricious due to its antimony with Article 14 of the Constitution.” 11 (2012) 10 SCC 1 H 490 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 18. In Vallianur Iyarkkai Padukappu Maiyam v. Union of India12, a three-judge Bench of this Court held that the State is not bound to allot resources such as water, power, and raw materials through tender and is free to negotiate with a private entrepreneur. In that case, the Government of Pondicherry entered into an agreement for the development of Pondicherry Port without issuing an advertisement or B inviting tenders. This Court held that the action of the Government of Pondicherry was justified because on account of historical, political and other reasons, the Union Territory is not yet industrially developed and thus, entrepreneurs have to be offered attractive terms to persuade them to set up industries. The relevant observations are extracted below: C “171. In a case like this where the State is allocating resources such as water, power, raw materials, etc. for the purpose of encouraging development of the port, this Court does not think that the State is bound to advertise and tell the people that it wants development of the port in a particular manner and invite those D interested to come up with proposals for the purpose. The State may choose to do so if it thinks fit and in a given situation it may turn out to be advantageous for the State to do so, but if any private party comes before the State and offers to develop the port, the State would not be committing breach of any constitutional obligation if it negotiates with such a party and agrees to provide E resources and other facilities for the purpose of development of the port. 172. The State is not obliged to tell Respondent 11 “please wait I will first advertise, see whether any other offers are forthcoming and then after considering all offers, decide whether I should get F the Port developed through you”. It would be most unrealistic to insist on such a procedure, particularly, in an area like Pondicherry, which on account of historical, political and other reasons, is not yet industrially developed and where entrepreneurs have to be offered attractive terms in to persuade them to set up G industries. The State must be free in such a case to negotiate with a private entrepreneur with a view to inducing him to develop the Port and if the State enters into a contract with such an entrepreneur for providing resources and other facilities for developing the Port, the contract cannot be assailed as invalid H 12 (2009) 7 SCC 561 M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 491 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] because the State has acted bona fide, reasonably and in public A interest.” 19. In Nagar Nigam v. Al Farheem Meat Exporters (P) Ltd.13, the respondent was granted a license fora year to run a slaughter house owned by the appellant-corporation.