This application of both the s in two separate spheres within the same act has been clarified in the Ashok Jalan (supra), the relevant extract from the said is being extracted hereunder: “We are conscious that the view that we are taking, may lead E to some incongruity and there could be clear dichotomy when the representations are made simultaneously to such specially empowered officer who had passed the of detention and to the appropriate Government. If we go by the principle in para 16 in K.M. Abdulla Kunhi [K.M. Abdulla F Kunhi v. Union of India, (1991) 1 SCC 476 : 1991 SCC (Cri) 613] it would be proper for the appropriate Government to wait till the report was received from the Advisory Board, while at the same time the specially empowered officer who had acted as the detaining authority would be obliged to consider the representation with utmost expedition. At times a single G representation is prepared with copies to the detaining authority, namely, the specially empowered officer and to the appropriate Government as well as to the Advisory Board. In such situations there will be incongruity as stated above, which may be required to be corrected at some stage. However, such H difficulty or inconsistency cannot be the basis for holding PRAMOD SINGLA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 815 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] that a specially empowered officer while acting as a detaining A authority would also be governed by the same principles as laid down in para 16 of K.M. Abdulla Kunhi [K.M. Abdulla Kunhi v. Union of India, (1991) 1 SCC 476 : 1991 SCC (Cri) 613] .” 35. In light of the abovementioned discussions, it can be clearly B seen that any apparent conflict, as contended by the appellant, stands resolved, and both sets of s operate symbiotically and harmoniously within the said Act, without there existing any tension between them. The mandate to wait for the decision of the Advisory Board, as per the Pankaj Kumar (Supra), would apply to C the central Government, however, the detaining authority, being independent of the Government, can pass its decision without the decision of he Advisory Board. Since no conflict exists, the need to refer the point of law to a Larger Bench also ceases, and hence we hold issue No.1 in favour of the Respondents. D ISSUE II- If there exists no friction between the two Constitutional s of this Court, can the impugned detention be quashed on grounds of the 60-day delay in consideration of the representation made by the appellant? 36. In the present case at hand, the appellant-detenue, availing his E rights sent a representation to both, the specially empowered officer and the Government. The detaining authority in the present case decided on the representation expeditiously and without waiting for the decision of the Advisory Board, and hence, did not violate the Pankaj Kumar (supra). F 37. The Government in the present case at hand, did decide to wait for the decision of the Advisory Board.