[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] (2) The site so reserved shall be exclusive of ‘the setback spaces A and. spacing between blocks prescribed in these rules, and shall· be free from any construction / structure. (3) For the purpose of this regulation, existing development is defined as one where the extent of ground area covered by structures already existing (prior to application for planning B permission) is 25 per cent and above of the total site area. (4) In case of additions to existing developments, where it is difficult to leave the 10 per cent area as open space for community recreational purposes, the Authority reserves the right to collect C the market value of equivalent land in lieu of the land to be reserved. However, if on a future date, the applicant wants to demolish the existing structure and raise new structures on the site in question, the community recreational space as per the rule shall be reserved. (5) The Authority reserves· the right to enforce the maintenance D of such reserved lands by the owner to the satisfaction of the Authority or the owner to transfer the land to the Authority or any local body designated by it free of cost, through a registered gift deed. The Authority or the local body designated by it, as the case may be, reserves the right to decide on entrusting the maintenance work to any institution / individual on the merits of E the case.” 118. It will be noticed on a perusal of Annexure XX that the reservation for community recreation purposes such as park, playground is to be at ground level in a shape and location abutting a public road to be specified by the CDMA. Thereafter, the requirement relating to F executing the gift deed in respect of layout in excess of 10000 square meters is laid down. It is after this that we must notice Regulation 29 (7)(a). “29(7)(a) The space set apart for. roads (except those which may remain private) and the 10% area reserved for recreational G purposes shall be transferred to the Authority or Agency or the Local Body designated by the Authority free of cost through a registered gift deed before the actual approval of the layout under the provisions of the T & CP Act. The exact mode of conveyance should be consistent with the relevant enactment and regulations.” H 1126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 119. From the additional affidavit which we have already noticed, the challenge is limited by the petitioner to the stipulation in Regulation 29(7)(a) so far as the requirement of transferring the space set apart for recreational purposes. In other words, the petitioners accept the validity of Regulation 29(7)(a) otherwise. Rule 29 reads as follows: - B “29. Layout and sub-division regulations: This regulation seeks to ensure access to plots by ‘way of roads and private passages, creating hierarchy of roads depending on the road length and intensity of developments in the area and also to provide adequate linkages to the existing roads and proposed C roads in the Master Plan and Detailed Development Plan and further to provide proper circulation pattern in the area, providing required recreational spaces such as parks / playgrounds, and providing spaces for common amenities such as schools, post and telegraph offices, fire stations, police stations etc.