Das, J. said:- 346 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “The cardinal rule of construction of statutes is to read the statute literally, that is, by giving to the words used by the legislature their ordinary, natural and grammatical meaning. If, however, such a reading leads to absurdity and the words are susceptible of another meaning the Court may adopt the same. But if no such alternative construction is possible, the Court must adopt the ordinary rule of literal interpretation.” (Emphasis supplied) 86. The larger Bench also considered the dictionary meanings of the word “person” and held that any article like a bag, briefcase or container cannot under any circumstance be considered as a person or a part thereof. This Court stated that one of the tests could be, where in the process of search the human body comes into contact or shall have to be touched by the person carrying out the search. If that be so, then it will be search of a person. However, this Court was quick to clarify that a bag or briefcase or any such article cannot be interpreted to mean a person. It was held as under:- “10. We are not concerned here with the wide defi nition of the word “person”, which in the legal world includes corporations, associations or body of individuals as factually in these type of cases search of their premises can be done and not of their person. Having regard to the scheme of the Act and the context in which it has been used in the Section it naturally means a human being or a living individual unit and not an artifi cial person. The word has to be understood in a broad common sense manner and, therefore, not a naked or nude body of a human being but the manner in which a normal human being will move about in a civilized society. Therefore, the most appropriate meaning of the word “person” appears to be – “the body of a human being as presented to public view usually with its appropriate coverings and clothings”. In a civilized society appropriate coverings and clothings are considered absolutely essential and no sane human being comes in the gaze of others without appropriate coverings and clothings. The appropriate coverings will include footwear also as normally it is considered an essential article to be worn while moving outside one’s home. Such appropriate coverings or clothings or footwear, after being worn, move along with the human body without any appreciable or extra eff ort. Once worn, they would not normally get detached from the RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 347 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] body of the human being unless some specifi c eff ort in that direction is made. For interpreting the provision, rare cases of some religious monks and sages, who, according to the tenets of their religious belief do not cover their body with clothings, are not to be taken notice of. Therefore, the word “person” would mean a human being with appropriate coverings and clothings and also footwear.