Maqbool Damnoo v. The State of Jammu and Kashmir69 to argue that the Constituent Assembly and the Legislative Assemblies are interchangeable. In the said case, the Court had held that the 65 Written Submissions On Behalf Of Mr. Kapil Sibal, Sr. Adv; Submissions by Mr. Zaff ar A Shah, Senior Advocate Rejoinder. 66 Written Submissions Of Dr. Rajeev Dhavan, Senior Counsel. 67 Submissions by Mr Zaff ar Shah, Senior Advocate. 68 Written Submissions of Mr. Gopal Subramanium, Senior Advocate on behalf of the Petitioner. 69 (1972) 1 SCC 536 42 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Governor, being the successor to Sadr-i-Riyasat, can exercise the same powers as the latter. The reliance on this case is misplaced70; and n. The IoA was meant to accede to the Union. The State retained sovereignty on matters except those stipulated in the IoA. The Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir was the fulfi lment of the promise to the people of the State that the issue of accession would be referred to them for ratifi cation. Therefore, treating the Legislative Assembly as a substitute for Constituent Assembly of the State, would violate the terms of the IoA as well as the very integration of the state into the Union on its own terms.71 31. CO 272 is unconstitutional because the President could not have secured his own concurrence to fulfi l the second proviso to Article 370(1)(d): a. CO 272 has been issued purportedly with the concurrence of the State Government. However, since the Legislative Assembly of the State of Jammu and Kashmir was dissolved by the Governor when CO 272 was issued, the Council of Ministers was not in place and no such concurrence could have been sought. The Governor was not acting on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. This is not only against the mandate of the Governor’s powers under the Constitution of India, but also, does not fulfi l the concurrence requirement under the second proviso to Article 370(1)(d); b. The President usurped the power of the State Government. The provisos to Article 370(1)(d) distinguish between matters specifi ed and not specifi ed in the IoA. Article 370(1) begins with a non- obstante clause. Therefore, notwithstanding any other provisions of the Constitution of India, including Article 356, the President has the power to extend the application of certain provisions to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. This power is subject to the second proviso. Notably, Article 356 does not contain any non-obstante clause. Impliedly, considering the importance of non-obstante clauses, the 70 Rejoinder on behalf of Mr. Kapil Sibal Sr. Advocate. 71 Written Submissions of Ms. Nitya Ramakrishnan, Senior Advocate. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 43 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] concurrence can only be given by the State Government and not the President. The State Government was not in existence at the time CO 272 was issued. Absent such concurrence as required by the second proviso, CO 272 could not have been issued72; and c. Without prejudice to the above, even if the State Government’s functions could be validly exercised by the President according to Article 356, Article 356(1)(a) permits the President to exercise the “functions” and not the “privileges” of the State Government.