2 For short, “Code”. 3 271. Circumstances in which company may be wound up by Tribunal. – A company may, on a petition under section 272, be wound-up by the Tribunal, - (a) if the company has, by special resolution, resolved that the company be wound up F by the Tribunal; (b) if the company has acted against the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public , decency or morality; (c) if on an application made by the Registrar or any other person authorised by the Central Government by notification under this Act, the Tribunal is of the opinion that the affairs of the company have been conducted in a fraudulent manner or the company G was formed for fraudulent and unlawful purpose or the persons concerned in the formation or management of its affairs have been guilty of fraud, misfeasance or misconduct in connection therewith and that is proper that the company be wound up; (d) if the company has made a default in filing with the Registrar its financial statements or annual returns for immediately preceding five consecutive financial years; or (e) if the Tribunal is of the opinion that it is just and equitable that the company should H be wound up. MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 115 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] 7.2 Clearly, the legislature has now removed clause (a) to Section A 271 of the Companies Act, 2013, when a company is unable to pay the debts, and clause (d) to Section 271 of the Companies Act, 2013, when a company is directed to be wound up under the Chapter XIX of the Companies Act, 2013. In fact, Chapter XIX of the Companies Act 2013 was deleted/omitted in terms of Act No. 31 of 2016 and the Eleventh B Schedule in paragraph 8 of the Code, with effect from 15th November 2016. The Code, as enacted, is a separate and consolidated enactment specifically relating to and dealing with companies which are insolvent and unable to pay dues, and envisages a procedure with a mandate to first explore possibility of rehabilitation and revival of the company, and the dissolution/winding up as the last call. C 7.3 This is significant and must be highlighted when we examine the question of the Constitutional challenge made by the petitioners, so as to not frustrate the objective and purpose of the Code, which completely replaces the then existing framework for insolvency and bankruptcy resolution that was inadequate, ineffective and guilty of causing undue D delays. The enactment of the Code and the amendments thereafter are a consequence of detailed consultation and deliberations by several committees, commissions and experts4, in a matter which deals with the economy of the country as a whole. Earlier position was far from satisfactory in spite of enactment of the Sick Industrial Companies E (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, the Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993, and the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002.