By using the expression “maintenance of law and ” the District Magistrate was widening his own field of action and was adding a clause to the Defence of India Rules. (emphasis supplied) 84. Thus, the expression national security does not have a fixed C meaning. While courts have attempted to conceptually distinguish national security from public , it is impossible (and perhaps unwise) to lay down a text-book definition of the expression which can help the courts decide if the factual situation is covered within the meaning of the phrase. The phrase derives its meaning from the context. It is not sufficient for D the State to identify its purpose in broad conceptual terms such as national security and public . Rather, it is imperative for the State to prove through the submission of cogent material that non-disclosure is in the interest of national security. It is the Court’s duty to assess if there is sufficient material for forming such an opinion. A claim cannot be made out of thin air without material backing for such a conclusion. The Court E must determine if the State makes the claim in a bona fide manner. The Court must assess the validity of the claim of purpose by determining (i) whether there is material to conclude that the non-disclosure of the information is in the interest of national security; and (ii) whether a reasonable prudent person would arrive at the same conclusion based F on the material67. The reasonable prudent person standard which is one of the lowest standards to test the reasonableness of an action is used to test national security claims by courts across jurisdictions because of their deferential perception towards such claims. This is because courts recognise that the State is best placed to decide if the interest of national security would be served. The court allows due deference to the State G to form its opinion but reviews the opinion on limited grounds of whether 67 This standard of judicial review is derived from the standard that has been laid down on the limited extent of justiciability of the aid and advice of the council of ministers to the President/Governor. Refer to the of the Constitution Bench in BP Singhal v. Union of India, (2010) 6 SCC 331: Paragraph 79. H 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A there is nexus between the material and the conclusion. The Court cannot second-guess the of the State that the purpose identified would violate India’s national security. It is the executive wing and not the judicial wing that has the knowledge of India’s geo-political relationships to assess if an action is in the interest of India’s national security. B 85. We now proceed to assess if on the facts of the case, there is sufficient material to conclude that the action is in furtherance of the interests of confidentiality and national security, as contended. (III) Opening the sealed cover 86. In 2010, MBL applied for permission to uplink and downlink C the news and current affairs television channel ‘Media One’.