Therefore, the reservation of 10% OSR area in a statutory requirement. Under the above said circumstances the petitioner is not deprived of their right of enjoyment of the properly by implementing of the rules framed under the Town and Country Planning Act. The writ petition is devoid of merits and the same has to be dismissed in G limini. Therefore, it is prayed that this Hon’ble Court may be pleased to pass an by dismissing the writ petition and thus render justice”. (Emphasis supplied) H 1042 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 8. The Corporation of Madras also filed a counter affidavit. Therein it was inter alia stated that the OSR land should have access from a public street as per which the development authority directed the petitioner to execute the gift deed to the Corporation as it had to be used for communal and recreation purpose. In the reply affidavit, the petitioner took the stand that the impugned rule does not fall under Section 17. The B OSR under the Act is only an amenity for the benefit of the property owner. The rule was projected as an executive falling beyond the Act. Any misuse could be dealt with under the law. CREDAI; Writ Petition No. 591/15 under Article 32 C 9. The last of the litigation with which we are concerned is Writ Petition no. 591 of 2015. This is a writ petition sought to be maintained under Article 32. The writ petition has been filed by an association which the petitioner describes as the Confederation of the Real Estates Developers Association of India (CREDAI). 10. This petition is filed under Article 32 of the Constitution of D India. It is filed by a Federation of registered Association claiming to be an Apex body of the organised union and state real estate developers, builders across India. In the Additional affidavit filed, it is contended that the total number of members of Petitioner is 350 and that of Chennai Chapter is 163 members. The relief sought in the writ petition is as E follows: “(a) allow the present writ petition and issue a writ of Certiorari quashing Regulation 29(7)(a) (at pg.221 Vol. 2) as well as Annexure XX (at pgs.293-294 Vol. 2) of the Development Regulations for Chennai Metropolitan Area issued by the Respondent No.2 as F being ultra vires, unconstitutional and violative of the fundamental rights of the Petitioner; and” 11. However, in the additional affidavit filed on 8.12.2021, we may notice paragraph 4. “4. That, in so far as challenge to Regulation 29(7)(a) in the present G writ petition is concerned, the petitioner is restricting its challenge only to the latter part of the provision i.e., the requirement to transfer free of cost through a registered gift deed, 10% area reserved for recreational purposes only and not the space set apart for roads.” H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1043 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 12. We may notice the grounds taken in the writ petition.