[2023] 13 S.C.R. 371 : 2023 INSC 917 CASE DETAILS C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. (Civil Appeal No. 11128 of 2016) OCTOBER 16, 2023 [B.V. NAGARATHNA AND UJJAL BHUYAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration: Whether the variable annual licence fee paid by the respondents- assessees to the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) under the New Telecom Policy of 1999 is revenue expenditure in nature and is to be allowed deduction under Section 37 of the Income Tax Act, 1961, or, the same is capital in nature and is accordingly required to be amortised under Section 35ABB of the Act; and Whether the High Court of Delhi was right in apportioning the licence fee as partly revenue and partly capital by dividing the licence fee into two periods, that is, before and after 31st July, 1999 and accordingly holding that the licence fee paid or payable for the period upto 31 July, 1999 i.e. the date set out in the Policy of 1999 should be treated as capital and the balance amount payable on or after the said date should be treated as revenue. Income Tax Act, 1961 – ss. 35ABB and 37– The New Telecom Policy, 1999 – Variable licence fee paid to DoT under the New Telecom Policy of 1999 – Revenue Expenditure or Capital Expenditure – Nature of : Held: 1. In considering whether an item of expenditure is of a capital or revenue nature, one must consider the nature of the concern, the ordinary course of business usually adopted in that concern and the object with which the expenditure is incurred. Attention must be paid not only to the form of the transaction, but also its substance. What is material is the nature of right sought to be secured through the payment or transaction in question. The purpose towards which the expenditure is incurred must guide any attempt to categorise the expenditure. The structure or form of the transaction or 371 372 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the payment schedule is hardly suggestive of the nature of the transaction. Therefore, it cannot be axiomatically held that an expenditure which in its core, capital in nature, is actually to be treated as a revenue expenditure simply because the payment is structured in installments. The determinative test to identify whether an expenditure structured in the form of instalments is in the nature of a capital expenditure or revenue expenditure, would be to fi rst assess whether the payment made either in lump-sum or in instalments relates to the acquisition or expansion of a capital asset, or by contrast, relates to the working of an asset to produce profi ts; whether the consideration payable towards the acquisition or expansion of a capital asset has simply been chopped up into smaller sums payable in instalments, for the sake of convenience. The annual payment of variable licence fee is only towards licence fees and merely because it is paid in annual instalments based on the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR), the payment cannot be construed as revenue.