It was pointed out that the mere fact that the funds which were invested in fi xed deposits with the banks were funds which originated from the contributions made by the members of the assessee cannot conclude the question as regards the taxability of the receipts on account of interest obtained from the investment of these funds. According to the Bombay High Court these receipts must partake the character of income from other sources and would be exigible to tax. In Madras Gymkhana Club Vs. Deputy Commissioner of Income Tax (2010) 328 ITR 348 (MAD) a Division Bench of the Madras High SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 997 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Court observed that whatever was stated in Canara Bank will have to be construed in the special facts and circumstances of that case and it cannot have universal application. It was further observed that investment of surplus fund with some of the member banks and other institutions in the form of fi xed deposits and security which in turn result in earning interest cannot be held to satisfy the mutuality concept. Submissions: 6. In the above backdrop of decisions of this Court as well as High Courts on the point of controversy, we shall now consider the rival submissions. Submissions of Appellants: 6.1 The central theme of the submissions advanced by Sri Arvind Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for some of the appellant Clubs is that the two judge Bench Judgement of this Court in Bangalore club is not a binding precedent and therefore the same calls for reconsideration. In this regard, our attention was drawn to the of another two-Judge Bench of this Court in the case of Cawnpore Club to contend that the in Bangalore Club does not notice the passed in Cawnpore Club, the latter being in favour of appellant – assessees herein, and therefore, the in Bangalore Club calls for reconsideration. In this regard, the of the Karnataka High Court in Canara Bank was referred to and relied upon to contend that the principle of mutuality would apply even to interest earned from fi xed deposits, National Savings Certifi cates etc. invested by the appellant-Clubs in various banks who may or may not be corporate members of these Clubs. 6.2 Elaborating on the said contentions, Sri Datar, submitted that income by way of receipts by several clubs for supply of food and beverages, admission fees, making available sporting and other facilities, or by way of renting rooms, halls etc. are exempted from payment of income tax on the basis of the principle of mutuality. That in Bankipur Club, this Court had divided the cases into fi ve groups (referred to above) and Group ‘E’ cases, which pertained to income earned from renting of rooms and interest earned from Fixed Deposits, National Savings Certifi cates etc. were de- 998 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. linked. There were seven cases in Group “E’ which were not decided in Bankipur Club, but in the remaining cases, this Court upheld the principle of mutuality as being applicable to the income earned by the Club and held such income to be exempt from payment of income tax.