Under the amended Section 11(6), the appointment of arbitrators is to be done by the arbitral institution: “…the appointment shall be made, on an application of the party, F by the arbitral institution designated by the Supreme Court, in case of international commercial arbitration, or by the High Court, in case of arbitrations other than international commercial arbitration, as the case may be.” G 47 P. Ramanatha Aiyar, The Encyclopaedic Law Dictionary with Words and Phrases, Legal Maxims and Latin terms(5th Edition); P. 1037 48 Government of India, ‘Report of the High Level Committee to Review theInstitutionalisation of Arbitration Mechanism in India (HLC Report, July 2017) Available at https://legalaffairs.gov.in/sites/default/files/Report-HLC.pdf<Last accessed on 19.3.2023> H 456 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 58. Insertion of Section 6(B) by Act 3 of 2016 which is yet to notified reads as under: “(6B) The designation of any person or institution by the Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High Court, for the purposes of this section shall not be regarded as a delegation of judicial B power by the Supreme Court or the High Court. ]” [emphasis supplied] Even though the amendments are not notified yet and there is limited clarity on the process, we may take a cue about the intention of the legislature which seems to be to ensure minimal judicial intervention C at the pre-referral stage of appointment of arbitrator. 59. It would be apposite to refer now to the prevalent position amongst the most-preferred arbitral institutions i.e. the International Chamber of Commerce Court (ICC Court), the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA), the Hong Kong International D Arbitration Centre (HKIAC), the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) and the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chambers of Commerce (SCC) which were mentioned in the report of the High-level Committee and those can be broadly noted as under:- 1. ICC Arbitration Rules, 2021: E “Article 6. Effect of the Arbitration Agreement.— (4) In all cases referred to the Court under Article 6(3)…The arbitration shall proceed if and to the extent that the Court is prima facie satisfied that an arbitration agreement under the Rules may exist. F (5) In all matters decided by the Court under Article 6(4), any decision as to the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal, except as to parties or claims with respect to which the Court decides that the arbitration cannot proceed, shall then be taken by the arbitral tribunal itself.” G 2. HKIAC Arbitration Rules: “Article 11 – HKIAC’s Prima Facie Power to Proceed 11.1 The arbitration shall proceed if and to the extent that HKIAC is satisfied, prima facie, that an arbitration agreement H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 457 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] under these Procedures may exist. Any question as to the A jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal shall be decided by the arbitral tribunal once constituted. 11.2 HKIAC’s decision pursuant to Article 11.1 is without prejudice to the admissibility or merits of any party’s pleas.” B 3.