The reason E for this omission appears to be that the new legal regime envisages transfer of secured assets to private companies. 127. The definition of ‘secured creditor’ includes securitisation/reconstruction company and any other trustee holding securities on behalf of bank/financial institution. The F definition of ‘securitisation company’ and ‘reconstruction company’ in Sections 2(1)(za) and (v) shows that these companies may be private companies registered under the Companies Act, 1956 and having a certificate of registration from Reserve Bank under Section 3 of the Securitisation Act. Evidently, Parliament did not intend to give priority to the G dues of private creditors over sovereign debt of the State. 128. If the provisions of the DRT Act and the Securitisation Act are interpreted keeping in view the background and context in which these legislations were enacted and the H 792 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A purpose sought to be achieved by their enactment, it becomes clear that the two legislations, are intended to create a new dispensation for expeditious recovery of dues of banks, financial institutions and secured creditors and adjudication of the grievance made by any aggrieved person qua the procedure adopted by the banks, financial institutions and B other secured creditors, but the provisions contained therein cannot be read as creating first charge in favour of banks, etc. 129. If Parliament intended to give priority to the dues of banks, financial institutions and other secured creditors over C the first charge created under State legislations then provisions similar to those contained in Section 14-A of the Workmen’s Compensation Act, 1923, Section 11(2) of the EPF Act, Section 74(1) of the Estate Duty Act, 1953, Section 25(2) of the Mines and Minerals (Regulation and Development) Act, 1957, D Section 30 of the Gift Tax Act, and Section 529-A of the Companies Act, 1956 would have been incorporated in the DRT Act and the Securitisation Act. 130. Undisputedly, the two enactments do not contain provision similar to the Workmen’s Compensation Act, etc. In E the absence of any specific provision to that effect, it is not possible to read any conflict or inconsistency or overlapping between the provisions of the DRT Act and the Securitisation Act on the one hand and Section 38-C of the Bombay Act and Section 26-B of the Kerala Act on the other and the non obstante clauses contained in Section 34(1) of the DRT Act F and Section 35 of the Securitisation Act cannot be invoked for declaring that the first charge created under the State legislation will not operate qua or affect the proceedings initiated by banks, financial institutions and other secured creditors for recovery of their dues or enforcement of security G interest, as the case may be.” (emphasis ours) 37. It is much after this decision in Central Bank of India (supra) that Parliament proceeded to amend the DRT Act and the SARFAESI Act by the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts H STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. M/S A.J.