In Kalpraj Dharamshi v Kotak Investment Advisors Limited, (2021) 10 SCC 401, the Court concluded that ‘… in view of the paramount importance given to the decision of CoC, which is to be taken on the basis of “commercial wisdom”, Nclat was not correct in law in interfering with the commercial decision taken by CoC by a thumping majority of 84.36%.’ 28. In Pratap Technocrats Private Limited (supra), the Court, after considering the relevant case-laws, pointed out that the Indian Legislature had departed from foreign insolvency regimes, as under: ‘44. These decisions have laid down that the jurisdiction of the adjudicating authority and the appellate authority cannot extend into entering upon merits of a business decision made by a requisite majority of the CoC in its commercial wisdom. Nor is there a residual equity based jurisdiction in the adjudicating authority or the appellate authority to interfere in this decision, so long as it is otherwise in RAMKRISHNA FORGINGS LTD v. RAVINDRA LOONKAR, 689 R. P. OF ACIL LTD.[AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] conformity with the provisions of IBC and the Regulations under the enactment. 45. Certain foreign jurisdictions allow resolution/reorganisation plans to be challenged on grounds of fairness and equity. One of the grounds under which a company voluntary arrangement can be challenged under the United Kingdom’s Insolvency Act, 1986 is that it unfairly prejudices the interests of a creditor of the company13. The United States’ Bankruptcy Code provides that if a restructuring plan has to clamp down on a dissenting class of creditors, one of the conditions that it should satisfy is that it does not unfairly discriminate, and is fair and equitable14. However, under the Indian insolvency regime, it appears that a conscious choice has been made by the legislature to not confer any independent equity based jurisdiction on the adjudicating authority other than the statutory requirements laid down under sub-section (2) of Section 30 IBC. 46. An eff ort was made by Mr Dushyant Dave, learned Senior Counsel, to persuade this Court to read the guarantees of fair procedure and non-arbitrariness as emanating from the decision of this Court in Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India [Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India, (1978) 1 SCC 248] into the provisions of IBC. IBC, in our view, is a complete code in itself. It defi nes what is fair and equitable treatment by constituting a comprehensive framework within which the actors partake in the insolvency process. The process envisaged by IBC is a direct representation of certain economic goals of the Indian economy. It is enacted after due deliberation in Parliament 13 [“6. Challenge of decisions.—(1) Subject to this section, an application to the court may be made, by any of the persons specifi ed below, on one or both of the following grounds, namely—(a) that a voluntary arrangement which has eff ect under Section 4-A unfairly prejudices the interests of a creditor, member or contributory of the company;(b) that there has been some material irregularity at or in relation to the meeting of the company, or in relation to the relevant qualifying decision procedure.”] 14 [“1129.