and leave encashment in terms of Regulation 38 of the Punjab National Bank (Offi cers’) Service Regulations, 1979 (for short “1979 Regulations”). It was also clarifi ed that the dues be calculated from the date of compulsory retirement and be released within a period of eight weeks from the date of communication. Learned Single Judge denied the benefi t of pension because the appellant was not an in-service candidate when the scheme for shifting to the pension regime became operational. 4. On fi ling the Special Appeal by the Bank, the Division Bench allowed the same in part maintaining the of grant of leave encashment, but set-aside the grant of provident fund (Bank’s contribution) and gratuity on the pretext that by an act of the appellant, loss has been caused to the Bank. 5. In view of the foregoing facts, grant of leave encashment to appellant is no more res integra. The appellant is not challenging the refusal to grant pension as he was not an in-service candidate at the time of change of scheme. The only question that falls for consideration is whether the denial of employer’s contribution of Provident Fund and non-payment of gratuity to appellant because of the of compulsory retirement, as directed by the impugned , is justifi ed or not? 6. Mr. Irshad Ahmad, learned counsel appearing for the appellant contends that Rule 13 of the Punjab National Bank Employees’ Provident Fund Trust Rules (for short “P.F. Trust Rules”) gives fi rst lien to the Bank on the contributions made by it to recover any loss, damages and liabilities which the Bank may at any time sustain or incur by reasons of any dishonest act, deed or omission or gross misconduct by a member of the provident fund. It is submitted that in the main chargesheet or in the supplementary chargesheet, it is not alleged that due to grant of loan under the scheme or in other loans, any loss has been caused to the Bank. In the report of enquiry, fi nding of loss having been caused to the Bank has not been recorded. JYOTIRMAY RAY V. THE FIELD GENERAL MANAGER, 203 PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] Learned counsel contends that the Board of Directors unilaterally passed a resolution which has rightly been interfered with by the learned Single Judge. 7. Learned counsel contends that while reversing those fi ndings, the Division Bench has not assigned any cogent reason or even discussed the issue. It is also submitted that the Punjab National Bank, Personnel Division, Head Offi ce, New Delhi issued Circular No. 1563 on 16/01/1997 having due reference to the provisions of the Payment of Gratuity Act, 1972 (for short “Gratuity Act”) and payment under the 1979 Regulations. Explanation to clause 14(1)(a) of the said circular makes it clear that the gratuity is payable on termination of service to an offi cer on completion of at least 10 years of service. It is clarifi ed that the said termination should not be by way of punishment as dismissal or removal.