In the fi nal IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 349 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] analysis, as I understand it, it is the kinship of ideals which determines the strength of ties between two States. The national Congress has consistently supported the cause of the States peoples’ freedom. The autocratic rule of the Princes has been away with and representative Governments have been entrusted with the administration. Steps towards democratization have been taken and these have raised the people’s standard of living, brought about much needed social reconstruction, and, above all built up their very independence of spirit. Naturally, if we accede to India there is no danger of a revival of feudalism and autocracy. Moreover, during last four years, the Government of India has never tried to interfere in our internal autonomy. This experience has strengthened our confi dence in them as a democratic State. The real character of a State is revealed in its constitution. The Indian Constitution has set before the country the goal of secular democracy based upon justice, freedom and equality for all without distinction. This is bedrock of modern democracy. This should meet the argument that the Muslims of Kashmir cannot have security in India, where the large majority of the population of Hindus. Any unnatural cleavage between religious groups is the legacy of imperialism, and no modern State can aff ord to encourage artifi cial divisions if it is to achieve progress and prosperity. The Indian Constitution has amply and fi nally repudiated the concept of a religious state, which is a throwback to medievalism, by guaranteeing the equality of right of all citizens in respective of their religion colour, caste and class. The national movement in our state naturally gravitates towards these Principles of secular democracy. The people here will never accept a principle, which seeks to favour the interests of one religion or social group against another. This affi nity in political principle as well as in past association, and our common path of suff ering in the cause of freedom, must be weighed properly while deciding the future of the State. We are also intimately concerned with the economic well-being of the people of this State. As I said before while referring to constitution building, political ideals are often meaningless unless linked with 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. economic plans. As a State, we are mainly with agriculture and trade. As you know, and as I had detailed before we have been able to put through our “land to the tiller” legislation and make of it a practical success. Land and all it means is an inestimable blessing to our peasants who have dragged along in servitude to the landlord and his allies for centuries without number. We have been able under present conditions to carry these reforms through; are we sure that in alliance with landlord ridden Pakistan, with so many feudal privileges in act, that this economic reforms of our will be tolerated? We have already heard that news of our Land Reforms has traveled to the peasants of the enemy occupied area of our State who vainly deserve alike status, and like benefi ts.