806 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 6P OS.RCT.RS. 806 [2023] 6 S.C.R. A M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD & ORS. v. MR. DINKAR VENKATASUBRAMANIAN & ANR. (Civil Appeal No.3606 of 2020) B MAY 04, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND SANJIV KHANNA, JJ.] Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016: ss. 30, 52 and 53 – Claim of the appellant as financial creditor of the corporate debtor on basis of the pledged shares – Entitlement to – On facts, corporate C debtor approached the appellants to extend a short- term loan facility to its group companies for the ultimate end use of the corporate debtor – It was an understanding that the corporate debtor would create first ranking exclusive security by way of pledging shares held by the corporate debtor – Execution of Security D Trustee Agreements between the appellant no. 1 and the group companies – Thereafter, an application u/s.7 admitted against the corporate debtor and the respondent appointed as the resolution professional – Appellant no. 1 filed its claim as a secured creditor of the corporate debtor and submitted Form C claiming a principal amount, however, the same was rejected by the resolution E professional – Appellants then filed application u/s. 60(5) claiming the right based on pledged shares, which was rejected by the Adjudicating Authority as well as the NCLAT – NCLAT held that the appellants not having advanced any money to the corporate debtor as a financial debt would not be coming within the purview of a F financial creditor of the corporate debtor – On appeal, held:Appellant No. 1 has security interest in the pledged shares – Appellant No. 1 is to be treated as a secured creditor, but would not fall under the category of financial creditors or operational creditors – Appellant No.1 is being denied the rights u/s. 52 as well as s. 53 in respect of the pledged shares whereas, the intent of the amended G s. 30(2) rw s. 31 is to protects the interests of other creditors who are outside the purview of the CoC – Viable solution is to treat the appellant no. 1 as secured creditor in terms of s. 52 rw s. 53 – Option is given to the successful resolution applicant to treat the appellant no.1 as a secured creditor, who would be entitled to retain H 806 M/S VISTRA ITCL (INDIA) LTD v. MR. DINKAR 807 VENKATASUBRAMANIAN the security interest in the pledged shares, and in terms thereof, A retain the security proceeds on the sale of the said pledged shares – This option would meet the mandate of the Code and does not violate the rights given to the secured creditor –Thus, appellant no.1 would be treated as a secured creditor, and entitled to all rights and obligations as applicable to a secured creditor in terms of ss. 52 B and 53 and in accordance with the pledge agreement – Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 2016 – r. 21A. Disposing of the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The submission that the Amended and Restated C Pledge Agreement dated 5.07.2016 between the corporate debtor and the IL&FS Trust Company Limited, the predecessor-in- interest of the appellant no.