I recommended the contract to be given to A5 not because of A1’s interest.” 95. Therefore, nothing more was required to show that PW-16 B was unworthy of credit and the conviction based upon such a person as a star witness, cannot be sustained. 96. On the question whether BHEL suffered a wrongful loss or whether A-5 or any other firm with which he was associated had a wrongful gain, the evidence of PW-24 who was the Deputy Manager C (Finance) BHEL is crucial. In his cross-examination, PW-24 stated as follows:- “…In the course of the enquiry by the CBI official they asked me to send a detailed account copies. As per their request I sent them. Ex. D1 is the true copy of the accounts I sent to CBI. As D far as this contract is concerned as the bank guarantee was revoked M/s BHEL Trichy has not lost any money in this contract. As a matter of fact A.5 the contractors’ money to the tune of Rs.1,61,86,234/- in with M/s BHEL Trichy. Apart from this amount an amount of Rs.98,52,286/- is payable to accused No.5 by BHEL towards the work done by him…” E 97. Two things are borne out of the above admission made by PW-24. The first is that even at the time of investigation, PW-24 had provided to the I.O., a detailed accounts copy showing that BHEL had not suffered any loss and that on the contrary, a sum of Rs.2.60 crores was payable to Entoma. But for some inexplicable reason, the copy of F the said accounts statement was not produced by the CBI before the Court. The same had to be marked as Defense Exhibit D-1 while cross- examining PW-24. Therefore, it is clear that this statement of account was burked, so that a picture is painted as though BHEL suffered wrongful loss. G 98. The second thing that flows out of PW-24’s cross-examination extracted above, is that even after invoking the bank guarantee and appropriating the same towards the monies already paid, BHEL was still left with the contractor’s money of Rs.1,61,86,234/- apart from an amount of Rs.98,52,286/- payable to A-5 by BHEL towards the work done. H 64 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 99. Therefore, it is clear that it was A-5 who actually got into a mess, both financially and legally, by bagging the contract. Rather than making any gain much less unlawful gain, the contractor has lost the above two amounts, in addition to having the bank guarantee invoked. 100. Unfortunately, the Trial Court fell into a trap because of the B statement that an amount of Rs.1,52,50,000/- was transferred by Entoma Hydro Systems from the amount of mobilization advance, to the account of another firm of which A-5 to A-7 were partners. The Trial Court concluded that the partnership firm M/s Insecticides & Allied Chemicals had a wrongful gain to the extent of this amount, forgetting for a moment that if it was BHEL’s money that was received by the said firm, what C was paid back, by the same logic should have been the firm’s money.