399; Tucker vs. Granada Motorway Services Ltd., (1979) 53 T.C. 92 (“Tucker”); Mallet, respectively. However, the relationship between the expenditure and the acquisition, C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 453 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] improvement or disposal of a capital asset must be proximate and not remote. For instance, payment made to staff could not be said to be payment made for acquisition of goodwill and hence capital in nature, although, the staff by serving well may help create the goodwill, videLawson vs. Johnson Matthey Plc., (1992) 65 T.C. 39. iii. Identifi able asset test: It is necessary to identify a specifi c capital asset for which the expenditure is incurred, vide Tucker. When the asset is an intangible benefi t (licences, trading agreements etc.) it will be necessary to ask whether the identifi able asset is of a suffi ciently substantial and enduring nature to count as capital, vide Dale; CIR vs. Carron Company, (1968) 45 T.C. 18; Heather vs. PE Consulting Group Ltd., (1972) 48 T.C. 293. iv. Expenditure on commercial advantages generally: Expenditure on commercial advantages dependent on a particular trading relationship is likely to be capital only if a permanent advantage, such as the closing down of a potentially damaging competitor, is secured by the payment, Walker vs. The Joint Credit Card Co., (1982) 55 T.C. 617. However, expenditure which is incurred towards general business convenience (such as to facilitate transport, supply-chain management, obtain temporary advantage over a competitor etc.) is of revenue nature, CIR vs. Nchanga Copper Mines, (1964) 1 All ER 208 (“Nchanga Copper Mines”). v. Eff ect, if any, of the expenditure on the profi t-making structure: The question to consider is, whether, the payment was made with a view to earn profi t in a new form, or to structure the assessee’s profi t making apparatus. While the former category of expenditure would be revenue in nature, the latter would be capital. 18. The test that was adopted, almost universally, in the early decisions in India, is akin to the one laid down by Viscount Cave L.C. in Atherton. 18.1. In Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay vs. Century Spinning, Weaving and Manufacturing Co., (1942) 10 ITR Suppl., M.C. Chagla J. observed that the legal touchstone which is most familiarly applied in the Indian context is that of Viscount Cave in Atherton’s case. 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 18.2. In Benarsidas Jagannath, In re, (1946) 15 ITR 185, a Full Bench of the Lahore High Court attempted to reconcile the tests referred to hereinabove and deduced the following broad tests for distinguishing capital expenditure from revenue expenditure: “It is not easy to defi ne the term ‘capital expenditure’ in the abstract or to lay down any general and satisfactory test to discriminate between a capital and a revenue expenditure. Nor is it easy to reconcile all the decisions that were cited before us for each case has been decided on its peculiar facts. Some broad principles can, however, be deduced from what the learned Judges have laid down from time to time.