1 and 2 as against the above said property, with complete costs of the present suit, may kindly be passed in favour of the plaintiff and against the defendants. The plaintiff may also be awarded any other relief to which he shall be found entitled to under the law, equity and justice.” B 7. Applications under Section 8 of the 1996 Act were moved by the first respondent seeking a reference to arbitration in both the suits. The trial court dismissed the applications by separate s dated 27 March 2017. The first respondent challenged the s of the trial court under Article 227 of the Constitution. The High Court, by the impugned C dated 1 August 2017, set aside the of the trial court and directed that the disputes in both the suits be referred to arbitration under Section 8 of the 1996 Act. The dispute has travelled to this Court. 8. We have heard Mr Rajiv Talwar, counsel for the appellant, Mr Vishal Mahajan, counsel for the first and second respondents and Mr D Gunjan Kumar, counsel for the third to fifth respondents. 9. The narration of facts indicates that the MoU dated 14 September 2010 is between the appellant and the first respondent. The appellant instituted two suits. In the first suit, the first respondent has been impleaded as the first defendant while Sachdeva and Sons Industries E Private Limited is impleaded as the second respondent. Admittedly, Sachdeva and Sons Industries Private Limited is not a party to the MoU which is executed solely between the appellant and the first respondent. In the second suit, apart from the two defendants who are parties to the first suit, relief has been sought against Canara Bank. While the relief which has been sought in the first suit is in terms of an injunction simpliciter F from the alienation of certain land, the relief which has been sought in the second suit is for a permanent injunction restraining Canara Bank from disbursing or releasing any loan or finance in the name of the first respondent and the second respondent in respect of the landed property. Certain consequential reliefs have been sought against Canara Bank. Hence, it is evident that there are several parties to the suit who are not G parties to the arbitration agreement. The MoU which is executed between the parties indicates that the Sachdeva family comprising of both the appellant and the first respondent was carrying on business in several companies, partnership firms and proprietorship under the joint ownership of the Sachdeva family. The MoU contains a description of the respective H 1198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A family units and their concerns. The MoU indicates that there are certain non-family shareholdings. 10. In this backdrop and since the MoU was executed exclusively between the appellant and the first respondent, the reference to arbitration under Section 8 of the trial Judge was patently in error. Neither Canara B Bank nor the company are parties to the arbitration agreement.