6277 of 2023. Appearances: Pranab Prakash, Yash Chaturvedi, Advs. for the Appellant. Ashutosh Shekhar Paarcha, Ms. Neha Kapoor, Milind Kumar, Sanyat Lodha, Ms. Sanjana Saddy, Ms. Surbhi Arora, Advs. for the Respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT ABHAY S.OKA, J. Leave granted. 2. Heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties. 3. This is a shocking case of gross abuse of process of law by the second to fourth respondents. At the instance of the appellant, six First Information Reports were registered against the second to fourth respondents. There were two other First Information Reports registered against the same respondents by some other fi rst informants. Two Criminal Miscellaneous Petitions were fi led by the second to fourth respondents for quashing the First Information Reports fi led at the instance of the other fi rst informants. AMBALAL PARIHAR v. STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. 215 [ABHAY S.OKA, J.] 4. Our attention is invited to the s passed on the two petitions under Section 482 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short “CrPC”) fi led by the second to fourth respondents. The petitions came up before a learned Single Judge of the Rajasthan High Court in April, 2023 in which no interim relief was granted. 5. Thereafter, the second to fourth respondents took a very extra ordinary step. On 5th May, 2023 a Writ Petition was fi led on the civil side by the second and fourth respondents in which a prayer was made for issuing a writ of mandamus for clubbing the eight First Information Reports and consolidating them into one. The impugned has been passed in the said Civil Writ Petition on 8th May, 2023. The learned Single Judge of the High Court directed that no coercive action shall be taken against the second to fourth respondents in connection with all eight First Information Reports. 6. The appellant has made a very serious allegation by relying upon the then prevailing roster notifi ed by the Chief Justice of the Rajasthan High Court. The allegation is that as the learned Single Judge taking up assignment of the criminal matters dealing with Section 482 CrPC did not grant interim relief to the second to fourth respondents in two cases, this method of fi ling a Civil Writ Petition was invented in which a prayer was made for consolidation of eight First Information Reports. The allegation is that this was done to avoid the roster Judge who had not granted interim relief. Not only that this course was adopted, the second to fourth respondents in the Civil Writ Petition prayed for interim relief directing that no coercive action shall be taken against the second to fourth respondents in relation to all eight First Information Reports. The complainants were not impleaded in the Civil Writ Petitions. Interestingly, both in civil and criminal cases, the same advocate represented the second to fourth respondents. 7. This is a classic case of forum hunting by the second to fourth respondents. It transpires that notwithstanding the aforesaid relief granted on 8th May, 2023 in the Civil Writ Petition, in the petitions under Section 482 of CrPC for quashing, on 1st June, 2023 the second to fourth respondents persuaded the concerned Bench to grant relief of not taking coercive action against them.