[SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] reliance was placed, inter alia, on a of this Court in Delhi A Electric Supply Undertaking v. Basanti Devi & Anr.,3 opining that the employer of the deceased had assumed the role of an agent of the insurance company under Section 182 of the Indian Contract Act because the employer had the responsibility of deducting the premium from the monthly salary of the deceased and remitting it to the insurance company. B Therefore, on account of the employer’s failure, as an agent, to remit the premium amount, the insurance company, as the principal, will still have the liability to make payment of the insured amount. 10. We may observe, at this stage itself, that the factual controversy and the legal controversy in this case are quite different. We really do C not see how it was relevant for the issue being debated. 11. The Division Bench, however, distinguished the instant case from Lilawanti Devi4predicated on the premise that the Constable had died while the insurance cover existed, unlike in Lilawanti Devi5. The factum of death, occurring during the existence of the policy, was not D disputed, which was before the expiry of the insurance policy and surprisingly, in our view, applied the ratio of Basanti Devi6on the agency principle. To support its view, the Court made the following observations: Firstly, the net premium for the policy was paid to the insurance company by the Headquarters directly after deducting from the salaries E of the police personnel; Secondly, insurance was taken on behalf of the police personnel under the signature of Director General and Inspector General of the Police or their name nominee; Thirdly, the police personnel was prohibited under rules from F making any direct contact with the insurance company and all communications were restricted between the Headquarters and the insurance company; Fourthly, the police personnel did not have an individual right to take out the policy. G 12. On the issue of time for raising the insurance claim, it was opined that no time limit was prescribed and since all pre-requisites to 3 (1999) 8 SCC 229 4 (supra) 5 (supra) 6 (supra) H 320 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the claim for the insurance policy were available, it was the exclusive liability of the insurance company to pay the insured amount. 13. The insurance company but naturally came into appeal before this Court. Appellant’s contentions: B 14. The Appellant contended before us that the Assistant Election Officer had actually rejected the claim vide letter dated 20.11.2009 but subsequently sought to admit their liability in the writ petition and paid the claim to Respondent No.2. The endeavour thereafter was to somehow fasten the liability on the Appellant. C 15. The policy was also stated to have expired by efflux of time on 23.06.2000. Learned counsel for the Appellant also sought to contend that the cause of death was due to a sun stroke/heat stroke and was not even covered within the scope of the policy as the ‘Scope of Cover’ of the MoU required it to be “external violent and any other visible D means.” 16.