[2023] 2 S.C.R. 543 543 SURESHKUMAR LALITKUMAR PATEL & ORS. A v. STATE OF GUJARAT & ORS. (Civil Appeal Nos. 1355-1356 of 2023) FEBRUARY 20, 2023 B [SANJIV KHANNA AND M. M. SUNDRESH, JJ.] Service Law – Modification of selection process – Cut-off marks reduced after results were published to facilitate the inclusion of candidates constituting horizontal reservation – Impermissibility C of – Held: An advertisement made pursuant to a notification binds the parties – It has got all the trappings of a statutory prescription, unless contrary to either a rule or an Act – A change, if any, can only be brought by an amendment and nothing else – Such amendment even if permissible, can be tested on the touchstone of Art.14 – It cannot be introduced to give an entry to a special D reservation, in a case where a right becomes accrued to a candidate, under a policy decision reduced in the form of an advertisement, to be considered for a post in the absence of any eligible candidate from the horizontal category – In the present case, the Selection Committee reduced the marks to facilitate the horizontal reservation E by treating it as a vertical reservation – Rules do not provide for such reservation to be treated as a vertical one – Admittedly, the appellants are entitled to get the respective post as per the advertisement issued – Further, fixing cut-off marks for a particular category has got a rationale behind it – Reducing it only for the purpose of providing employment to a particular category, when F the others have already acquired some right would be an affront to Art.14 – Furthermore, relevant clauses in the advertisement do not confer unbridled power either on the State Govt. or the Selection Committee to modify the selection process and reduce the cut-off marks after the results are published – of Division Bench set G aside – However, on facts, private respondents belonging to the special category comprising of women, ex-servicemen and physically challenged be considered to be accommodated in their respective reserved category, provided they do not exceed the percentage of reservation permissible, without upsetting the H 543 544 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A appointment of the appellants and others similarly placed and subject to their eligibility – Constitution of India – Articles 14,142. Allowing the appeal, the Court Held: 1.1 This Court is dealing with the recruitment process by which the posts pertaining to each of the separate categories B is to be filled up by only one mode, i.e., written examination. The cut-off marks have been fixed with a distinct clarification that it would not be tinkered with by facilitating anyone to be considered, if the candidate acquired lesser marks. There is a difference between qualification for making an application, and the eligibility C to be determined in the process of selection. The present case is concerned with an eligibility after the examination is conducted. Selection Committee reduced the marks to facilitate the horizontal reservation by treating it as a vertical reservation.