18. In the situation and circumstances expatiated above it is only apposite to refer to the decision in Abdul Kader v. Upendra9. It was held therein that in the case of acquiescence the representations are to be inferred from silence, but mere silence, mere inaction could not be G construed to be a representation and in to be a representation it must be inaction or silence in circumstances which require a duty to speak andtherefore, amounting to fraud or deception. 9 40 C.W.N 1370 H 298 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 19. There can be no doubt with respect to the position that estoppel is a principle founded on equity and as held by the court in Madanappa’s case (supra) its object is only to prevent and secure justice between the parties. In the proven circumstances that the original appellant was not having title over the property, that the respondent herein is the owner of the land in question, that the concurrent finding is that the original appellant B was the encroacher and further that objection was raised by the respondent herein against the construction she should not have shut out by the rule of acquiescence or by the rule of estoppel for having made a representation to make the original appellant to believe that she had consented for the construction. C 20. The entire circumstances revealed from the evidence on record unerringly point to the fact that the appellant had encroached upon land belonging to the respondent and without bona fides effected constructions which is verandah which is extension of residential building. The object of estoppel, as held in Madanappa’s case, wouldbe defeated D if the said illegality is recognized and allowance is granted therefor. In the contextual situation, a decision of a learned Single Judge of High Court of Andhra Pradesh in N.C. Subbayya v. Pattan Abdulla Khan10 extracted in agreement in the decision by the learned Single Judge of High Court of Madras in the decision in Bodi Reddy v. Appu Goundan11, is worthy to be looked into. In the decision the learned Single Judge of E the High Court of Andhra Pradesh after posing a question “has the court an absolute discretion to award damages instead of a mandatory injunction where there is a trespass by the defendant on the plaintiff’s land?” held thus:- “To say the building erected in such circumstances should F not be directed to be removed and only damages could be awarded would, in my opinion, be ineffective, to sanction a condemnation of the plaintiff’s property and an appropriation of it for the defendant’s use…. To confine the relief to compensation in such a case is tantamount to allowing a G trespasser to purchase another man’s property against that man’s will. No man should be compelled to sell his property against his will at a valuation and no person should be 10 (1956) 69 LW (Andhra) 52 11 (1971) ILR 2 Madras 155 H BAINI PRASAD (D) THR. LRS. v. DURGA DEVI 299 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.]