E (62) It contemplated performing of the task mentioned in Article 3.1.2A also shall be part of the initial consent on their completion within the time provided. Article 3.1.2A contemplated performance of the task with which we are concerned viz., making available the land for the power plant and for the water intake pipeline. This task was to be F performed within a period of eight months from the date of the letter of intent being issued or six months from the PPA whichever is later. It is true that the task which was to be performed by the procurers in terms of Article 3.1.2A was performed belatedly by the procurers. In other words, the time limit was overshot by nearly 18 months. But this delay is not the basis for the claim based on change in law. G (63) The question would then arise as to whether the delay in the performance of the task which has been characterised on its performance within the time as a deemed initial consent would lead to a change in law within the meaning of Article 13.1.1. We find that Article 3.3.3 of the PPA reads as follows: H 48 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A “3.3.3 In case of inability of the Seller to fulfil the conditions specified in Article 3.1.2 due to any Force Majeure event, the time period for fulfilment of the Condition Subsequent as mentioned in Article 3.1.2 and Article 3.1.2A, shall be extended for the period of such Force Majeure event, subject to a maximum extension period of ten (10) Months, continuous or non-continuous in B aggregate. Thereafter, this Agreement may be terminated by either the Procurers (jointly) or the Seller by giving a notice of at least seven (7) days, in writing to the other Party. Similarly, in case of inability of the Procurers to fulfil the conditions specified in Article 3.1.2A due to any Force Majeure C event, the time period for fulfillment of the Condition subsequent as mentioned in Article 3.1.2 and Article 3.1.2A, shall be extended period of ten (10) Months, continuous or non- continuous in aggregate. Thereafter, this Agreement may be terminated by either the Procurers (jointly) or the Seller by D giving a notice of at least seven (7) days, in writing to the other Party.” (64) We must next notice Article 3.3.3A which follows: “3.3.3A In case of inability of the Procurers to perform the activities specified in Article 3.1.2A within the time period specified therein, E otherwise than for the reasons directly attributable to the Seller or Force Majeure event, the Condition Subsequent as mentioned in Article 3.1.2 would be extended on a ‘day for day’ basis, equal to the additional time which may be required by the Procurers to complete the activities mentioned in Article 3.1.2A, subject to a maximum additional time of six (6) Months. Thereafter, this F Agreement may be terminated by the Seller at its option, by giving a notice of at least seven (7) days, in writing to the Procurers.