procedure envisaged to effectuate public purpose, compulsorily acquiring the land for use of public purpose. The notifi cation under Section 4 and declaration under Section 6 of the Act are required to be published in the manner contemplated thereunder. The inference gives conclusiveness to the public purpose and the extent of the land mentioned therein. The award should be made under Section 11 as envisaged thereunder. The dissatisfi ed claimant is provided with the remedy of reference under Section 18 and a further appeal under Section 54 of the Act. If the Government intends to withdraw from the acquisition before taking possession of the land, procedure contemplated under Section 48 requires to be adhered to. If possession is taken, it stands vested under Section 16 in the State with absolute title free from all encumbrances and the Government has no power to withdraw from acquisition. 3. It would thus be clear that the scheme of the Act is complete in itself and thereby the jurisdiction of the civil court to take cognizance of the cases arising under the Act, by necessary implication, stood barred. The civil court thereby is devoid of jurisdiction to give declaration on the invalidity of the procedure contemplated under the Act. The only right an aggrieved person has is to approach the constitutional courts, viz., the High Court and the Supreme Court under their plenary power under Articles 226 and 136 respectively with self-imposed restrictions on their exercise of extraordinary power. Barring thereof, there is no power to the civil court.” (Emphasis supplied) 58. Following the above two decisions (i.e., State of Bihar v Dhirendra Kumar and Laxmi Chand v. Gram Panchayat), in Commissioner, Bangalore Development Authority and another v. Brijesh Reddy and another (supra), it was held: “18. It is clear that the Land Acquisition Act is a complete code in itself and is meant to serve public purpose. By necessary implication, the power of the civil court to take cognizance of the case under Section 9 CPC stands excluded and a civil court has no jurisdiction to go into the question of the validity or legality of the notifi cation under Section URBAN IMPROVEMENT TRUST, BIKANER v. GORDHAN 575 DASS (D) THROUGH LRS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 4, declaration under Section 6 and subsequent proceedings except by the High Court in a proceeding under Article 226 of the Constitution. It is thus clear that the civil court is devoid of jurisdiction to give declaration or even bare injunction being granted on the invalidity of the procedure contemplated under the Act. The only right available for the aggrieved person is to approach the High Court under Article 226 and this Court under Article 136 with self-imposed restrictions on their exercise of extraordinary power.” 59. Reverting to the present case, the acquisition is for a public purpose, namely, development of land for residential colony and, by virtue of sub-section (4) of Section 52 of the 1959 Act, the land stood vested in the State free from all encumbrances with eff ect from the date of publication of the notifi cation.