It is submitted that as such no cause of action has arisen within the territory of Uttarakhand High Court, the Uttarakhand High Court lacked the territorial jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition against the passed E by the Chairman, Central Administrative Tribunal, Principal Bench, New Delhi. Heavy reliance is placed on the decision of this Court in the case of L. Chandra Kumar (supra) as well as on the decision of this Court in the case of Union of India Vs. Alapan Bandyopadhyay (2022) 3 SCC 133. F 4.1 In the caseof Alapan Bandyopadhyay (supra) after considering and following the decision of this Court in the case of L. Chandra Kumar (supra), it is specifically observed and held that “all decisions of Tribunals created under Article 323A and Article 323B of the Constitution will be subject to the scrutiny before a Division Bench of the High Court within whose jurisdiction the concerned Tribunal falls.” G It is submitted that before this Court an identification question arises. That before this Court in the case of Alapan Bandyopadhyay (supra) the High Court at Calcutta set aside the passed by the Principal Bench, New Delhi transferring the OA and its files from the Calcutta Bench to the Principal Bench (New Delhi). That it is observed and held H UNION OF INDIA v. SANJIV CHATURVEDI 65 [M. R. SHAH, J.] by this Court that the Calcutta High Court lacked territorial jurisdiction. A Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General heavily relied upon paragraphs 15 to 17. 4.2 Making the above submissions and relying upon the above decisions it is vehemently submitted by Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General that the impugned and passed by the B High Court of Uttarakhand is wholly without jurisdiction. 4.3 Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General has made elaborate submissions on merits also, namely, on the powers of the Chairman conferred under Section 25 of the Act, 1985. C 5. Shri Shyam Divan, learned Senior Advocate has appeared on behalf of the original writ petitioner. On the submissions made on behalf of the Union of India that the High Court of Uttarakhand would have no jurisdiction to entertain the writ petition challenging the decision of the Chairman, CAT, to transfer the OA from Nainital Circuit Bench to Principal Bench, New Delhi, it is vehemently submitted by Shri Shyam D Divan, learned Senior Advocate that under Article 226 (2) of the Constitution of India any High Court can exercise jurisdiction under Article 226 provided a part cause of action has arisen in its jurisdiction irrespective of whether the authority or government which passed the is not located within the jurisdiction of the said High Court. Thus, there can be E no doubt that the High Court can exercise the powers under Article 226, if the cause of action, wholly or in part, arises in the territorial jurisdiction of that High Court. 5.1 It is submitted that the decision of this Court in the case of L. Chandra Kumar (supra) while recognising the jurisdiction of a High Court under whose jurisdiction the Tribunal falls, may not be read to be F limiting the jurisdiction of other High Court under Article 226(2), if otherwise available.