Adv., V.C Bharati, Ms. Shruti ShivKumar, Rahul VijayaKumar, Ms. Amritha C. Mouli, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Rupesh Kumar, Mrs. Gargi Khanna, Rajesh Kumar Singh, Vikrant Yadav, S A Haseeb, Manish Pushkarna, Mrs. Anil Katiyar, Advs. for the Appellant. Arvind P. Datar, Ajay Vohra, Arvind Datar, Sr. Advs., Ms. Kavita Jha, Vaibhav Kulkarni, Udit Naresh, Mahesh Agarwal, Ms. Sayaree Basu Mallik, Abhinav Garg, Sachit Jolly, Ms. Anuradha Dutt, Ms. Disha Jham, Ms. Soumya Singh, Ms. B. Vijayalakshmi Menon, Harpreet Singh Ajmani, Aniket Deepak Agrawal, E. C. Agrawala, Advs. for the Respondent. / OF THE SUPREME COURT NAGARATHNA, J. Delay condoned. 2. Leave granted. 3. The of the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi, dated 19 December, 2013 in ITA No. 1336 of 2010 and connected matters, whereby the High Court of Delhi, confi rming the decision of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal, New Delhi (hereinafter, “Tribunal” for short) has held that the variable licence fee paid by the respondents-assessees under the New Telecom Policy, 1999 ((hereinafter referred to as “Policy of 1999” for the sake of convenience), is revenue expenditure in nature and is to be deducted under Section 37 of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (hereinafter referred to as “the Act” for the sake of brevity) is assailed in these appeals. Some of these appeals also arise from s passed by the High Courts of C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 377 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Bombay and Karnataka, following the of the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi, dated 19 December, 2013. 4. Since common questions of law and facts arise in these appeals, they have been clubbed together and heard and disposed of by this common . Bird’s eye view of the controversy: 5. The controversy in these cases revolves around the question, as to, whether, the variable licence fee paid by the respondent-assessees to the Department of Telecommunications (hereinafter referred to as “DoT”, for short) under the New Telecom Policy of 1999 (Policy of 1999) is revenue expenditure in nature and is to be allowed deduction under Section 37 of the Act, or, whether the same is capital in nature, Section 35ABB of the Act. Brief facts of the case: 6. The National Telecom Policy of 1994 was substituted by the New Telecom Policy of 1999 dated 22 July, 1999. The said Policy of 1999 stipulated that the licencee would be required to pay a one-time entry fee and additionally, a licence fee on a percentage share of gross revenue. The entry fee chargeable would be the fee payable by the existing operator upto 31 July, 1999, calculated upto the said date and adjusted upon notional extension of the eff ective date. Subsequently, w.e.f. 01 August, 1999, licence fee was payable on a percentage of Annual Gross Revenue (“AGR”, for short) earned. The quantum of revenue share to be charged as licence fee was to be fi nally decided after obtaining recommendation of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (“TRAI”) but in the meanwhile, the Government of India fi xed 15% of the gross revenue of the licencee as provisional licence fee.