C 6. Shri Choudhari submits that, in any case, the present case is not a fit case for sentencing the appellant-Digambar to death penalty. He submits that the present case cannot be considered to be a ‘rarest of rare’ case so as to award death penalty. D 7. Shri Chinmoy Khaladkar, on the contrary, submits that the Trial Court as well as the High Court have rightly found that the appellants had committed the ghastly murder and awarded a capital sentence. He submits that the present case is nothing but a case of honour killing. It is submitted that since the accused were opposed to the deceased Pooja E having an affair with deceased Govind, the accused have assaulted and killed the deceased. Learned counsel submits that applying both the crime and the criminal tests, interference with the capital punishment would not be warranted. He submits that the appellant-Digambar is not an illiterate person. He is an educated person and was also using a smartphone. It is submitted that the conduct of an educated person F committing such a heinous crime cannot be pardoned. He, therefore, prays for dismissal of the appeals. 8. With the assistance of the learned counsel, we have scrutinized the material evidence on record. G 9. The prosecution case mainly rests on the circumstances of the accused being lastly seen in the company of the deceased, and the death of the deceased occurring shortly thereafter. 10. Insofar as the last seen theory is concerned, the prosecution mainly relies on the evidence of P.W.5-Shankar and P.W.6-Santosh. H DIGAMBAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 101 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 11. P.W.5-Shankar is brother-in-law of deceased Govind. He stated A in his evidence that on 22nd July 2017 at about 6.00 a.m., Govind told him that Pooja called him on mobile phone. Pooja told Govind that she ran away to Nanded from her house and she called Govind at Nanded. He stated that, at about 6.00 p.m., Pooja came to his house. Thereafter, on the cell phone of his niece Punam, he contacted his brother-in-law Santosh B (P.W.6) and told him that Pooja had come to his house. He stated that he tried to convince Pooja that her conduct was not proper and that he would call her father on mobile. However, Pooja told him that he should not tell anybody because she would not leave Govind as she was in love with Govind since the last 5 years. C 12. P.W.5-Shankar further stated in his evidence that on 23rd July 2017, in the morning at about 8.00 to 9.00 a.m., both the accused persons came to his house. Digambar told him that you know as to what type of person I am. When he asked about Pooja, P.W.5-Shankar told him that she was in the house. P.W.5-Shankar further stated that D Digambar told him that he was aware that Pooja and Govind had a love affair since the last 5 years and, therefore, their marriage would be performed.