He submits that, as such, the direction of this Court that no F further extension should be granted to the respondent No.2 is binding on him as well as the Union of India. Learned counsel submits that the stand taken by the respondent No.1 that the basis on which the direction was issued by this Court was that the officer concerned had attained the age of superannuation and on account of amendment to the Fundamental G Rules (hereinafter referred to as “FR”), the extension to the term of the Director of Enforcement is permissible and as such, the basis of the of this Court in the case of Common Cause (2021) is taken away by amending the FR, is wholly without substance. 18. Mr. Gopal Sankarnarayanan submits that this Court in H paragraph 23 of the in the case of Common Cause (2021), DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 541 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] though has upheld the power of the Union of India to extend the tenure A of Director of Enforcement beyond the period of two years, it has made it clear that extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only in rare and exceptional cases. He submits that this Court has specifically stated that any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of Director of B Enforcement after attaining the age of superannuation should be for a short period. It is submitted that all these directions issued by this Court have been annulled by the respondent No.1-Union of India. He submits that though the respondent No.2 was initially appointed for a period of 2 years, by virtue of extensions granted, he will continue for a period of 5 years. C 19. Mr. Sankarnarayanan further submits that the words that have been used by this Court are, “to facilitate the completion of on-going investigations” and “in rare and exceptional cases”. However, ignoring those words, extension is being given to the respondent No.2 on the ground of a vague concept of “public interest”. D 20. Mr. Sankarnarayanan further submits that in view of the of this Court in the case of Madras Bar Association v. Union of India and another2, the effect of the s of the Court can be nullified by a legislative act of removing the basis of the . Such law can be retrospective. However, retrospective amendment should be E reasonable and not arbitrary and must not be violative of the fundamental rights guaranteed under the Constitution. He further submits that nullification of mandamus by an enactment is also an impermissible legislative exercise. Since there is a specific mandamus that the respondent No.2 should not be granted further extension, nullification of such a mandamus cannot be permitted. F 21. Mr. Sankarnayaranan submits that this Court in the cases of Vineet Narain and others v. Union of India and another3, Prakash Singh and others v. Union of India and others (Prakash Singh-1)4, Prakash Singh and others v. Union of India(Prakash Singh-2)5and Prakash Singh and others v. Union of India and others (Prakash G Singh-3)6 has consistently held that the tenure of the high-ranking officials 2 2021 SCC OnLine SC 463= (2022) 12 SCC 455 3 (1998) 1 SCC 226 4 (2006) 8 SCC 1 (Prakash Singh-1) 5 (2019) 4 SCC 14 (Prakash Singh-2) 6 (2019) 4 SCC 1 [Prakash Singh-3) H 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.