Explanation: We have to clarify that gratuity may be paid in case of termination of service, subject to the condition that the offi cers has put in at least 10 years of service with the bank and provided that the termination is not by way of dismissal or removal from service as punishment. (II) The amount of gratuity payable to an offi cer shall be one month’s pay for every completed year of service, subject to a maximum of 15 months’ pay. Provided that where an offi cer has completed more than 30 years of service, he shall be eligible by way of gratuity for an additional amount at the rate of one half of month pay for each completed year of service beyond thirty years. Pay for the purpose of gratuity in case of offi cer shall mean basic pay only. While calculating gratuity, that part of PQA & FPA drawn by an offi cer, which rank for superannuation benefi t, shall also be taken into account. Note: If the fraction of service beyond completed years of service is six months or more, gratuity will be paid pro-rata for the period. JYOTIRMAY RAY V. THE FIELD GENERAL MANAGER, 211 PUNJAB NATIONAL BANK [J. K. MAHESHWARI, J.] In this connection, we have to clarify that for the purpose of calculating gratuity, the number of days, beyond 6 months period is also to be taken into account. On a combined reading of the provisions of the Gratuity Act, 1979 Regulations and the circular, it becomes clear that the gratuity shall become payable to every offi cer on retirement, death, disablement or on resignation except in a case of termination of service in any other way, by way of punishment after completion of 10 years of continuous service. 21. At this stage, it is relevant to refer to the provisions of 1977 Regulations. Regulation 4 of the said Regulations specifi es major penalties: - “Major penalties : (f) …….. (g) …….. (h) Compulsory retirement; (i) Removal from service which shall not be a disqualifi cation for future employment; (j) Dismissal which shall ordinarily be a disqualifi cation for future employment. ” The explanation to Regulation 4 under the heading “Major Penalties” specifi es some of the situations which shall not amount to penalty within the meaning of this Regulation. As those conditions are not relevant for the present case, they are not being referred to. 22. Under Regulation 4 of the 1977 Regulations, the compulsory retirement of an offi cer is a major penalty. The explanation as given in clause 14(1)(a) of the said Circular clarifi es that in case of termination after at least 10 years of service in the Bank, if such termination is not by way of punishment as dismissal or removal, the gratuity may be paid. In the said explanation, the denial of gratuity to an employee, who is infl icted with the major penalty of compulsory retirement, has not been included. Therefore, the gratuity is payable to the appellant under the 1979 Regulations in terms of the explanation under the said Circular.