However, fresh funds came in only to the tune of Rs.21 lakhs. The balance of the consideration for the shares allotted to the appellants group member is shown as debts due C from the first respondent company to the members of the appellants group being written off. Therefore, it is contended that the ostensible reason for increase in authorized capital and for the allotment of the shares are fraught with absence of bonafides and the real intention was to capture controlling interest in the company. This is sought to be met by the appellants by pointing out that in view of the loan remaining D outstanding, there was a skewed debt-equity ratio which was a clog and the result of the company writing off the loan due from the appellants group was to enable the company to present a better financial condition. The respondents would contend that loans were also owing to the respondent’s groups. E 48. The second contention which remains is the fact that on 18.12.2009 when the Board of Directors decided to issue 10 lakh shares in the ratio of 1:1, and what is more, giving a right to the shareholders to apply for, and in case of shares not being subscribed by other shareholders, to be allotted those shares to those who were willing to F take additional shares,it was all done in anticipation that the shareholders would approve of the increase in the authorized capital from Rs.1 Crore to Rs.2 Crore. In other words, the very authority of the Board of Directors to decide upon to the further issue of shares is questioned as it involved the offer of shares being made when the authorized capital was Rs.1 Crore only. The cart could not be put before the horse. The G first step should have been to hold the shareholders meeting and the shareholders should have approved the increase in authorized capital. It was only thereafter that, in other words, the Board of Directors could do what it purported to do on 18.12.2009. H 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 49. Support is drawn in this regard from the of this Court in Nanalal Zaver (supra). 50. The case of the appellants on the other hand is that it was made clear in the decision of the Board of Directors meeting on 18.12.2009 that a notice inviting the shareholders to subscribe in terms B of its decision as already noticed was issued and the applications were to be considered for allotment only upon the authorized capital being increased. In other words, though it was resolved to issue 10 lakh shares and to allot them in a ratio 1:1 with the option for the shareholders to apply for even higher number of shares as indicated in the minutes of a meeting on 18.12.2009,the applications to be received from the C shareholders were to be considered only after the authorized capital was increased. 51. The decision in Nanalal Zaver (supra) was rendered by a Bench of five learned Judges.