In other words, the Explanation which is in the nature of a definition so as to give benefit to all Sikkimese individuals cannot be restricted in its applicability only to Sikkimese men (who are individuals covered under the Explanation), but exclude female Sikkimese individuals of a particular category on account of the proviso, which is inherently discriminatory. This would also imply C that the expression “individual” in the Explanation would exclude Sikkimese women. In my view, the proviso cannot be construed to be an exception to the Explanation which is in the nature of a definition clause as it would be inherently discriminatory to do so. 53. Thus, when a benefit is being given to a Sikkimese individual D which would include all genders under the provision, by way of the Explanation being added, which is in the nature of a definition, the proviso cannot exclude a certain category of married Sikkimese women from the said Explanation and thereby, deprive them of the said benefit of exemption from payment of income tax on the basis of to whom they E are married to. When the Explanation refers to an “individual”, it includes both Sikkimese men and women, in fact, all genders; it cannot have a restrictive or myopic reference to only Sikkimese men and exclude those Sikkimese women covered under the proviso. A proviso cannot over arch a provision. But in the instant case, the proviso is overriding the provision as well as the Explanation in respect of those categories of F married Sikkimese women referred to in the proviso which is impermissible. Thus, the proviso is inherently arbitrary and discriminatory against a particular category of Sikkimese women. In other words, the Explanation to Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961 includes both Sikkimese men as well as women. Such being the interpretation, in my G view, the proviso is antithetical to the Explanation and the Section as well. 54. The normal function of a proviso is to except something out of the provision or to qualify something enacted therein which, but for the proviso, would be within the purview of the provision. As a general rule, H 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A a proviso is added to an enactment to qualify or create an exception to what is in the enactment and ordinarily, a proviso is not interpreted as stating a general rule. In other words, a proviso qualifies the generality of the main enactment by providing an exception and taking out as it were, from the main enactment, a portion which, but for the proviso would fall within the main provision. Further, a proviso cannot be construed B as nullifying the provision or as taking away completely a right conferred by the enactment. If it does so and is discriminatory then it falls foul of the equality clauses of the Constitution of India. 55. It is reiterated that the expression “an individual” in the Explanation to Section 10 (26AAA) of the I.T. Act, 1961, must include C all genders including Sikkimese women.