If in the interregnum i.e. after passing of the preliminary decree and before the final decree is passed, if there is any change in law necessitating determination of shares accordingly then, there would be no impediment for the Court to amend the preliminary decree or pass another preliminary C decree redetermining the rights and interests of the parties having regard to the changed situation. 61. Before the position of law came to be settled by this Court in Vineeta Sharma (supra) there were to decisions of this Court governing the rights of the parties: (i) Prakash and Others v. Phulavati and D Others reported in (2016) 2 SCC 36 and (ii) Danamma alias Suman Surpur and Another v. Amar and Others reported in (2018) 3 SCC 343. In Prakash (supra) it was held that Section 6 is not retrospective in operation and it would apply when both the coparcener and his daughter were alive on the date of commencement of the Amendment Act i.e., 9.09.2005. Accordingly, the provisions of Section 6 were held to be E prospective. In Danamma (supra) this Court held that the amended provisions of Section 6 conferred full rights upon the daughter coparcener. Any coparcener including a daughter could claim a partition in the coparcenary property. 62. In Danamma (supra), one Gurulingappa who was the father F and coparcener of the claimant daughter, died in the year 2001, leaving behind two daughters, two sons and a widow. Thus, the father of the daughter and coparceners was not alive when the substituted provision of Section 6 came into force. Accordingly, the daughters, sons and the widow were given 1/5th share in the properties. In this background, this Court took the view that when a daughter, claiming and demanding a G share in the coparcenary property is alive on 9.09.2005, she would be entitled to the benefit of the amended provision irrespective of the effect whether a coparcener had died before the commencement of the Amendment Act. H 56 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 63. A three-Judge Bench of this Court doubted the correctness of the dictum as laid in Prakash (supra) as there was an apparent conflict between the dictum as laid in Prakash (supra) and Danamma (supra) referred to above. The question concerning the interpretation of Section 6 of the Act 1956 was referred to a larger Bench. B 64. The larger Bench ultimately settled the position of law in Vineeta Sharma (supra). The three-Judge Bench of this Court considered the following main questions amongst the others: (i) Whether the substituted Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956 would apply to cases where male C coparcener had already died prior to the commencement of the Amendment Act, 2005? (ii) Liability of daughter for the debts contracted by the deceased coparcener. (iii) What is the interpretation, scope and impact of sub- D section (5) of substituted Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956? 65. In Vineeta Sharma (supra) (paras 60, 68, 69 and 129), the Court held that for the applicability of substituted Section 6 of the Hindu Succession Act, 1956, it is not necessary that the male coparcener must E be alive on the date of commencement of the Amendment Act, 2005 (i.e., 9.9.2005).