The similarity in both kinds of situations referred to above is that the dealer is acting on behalf of the manufacturer pursuant to a warranty and in both the situations D does not receive any price or consideration from the customer. But, the significant distinction in the two situations must be borne in mind. In the first situation, the dealer merely transmits the spare part received from the manufacturer to the customer and in turn returns the defective part to the manufacturer and does not receive a recompense by way of cost of the spare part but may receive a service charge under a dealership E agreement. On the other hand, in the second situation, the dealer would have used a spare part from his stock to replace the defective part and returns the defective part to the manufacturer, who then issues a credit note to the dealer. 28. The controversy in these cases is, whether, the second of the F aforesaid situations would amount to a sale in the sense that the dealer is liable to pay sales tax on the credit note issued in his favour. In other words, whether the transaction is in the nature of a sale to attract payment of sales tax by the dealer under the sales tax laws under consideration. In this context, it is necessary to recapitulate as to why a credit note is G issued by the manufacturer to the dealer. A credit note is issued with a particular intention in mind and that is to recompense the dealer. What is the reason for doing so? The reason is not far to see and has already been adverted to above. The recompense in the form of credit note to the dealer is because the dealer would not receive any price from the customer for the replacement of the defective part while acting under H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1325 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] the warranty on behalf of the manufacturer while using the spare part A from his own stock which belongs to him and which he had procured by paying the necessary price including tax, either from the manufacturer himself or from the open market. If the dealer had sold the said spare part which he used to replace a defective part pursuant to a warranty clause, he would have received a return for his investment plus a profit. B But, while acting under the warranty on behalf of the manufacturer, the dealer does not receive any price from the customer. Hence, he is recompensated by the manufacturer in the form of a credit note. 29. In this context, it is necessary to understand the legal import of the expression credit note which has been cited by Sri Kavin Gulati, C learned senior counsel for the appellants.According to various dictionaries and references, definitions of credit note are as follows: (i) In P. Ramanatha Aiyar, Advanced Law Lexicon, 6th Edition, Volume 1 – “Credit Note” is defined as “A note showing that an allowance is to be made for shortage D or defects in goods supplied and returned to sender, or for overcharge in price.