In Gopi Nath & Sons it has been held that apart from the cases where a fi nding of fact is arrived at by ignoring or excluding relevant materials or taking into consideration irrelevant material, the fi nding is perverse and infi rm in law when it outrageously defi es logic as to suff er from vice of irrationality. Kuldeep Singh clarifi es that a fi nding is perverse when it is based on no evidence or evidence which is thoroughly unreliable and no reasonable person would act upon it. If there is some evidence which 36 As expounded in the case of Associated Provincial Picture Houses Ltd. v. Wednesbury Corporation., (1948) 1 KB 223: (1947) 2 All ER 680 (CA). 37 1992 Supp (2) SCC 312, (for short, Gopi Nath & Sons). 38 (1999) 2 SCC 10. BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 475 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] can be acted and can be relied upon, however compendious it may be, the conclusion should not be treated as perverse. This Court in Associate Builders emphasised that the public policy test to an arbitral award does not give jurisdiction to the court to act as a court of appeal and consequently errors of fact cannot be corrected. Arbitral tribunal is the ultimate master of quality and quantity of evidence. An award based on little evidence or no evidence, which does not measure up in quality to a trained legal mind would not be held to be invalid on this score. Every arbitrator need not necessarily be a person trained in law as a Judge. At times, decisions are taken acting on equity and such decisions can be just and fair should not be overturned under Section 34 of the A&C Act on the ground that the arbitrator’s approach was arbitrary or capricious. Referring to the third ground of public policy, justice or morality, it is observed that these are two diff erent concepts. An award is against justice when it shocks the conscience of the court, as in an example where the claimant has restricted his claim but the arbitral tribunal has awarded a higher amount without any reasonable ground of justifi cation. Morality would necessarily cover agreements that are illegal and also those which cannot be enforced given the prevailing mores of the day. Here again interference would be only if something shocks the court’s conscience. Further, ‘patent illegality’ refers to three sub-heads: (a) contravention of substantive law of India, which must be restricted and limited such that the illegality must go to the root of the matter and should not be of a trivial nature. Reference in this regard was made to clause (a) to Section 28(1) of the A&C Act, which states that the dispute submitted to arbitration under Part I shall be in accordance with the substantive law for the time being in force. The second sub-head would be when the arbitrator gives no reasons in the award in contravention with Section 31(3) of the A&C Act.