……The fundamental policy of Indian law, as has been held C in Renusagar Power Co. Ltd. v. General Electric Co., 1994 Supp (1) SCC 644, and followed in Associate Builders v. Delhi Development Authority, (2015) 3 SCC 49, makes it clear that if a statute like the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1973 dealing with the economy of the country is concerned, it would certainly D come within the expression “fundamental policy of Indian law”. The Indian Stamp Act, 1899, being a fiscal statute levying stamp duty on instruments, is also an Act which deals with the economy of India, and would, on a parity of reasoning, be an Act reflecting the fundamental policy of Indian law.” E [emphasis supplied] 27. The object of the Stamp Act can be further understood from S. Krishnamurthy Aiyar’s Commentary26 on the Stamp Act, 1899 where discussing the s in Hindustan Steel(supra) and J.M.A Raju v Krishnamurthy Bhatt27, the object is stated as under: F “The object of the Stamp Act is a purely fiscal regulation. Its sole object is to increase the revenue and all its provisions must be construed as having in view the protection of revenue. It is not enacted to arm a litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of his opponent. The whole object is to see that the G revenue of the State is realised to the utmost extent” 25 (2018) 18 SCC 313 26 S. Krishnamurthy Aiyar, The Indian Stamp Act, An Exhaustive Summary with State Amendments; 7th Edn, P. 22 27 AIR 1976 Guj 72 H 438 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A It is plain that the legislative intent and object behind the Stamp Act, 1899, is to secure revenue for the State and it is an Act reflecting the fundamental policy of Indian law. Thus, policy considerations and securing revenue must also be kept in mind while interpreting the provisions of the Stamp Act, 1899. B 27.1. In the case of Commissioner of IT v. Chandanben Maganlal28, it was held that any provision relating to a tax statute must be interpreted so that the meaning of such provision must harmonise with the legislature’s intention behind the law. Let us now consider Section 35&36 of the Stamp Act, 1899 with which we are directly concerned. They are extracted below: C “35. Instruments not duly stamped inadmissible in evidence, etc.— No instrument chargeable with duty shall be admitted in evidence for any purpose by any person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, or shall be acted upon, registered D or authenticated by any such person or by any public officer, unless such instrument is duly stamped: Provided that— (a) any such instrument [shall], be admitted in evidence on payment of the duty with which the same is chargeable, or, in the case of an instrument insufficiently stamped, of the E amount required to make up such duty, together with a penalty of five rupees, or, when ten times the amount of the proper duty or deficient portion thereof exceeds five rupees, of a sum equal to ten times such duty or portion; (b) where any person from whom a stamped receipt could F have been demanded, has given an unstamped receipt and such receipt, if stamped, would be admissible in evidence against him, then such receipt shall be admitted in evidence against him, on payment of a penalty of one rupee by the person tendering it; G (c) where a contract or agreement of any kind is effected by correspondence consisting of two or more letters and any one of the letters bears the proper stamp, the contract or agreement shall be deemed to be duly stamped; H 28 (2000) 245 ITR 182 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 439 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.