Without a positive act on the part of the accused to instigate or aid in committing suicide, conviction cannot be sustained. 45. The intention of the legislature and the ratio of the cases decided by this Court are clear that in to convict a person under Section 306 IPC there has to be a clear mens rea to commit the off ence. It also requires an active act or direct act which led the deceased to commit suicide seeing no option and this act must have been intended to push the deceased into such a position that he/she committed suicide.” 8.5. The essential ingredients which are to be meted out in to bring a case under Section 306 IPC were also discussed in Amalendu Pal alias Jhantu v. State of West Bengal3 in the following paragraphs: “12. Thus, this Court has consistently taken the view that before holding an accused guilty of an off ence under Section 306 IPC, the court must scrupulously examine the facts and circumstances of the case and also assess the evidence adduced before it in to fi nd out whether the cruelty and harassment meted out to the victim had left the victim with no other alternative but to put an end to her life. It is also to be borne in mind that in cases of alleged abetment of suicide there must be proof of direct or indirect acts of incitement to the commission of suicide. Merely on the allegation of harassment without there being any positive action proximate to the time of occurrence on the part of the accused which led or compelled the person to commit suicide, conviction in terms of Section 306 IPC is not sustainable. 13. In to bring a case within the purview of Section 306 IPC there must be a case of suicide and in the commission of the said off ence, 3 (2010) 1 SCC 707 KAMALAKAR v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 795 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] the person who is said to have abetted the commission of suicide must have played an active role by an act of instigation or by doing certain act to facilitate the commission of suicide. Therefore, the act of abetment by the person charged with the said off ence must be proved and established by the prosecution before he could be convicted under Section 306 IPC.” 8.6. On a careful reading of the factual matrix of the instant case and the law regarding Section 306 IPC, there seems to be no proximate link between the marital discord between the deceased and the appellant and her subsequent death by burning herself. The appellant has not committed any positive or direct act to instigate or aid in the commission of suicide by the deceased. 8.7. Hence as the ingredients of Section 306 IPC have not been fulfi lled in the case at hand, the conviction of the appellant under Section 306 IPC cannot be sustained. 9. Consequently, the appeal fi led by the appellant is partly allowed.