The term ‘hate speech’ does not find a specific place in Article 19(2) of the Constitution and it appears that it does not constitute a specific exception to the freedom of speech and expression under Article 19(1)(a). Possibly the framers of the Constitution did not find the same to be of relevance in the Indian social mosaic considering that the other D cherished values of our Constitution such as fraternity and dignity of the individual would be strong factors which would negate any form of hate speech to be uttered in ourCountry. This may be having regard to our social and cultural values. However, with the passage of time, a wide range of Indian E statutes have been enacted with a view to control hate speech. It may be useful to refer to a few of such provisions, with a view to examine the sufficiency of the existing framework in checking ‘hate speech’ although, the said term has not yet been precisely defined till date by the Parliament. F i) The Indian Penal Code (“IPC”) contains provisions which prohibit hate speech. Section 153-A penalises the promotion of class hatred. Section 153-B penalises “imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration”. Section295-A penalises insults to religion and to religious beliefs. Section 298 makes it a penal G offence to utter words, makes sounds or gestures with the deliberate intention of wounding the religious feelings of another. Section 505 makes it a penal offence to incite any class or community against another. Chapter XXII, IPC punishes criminal H intimidation. 750 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A ii) Section 95 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (“CrPC”) empowers the State Government to forfeit publications that are punishable under Sections 124-A, 153-A, 153-B, 292, 293 or 295-A of the IPC. Section 107 empowers the Executive Magistrate to prevent a person from committing a breach of peace B or disturbing public tranquillity or doing any wrongful act that may cause breach of peace or disturb public tranquillity. Section 144 empowers the District Magistrate, a Sub-divisional Magistrate or any other Executive Magistrate specially empowered by the C State Government in this behalf to issue s in urgent cases of nuisance or apprehended danger. The above offences are cognizable. iii) Section 7 of the Protection of Civil Rights Act, 1955 penalises incitement to, and encouragement of D untouchability through words, either spoken or written, or by signs or by visible representations or otherwise. iv) Section 3(g) of the Religious Institutions (Prevention of Misuse) Act, 1988 prohibits religious institutions to allow the use of any premises belonging E to, or under their control for promoting or attempting to promote disharmony, feelings of enmity, hatred, ill-will between different religious, racial, linguistic or regional groups or castes or communities. v) Section 3(1)(x) of theScheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, F 1989 punishes an intentional insult or intimidation with intent to humiliate a member of a Scheduled Caste or Tribe in any place within public view. vi) Section 8 of theRepresentation of the People Act, 1951 disqualifies a person from contesting elections G if he is convicted for indulging in acts amounting to illegitimate use of freedom of speech and expression.