Learned counsel concluded by submitting 38 (2008) 16 SCC 417 39 (2011) 11 SCC 653 40 (2011) 12 SCC 207 41 (2018) 2 SCC 305 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. that though Satnam Singh5 has already undergone the sentence imposed on him, he is pressing the appeal for an acquittal on merits because the appellant was a Government servant who was dismissed from service on having been convicted which , if reversed, would entitle him to relief in relation to his service benefi ts. (b) SUBMISSIONS MADE BY LEARNED COUNSEL FOR THE RESPONDENT, NCB 5. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent-NCB has supported the impugned judgement and stated that there was ample evidence brought on record by the NCB for indicting Balwinder Singh3 and Satnam Singh5. He asserted that none of the witnesses produced by the NCB were planted, as alleged; that NCB had successfully established a prima facie case against the appellants whereafter the burden had shifted on them to prove their innocence and that they had miserably failed to discharge the said burden; that the prosecution had amply proved the foundational facts to attract the rigours of the NDPS Act and the actus reus, namely possession of contraband by the appellants was convincingly established for holding them guilty of the off ence for which they were charged. It was thus stated that the impugned judgement does not deserve interference. III ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSION (a) SIGNIFICANCE OF TOFAN SINGH’S DECISION 6. We have perused the impugned judgement and the records and given our thoughtful consideration to the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the parties. 7. When the present matter was considered by the High Court in the year 2013, it had accepted the arguments advanced by learned counsel for the respondent-NCB that offi cers of the Department of Revenue Intelligence who are vested with the powers of an offi cer-in-charge of the police station under Section 53 of the Act, are not “police offi cers” within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act and therefore held that a confessional statement of a person accused of an off ence under the NDPS Act recorded by such an offi cer in the course of investigation, is admissible against him. The said argument had found favour with the High Court in the light of the BALWINDER SINGH (BINDA) v. THE NARCOTICS 113 CONTROL BUREAU [HIMA KOHLI, J.] decisions of this Court in Kanhaiyalal33 (supra) and Raj Kumar Karwal35 (supra) where it was held that a confession made by the accused before an offi cer of the NCB, is admissible in evidence because the said offi cer cannot be treated as a “police offi cer” within the meaning of Section 25 of the Evidence Act. It was further held that a conviction can be maintained on the sole confession made by an accused under Section 67 of the NDPS Act. A similar view taken by this Court in Ram Singh34 (supra), was cited by the High Court to fortify its decision that the confessions made by the appellants herein before the offi cers of the NCB were admissible in evidence, being of voluntary nature.