Further, the court had underlined the centrality to personal liberty in its decision in Siddharth (supra): C “10. We may note that personal liberty is an important aspect of our constitutional mandate. The occasion to arrest an accused during investigation arises when custodial investigation becomes necessary or it is a heinous crime or where there is a possibility of influencing the witnesses or D accused may abscond. Merely because an arrest can be made because it is lawful does not mandate that arrest must be made. A distinction must be made between the existence of the power to arrest and the justification for exercise of it. If arrest is made routine, it can cause incalculable harm to the reputation E arid self-esteem of a person. If the investigating officer has no reason to believe that the accused will abscond or disobey summons and has, in fact, throughout cooperated with the investigation we fail to appreciate why there should be a compulsion on the officer to arrest the accused.” 12. In the present case, this Court is of the opinion that there are F no startling features or elements that stand out or any exceptional fact disentitling the appellant to the grant of anticipatory bail. What is important is not that the matrimonial relationship soured almost before the couple could even settle down but whether allegations levelled against the appellant are true or partly true at this stage, which at best would be G matters of conjecture, at least for this Court. However, what is a matter of record is that the time when the anticipatory bail was pending can be divided into two parts - firstly, when there was no protection afforded to him through any interim (between April 2022 and 08.08.2022). Secondly, it was on 08.08.2022 that the High Court granted an effectively directing the police not to arrest him during the pendency of H MD. ASFAK ALAM v. THE STATE OF JHARKHAND & ANR. 1193 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] his application under Section 438 of the CrPC. Significantly, the A investigation was completed, and chargesheet was filed after 08.08.2022, and in fact cognizance was taken on 01.10.2022 by the Sessions Judge. These factors were of importance, and though the High Court has noticed the factors but interpreted them in an entirely different light. What appears from the record is that the appellant cooperated with the investigation B both before 08.08.2022, when no protection was granted to him and after 08.08.2022, when he enjoyed protection till the filing of the chargesheet and the cognizance thereof on 01.10.2022. Thus, once the chargesheet was filed and there was no impediment, at least on the part of the accused, the court having regard to the nature of the offences, the allegations and the maximum sentence of the offences they were likely C to carry, ought to have granted the bail as a matter of course. However, the court did not do so but mechanically rejected and, virtually, to rub salt in the wound directed the appellant to surrender and seek regular bail before the Trial Court.