1, appellant herein, against the and of conviction dated 20th December 2018, passed by the Additional District and Sessions Judge, Hosur (hereinafter referred to as ‘trial court’), in S. C. No. 7 of 2007, for the off ences punishable under Sections 302 and 341 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (for short ‘IPC’), sentencing him to undergo life imprisonment. NAGARAJ REDDY v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 459 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 2. The case of the prosecution in a nut shell is as follows: 2.1. One Rajappa (the deceased) along with all other accused persons, including the appellant herein, hail from Oozhiyalam village in Krishnagiri district. It is pertinent to note that the deceased and the accused persons belong to diff erent communities. Radha (PW-3), wife of Rajappa, was the president of the local Outreach Women Self Help Group. 2.2. A portion of land in Oozhiyalam village was purchased by the aforesaid Self Help Group. To build a compound wall around the said land, a contract for building the same was given to the people hailing from the deceased’s community. Such an act infl amed tensions between the two communities and several quarrels ensued, one of which led to criminal cases being registered against both the parties in the Bagalur Police Station. Both the parties were facing prosecution in the Court of Judicial Magistrate, Hosur. 2.3. While the situation stood thus, Rajappa, on 14th September 2004 at around 10 AM, left his home on his motorcycle along with his elder brother Narayanappa (PW-1) to depose before the Court of the Judicial Magistrate, Hosur. On their way to Court, accused Nos. 1 to 5 waylaid them near a check post, quickly sprinkled chili powder on the face of Rajappa and hacked him to death. It is specifi cally alleged that the present appellant threw chili powder on Rajappa and subsequently used his sickle to deliver a blow on the left side of Rajappa’s head. After committing the crime, all the accused went back to the village and pelted stones at the house of Rajappa while loudly proclaiming that they had fi nished Rajappa off , and that other members of Rajappa’s family would meet the same fate too. In the meanwhile, Narayanappa(PW-1), who had escaped from the place of occurrence, ran back to the village and informed Radha about the attack on Rajappa. Thereafter, they along with others, returned to the place of occurrence. In the meanwhile, the son of Koopaliappa, who is Rajappa’s brother, rushed to the Bagalur Police Station to lodge a complaint, whereas Koopaliappa (PW-4) himself rushed to the check post where he found his brother Rajappa dead. 2.4 Thereafter, on the basis of the statement given by PW-1 to Rajsekhar (PW-11), the Village Administrative Offi cer, which was treated as a complaint, a case being Crime No. 251 of 2004 was registered at 460 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. HUDCO Police Station on the same day, i.e. 14th September 2004, at around 1 PM, for the off ences punishable under Sections 147, 148, 341 and 302 of the IPC, against fi ve accused persons, including accused No.