Section 115BBE being a subsequent legislation, the true meaning of Section 37(1) can be C understood on that basis. 18. Having understood the provisions, I shall now consider the decisions relied upon at the Bar as they deal with the interpretation of the provisions governing. 19. BadridasDaga v. CIT , (1959) SCR 690 D 19.1 This Court was dealing with a loss suffered due to an embezzlement by an employee of theassessee. While interpreting Section 10(2) of the Old Act over a claim made for deduction, for which there was no specific provision, reliance was made on the accepted commercial practices and trading principles. Resultantly, it was held that the deduction E was allowable in a case where there is no prohibition either expressed or implied under the Act.Thus, the Court has made it clear that in the absence of any prohibition, as stated above, a claim for deduction of a loss is allowable so long as it emanates directly from the carrying on of the business, being incidental to it. In other words, it does not include F loss of any nature even if it has some connection with the business, if the same cannot be said to be incidental to the business. 19.2 The court went onto hold that the payment of salary to an employee being paid for the purpose of business, is deductible under the general provision, therefore, logically any loss occasioned on the action G of an employee would be incidental to the business. 19.3 Considering the aforesaid, it can be said that there is a similarity between the test laid down for deduction of an expense in the residuary omnibus provision under Section 10(2)(xv) of the Old Act and the test for deduction of loss based on commercial practices and trading H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 107 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] principles. The decision is therefore supporting the above stated A interpretation of Section 37 of the Act. 19.4 Relevant paragraphs: “The question whether monies embezzled by an agent or employee are allowable as deduction in computing the profits of a business B under s. 10 of the Act has come up for consideration frequently before the Indian Courts, and the decisions have not been quite uniform. Before discussing them, it is necessary that we should examine the principles that are in law applicable to the determination of the question. Three grounds have been put forward in support of the claim for deduction: (1) that the loss C sustained by reason of embezzlement is a bad debt allowable under s. 10(2)(xi) of the Act; (2) that it is a business expense falling within s. 10(2)(xv) of the Act; and (3) that it is a trading loss, which must be taken into account in computing the profits under s. 10(1) of the Act. As regards the first ground, the authorities D have consistently held that the deduction is not admissible under s. 10(2)(xi) of the Act, and that, in our view, is correct.