It was also noted that valuation of non-core assets was not done earlier but, the H 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A third valuer appointed by RP had submitted the value of non-core assets and the same had been shared with CoC members who had submitted their undertaking. The RP emphasized that their value was not very significant, and it would not affect the liquidation value much. The relevant part of the minutes of this sixth CoC meeting could be reproduced as under: - B “The RP apprised the CoC members that based on the resolution passed in 5th CoC meeting an exclusion application along with an urgent application was filed before the NCLT Chennai on 19.11.2020. The application was listed for hearing 15.12.2020 and the has been reserved. C The RP further apprised that he has provided the CoC members with the fair value and liquidation value to all those who have submitted the confidential undertaking. RP further apprised, that due to significant difference in the value of land and building submitted by the valuers appointed by IRP, the RP has to appoint D third valuer in accordance with provisions of Regulation 35 of CIRP Regulations 2016. After it was noted that valuation of non-core assets was not done, the third valuer appointed by RP has submitted the value of non- core assets and the same has been shared with CoC members E who have submitted their undertaking. The RP emphasized that their value is not very significant, and it will not affect the liquidation value much. However, second valuation for the non-core assets will be needed in to reach a final value. RP apprised the CoC members that the valuers appointed by IRP are based in Delhi and they are asking much higher price for carrying the F valuation of non-core assets. Therefore, the RP will hire a local valuer keeping the cost in mind.” The RP agreed to try and convene the next CoC meeting before Christmas eve, subject to getting the revised resolution plans. G 12.9. In the interregnum, the Tribunal, by its dated 23.12.2020, allowed the application moved by RP for exclusion of the period between 05.05.2020 and 31.10.2020 – 179 days – while calculating the time for completion of CIRP of the corporate debtor; and excluded the said period from the period of CIRP in terms of Section 12(2) of IBC because of pandemic conditions, in the following words: - H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 801 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “6. Heard the submission made by the Learned Counsel for the A Applicant and perused the records placed on file. In the facts of the present case, it is to be noted that the CIRP in relation to the Corporate Debtor was initiated only on 05.05.2020 i.e. during the period of lockdown and as such the Applicant has sought to exclude the period from 05.05.2020 till 31.10.2020. The Applicant placed B on record the G.O. Ms. No.