Instead of making a person member of the Interview Committee who had expertise in the concerned field, the authorities brought a member who had MBBS qualification. c) That the candidates who had a post-graduation degree had E been awarded 10 marks and in the viva-voce, such PG candidates had been granted either 18 marks or 20 marks out of 20. That although the writ petitioners had performed exceptionally well in the interview, the authorities had acted in an arbitrary manner while carrying out the selection process. F 5.7. On identical grounds as those raised in SWP No. 1685 of 2009, three more Writ Petitions were filed by unsuccessful candidates challenging the selection process. These petitions were filed before the Srinagar Bench of the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir. Details of the said writ petitions have been set out hereinunder: G i) Writ Petition SWP No. 1356 of 2009 was filed before the High Court seeking a writ in the nature of certiorari quashing the criteria to the extent of allocating 20 marks for viva-voce and a direction to the authorities to formulate a fresh selection list of the candidates on the basis of their merit obtained after H 728 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A excluding the marks allocated to the candidates by the Committee while conducting the viva-voce. The writ petitioners further sought a writ in the nature of a mandamus directing that interviews be conducted afresh with an expert in the Selection Committee who possesses the requisite qualification. B ii) Writ Petition SWP No. 1535 of 2009 was filed by the Petitioner therein before the High Court at Srinagar, seeking a writ of certiorari quashing the Select List as published to the extent of the selection of drug inspectors; a direction to the authorities to produce the record pertaining to the interview for the post C of drug inspector and a writ of mandamus directing the concerned authorities to select and appoint the writ petitioner therein against the post of drug inspector on the basis of his academic merit and the marks secured in the interview. iii) Writ Petition SWP No. 1846 of 2009 was filed seeking a writ D in the nature of certiorari quashing the selection list and a writ of mandamus commanding the concerned authorities to select and appoint the writ petitioner therein to the post of drug inspector with retrospective effect w.e.f. the date the successful candidates were selected. E 5.8. The learned Single Judge of the High Court, Srinagar Bench allowed the Writ Petitions i.e., SWP Nos. 1356 of 2009, 1846 of 2009 and 1535 of 2009 by way of common judgement and dated 18th December 2015. The pertinent findings in the judgement dated 18th December 2015 have been culled out hereinunder: F i) The learned Single Judge dismissed the challenge thrown by the writ petitioners to the competence of the expert in the Selection Board, Dr. Samina Farhat, Assistant Professor, Department of Pharmacology. It was observed that the expert was a doctor by profession with a Post Graduate degree (MD) and Ph.D. in Pharmacology to her credit.