In any case, as already discussed herein above, Parliament has provided an inbuilt safeguard i.e. recommendation of the RBI. It is equally settled that insofar as the economic, monetary and fiscal policies are concerned, the same are F best left to the experts possessing requisite knowledge. The RBI as well as the Central Government are bodies having contingent of experts in the field. It will, therefore, not be proper for the Court to enter into an area which should be best left to the experts. 207. We are of the considered view that there is sufficient guidance G in the preamble as well as the scheme and the object of the RBI Act. As already discussed herein above, there cannot be a straitjacket formula, and the question whether excessive delegation has been conferred or not has to be decided on the basis of the scheme, the object and the purpose of the statute under consideration. H 108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 208. One another aspect that needs to be taken into consideration is the nature of the body to which the delegation is to be made. In the present case, the delegation is made to the Central Government and not to any ordinary body. 209. In the case of Birla Cotton, Spinning and Weaving Mills B Delhi (supra), the seven-Judge Bench of this Court held that the delegation was made to an elected body, responsible to the people including those who pay taxes. It observed that the councillors have to go for election every four years. It was also observed that if the councillors behave unreasonably, and the inhabitants of the area so consider it, they can be thrown out at the ensuing elections. This Court found that this was a C great check on the elected councillors acting unreasonably and fixing unreasonable rates of taxation. It has been held that this was a democratic method of bringing to book the elected representatives who act unreasonably in such matters. 210. In the present case also, the delegation is to the Central D Government, i.e. the highest executive body of the country. We have a Parliamentary system in which the Government is responsible to the Parliament. In case the Executive does not act reasonably while exercising its power of delegated legislation, it is responsible to Parliament who are elected representatives of the citizens for whom there exists a democratic E method of bringing to book the elected representatives who act unreasonably in such matters. 211. Taking into consideration all these factors, we are of the considered view that sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act does not suffer from the vice of excessive delegation. F ISSUE NO. (iii) : AS TO WHETHER THE IMPUGNED NOTIFICATION DATED 8TH NOVEMBER 2016 IS LIABLE TO BE STRUCK DOWN ON THE GROUND THAT THE DECISION-MAKING PROCESS IS FLAWED IN LAW? 212. It is sought to be urged on behalf of the petitioners that the G decision-making process both at the stage of making recommendations by the Central Board and at the stage of taking decision by the Central Government is flawed inasmuch as the same had been done without considering the relevant factors and eschewing the irrelevant ones.