××× ××× ××× 24. Whether the decision to increase the age of superannuation should date back to the resolution passed by NOIDA or should be made eff ective from the date of the approval by the State government was a matter for the State government to decide. Ultimately, in drawing every cut-off, some employees would stand on one side of the line while the others would be positioned otherwise. This element of hardship cannot be a ground for the High Court to hold that the decision was arbitrary. When the State government originally decided to increase the age of superannuation of its own employees from fi fty-eight to sixty years on 28 November 2001, it had left the public sector corporations to take a decision based on the fi nancial impact which would result if they were to increase the age of superannuation for their own employees. 25. From time to time the authorities of the State took a decision bearing upon the exigencies of service prevailing in each organisation. ………. The State government had evidently determined that it was for each organisation to consider and determine the impact of the fi nancial burden, and based on that the organisation was to submit a proposal for the approval of the government. 302 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 26. The High Court’s observation that the Government on 30 September 2012 increasing the age of superannuation prospectively is arbitrary seems to be based on the premise that the respondent-employees have a vested right to the increase in the age of retirement on the passage of the resolution by NOIDA. However, Section 19 of the Act stipulates that regulations - which would include amendments as in this case - will require the previous approval of the State Government. The employees will have a vested right to the increased age of superannuation only after the service regulations are modifi ed upon approval of the State Government, and from such date as maybe prescribed by the Government. Para 1(ii) of the government issued on 30 September 2012 clearly and in unambiguous terms states that the shall come into force prospectively. The government can be given retrospective application only if expressly stated or inferred through necessary implication. Therefore, the respondent-employees could not have claimed a vested right that the enhancement in the age of retirement should be made eff ective from the date on which NOIDA had resolved to submit a proposal for the approval of the government.” (Emphasis added) 13. In the instant case, at the time of issuing G.O. dated 14th January, 2010, the reasons that had weighed with the State for enhancing the age of retirement from 55 years to 60 years have been spelt out. The recitals refer to the dearth of eligible hands in the middle level cadre for promotion, the fact that many Post Graduate Medical Courses were likely to be adversely aff ected due to the said reason and also the fact that retention of senior professors in service at Government Medical Colleges would help the State Government to increase the number of Post Graduate seats, in terms of the revised norms circulated by the Medical Council of India.