In Public Interest Foundation v. Union of India2, this court held: “10. We, accordingly, direct that in relation to sitting MPs and MLAs who have charges framed against them for the off ences which are specifi ed in Sections 8(1), 8(2) and 8(3) of the RP Act, the trial shall be concluded as speedily and expeditiously as may be possible and in no 1 Hereinafter referred to as the ‘subject cases’. 2 (2015) 11 SCC 433 ASHWINI KUMAR UPADHYAY v. UNION OF INDIA 271 DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI case later than one year from the date of the framing of charge(s). In such cases, as far as possible, the trial shall be conducted on a day-to- day basis. If for some extraordinary circumstances the court concerned is not being able to conclude the trial within one year from the date of framing of charge(s), such court would submit the report to the Chief Justice of the respective High Court indicating special reasons for not adhering to the above time-limit and delay in conclusion of the trial. In such situation, the Chief Justice may issue appropriate directions to the court concerned extending the time for conclusion of the trial.” 4. At an early stage, this Court recorded the statement of the Ld. Additional Solicitor General that these proceedings are not adversarial in nature and that the Union would not be averse to setting up special courts for expeditious trial and disposal of the subject cases. By dated 01.11.2017, this Court called upon the Union, States and the High Courts to respond to the idea of setting up special courts and the fi nancial implications involved in its implementation. 5. After gathering the necessary information, the Union fi led an affi davit as is evident from the dated 14.12.2017, contemplating setting up twelve special courts exercising jurisdiction over multiple states. By the same , the High Courts were called upon to identify and transfer the subject cases to the special courts that were to be established. The Union was also directed to bear the estimated expenditure of about Rs. 7.80 crores for running these twelve special courts. 6. However, as the above-referred decision had policy and fi nancial implications, after much deliberation, this Court reconsidered the matter and accepted the suggestion of the Amicus. That is, instead of setting up special courts, a specifi ed court in each district, both at the sessions and magistrate level, be identifi ed and earmarked for prioritized hearing of the subject cases. The Union, State Governments and High Courts were asked to respond to the new suggestion. 7. On 04.12.2018, the High Courts were directed to examine the matter and constitute as many sessions and magisterial courts within their jurisdiction as is considered proper and expedient. By the same , it was also directed that the subject cases punishable with death/life against sitting and former MPs/MLAs should be taken up on a priority basis, followed by cases punishable with imprisonment up to 5 years or more.