Limited, (2015) 64 Taxman.com 214, and submits therefrom that the assessee’s generating units cannot claim any benefi t under Section 80 IA of the Act computed on the basis of rates chargeable by the distributable licensee from the consumer. The benefi t can only be claimed on the basis of rates fi xed by the tariff regulatory commission for sale of electricity by the generating companies. According to him, in so far the present case is concerned, instead of the tariff regulatory commission, it would be the rate fi xed by the power purchase agreement. 12.9. He, therefore, submits that the passed by the High Court affi rming the decision of the Tribunal is liable to be set aside and the COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 501 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] passed by the assessing offi cer as affi rmed by the CIT(A) is liable to be restored. Consequently, the civil appeals should be allowed. 13. Per contra, learned senior counsel for the respondent assessee submits that there is no merit in all the appeals fi led by the revenue on the issue of deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act. It is submitted that revenue is not justifi ed in treating the price of electricity paid by the State Electricity Board to the assessee for supply of surplus electricity by the assessee to the said electricity board as the market value replacing the market value of electricity per unit projected by the assessee. As a result of such erroneous decision, revenue had reduced the profi ts of the assessee and consequently the quantum of deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act. Tribunal was justifi ed in accepting the contention of the assessee that the rate of electricity at which electricity was supplied by the State Electricity Board to the industrial consumers including the assessee was in fact the market value of electricity per unit and thereby restoring the claim of the assessee. 13.1. Learned senior counsel submits that Section 80 IA provides for deduction in respect of profi ts and gains from industrial undertakings or enterprises engaged in infrastructure development etc. Assessee has industrial units for which uninterrupted power supply was required. Power supply by the State Electricity Board was found to be inadequate. Therefore, assessee had set up its own captive power plants to supply electricity to its industrial units. Surplus power was supplied to the state grid for which a power purchase agreement was entered into by the assessee with the State Electricity Board. Assessee had claimed deduction under this provision and while computing the deduction had taken the price at which electricity was supplied by the State Electricity Board to the industrial consumers including the assessee as the market value and not the price paid by the State Electricity Board to the assessee for the supply of surplus electricity. 13.2. It is pointed out that there is a power purchase agreement between the assessee and the State Electricity Board as per which the surplus power was supplied by the assessee to the state grid for which State Electricity Board paid Rs.