Thus, in such a case, the accused against whom 106 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the complaint under Section 3 of the PMLA is fi led will benefi t from the scheduled off ence ending by acquittal or discharge of all the accused. Similarly, he will get the benefi t of quashing the proceedings of the scheduled off ence. However, an accused in the PMLA case who comes into the picture after the scheduled off ence is committed by assisting in the concealment or use of proceeds of crime need not be an accused in the scheduled off ence. Such an accused can still be prosecuted under PMLA so long as the scheduled off ence exists. Thus, the second contention raised by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant on the ground that the appellant was not shown as an accused in the chargesheets fi led in the scheduled off ences deserves to be rejected. ACQUISITION OF THE FIRST AND SECOND PROPERTY 17. The allegation against the appellant in the complaint is that she purchased the property worth crores, though she did not have the source of income which would generate enough money to buy the subject properties. The allegation against the appellant is that she allowed and facilitated accused no.1–Madhukar Angur, to conceal the siphoned/misappropriated amounts by using her bank account. Another allegation is that she is shown to have purchased the second property from accused no.1, though she did not have the resources to pay the consideration. The allegation is that she allowed the accused no.1 to use her bank accounts to facilitate siphoning the proceeds of the crime. Another allegation is that both the fi rst and second properties have been acquired out of the proceeds of crime. The fi rst property, ex-facie, cannot be said to have any connection with the proceeds of crime as the acts constituting the scheduled off ence took place after its acquisition. The case of the appellant is that she possessed a substantial amount, as can be seen from the declaration made by her under the Income Declaration Scheme, 2016 in September 2016 and therefore, at the time of the acquisition of the second property, more than suffi cient money was available with her to acquire the second property. The issue of whether the appellant used tainted money to acquire the second property can be decided only after the evidence is adduced. This is not a case where any material is placed on record to show that the sale consideration was paid from a particular Bank Account of the appellant. Therefore, it is not possible to record a fi nding at this stage that the Second property was not acquired by using the proceeds of crime. We also make it clear that we have considered the issue only in PAVANA DIBBUR v. THE DIRECTORATE OF 1063 ENFORCEMENT [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] the context of the applicability of the PMLA. We have not dealt with the issues of valuation and legality of the sale deeds.