24. Once the parties are ad idem on the fact that the case is covered by clause (b), then what is necessary to be seen by Courts is: D (i)whether the parties had agreed to give/take FSI or TDR in lieu of the amount of compensation? ; and (ii) whether there was a valid claim for the grant of additional FSI or additional TDR towards the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land at the cost of the owner?. E 25. There is no dispute on facts in this case that the appellants surrendered their land and accepted TDR in lieu of compensation. The only question on which the parties have a dispute, is as to whether the last limb of clause (b) stands satisfied or not. 26. For a better appreciation, it is necessary to extract the last F limb of clause (b) as follows: “ … and also further additional Floor Space Index or Transferable Development Rights against the development or construction of the amenity on the surrendered land at his cost, as the Final Development Control Regulations prepared in this behalf provide,” G 27. The last limb of clause (b) extracted above shows that the owner of the land is under an obligation to develop or construct the amenity on the surrendered land at his cost and the Planning Authority has to reciprocate the same by granting Additional FSI or Additional TDR. H GODREJ AND BOYCE MANUFACTURING COMPANY LTD. THR. ITS 73 CONSTITUTED ATTORNEY v. THE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION OF GREATER MUMBAI [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 28. On the question as to whether the appellants have fulfilled A their obligations under the last limb of clause (b), there are controversies both on facts and in law. On facts it is contended by the respondents that the appellants did not develop or construct the amenity and in law it is contended that what is stated to be developed is not as per the Final Development Control Regulations. B 29. To resolve this conflict, it is necessary to take note of the definition of the word “amenity”, which is defined in Section 2(2) of the Act as follows: “2. Definitions C In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,— xxx xxx xxx (2) “Amenity” means roads, streets, open spaces, parks, recreational grounds, play grounds, sports complex, parade grounds, gardens, markets, parking lots, primary and secondary D schools and colleges and polytechnics, clinics, dispensaries and hospitals, water supply, electricity supply, street lighting, sewerage, drainage, public works and includes other utilities, services and conveniences;” 30.The word “amenity” has been defined in Section 2(2) of the E Act to mean several things including “Recreational Grounds”. We are concerned in this case with a “Recreational Ground”. The claim of the appellants is that they have developed a Recreational Ground. Interestingly, it is not the case of the respondents that the appellants were required to develop something else and not a Recreational Ground. On the contrary, it is the case of the respondents that the appellants did F not develop the Recreational Ground.