Forgery.—Whoever makes any false documents or false electronic record or part of a document or electronic record, with intent to cause damage or injury, to the public or to any person, or to support any claim or title, or to cause any person to part with property, or to enter into any express or implied contract, or with intent to commit fraud or that fraud may be committed, commits forgery. 107 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. fi led any protest. Thus, it was contended that the acceptance of the fact that there was no lurking house-trespass or housebreaking in to commit off ence punishable with imprisonment (Section 454, IPC) and no theft in dwelling house, etc. (Section 380, IPC) also make it amply clear that R2 was never in possession of the property in question and his entire case falls fl at. SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT-STATE: 12. Per contra, learned counsel for the State opposed the prayer by the appellants seeking discharge, and supported the Impugned . Learned counsel sought dismissal of the appeal. NON-APPEARANCE OF THE RESPONDENT NO.2: 13. Despite service, nobody appeared on behalf of R2. ANALYSIS, REASONING AND CONCLUSION: 14. Having examined the matter in detail, a case for interference has been made out. The fact is that the Indian National Rupee symbol i.e., ₹ was not in existence during the time the purported ‘Memorandum’ was signed. Furthermore, R2 has based his entire claim of tenancy on a document which has been, prima facie, found to be forged and fabricated, for which the Court concerned has directed lodging of a criminal case. There is no other claim by R2 to show that he was in possession. When coupled with the fact that the police did not fi nd any off ences having been made out against the appellants under Sections 454 and 380, IPC, the case against the appellants under Section 448, IPC fi nds itself on shaky ground. R2 never objected to the above nor took any further steps. R2, as noted above, has not entered appearance before this Court. Thus, the case against the appellants fi nds itself on shakier ground. We are of the fi rm view that A2 being the undisputed landlord, the criminal case fi led by R2, in the facts and circumstances supra, amounts to clear abuse of the process of the Court. Moreover, we fi nd that the Impugned and the dated 02.06.2017 of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Lucknow are unreasoned as to why discharge is to be denied. Thus far on facts and merits. Now, on the law. 15. Although the instant case pertains to Trial of Warrant-Cases by Magistrates and is a case instituted on a police report, meaning Sections 239- VISHNU KUMAR SHUKLA & ANR. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1079 PRADESH & ANR. [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 2409, CrPC are relevant, we also propose to glance at Section 24510, CrPC (concerning trial of warrant-cases by Magistrates apropos cases instituted otherwise than on police report), as also Sections 227-22811, CrPC, which pertain to Trial before a Court of Session.