1 Company was entitled to sell the shares either to itself, its group companies or to any outsider. The accused No.1 Company had also agreed not to dispute or claim any loss on account of the price at which such securities were sold. 16.A perusal of the entire complaint would reveal that the only E allegation is that accused No.1 Company had sold the shares to itself when the market price of the shares had fallen. The allegation is that “The accused in to acquire more shares of complainant waited for further fall in share price and sold them only in 2001 for Rs. 24,67,531/-. Thus the accused jointly and severally are liable for unauthorized, illegal and fraudulent sale and also for breach of F trust. The accused not only misappropriated the shares, but also cheated the complainant as the securities were handed over only as a surety in trust and on assurance of the accused which later proved to be false that the same will be dealt as per guidelines of SEBI.” 17. The aforesaid averments are totally contrary to the terms G agreed between the parties in the ICDA as well as in the LoP. As already discussed hereinabove, the ICDA as well as the LoP specifically authorizes the accused persons/appellants to sell the shares either to themselves or their group of companies. It is further to be noted that accused No.1 Company had already invoked the arbitration clause on H 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 14th August 2001. In the arbitration proceedings, a specific stand was taken by the complainant/respondent No.1 that accused No.1 Company should have invoked the pledge at the stage of the first default, i.e. in May 2000. However, the accused persons/appellants waited till August- September, 2001 to sell the pledged shares which had in the meanwhile depreciated in value. Another allegation made before the arbitration B proceedings was that accused No.1 Company had manipulated the price of the shares. It will be relevant to refer to Issue No. 2 framed by the learned Arbitrator, which reads thus: “2) Whether the 15 lakh equity shares which were pledged have been sold? If so, when, at what rate, to whom and to what effect? C (OPP). (The above issue will include the contention that the Claimant has not sold the shares at the best available price. This will also cover the allegation that as to whether the Claimants were obliged to sell the shares as stated in the letter of 3rd May, 2000).” D 18.It will be relevant to refer to the following observations of the learned Arbitrator made in his award dated 9th December 2005: “32. Pertinently, the average price at which-the pledged shares were sold by the Claimant on 24.03.2001 works out to Rs.2.47 per equity share, as per Respondent No. l’s own assertion [as E mentioned in undated written note referred in para b (supra)). It is also not in1 dispute, as noted above, that the average market price per share as on 02.08.2001 was Rs.