There is no judicial encroachment directly or indirectly by the State Government by inserting amendment which are the subject matter of these petitions as sought to be canvassed by the learned senior counsel for the petitioner. . In our view curing the defect pointed out by any Court through a or simplicitor removing such defects does not amount to encroachment directly or indirectly or overruling the view taken by the Court or overreaching the powers of the State Government by nullifying the eff ect of the law laid down by the Court.” 115. In the opinion of this court, there is no quarrel with the proposition that a legislative body is competent to enact a curative legislation with 51 United Projects v State of Maharashtra (Writ Petition (ST.) No. 11589 of 2021, and Writ Petition No. 13754 of 2018, decided on 12.07.2022 THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 211 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] retrospective eff ect. Yet, the same vice that attaches itself to the Gujarat amendment, i.e. lack of competence on the date the amendment was enacted i.e. in this case, 09.07.2019, the Maharashtra legislature ceased to have any authority over the subject matter, because the original entry 54 had undergone a substantial change, and the power to change the VAT Act, ceased, on 01.07.2017, when the GST regime came into eff ect. Therefore, for the same reasons, as in the other cases, the amendments to the Maharashtra VAT Act cannot survive. VI. Conclusions 116. In view of the foregoing discussion and conclusions, the fi ndings of the court in these cases are: (i) Section 19 of the Constitution (101st Amendment) Act, 2016 and Article 246A enacted in exercise of constituent power, formed part of the transitional arrangement for the limited duration of its operation, and had the eff ect of continuing the operation of inconsistent laws for the period(s) specifi ed by it and, by virtue of its operation, allowed state legislatures and Parliament to amend or repeal such existing laws. (ii) Since other provisions of the said Amendment Act, had the eff ect of deleting heads of legislation, from List I and List II (of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India),both Section 19 and Article 246A refl ected the constituent expression that existing laws would continue and could be amended. The source or fi elds of legislation, to the extent they were deleted from the two lists, for a brief while, were contained in Section 19. As a result, there were no limitations on the power to amend. (iii) The above fi nding is in view of the vacuum created by the coming into force of the 101st Amendment, which resulted in deletion of the heads of legislation in the two lists aforesaid. (iv) The amendments in question, made to the Telangana VAT Act, and the Gujarat VAT Act, after 01.07.2017 were correctly held void, for want of legislative competence, by the two High Courts (Telangana and Gujarat High Court). The of 212 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.