In other words, if the person is found to be not merely a stranger having no right whatsoever to any post or property, he cannot be non-suited on the ground of his not having the locus standi.” (emphasis supplied) H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 765 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 30. In State of Orissa v. Ram Chandra Dev AIR 1964 SC 685, A a Constitution Bench of this Court held that the existence of a right is the foundation of a petition under Article 226: “8. … Under Article 226 of the Constitution, the jurisdiction of the High Court is undoubtedly very wide. Appropriate writs can be issued by the High Court under the said article even for purposes B other than the enforcement of the fundamental rights and in that sense, a party who invokes the special jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 is not confined to cases of illegal invasion of his fundamental rights alone. But though the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 is wide in that sense, the concluding C words of the article clearly indicate that before a writ or an appropriate can be issued in favour of a party, it must be established that the party has a right and the said right is illegally invaded or threatened. The existence of a right is thus the foundation of a petition under Article 226.” D (emphasis supplied) 31. In this case, the Odisha Retired Police Officers’ Welfare Association alleged that its right to speedy redressal of grievances (a facet of the fundamental right of access to justice) was violated. The OAT Bar Association joined the Odisha Retired Police Officers’ Welfare E Association in alleging that the state’s action of abolishing the OAT violated its right under Article 14 of the Constitution. Having alleged that these rights were violated by the abolition of the OAT, they were entitled to invoke the High Court’s jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution. Whether there is substance in the grievance is a separate matter which has to be analysed. F iii. Article 323-A does not preclude the Union Government from abolishing SATs 32. In to assess whether it is mandatory for the Union Gov- ernment to establish SATs, it is necessary to advert to Article 323-A of the Constitution of India: G “323A. Administrative tribunals.—(1) Parliament may, by law, provide for the adjudication or trial by administrative tribunals of disputes and complaints with respect to recruitment and conditions of service of persons appointed to public services and posts in connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State or of any H 766 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A local or other authority within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India or of any corporation owned or controlled by the Government. (2) A law made under clause (1) may— (a) provide for the establishment of an administrative tribunal for B the Union and a separate administrative tribunal for each State or for two or more States; (b) specify the jurisdiction, powers (including the power to punish for contempt) and authority which may be exercised by each of the said tribunals; C (c) provide for the procedure (including provisions as to limitation and rules of evidence) to be followed by the said tribunals; (d) exclude the jurisdiction of all courts, except the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court under article 136, with respect to the disputes or complaints referred to in clause (1); D (e) provide for the transfer to each such administrative tribunal of any cases pending before any court or other authority immediately before the establishment of such tribunal as would have been within the jurisdiction of such tribunal if the causes of action on which such suits or proceedings are based had arisen after such E establishment; (f) repeal or amend any made by the President under clause (3) of article 371D; (g) contain such supplemental, incidental and consequential F provisions (including provisions as to fees) as Parliament may deem necessary for the effective functioning of, and for the speedy disposal of cases by, and the enforcement of the s of, such tribunals.