In other words, the group of companies doctrine is a means of identifying the common intention of the parties to bind a non-signatory to arbitration agreement by emphasizing and analysing the corporate affi liation of the distinct legal entities.90 88 Stavros Brekoulakis, ‘Parties in International Arbitration: Consent v. Commercial Reality’ in Stavros Brekoulakis, Julian DM Lew, et al (eds) in ‘The Evolution and Future of International Arbitration’ (2016) 119, 120. 89 UNCITRAL, ‘Settlement of Commercial Disputes: Possible uniform rules on certain issues concerning settlement of commercial disputes: conciliation, interim measures of protection, written form of arbitration agreement: Report of the Secretary General’ A/CN.9/WG.II/WP.108/Add.1 (26 January 2000) 90 Gary Born (n 44) 1563. 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 99. The group of companies doctrine has been a subject of rigorous academic debate among practitioners of arbitration law and academics with domain expertise. The fi rst view questions the necessity of adopting the doctrine by suggesting that the determination of consent in complex multi-party arbitration can be done on the basis of traditional contractual and commercial law theories. Professor Bernard Hanotiau suggests that the group of companies doctrine should be discarded because it has been used as a “shortcut to avoid legal reasoning” leading to a distorted approach by courts and arbitral tribunals.91 However, Professor Hanotiau does concede that the existence of a group of companies may be a relevant factual element to determine whether the conduct of a non-signatory party amounts to consent. 100. In contrast, the second view suggests that the group of companies doctrine is an integral aspect of arbitration law. According to this view, the existence of specifi c patterns of corporate structure could be a useful factual indicator to determine the common intention of the parties to make the non-signatory a party to the arbitration agreement.92 For instance, the active involvement of a non-signatory group company in the facilitation and performance of a commercial project helmed by other signatory companies of the group can be considered as an indication that the non-signatory party also consented to arbitrate. Moreover, Gary Born also suggests that the group of companies doctrine is helpful because it allows the courts to go beyond the objective intentions of the parties to determine their dynamic subjective intentions both before, during, and after the execution of the contract.93 According to Born, the doctrine also promotes effi cacy of arbitration agreements by prohibiting circumvention of arbitration through satellite litigation by non-signatory parties within a group. We are broadly in agreement with this view for the reasons to follow. 101. The group of companies doctrine was developed by international arbitral tribunals specifi cally in the context of arbitration, and is not generally 91 Hanotiau (n 85) 546. 92 Stavros Brekoulakis, ‘Parties in International Arbitration: Consent v. Commercial Reality’ in Stavros Brekoulakis, Julian DM Lew, et al (eds) ‘The Evolution and Future of International Arbitration’ (2016) 119, 137. 93 Gary Born (n 44) 1568. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 687 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] used in other areas of law.94 Although the existence of a group of companies is a necessary condition, it is not the suffi cient condition to determine the intention of the parties.