Having outlined the relevant legal framework under consideration, we consider it proper to delve into the facts that formed the genesis of the writ petitions before the Patna High Court and the Orissa High Court. FACTS 9. The material facts, leading to the presentation of CA-I, are as follows: a) IIT Patna, the fourth respondent, appointed NBCC India Limited (“NBCC”, hereafter), the third respondent, as a Project Management Consultant to oversee the construction of building/ facilities/services for its academic complex. Vide Letter of Award dated 20th December, 2012, NBCC awarded the contract for construction works to SPCL at a total contract price of Rs.167,70,09,043.00 (Rupees One hundred Sixty-Seven Crore Seventy Lakh Nine Thousand Forty-Three only). Clause 4.2.4 of 428 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. the Letter of Award specifi ed that the aforementioned rates did not include service tax and that SPCL would be reimbursed for this tax by IIT Patna upon providing receipts. b) SPCL, in accordance with the Letter of Award, duly registered itself with the Central Excise and Service Tax (“CEST”, hereafter) and discharged its service tax obligations amounting to Rs.9,73,25,398.23 (Rupees Nine Crore Seventy-Three Lakh Twenty-Five Thousand Three Hundred Ninety-Eight and Twenty- Three paisa) for the period spanning from March 2013 to April 2015. It is important to note that these service tax amounts were integrated into the monthly running bills for the aforementioned months, which were submitted by SPCL and subsequently approved and paid by IIT Patna. This meant that IIT Patna was ultimately responsible for settling the service tax dues. c) The Indian Audit and Account Department raised an audit objection on 30th June, 2015 to the eff ect that service providers engaged in construction activities for educational institutions meeting the criteria of a “government, local authority, or governmental authority” according to clause 12(c) of the Exemption Notifi cation were not obligated to remit service tax. Consequently, because IIT Patna was classifi ed as a governmental authority, the payment of service tax by them was objected as such payment contravened the exemption provision specifi ed in the Exemption Notifi cation. Additionally, IIT Patna was directed to immediately undertake actions for the recovery or adjustment of the service tax previously paid to SPCL. d) Following receipt of the audit objection, IIT Patna notifi ed NBCC vide a letter dated 27th August, 2015 and conveyed that the Joint Secretary (Tax Research Unit) at the Government of India’s Ministry of Finance, Department of Revenue, had clarifi ed the defi nition of auxiliary educational services. This clarifi cation included an enumeration of various services eligible educational institutions could receive and which would be exempted from service tax. Notably, this clarifi cation did not specifi cally mention construction activity. Additionally, IIT Patna expressed its COMMISSIONER, CUSTOMS CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 429 PATNA v. M/S SHAPOORJI PALLONJI AND COMPANY PVT. LTD. & ORS. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] intention to establish a methodology for the recovery of service tax reimbursement. e) Apprehensive of the initiation of recovery proceedings for the service tax already paid, SPCL approached the Patna High Court seeking the following relief: “(i) the instructions of the respondent no.2 dated 30.06.2015 (as contained in Annexure-6) directing immediate recovery adjustment of service tax reimbursed by the respondent no.4 be quashed.