That is a matter for the High Court to examine at the fi rst instance and any view, for that matter even a prima facie, at this stage, could prejudice a party to the appeal. It is, therefore, left to the High Court to take a call on sustainability or the lack of it qua the impugned and . 56. While endeavouring to consider the prayer made before this Court for stay of conviction, and an altogether new prayer for stay of the notifi cation issued by the Lok Sabha Secretariat published in the Gazette of India dated 1st May, 2023, the settled principles of law as well as a proper understanding of the Constitution and the RoP Act, particularly in the light of the decisions of this Court as to the right ‘to elect’ as well as the right ‘to be elected’, have to be borne in mind. Such an endeavour would also necessarily require taking note of the submission of learned ASG that the grounds now urged before this Court by the appellant of the consequences that he is likely to suff er if the conviction be not stayed, and the new prayer, were never urged/made before the High Court. 57. It was pithily stated by this Court in Jyoti Basu v. Debi Ghosal22 that: “8. A right to elect, fundamental though it is to democracy, is, anomalously enough, neither a fundamental right nor a common law right. It is pure and simple, a statutory right. So is the right to be elected. So is the right to dispute an election. Outside of statute, there is no right to elect, no right to be elected and no right to dispute an election. Statutory creations they are, and therefore, subject to statutory limitation.” 22 (1982) 1 SCC 691 AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1017 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 58. In Pradeep Kumar Sonthalia v. Dhiraj Prasad Sahu23, a 3-Judge Bench of this Court while approving Jyoti Basu (supra) observed that what one has to keep in mind while interpreting the phrase appearing in section 8(3) is that, in cases of this nature, the Court is not dealing with a Fundamental Right or a common law right. 59. Further, the law is crystal clear that the right to represent a constituency cannot be construed as a Fundamental or an absolute right. In Ashish Shelar v. Maharashtra Legislative Assembly24, another 3-Judge Bench of this Court, dealing with the suspension of certain members of the Legislative Assembly of Maharashtra, observed thus: “60….It is true that right to vote and be represented is integral to our democratic process and it is not an absolute right. Indeed, the constituency cannot have any right to be represented by a disqualifi ed or expelled Member.” 60. As the precedents on similar controversies would reveal, this is not the solitary instance of a (disqualifi ed) member of the Lok Sabha who, in a bid to escape from the operation of law, is seeking refuge in purported irreversible consequences to be suff ered by his constituents.