Section 43 of the AC Act, apart from making the provisions of the Limitation Act, 1963 applicable to arbitrations, reiterates that the Limitation Act applies to proceedings in court. Therefore, the provisions of F the Limitation Act, 1963 apply to all proceedings under the AC Act, both in court and in arbitration, except to the extent expressly excluded by the provisions of the AC Act.” (Emphasis supplied) G 31. Since a petition under Section 11(6) of the Act 1996 for seeking appointment of Arbitral Tribunal is required to be filed before the High Court or the Supreme Court, as the case may be, Article 137 of the Schedule to the Act 1963 would apply. 32. Article 137 reads thus: H 616 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A B 33. A plain reading of the aforesaid Article would indicate that the period of limitation in cases covered by Article 137 is three years and the said period would begin to run when the right to apply accrues. 34. The starting point of limitation under Article 137 according to third column of the Article is the date when ‘the right to apply arises’. C This being a residuary Article to be adopted to different classes of applications, the expression ‘the right to apply’ is an expression of a broad common law principle and should be interpreted according to the circumstances of each case. ‘The right to apply’ has been interpreted to mean ‘the right to apply first arises’. (See: Merla Ramanna v. Nallaparaju and Others, (1955) 2 SCR 938) D 35. Further, it would be necessary to refer to Section 9 of the Act 1963 of the Act which reads thus: “9. Continuous running of time.— Where once time has begun to run, no subsequent disability or inability to institute a suit or make an application stops it: E Provided that, where letters of administration to the estate of a creditor have been granted to his debtor, the running of the period of limitation for a suit to recover the debt shall be suspended while the administration continues.” F (Emphasis supplied) CASE LAW ON THE SUBJECT 36. In the case of Major (Retd.) Inder Singh Rekhi v. Delhi Development Authority reported in AIR 1988 SC 1887, it has been held that the existence of a dispute is essential for the appointment of an G Arbitrator under Section 8 or a reference under Section 20 of the Arbitration Act, 1940 (for short, ‘the Act 1940’) and that a dispute can arise only when a claim is asserted by one party and denied by the other on whatever grounds. Mere failure or inaction to pay does not lead to the inference about the existence of a dispute as the expression “dispute” H contains a positive element of assertion and in denying and merely an M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 617 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] inaction to accede to a claim or a request. With respect to the period of A time, in the light of the facts of that particular case as to when did the dispute actually arises, despite the fact that the contract work in question was completed in the year 1980, the Court observed that even though it was true that on completion of the contract work right to get payment would normally arise, but where the final bill had not been prepared and B when the assertion of the claim was made much after the completion of the work and there was non-payment, the cause of action arose from the date when the assertion was made.