H 35 (2021) SCC Online SC 1270. SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 197 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 21.In our opinion, Section 13-B of the Hindu Marriage Act does A not impose any fetters on the powers of this Court to grant a decree of divorce by mutual consent on a joint application, when the substantive conditions of the Section are fulfilled and the Court, after referring to the factors mentioned above, is convinced and of the opinion that the decree of divorce should be granted. B 22.The legislature and the courts treat matrimonial litigations as a special, if not a unique, category. Public policy underlying the legislations dealing with family and matrimonial matters is to encourage mutual settlement, as is clearly stated in Section 89 of the C.P.C., Section 23(2) of the Hindu Marriage Act, and Section 9 of the Family Courts Act, C 1984. Given that there are multiple legislations governing different aspects, even if the cause of dispute is identical or similar, most matrimonial disputes lead to a miscellany of cases including criminal cases, at times genuine, and on other occasions initiated because of indignation, hurt, anger or even misguided advice to teach a lesson. The multiplicity of litigations can restrict and block solutions, as a settlement has to be holistic D and comprehensive, given that the objective and purpose is to enable the parties to cohabit and live together, or if they decide to part ways, to have a new beginning and settle down to live peacefully. Therefore, in B.S. Joshi and Others v. State of Haryanaand Another36, this Court, notwithstanding that Section 320 of the Cr.P.C. does not permit E compounding of an offence under Section 498A of the I.P.C., has held that the High Court, exercising the power under Section 482 of the Cr.P.C., may quash prosecutions even in non-compoundable offences when the ends of justice so require. This view has been affirmed by the three judges’ bench in Gian Singh v. State of Punjab and Another37 and reiterated by another three judges’ bench in Jitendra Raghuvanshi F and Others v. Babita Raghuvanshi and Another38. The reason is that the courts must not encourage matrimonial litigation, and prolongation of such litigation is detrimental to both the parties who lose their young age in chasing multiple litigations. Thus, adopting a hyper-technical view can be counter-productive as pendency itself causes pain, suffering and G harassment and, consequently, it is the duty of the court to ensure that matrimonial matters are amicably resolved, thereby bringing the agony, affliction, and torment to an end. In this regard, the courts only have to 36 (2003) 4 SCC 675. 37 (2012) 10 SCC 303. 38 (2013) 4 SCC 58. H 198 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A enquire and ensure that the settlement between the parties is achieved without pressure, force, coercion, fraud, misrepresentation, or undue influence, and that the consent is indeed sought by free will and choice, and the autonomy of the parties is not compromised. The latter two decisions in Gian Singh (supra) and Jitendra Raghuvanshi and Others (supra) observe that the inherent power on the High Court under Section B 482 of the Cr.P.C.