[2023] 14 S.C.R. 977 : 2023 INSC 936 CASE DETAILS NAVEEN @ AJAY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH (Criminal Appeal Nos. 489-490 of 2019) OCTOBER 19, 2023 [B. R. GAVAI, PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether appellant was aff orded a fair trial; whether he was deprived of his valuable legal rights. Penal Code, 1860 – s. 302 – Appellant was convicted and sentenced for committing rape and murder of 3 months old girl child – His death sentence was confi rmed by the High Court – Appellant contended that the entire trial was completed within a span of 15 days and appellant was not aff orded a fair trial – Propriety: Held: The -sheet would clearly indicate that the trial was conducted in a hurried manner without providing ample and proper opportunity to the defence counsel, who was engaged through legal aid, to prepare himself eff ectively – It is also to be noted that copies of DNA Report, FSL Report and Viscera Report were not submitted along with the charge-sheet and were presented before the Court during the course of trial – When the reports were challenged by the accused before the High Court, it was brushed aside by observing that even if the authors of the reports were not called for evidence, in terms of Section 293 Cr.P.C., the reports are not open to question as the defence had an opportunity to cross-examine the authors of the reports during the trial – High Court was not correct in saying that the defence had an opportunity to cross-examine the experts – Accused, who was in jail and defended by a counsel from legal aid, was compelled by the Trial Court to produce defence witness of his own in one day – It was impossible for the accused himself to produce doctors, the authors of the Reports (Ex.P-72), in one day because 977 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. the said experts are government servants and could not have attended the Court at the request of an accused in jail – There was no opportunity, in the real sense, to the appellant to cross-examine the experts – Therefore, the of conviction and sentence passed by the Trial Court and affi rmed by the High Court is set aside and the matter is remitted back to the trial court for de novo trial by aff ording proper opportunity to the appellant to defend himself. [Paras 8, 10, 21, 22] Criminal Trial – Fair Trial – Defi nition of: Held: There can be no analytical, all-comprehensive or exhaustive defi nition of the concept of a fair trial, and it may have to be determined in seemingly infi nite variety of actual situations with the ultimate object in mind viz. whether something that was done or said either before or at the trial deprived the quality of fairness to a degree where a miscarriage of justice has resulted – Each one has an inbuilt right to be dealt with fairly in a criminal trial – Denial of a fair trial is as much injustice to the accused as is to the victim and the society – Fair trial obviously would mean a trial before an impartial judge, a fair prosecutor, and the atmosphere of judicial calm – Fair trial means a trial in which bias or prejudice for or against the accused, the witnesses, or the cause which is being tried is eliminated – It is inherent in the concept of due process of law, that condemnation should be rendered only after the trial in which the hearing is a real one, not sham or a mere farce and pretence – Since fair hearing requires an opportunity to preserve the process, it may be vitiated and violated by an overhasty, stage-managed, tailored and partisan trial – It is thus settled that a hasty trial in which proper and suffi cient opportunity has not been provided to the accused to defend himself/herself would vitiate the trial as being meaningless & stage-managed – It is in violation of the principle of judicial calm.