The position of the DVB is different, as direct negligence on its part was established and it was a proximate cause for the injuries to and death of victims. It can be said that insofar as the licensee and the DVB are concerned, there was contributory negligence. F 55. The position of licensing authority and MCD is different. They were not the owners of the cinema theatre. The cause of the fire was not attributable to them or anything done by them. Their actions/omissions were not the proximate cause of the deaths and injuries. The licensing authority and MCD were merely G discharging their statutory functions (that is granting licence in the case of the licensing authority and submitting an inspection report or issuing an NOC by MCD). In such circumstances, merely on the ground that the licensing authority and MCD could have performed their duties better or more efficiently, they cannot be made liable to pay compensation to the victims of the tragedy. H AMOD KUMAR KANTH v. ASSOCIATION OF VICTIM OF 693 UPHAAR TRAGEDY AND ANR. There is no close or direct proximity to the acts of the licensing A authority and MCD on the one hand and the fire accident and the death/injuries of the victims. But there was close and direct proximity between the acts of the licensee and the DVB on the one hand and the fire accident resultant deaths/injuries of victims. In view of the well-settled principles in regard to public law liability, B in regard to discharge of statutory duties by the public authorities which do not involve mala fides or abuse, the High Court committed a serious error in making the licensing authority and MCD liable to pay compensation to the victims jointly and severally with the licensee and the DVB. C 56. We make it clear that the exoneration is only in regard to monetary liability to the victims. We do not disagree with the observations of the High Court that the performance of duties by the licensing authority and by MCD (in its limited sphere) was mechanical, casual and lackadaisical. There is a tendency on the part of these authorities to deal with the files coming before them D as requiring mere paperwork to dispose it. They fail to recognise the object of the law or rules, the reason why they are required to do certain acts and the consequences of non-application of mind or mechanical disposal of the application/requests which come to them. As rightly observed by Naresh Kumar’s Report, there is a E lack of safety culture and lack of the will to improve performance. The compliance with the procedure and rules is mechanical. We affirm the observations of the High Court in regard to the shortcoming in the performance of their functions and duties by the licensing authority and to a limited extent by MCD. But that does not lead to monetary liability.” F (33) He would contend on the strength of the same that this Court has found that the appellant was not liable to compensate.