[K. M. JOSEPH, J.] change in any withholding tax on income or dividends distributed A to the shareholders of the Seller, or (ii) change in respect of UI Charges or frequency intervals by an Appropriate Commission. Provided that if Government of India does not extend the income tax holiday for power generation projects under Section 80 IA of the Income Tax Act, upto the Scheduled Commercial B Operation Date of the Power Station, such non-extension shall be deemed to be a Change in Law.” (42) Article 13.1.2 declares that the Supreme Court or High Court or a Tribunal or in similar judicial or quasi judicial body in India that has jurisdiction to adjudicate upon issues relating to the project will be treated C as competent Court. (43) Article 13.2 provides for the actual application and the principles for computing the impact of change in law. It reads as follows: “13.2 Application and Principles for computing impact of Change in Law. D While determining the consequence of Change in Law under this Article 13, the Parties shall have due regard to the principle that the purpose of compensating the Party affected by such Change in Law, is to restore through Monthly Tariff Payments, to the extent contemplated in this Article 13, the affected Party E to the same economic position as if such Change in Law has not occurred. a) Construction Period As a result of any Change in Law, the impact of increase/ F decrease of Capital Cost of the Project in the Tariff shall be governed by the formula given below: For every cumulative increase/decrease of each Rupees Fifty crores (Rs.50 crores) in the Capital Cost over the term of this Agreement, the increase/decrease in Non Escalable Capacity G Charges shall be an amount equal to zero point two six seven (0.267%) of the Non Escalable Capacity Charges. Provided that the Seller provides to the Procurers documentary proof of such increase/decrease in Capital cost for establishing the impact of such Change in Law. In case of Dispute, Article H 17 shall apply. 42 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A It is clarified that the above mentioned compensation shall be payable to either Party, only with effect from the date on which the total increase/decrease exceeds amount of Rs. Fifty (50)crores. b) Operation Period B As a result of Change in Law, the compensation for any increase/decrease in revenues or cost to the Seller shall be determined and effect from such date, as decided by the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission whose decision shall be final and binding on both the Parties, subject to rights of appeal C provided under applicable Law. Provided that the above mentioned compensation shall be payable only if and for increase/decrease in revenues or cost to the seller is in excess of an amount equivalent to 1% of Letter of Credit in aggregate for a Contact Year. D (44) Article 13.4.2 provides for the manner in which the payment for changes in law is to be effected.