Article 372(2) stipulates that the President may by make modifications and adaptations to the provisions of any law in force in the territory of India to bring it in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. This power under Article 372(3) was only granted to the President for three years and thus, it expired on 25 January 1953. 52. The 1956 Constitution Amendment was introduced to make D necessary amendments to the provisions of the Constitution to give effect to the reorganisation of States. Article 372A which was introduced pursuant to the 1956 Constitution Amendment confers on the President the power to make modifications and adaptations in provisions of law, in force in India immediately before the amendment, to bring it in consonance E with the provisions of the Constitution. 53. The President amended Section 3(58) of the General Clauses Act by the Adaptation of Laws (No. 1) , 1956. Subsequent to the amendment in 1956. Section 3(58) stipulates that the phrase ‘State’ with respect to any period before the commencement of the 1956 Constitution F Amendment shall mean a Part A State, a Part B State, or a Part C State, and with respect to the period after the amendment shall include a State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution and shall include a Union Territory: “(58) “State”— (a) as respects any period before the G commencement of the Constitution (Seventh Amendment) Act, 1956, shall mean a Part A State, a Part B State or a Part C State; and (b) as respects any period after such commencement, shall mean a State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution and shall include a Union territory;]” H 11 "General Clauses Act” GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 533 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 54. In Advance Insurance Corporation Limited v. A Gurudasmal,12 the question before a Constitution Bench of this Court was whether the word ‘State’ in Entry 80 of List I could be read to include Union territories. Entry 80 read as follows: “80. Extension of the powers and jurisdiction of members of a police force belonging to any State to any area outside that State, B but not so as to enable the police of one State to exercise powers and jurisdiction in any area outside that State without the consent of the Government of the State in which such area is situated; extension of the powers and jurisdiction of members of a police force belonging to any State to railway areas outside that State.” C 55. Justice Hidayatullah writing for the Constitution Bench rejected the argument that the amended definition of ‘State’ under General Clauses Act will not apply to the interpretation of provisions of the Constitution. He observed that Article 372A provides the President with a fresh power of adaptation and this power is equal and analogous to the power that D the President held under Article 372(2). This Court held that unless the context otherwise requires, the definition provided under the General Clauses Act and as modified by the under Article 372A shall be applied.