In the case of site having extent of above 10,000 square metres under the column ‘reservation’, it is not provided D that the flat owners or residents association may be permitted to maintain the reserved park. [Para 163][1154-G-H; 1155-A-D] 5. The impression which gathers on reading the contents of reservation to be made in respect of site having an extent between 3,000 to 10,000 square metres is that the reserved area E is to be maintained as a park. When it comes to the site having more than 10,000 square meters, the provision that public access for area shall not be insisted upon is not to be found. This means that when it comes to the layout which in the wisdom and the policy of the Rule Maker, which has been made after the process undergone under the Act, and apparently, after hearing objections, F if any, and with the approval of the government that, were a large chunk of land be developed for group development, as defined, and certain percentage, which in these cases is 10 per cent or 1/ th 10 of the total layout excluding roads is to be set apart as the OSR area. The word park is not in any way inconsistent with G recreational purpose. It does not require much imagination to conclude that in an urban area and with a site being in excess of 10,000 square metres (nearly two and a half acres) where group development takes place, there would be a large number of people who would occupy the said area. Group development can H 1024 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A be substantially conflated with flats and apartments comprised in two or more blocks or buildings as required to satisfy the requirement of group development under Rule 19(b)(II). A large number of people would occupy the said land. This is understandable having regard to the size of the layout and the definition of group building. Planned development, particularly, B when it is informed by deep vision about the future does call for an expansive approach. [Para 165][1165-E-H; 1166-A-B] 6. The word ‘communal’ must be understood as where the layout exceeds 10000 sq.meters entitling members of the general public also to avail the benefit of the OSR area. Once, the word C ‘communal’ is so understood it further fortifies the conclusion that there would be no infraction of Article 300A or Article 14 as understanding the execution of the gift deed as obligating the donee only to act as a trustee to ensure the fulfilment of the sublime goal of the law and since the owner/developer would not D have a right to exclude others or to claim exclusive right to possession which would be incongruous to recognising the right of the members of the general public to access to the OSR area. The Rule / Regulation can withstand the challenge based on Article 300A on the basis that properly appreciated the “so called compelled gift” would be valid. Even proceeding on the basis E that a challenge to Rule 19(b) would imply a challenge to the Explanation as well, on the reasoning which has appealed to this Court, namely, about the nature of the right under the Gift Deed as also finding that the word ‘communal’ is intended to reach the benefit of the OSR area to the members of the public as well, F there would be no merit in the contention.