This position cannot be in the region of dispute. 9. There is another scenario. This relates to a claim that there is F accord and satisfaction. On the one hand, it is sought to be rebuffed by the case of the contractor that the accord and satisfaction was brought about by vitiating factors which are contemplated essentially in sections 15 to 18 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872. In other words, where the case of the contractor that a No Claim Certificate is given under duress G or coercion, this may be the subject matter of inquiry by the Arbitrator. It may be open to the Arbitrator to find merit in the complaint of the contractor and to reject the case of accord and satisfaction and to proceed to examine the merits of the claim of the contractor and to award compensation in accordance with law in a given case. These distinct streams of cases and therefore differences in the judicial approach is H what essentially arise for our consideration. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. BHARAT ENTERPRISE 813 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 10. In Bharat Coking Coal Ltd. v. Annapurna Construction A (2003) 8 SCC 154, this Court considered inter alia the effect of an Arbitrator failing to consider the relevant clauses of the contract. It is on the said premise that the Court proceeded to hold inter alia as follows: “Findings B 9. Only because the respondent has accepted the final bill, the same would not mean that it was not entitled to raise any claim. It is not the case of the appellant that while accepting the final bill, the respondent had unequivocally stated that he would not raise any further claim. In absence of such a declaration, the respondent cannot be held to be estopped or precluded from raising any claim. C We, therefore, do not find any merit in the said submission of Mr Sinha. 40. However, as noticed hereinbefore, this case stands on a different footing, namely, that the arbitrator while passing the award in relation to some items failed and/or neglected to take into D consideration the relevant clauses of the contract, nor did he take into consideration the relevant materials for the purpose of arriving at a correct fact. Such an would amount to misdirection in law.” In the same vein is the of this Court reported in PSA E SICAL Terminate (P) Ltd.1 11. On the other hand, is the decision reported in Master Construction Company2. 12. We must notice the following facts: F Firstly, the case arose under Section 11 of the Act. Upon completion of the work in question, the completion certificate was issued and this was followed by the contractor furnishing a No Claim Certificate. The final bill was signed. Thereafter, the payment of the final bill was made within a period of little over a month. Thereafter, G it would appear that the contractor wrote to the appellant withdrawing the No Claim Certificate. The employer (the appellant) declined to entertain the claims on the ground that the final bill was accepted by the 1 PSA SI CAL Terminate (P) Ltd. v. Board of Trustees of V.O.