80. Section 5 has two facets – positive and negative. The positive facet vests judicial authorities with jurisdiction over arbitral proceedings in matters expressly allowed in or dealt with under Part I of the Arbitration Act. The fl ip side to this approach is that judicial authorities are prohibited from intervening in arbitral proceedings in situations where the arbitral tribunal has been bestowed with exclusive jurisdiction. This is the negative facet of Section 5. The non-obstante clause limits the extent of judicial intervention in respect of matters expressly provided under the Arbitration Act.79 In Bhaven Construction v. Sardar Sarovar Narmada Nigam Ltd,80 a Bench of three Judges of this Court observed that the “non- obstante clause is provided to uphold the intention of the legislature as provided in the Preamble to adopt UNCITRAL Model Law and Rules, to reduce excessive judicial interference which is not contemplated under the Arbitration Act.” 79 Secur Industries Ltd v. Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co. Ltd, (2004) 3 SCC 447 80 (2022) 1 SCC 75 113 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 81. One of the main objectives behind the enactment of the Arbitration Act was to minimize the supervisory role of courts in the arbitral process by confi ning it only to the circumstances stipulated by the legislature. For instance, Section 16 of the Arbitration Act provides that the arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction “including ruling on any objection with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement.” The eff ect of Section 16, bearing in view the principle of minimum judicial interference, is that judicial authorities cannot intervene in matters dealing with the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal. Although Sections 8 and 11 allow courts to refer parties to arbitration or appoint arbitrators, Section 5 limits the courts from dealing with substantive objections pertaining to the existence and validity of arbitration agreements at the referral or appointment stage. A referral court at Section 8 or Section 11 stage can only enter into a prima facie determination. The legislative mandate of prima facie determination ensures that the referral courts do not trammel the arbitral tribunal’s authority to rule on its own jurisdiction. 82. Section 5 is of aid in interpreting the extent of judicial interference under Sections 8 and 11 of the Arbitration Act. Section 5 contains a general rule of judicial non-interference. Therefore, every provision of the Arbitration Act ought to be construed in view of Section 5 to give true eff ect to the legislative intention of minimal judicial intervention. iii. The Arbitration Act is a self-contained code 83. In Girnar Traders v. State of Maharashtra,81 a Constitution Bench of this Court observed that a self-contained code is a complete legislation with regard to the purpose for which it is enacted. Such a self- contained code provides for a complete machinery to deal with the purpose sought to be achieved by that law and its dependence on other legislations is either absent or minimal. 84. A two-Judge Bench of this Court, in Fuerst Day Lawson Ltd. v. Jindal Exports Ltd,82 explained the nature of the Arbitration Act in the following terms: 81 (2011) 3 SCC 1 82 (2011) 8 SCC 333 IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1135 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] “89.