This is no doubt also to be balanced with the need for sustainable development. The coastal regulation appears to be based on considerations which appear to accommodate conflicting interests premised on considerations C of what is felt as indispensably necessary and the nature of the zone in question. Allowing storage facilities for non-hazardous activities like edible oil, is, apparently, considered as an indispensable part of the operation of a port. The Port Authorities would have full control over the storage facility located within its limits. No doubt, Section 35 of the Major Port Trust Act, 1964, D inter alia, empowers the port to execute works outside its limits for securing and storing goods to be landed or to be shipped. The storage tanks in question are not works executed by the port. [Para 55][280-A-F] 1.11 Paragraph-8(I)(i)(b), undoubtedly, related to permitting E of pipelines being constructed in CRZ-I. Paragraph-8(I)(ii) related to CRZ-I. The further reference is only to paragraph 8(II)(vi) which permits the activity in question ‘in’ notified ports. The aspect relating to buildings being permitted on the landward side of the existing road dealt with in paragraph 8(II)(i) was not the F basis for the decision even according to the counter affidavit. This is apart from the fact that impugned decision of the first respondent does not proceed on the basis of paragraph 8 (II)(i). This is also apart from noticing the contention of Respondent No.5 that storage facility being specifically dealt with, ‘building’ under paragraph-8(II)(i), would not include storage facility. We G would therefore, think that we must not be persuaded to allow the appellants or allow them to lean on paragraph 8(II)(i) of the 2011 Notification. The authorities are experts. They have applied their minds. Their understanding should govern. At least, it should be given the weight that is due to them. [Paras 57 and H 58][281-B-E] K.T.V. HEALTH FOOD PVT. LTD. v. UNION OF INDIA AND 253 ORS. 1.12 That the authorities have proceeded on a particular A basis, may as well betray their erroneous understanding. That such views do not clinch the issue relating to the construction of the law is elementary. This Court would think that in the facts of this case and on a construction of the statute or the law in question, viz., the 2011 notification, the understanding of the authorities if B that be the basis of the contention, cannot overwhelm our understanding of the notification. This Court again reiterate that the words ‘within’ and ‘in’ cannot include what is outside the port. The maker of the notification has not even contemplated the activities in question in a ‘port area’. This Court must here elucidate and observe that if the contention is to be upheld that a C storage tank can be permitted outside the port limits, it will introduce chaos. The question would arise as to up to what distance from the port area it would be considered as the ‘in the port area’. The 2011 Notification cannot receive an interpretation which would leave matters of moment to be afflicted with the D vice of uncertainty.