Joseph that exercise of power coupled with duty under Section 33 of the Stamp Act cannot be accused of judicial interference in contravention to Section 5 of the Act and further that it shall not be confused with examination whether an arbitration agreement or arbitration clause in the said instrument, exists D so as to appoint arbitrator in invocation of the power under Section 11(6) of the Act. In that view of the matter, the provisions under Section 11(6A) or 16 of the Act cannot act as a rider for the exercise of the said power under Section 33 of the Stamp Act. 4. In the aforesaid context, it is relevant to refer to Sub-sections E (1), (2) and clause (b) of Sub-section 2, of Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. They read thus:- “33. Examination and impounding of instruments. — (1) Every person having by law or consent of parties authority to receive evidence, and every person in charge of a public F office, except an officer of police, before whom any instrument, chargeable, in his opinion, with duty, is produced or comes in the performance of his functions, shall, if it appears to him that such instrument is not duly stamped, impound the same. G (2) For that purpose every such person shall examine every instrument so chargeable and so produced or coming before him, in to ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the value and description required by the law in force in 2 [India] when such instrument was executed or first executed: Provided that— H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 379 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] (a) nothing herein contained shall be deemed to require any A Magistrate or Judge of a Criminal Court to examine or impound, if he does not think fit so to do, any instrument coming before him in the course of any proceeding other than a proceeding under Chapter XII or Chapter XXXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898); B (b) in the case of a Judge of a High Court, the duty of examining and impounding any instrument under this section may be delegated to such officer as the Court appoints in this behalf. 5. I have already found that receiving the very ‘instrument’ which C is carrying the arbitration agreement or containing an arbitration clause from the party who asserts its existence is essentially an act of receiving the evidence, in that limited sense. Therefore, how can the Court, which is having authority and competence to receive evidence, for the purpose of invoking the power under Section 11 (6), abstain from proceeding further in terms of Section 33 if it appears to it that such instrument D produced before it, though required to be stamped, is unstamped or is not duly stamped. According to me, in terms of the mandate under Sub- section (2) of Section 33, for that purpose, the Section 11 Judge who received evidence shall ‘examine’ the instrument so chargeable and so produced in to ascertain whether it is stamped with a stamp of the E value and description required by the law in force in India, when such instrument was executed or first executed.