However, Roussel-Uclaf (supra) was expressly overruled by the Court of Appeal in Sancheti (supra) on the ground that a mere legal or commercial connection is not suffi cient for a person to claim through or under a party to an arbitration agreement. 132. The scope of the phrase “claiming through or under” has been evaluated by other common law jurisdictions. In Tanning Research Laboratories Inc v. O’Brien,111 the issue before the High Court of Australia was whether a liquidator could be regarded as a person “claiming through or under” a party to an arbitration agreement. The High Court construed the words “through” or “under” to hold that the liquidator had a derivative interest through the company. The relevant observation is extracted below: 107 Russel on Arbitration (23rd edn, 2007) 99 para 3-018. 108 Schiff ahrts–gesellschaft Detlev von Appen v Voest Alpine Intertrading, [1997] EWCA Civ 1420. 109 Through Transport Mutual Insurance Association (Eurasia) Ltd v. New India Assurance Co Ltd, [2005] EWHC 455 (Comm); West Tankers Inc. v. Allianz Spa, [2012] EWCA Civ 27. 110 Section 82(2) of the English Arbitration Act, 1996 111 [1990] HCA 8 COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 701 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “[T]he prepositions “through” or “under” convey the notion of a derivative cause of action or ground of defence, that is to say, a cause of action or ground of defence derived from the party. In other words, an essential element of the cause of action or defence must be or must have been vested in or exercisable by the party before the person claiming through or under the party can rely on the cause of action or ground of defence. A liquidator may be a person claiming through or under a company because the causes of action or grounds of defence on which he relies are vested in or exercisable by the company; a trustee in bankruptcy may be such a person because the causes of action or grounds of defence on which he relies were vested in or exercisable by the bankrupt.” The test of derivative action conveys that a third party’s cause of action is derived from the original party to the arbitration agreement. The third party cannot be saddled with new duties and liabilities to which it has not consented. They can only be held liable or entitled to the extent they derive their rights or entitlements from the original party to the agreement. 133. The above formulation was further clarifi ed by the Australian High Court in Rinehart v. Hancock Prospecting Pty Ltd112, where it observed that the ultimate test in Tanning Research (supra) was whether an essential element of the defence was or is vested in or exercisable by the party to the arbitration agreement. In Rinehart (supra), the Court was dealing with a situation where a signatory party had assigned mining tenements in breach of trust. It was held that assignees stand in the same position vis-à-vis the claimant as the assignor since the “assignee [took] its stand upon a ground which [was] available to the assignor.” The Court concluded that the assignees were persons claiming through or under the signatory parties on the basis that the parties to the arbitration agreement had agreed that any dispute as to the benefi cial title to the mining tenements would be determined by arbitration.