17. In so far facts of the present case are concerned, there is no dispute. Since electricity from the State Electricity Board to the industrial units of the assessee was inadequate, the assessee had set up captive power plants to supply electricity to its industrial units. For disposal of the surplus electricity, the assessee could not supply the same to any third- party consumer. Therefore, in terms of the provisions of Section 43A of the 1948 Act, the assessee had entered into an agreement dated 15.07.1999 with the State Electricity Board as per which, the assessee had supplied the surplus electricity to the State Electricity Board at the rate of Rs. 2.32 per unit determined as per the agreement. Thus, for the assessment year under consideration, the assessee was paid at the rate of Rs. 2.32 per unit for the surplus electricity supplied to the State Electricity Board. We may mention that the State Electricity Board had supplied power (electricity) to the industrial consumers at the rate of Rs. 3.72 per unit 18. There is also no dispute that the assessee or rather, the captive power plants of the assessee are entitled to deduction under Section 80- IA of the Act. For the purpose of computing the profi ts and gains of the eligible business, which is necessary for quantifying the deduction under Section 80-IA, the assessee had recorded in its books of accounts that it had supplied power to its industrial units at the rate of Rs. 3.72 per unit which rate is disputed by the revenue as not being the market value of electricity. 19. While the assessing offi cer accepted the claim of the assessee for deduction under Section 80-IA, he, however, did not accept the profi ts and gains of the eligible business computed by the assessee on the ground that those were infl ated by showing supply of power to its own industrial units for captive consumption at the rate of Rs. 3.72 per unit. Assessing offi cer took the view that there was no justifi cation on the part of the assessee to claim electricity charge at the rate of Rs. 3.72 for supply to its own industrial COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX v. M/S JINDAL STEEL & POWER 511 LTD. THROUGH ITS MANAGING DIRECTOR [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] units when the assessee was supplying surplus power to the State Electricity Board at the rate of Rs 2.32 per unit. Finally, the assessing offi cer held that Rs. 2.32 per unit was the market value of electricity and on that basis, reduced the profi ts and gains of the assessee thereby restricting the claim of deduction of the assessee under Section 80-IA of the Act. 20. We have already analyzed Section 80-IA of the Act. There is no dispute that respondent-assessee is entitled to deduction under Section 80-IA of the Act for the relevant assessment year. The only issue is with regard to the quantum of profi ts and gains of the eligible business of the assessee and the resultant deduction under Section 80 IA of the Act.