A three-Judge Bench of this Court in Uday Mohanlal Acharya v. State of Maharashtra reported in (2001) 5 SCC 453, has noticed the object of enacting the provisions of Section 167 of the CrPC. G Section 57 of the CrPC contains the embargo on the police officers to detain in custody, a person arrested beyond 24 hours. The object is that the accused should be brought before a Magistrate without delay within 24 hours, which provision is, in fact, in consonance with the constitutional mandate engrafted under Article 22(2) of the Constitution. The provision H 22 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A of Section 167 is supplementary to Section 57. The power under Section 167 is given to detain a person in custody while police goes on with the investigation. Section 167 is, therefore, a provision which authorises the Magistrate permitting the detention of the accused in custody prescribing the maximum period. In Uday Mohanlal Acharya (supra) this Court while dealing with Section 167 laid down the following: B “5. …This provision of Section 167 is in fact supplementary to Section 57, in consonance with the principle that the accused is entitled to demand that justice is not delayed. The object of requiring the accused to be produced before a Magistrate is to enable the Magistrate to see that remand is C necessary and also to enable the accused to make a representation which he may wish to make. The power under Section 167 is given to detain a person in custody while the police goes on with the investigation and before the Magistrate starts the enquiry. Section 167, therefore, is the provision D which authorises the Magistrate permitting detention of an accused in custody and prescribing the maximum period for which such detention could be ed. Having prescribed the maximum period, as stated above, what would be the consequences thereafter has been indicated in the proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 167. The proviso is unambiguous E and clear and stipulates that the accused shall be released on bail if he is prepared to and does furnish the bail which has been termed by judicial pronouncement to be “compulsive bail” and such bail would be deemed to be a bail under Chapter 33. The right of an accused to be released on bail F after expiry of the maximum period of detention provided under Section 167 can be denied only when an accused does not furnish bail, as is apparent from Explanation I to the said section. The proviso to sub-section (2) of Section 167 is a beneficial provision for curing the mischief of indefinitely prolonging the investigation and thereby affecting the liberty G of a citizen….” 29. Again, there has been a very detailed consideration of Section 167 by a three-Judge Bench of this Court in Rakesh Kumar Paulv.State of Assam, reported in (2017) 15 SCC 67. This Court in the above case has traced the legislative history of the provision of Section 167. This H JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 23 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J.