The second proviso to Article 3 which requires the consent of the State legislature for increasing or diminishing the area of the State of Jammu and Kashmir or altering the name of boundary of the State before the introduction of the Bill in Parliament; h. Whether during the tenure of a Proclamation under Article 356, and when the Legislative Assembly of the State is either dissolved or is in suspended animation the status of the State of Jammu and Kashmir as a State under Article 1(3)(a) of the Constitution and its conversion into a Union Territory under Article 1(3)(b) constitutes a valid exercise of power. Federalism – Asymmetric federalism – Constitutional integration of Indian States – Accession of Jammu and Kashmir – Article 370 of the Constitution of India incorporated special arrangements for the governance of the State of Jammu and Kashmir – Whether the State of Jammu and Kashmir possessed sovereignty – Meaning of sovereignty. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 3 Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, B.R. Gavai and Surya Kant, JJ. ): The State of Jammu and Kashmir does not retain any element of sovereignty after the execution of the Instrument of Accession (IoA) and the issuance of the Proclamation dated 25 November 1949 by which the Constitution of India was adopted – The State of Jammu and Kashmir does not have ‘internal sovereignty’ which is distinguishable from the powers and privileges enjoyed by other States in the country – Article 370 was a feature of asymmetric federalism and not sovereignty. [Para 514] – Held (per Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J. ): In light of the Supreme Court’s prior fi nding in Prem Nath Kaul case, the State of Jammu and Kashmir retained an element of internal sovereignty despite Maharaja Hari Singh signing the IoA with the Dominion – Art.370 of the Constitution recognized this internal sovereignty by recognizing the Constituent Assembly of the State. [Para 112] – Held (per Sanjiv Khanna, J. ): The abrogation of Article 370 does not negate the federal structure, as the citizens living in Jammu and Kashmir do and will enjoy same status and rights as given to citizens residing in other parts of the country. [Para 2] Constitution of India – Art. 356 – Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir – s.92 – Proclamations issued under Article 356 of the Constitution of India and s.92 of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir – Constitutional validity of. Held (per Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, B.R. Gavai and Surya Kant, JJ. ): The petitioners did not challenge the issuance of the Proclamations under Section 92 of the Jammu and Kashmir Constitution and Article 356 of the Indian Constitution until the special status of Jammu and Kashmir was abrogated – The challenge to the Proclamations does not merit adjudication because the principal challenge is to the actions which were taken after the Proclamation was issued. [Para 514] Constitution of India – Art. 356 – Presidential Proclamation – Exercise of power by President or Parliament under Article 356 – Limitations on, if any – Standard to assess actions taken under Article 356 after issuance of Proclamation.