Thus, mere broad-basing of the entries in Chapter 30 and Chapter 33 of the First Schedule to the Act 1985, by itself, could not have been the justification for an attempt at re-classification of the product in question. E 32. Even as regards the amendment of the entries, as noticed, the stand of the appellant-Revenue has been that Chapter 30 was reworded so as to remove the distinction between patent/proprietary and generic medicaments and to classify them according to whether they are put up in unit containers for retail sales or not. Further, it has been stated that reference to the Act of 1940 and various pharmacopoeia had been deleted. F Thirdly, it has been contended that in Chapter 33, the phrase hair oil had become prominent with subsidiary entries of perfumed hair oils and other. We could only reject such an attempt on the part of the Revenue as a hair-splitting exercise, away and detached from the substance. This is apart from the fact that the specification of medicament under Heading G 3004 would, in any case, cover the product in question in the form it is marketed for retail sale. 32.1. By way of the amendment of 2012, even if the relevant entries pertaining to preparation for use on the hair have been provided with micro classifications in comparison to the entries standing earlier H (as could be seen from the entries extracted hereinbefore), it could never COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 353 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] be taken to mean that anything which is prepared for being used on the A hair and carries the name “Hair Oil”, would lose its character as medicament if otherwise it has been prepared for therapeutic or prophylactic uses. Moreover, rewording and regrouping of different entries in medicaments are hardly of any impact on the character of the product in question. B 32.2. As noticed, in Chapter 30, apart from Heading 3003 relating to medicaments consisting of two or more constituents which have been mixed together for therapeutic or prophylactic uses not put up in measured doses or in forms or packing for retail sale, Heading 3004 pertains to the medicaments consisting of mixed or un-mixed product for therapeutic or prophylactic uses put up in measured doses or in form of packing for C retail sale. Viewed thus, we are inclined to accept the submissions on behalf of the respondent that even with reference to its packaging, the product AHAHO would remain a homeopathic medicament and would be covered under Chapter 30, where it could be placed in Sub-Heading 3004 90 14. Similarly, deletions of the reference to the Act of 1940 or to D various pharmacopoeia cannot be interpreted to mean that a product like the one in question, which is otherwise a medicament, has to be classified on the basis of the base through which the application of medicine is being provided. 33. We have already discussed hereinabove that with application E of the relevant principles, the product in question, AHAHO, comes clean through the twin test.