The relevant observations of the Frontier Complaints Committee’s Inquiry Report are reproduced below: - “7) Finding of inquiring authority: - The inquiry committee assembled at FTR HQRs Guwahati on 25.01.2012 to ascertain the fact of the case. The committee has gone through the statements of complainant, charged offi cer, and the statements of prosecution /defense witnesses but the point raised in the complaint could not be fully established/ proved. The statement given by all the prosecution witnesses are not enough to prove the complaint. She has lodged a complaint after a gap of more than two years. The complainant failed to produce any documentary evidence based on the allegations levelled against the charged offi cer” A.3 Central Complaints Committee’s Inquiry Report 6. While the Frontier Complaints Committee’s Report dated 17.01.2012 was pending for consideration, the Ministry of Home Aff airs / Competent Authority, constituted another inquiry committee on 06.08.2012 being the Central Complaints Committee to conduct an appropriate inquiry into the complainant’s allegations of sexual harassment. UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 487 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 7. Prima facie, it appears from the materials on record that the Central Complaints Committee had to be constituted, in view of Clause 9 of the 2006 Standing . Clause 9 of the 2006 Standing envisages two levels of complaints committee; (i) a Frontier Complaints Committee for the “combatised and in-fi eld offi cers” (ii) a Central Complaints Committee for the “non-combatised offi cers”. At the time of lodging of the complaint, the respondent was serving as a non-combatised offi cer i.e., Area Organizer. For such reason, the decision to constitute the Central Complaints Committee had to be taken. 8. On 18.09.2012, the complainant through fax submitted a second complaint containing additional allegations against the respondent (hereinafter referred to as the “second complaint”) along with few other documents including the anonymous complaints made against the respondent in October 2011. 9. Accordingly, the Central Complaints Committee undertook the inquiry, and in the preliminary hearing held on 27.09.2012, it decided to treat the complaint as the charge-sheet in view of the fact that no specifi c charges were framed against the respondent. The respondent was provided with all the relevant documents including the original copy of the fi rst complaint dated 30.08.2011. After, confi rming with the respondent as regards the receipt of all relevant documents, the Central Complaints Committee inquired with the respondent whether he pleaded guilty to the charges or not. The respondent pleaded not guilty and categorically denied the charges levelled against him. The relevant portion of the Central Complaints Committee’s Report reads as under: - “VI. CHARGES WHICH WERE ADMITTED/ DROPPED/ NOT PRESSED: Shri Dilip Paul, the charged offi cer did not plead guilty to any of the allegations made by Smt. X, FA (Lady) vide complaint dated 30.08.2011 framed against him.” 10. The Central Complaints Committee in the course of its inquiry examined in all 20 witnesses produced by the complainant (incl. 5 witnesses who were earlier examined by the Frontier Level Complaints Committee) and 6 witnesses on behalf of the respondent (incl.