Therefore, both the courts below disbelieved 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. Babu Ram’s plea that he fi red gunshots in self-defence to disburse the crowd which had surrounded his house. Role of the Appellants 20. Now, we shall examine the evidence as regards the role of the appellants. Before we do that, it would be pertinent to note that the two deceased, namely, Anil and Vijay, are not related to Satpal, the person with whom Shri Krishan and his family (i.e., the accused side) had an altercation. Therefore, to show that all the accused had a common intention to cause bodily harm to persons who suff ered injuries including the ones who succumbed to the injuries, prosecution has used a word Himayati (i.e., supporter) of Satpal to describe the victims. And to bring home the charge against the appellants, the prosecution case is that all the accused persons exhibited common intention as they simultaneously left the place where altercation was taking place to go to Babu Ram’s residence to pick up the gun. Not only that, they appeared together at the roof-top when shots were fi red on Satpal’s supporters. Some of the testimonies in respect of appellants’ role 21. PW-2 (Mangat Ram), brother of deceased Anil, stated that Shri Krishan, his son Sunil, Babu Ram and his son Ravinder after altercation left the spot threatening Lala Satpal and his supporters that they would be taught a lesson; soon thereafter, all of them came to the roof of Babu Ram’s house and then jumped on to the roof of PW-2’s house, which shares back wall with Babu Ram’s house; and from there, Babu Ram opened fi re while appellants were exhorting him not to spare Satpal or anyone who had supported him. 22. PW-9, Kashmere Lal, gives a more lucid account of the incident. He states that on 11.11.1998, at about 3 pm, while he was in his house, altercation started between Satpal and Shri Krishan over some incident relating to teasing of Satpal’s daughter. In the meantime, Sunil came and so did Babu Ram and his son. They started shouting that they would not spare the people of the Gali (street) as they have harassed Shri Krishan. Thereafter, all four accused left extending threats. Soon thereafter, they appeared at the roof of Babu Ram’s house. Then Babu Ram started fi ring. The fi rst shot hit Anil. Second shot hit right leg of Mangat Ram. Thereafter, Babu Ram fi red indiscriminately, and many people received pellet injuries. SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 399 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] When Babu Ram was fi ring indiscriminately, the other accused, namely, Sunil, Shri Krishan and son of Babu Ram, were instigating Babu Ram not to spare any of Satpal’s Himayati (supporter). 23. PW-8 Ashok Kumar, father of deceased Vijay, tried to be specifi c about the sequence of events. He stated that accused Fauji @ Babu Ram fi rst fi red a shot in the air from his gun; then accused shouted that they would not spare anyone; thereafter, Shri Krishan and Sunil told Fauji to fi re at persons whom they point at; Ravinder and Vijay also shouted that no one should be spared; simultaneously other accused also told Fauji to fi re at persons whom they point at, so that no madadgar (i.e., supporter) of Satpal is spared; then Fauji fi red, a bullet hit Anil @ Kala, the deceased, as also Mangat Ram; thereafter, accused Sunil and Ravinder pointed towards PW-8’s son Vijay and exhorted Fauji to fi re at him; in consequence, Fauji fi red at PW-8’s son, the shot hit him and he died; whereafter, Fauji started fi ring indiscriminately resulting in injuries to several persons.