The compensation so granted was to be understood to be compensation for not granting specific D performance in favour of the plaintiff. The said provision did not contemplate exercise of discretion to award an amount to the defendant in excess of the amount agreed upon contract of sale, while still allowing specific performance. E iii) That in the present suit, the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights was executed on 07th August, 2005 when the defendants were faced with a financial crisis. What was received by way of advance was merely 4% of the sale consideration of Rs. 3,23,750/-. Therefore, it was not a fit case for grant of the discretionary relief of specific F performance. iv) Having regard to the fact that the plaintiff had, in compliance with the of the Trial Court dated 18th August, 2008, deposited the enhanced consideration of Rs. 3,97,000/-, it was directed that an amount of Rs. 3,00,000/- be paid by G the defendants to the plaintiff in addition to the advance sum of Rs. 10,000/- which was paid by the plaintiff at the time of entering into the agreement of sale dated 07thAugust, 2005. Such a direction was issued based on a proposal made to that effect by the counsel appearing on behalf of the defendants. H 264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Aggrieved by the of the High Court allowing the regular first appeal preferred by the defendants, the plaintiff has approached this Court. 8. We have heard Sri M.K.S Menon, learned advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant and Sri Raghenth Basant, learned advocate B appearing on behalf of the respondents, and perused the material on record. 9. Learned counsel for the appellant-plaintiff made the following submissions. At the outset it was contended that the High Court was not right in allowing the first appeal preferred by the defendants by applying C Section 20 of the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (hereinafter “the Act”). That the present case was not a fit case for exercising discretion to deny the relief of specific performance. 9.1 It was next contended that the Trial Court rightly noted that the first step ought to have been taken by the defendants, by handing over the relevant documents to the plaintiff. That since the purchase D certificate and title deed of the property were not readily available with the defendants at the time of entering into the agreement, it was rightly presumed by the Trial Court that the delay in performance of the agreement of sale was attributable to the defendant. 9.2 It was urged that the High Court committed a serious error in E law by applying Section 20 of the Act to deny the relief of specific performance in favour of the appellant-plaintiff. That the relief could not be denied on the ground of insufficiency of sale consideration in light of the fact that the market value of the suit property had increased manifold over a period of time. That denial of the relief of specific performance F on such ground was barred by Explanation 1 to Clause (c) of Section 20 (2) of the Act.