Civil society off ered tremendous resistance to their attempts at reform.102 Ultimately, the Hindu Widows’ Remarriage Act 1856 was enacted, permitting widows to remarry. III. Child marriage and the age of consent 111. A discussion of the history of marriage in India would be incomplete without reference to child marriage and the legal age of consent. Child marriage was widespread in most religions and communities. The age of consent for girls was fi xed at ten years in 1860. In 1890, a thirty-fi ve year old man called Hari Mohan Maity caused the death of his ten year old wife Phulmoni Das (also known as Phulomonee Das) through violent sexual intercourse with her. While this would be considered rape and / or aggravated penetrative sexual assault of a child by prevailing legal standards, the concerned court ruled that Hari Mohan Maity had a legal right to engage in sexual relations with Phulmoni Das because she was above the age of consent at the time.103 The age of consent for girls was then raised to twelve. 112. Decades later, the Child Marriage Restraint Act 1929 raised the minimum age of marriage for girls from twelve to fourteen. In 1949, the criminal law of the country stipulated that the age of consent for girls was fi fteen years. The HMA set the minimum age of marriage at fi fteen for girls and eighteen for boys. In 1978, the HMA was amended to raise the minimum age of marriage to eighteen for girls and twenty-one for boys. The Prohibition of Child Marriage Act 2006 provided that child marriages would be voidable at the option of the contracting party who was a child at the time of the marriage. Further, this statute criminalizes the act of performing, conducting, directing, abetting, promoting or permitting a child marriage. 102 Rosalind O’Hanlon, Issues of Widowhood in Colonial Western India (Institute of Commonwealth Studies, University of London, 1989) 103 Flavia Agnes ‘Controversy over Age of Consent’ (2013) EPW Vol 48(29) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1311 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 113. The Protection of Children from Sexual Off ences Act 2012104 was enacted about a decade ago. It is a child-specifi c legislation which inter alia criminalizes sexual abuse in its various forms. A “child” is defi ned as any person below the age of eighteen years. In Independent Thought v. Union of India,105 this Court was confronted with the inconsistency between the POCSO Act which criminalized sexual relations with a child and Exception 2 to Section 375 of the IPC which provided that sexual intercourse by a man with his wife was not rape if the wife was above fi fteen years of age. As a consequence of this inconsistency, a person could have been guilty under the POCSO Act but not under Section 375 of the IPC. This Court held that Exception 2 was violative of Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution and was an aff ront to constitutional morality.