Therefore, there is no prejudice to the accused if the charge sheet was in English language. It was also pointed out by the learned counsel appearing for the appellant that the charge sheets in VYAPAM Scam cases are very bulky and translation of the charge sheets into Hindi is a very time-consuming and costly process. 7. The submission of the learned counsel appearing for the accused is that in the exercise of powers under Section 272 of CrPC, the State Government has declared Hindi as the only language of the Criminal Courts in the State. Their submission is that the language Hindi is for the purposes of the Code and therefore, charge sheets fi led under Section 173 of CrPC ought to be fi led in the language of the Court. Therefore, both the accused supported the view taken by the High Court. The learned counsel appearing for the accused also submitted that in a given case if the accused is not conversant with the language in which the charge sheet has been fi led, he will not be able to defend himself properly as he will not be in a position to understand the statements recorded by the police and other documents collected during investigation. OUR VIEW 8. The Government of Madhya Pradesh in exercise of power under Section 272 of CrPC issued a notifi cation dated 28th March 1974, declared Hindi to be the language of each Court in the State except the High Court. If we consider the scheme of CrPC, it regulates not only the procedure before the Criminal Courts but also the procedure to be followed by the police and other investigating agencies. Chapter V deals with the arrest of persons. Chapter VI deals with processes to be issued for compelling the appearance of the accused before the Court. Chapter VII deals with processes to be issued to compel the production of things before the Court. Chapter VIII contains provisions regarding security for keeping the peace and for good behaviour. The powers under the said Chapter are to be exercised by the Courts under the CrPC or an Executive Magistrate, as the case may be. CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. NAROTTAM 311 DHAKAD & ANR. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Chapter X contains the steps to be taken for the maintenance of public and tranquillity. Chapter IX contains Section 125 which confers powers on the Courts of the Judicial Magistrate, First Class to payment of maintenance to wives, children and parents. Chapter XI deals with the preventive action of the police. Chapter XII contains elaborate provisions regarding the registration of First Information Reports, and the investigation of off ences in cognizable or non-cognizable cases. 9. Section 173 forms part of Chapter XII which contains provisions regarding a police report which is popularly known as a charge sheet. We are, therefore, reproducing Section 173 of CrPC which reads thus: “173. Report of police offi cer on completion of investigation.— (1) Every investigation under this Chapter shall be completed without unnecessary delay.