The substance of his argument was that a contract is sacrosanct and it must be respected. 16. Shri Gopal Jain, learned Senior Counsel appearing for Respondent No.1 contended that – (i) it is the rate prevailing on the date B of grant of in-principle approval by the high-powered committee which would govern Respondent No.1. It is his case that the irrigation restoration charge is directly linked to the date of approval/sanction, and on the relevant date, since the circular dated 21.02.2004 was applicable, the Appellant could have only levied Rs.50,000 per hectare as irrigation C restoration charges; (ii) a few similarly placed companies were given the relief which Respondent No.1 was seeking; (iii) the undertaking given by Respondent No.1 after signing the agreement was not an unconditional one. This undertaking was subject to the outcome of the numerous representations made by Respondent No.1 for reduction of the irrigation restoration charge; (iv) the Government Circular dated 01.03.2009 will D apply prospectively and will not apply to ongoing contracts. Shri Jain contended that if the said circular is given retrospective effect, then it would undermine certainty. Analysis E 17. In the present case, the Appellant and Respondent No.1 had entered into an agreement on 22.05.2012. This agreement categorically stated that Respondent No.1 would pay a sum of Rs.1,00,000 per hectare towards irrigation restoration charge. Therefore, the Respondent No.1 is not justified in challenging the levy of Rs.1,00,000 when it itself had F agreed to the same. In fact, on the same day, Respondent No.1 had also issued an undertaking that it would pay the stipulated sum within a specific period of time. We may note here that right from the very beginning i.e., in the sanction , the demand notice and in all its letters, the Appellant had stipulated a sum of Rs.1,00,000 per hectare as irrigation restoration G charges. All these communications get subsumed in the agreement dated 22.05.2012.Therefore, we are of the view that signing the agreement and issuing an undertaking would estop Respondent No.1 from challenging the levy of Rs.1,00,000 as irrigation restoration charges. 18. We are not impressed with the argument of Shri Gopal Jain H that it is the rate prevailing on the date of grant of in-principle approval THE CHIEF ENGINEER, WRD v. RATTAN INDIA POWER LTD.THROUGH 515 ITS DIRECTOR [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. ] which would govern Respondent No.1. The rights and liabilities of the A parties stand crystallized on the date of entering into the agreement, which is 22.05.2012.Therefore, the rate prevailing on 22.05.2012 would govern the parties. 19. On the aspect of differential treatment, Respondent No.1 alleges that it has been discriminated when compared to eight other B companies.This allegation is denied by the Government and they have explained this aspect in their rejoinder filed before this Court and also in the counter and sur-rejoinder filed before the High Court. By referring to these records, we have noted that in as many as four power generators are concerned, the in-principle approval granted in their favor hasitself C been cancelled as they had failed to execute an agreement with the Appellant.