1 lakh down to Rs. 25,000 depending on the nature and extent of the injuries and extent and degree of the temporary incapacitation accounting for a further allocation of Rs. 100 crores, was envisaged. Again, there might be C possibility of injuries of utmost severity in which case even Rs. 4 lakhs per individual might have to be considered. Rs. 80 crores, additionally for about 2000 of such cases were envisaged. A sum of Rs. 500 crores approximately was thought of as allocable to the fatal cases and 42,000 cases of such serious personal injuries leaving behind in their trail total or D partial incapacitation cither of permanent or temporary character.” 7. Outlays were also made for specialised institutional medical treatment (Rs. 25 crores) and provision for cases which were not of permanent/temporary disabilities but of minor injuries, loss of personal E belongings, loss of livestock etc. (Rs. 225 crores). The interest accruing on the corpus of settlement was also taken into account, being 14% to 14 ½ %. 8. On the aspect of the aforesaid broad allocations, it was clearly observed that even if a particular case was found to fall within such F broad categories, the determination of actual compensation payable to the claimant had to be done by the authorities under the said Act. However, the Court concluded that if the total number of cases of death or disability became so large so as to counter the ‘basic assumptions underlying the settlement’, then it would not hesitate to exercise its G powers of review. 9. The next round in the matter related to an endeavour by private parties to open the settlement by filing a review, inter alia on the powers of this Court to record a settlement. A Constitution Bench examined this issue in the Union Carbide Corporation & Others v. Union of India H UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. UNION CARBIDE 887 CORPORATION & ORS. & Others.2 The settlement was upheld with one caveat. The A extinguishment of criminal liabilities by the settlement was held to not be appropriate and thus, that aspect of the original was reviewed. As to the need to arrive at a settlement, Ranganath Mishra, J. (as he then was) detailed the factors that had guided this Court. The Court had to be cognizant of the fact that the Indian assets of UCC, through UCIL were B around Rs. 100 crores at the time. Thus, any decree in excess of that amount would have to be executed in the courts of USA. If such decree were determined on the basis of prevailing law in India, i.e. absolute liability (different from the accepted basis in the USA, i.e. strict liability); the decree would be open to challenge on the grounds of due process and may not be executable. On this aspect, the principal of the C majority laid emphasis on balancing factors such as the need for expedient relief, as recorded in the original . In so far as the present controversy before us is concerned, we would like to flag the Court’s observations on the path to befollowed if the compensation is found to be inadequate.