... (o). …” 23. In exercise of its powers conferred upon it by Section 141 of the BSF Act, 1968, the Central Government notifi ed BSF Rules, 1969. Chapter VII of the BSF Rules, 1969 deals with investigation and summary disposal. Rule 43 provides that where it is alleged that a person subject to the Act other than an offi cer or a subordinate offi cer has committed an off ence punishable 128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. thereunder, the allegation shall be reduced to writing in the form set out in Appendix IV. Whereas, if the off ence is allegedly committed by an offi cer or a subordinate offi cer then the allegation shall be reduced to writing in the form set out in Appendix VI. Rule 45, inter alia, provides: - “45. Hearing of the charge against an enrolled person.— (1) The charge shall be heard by the Commandant of the accused in the following manner: - (i) The charge and statements of witnesses, if recorded, shall be read over to the accused; (ii) If written statements of witnesses are not available, or where the Commandant considers it necessary to call any witness, he shall hear as many witnesses as he may consider essential to enable him to determine the issue; (iii) Wherever witnesses are called by the Commandant, the accused shall be given opportunity to cross-examine them; (iv) Thereafter, the accused shall be given an opportunity to make a statement in his defence. (2) After hearing the charge under sub-rule (1), the Commandant may— (i) award any of the punishments which he is empowered to award, or (ii) dismiss the charge, or (iii) remand the accused, for preparing a record of evidence or for preparation of an abstract of evidence against him, or (iv) remand him for trial by a Summary Security Force Court: Provided that, in case where the Commandant awards more than 7 days’ of imprisonment or detention he shall record the substance of evidence and the defence of the accused ...” 24. In the instant case, it is not in dispute that the Commandant on 21.06.2005 ed for preparing the record of evidence. UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS v. JOGESHWAR SWAIN 129 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 25. Rule 48 deals with preparation of the record of evidence. It provides that where the offi cer s for the record of evidence, he may either prepare the record of evidence himself or detail another offi cer to do so. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 48 provides that the witnesses shall give their evidence in the presence of the accused and the accused shall have right to cross-examine all witnesses who give evidence against him. Sub rule (3) of Rule 48 provides that after all the witnesses against the accused have been examined, he shall be cautioned in the following terms: “You may make a statement if you wish to do so, you are not bound to make one and whatever you state shall be taken down in writing and may be used in evidence.” After having been cautioned in the aforesaid manner whatever the accused states is to be taken down in writing.