The same is accordingly disposed of. There is no as to costs.” (emphasis supplied) 64. In Digi Cable Network (supra), the permission that was D granted to the appellant for operating as a Multi-Systems Operator in the Digital Addressable System was cancelled on the ground that MHA denied security clearance to the appellant. The High Court rejected the challenge to the of cancellation. The Additional Solicitor General filed a copy of the reasons for the denial of security clearance in a sealed cover before this Court. A two-Judge Bench of this Court dismissed E the appeal by relying on the in Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services (supra) holding that the appellant was not entitled to claim any prior notice before the cancelling the permission was passed : “16. Having perused the note filed by the Union of India, which resulted in the cancellation of permission, we are of the considered F opinion that in the facts of this case, the appellant was not entitled to claim any prior notice before passing of the cancellation in question. 17. In other words, we are of the view that the principles of natural justice were not violated in this case in the light of the law laid G down by this Court in Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services (P) Ltd. Inasmuch as the appellant was not entitled to claim any prior notice before cancellation of permission.” 65. The observation in Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services (supra) that what is in national security is a question of policy and not H 650 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A law for the courts to decide was affirmed in the majority opinion in Justice KS Puttaswamy (5J) v. Union of India58 while deciding on the constitutional validity of Section 33 of the Aadhar Act. 66. It must be noted that this Court in Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services (supra) referred to a series of s from the Courts in B the United Kingdom to elucidate the principle that the government is best placed to decide whether national security concerns are involved; and that principles of natural justice may not be complied with when issues of national security are involved. The evidentiary principle laid down by the Courts in the United Kingdom needs to be elucidated in to understand the scope of the observations in Ex-Armymen’s C Protection Services (supra). 67. In The Zamora (supra), a ship that was captured contained contraband in the cargo. The cargo belonged to the Austrian Government, and was imported into Sweden. The ship was chartered to a German, who was acting as an agent for the Austrian Government, and the Swedish D consignees were merely playing a part in the transaction. The right to requisition exists in international law, that is, the right to requisition vessels pending a decision on whether it must be condemned or released. One of the limitations to the right to requisition is that vessels must be urgently required in the defence of the realm or for matters involving national E security. It was in this context that the Privy Council made the widely cited observation that: “With regard to the first of these limitations, their Lordships are of the opinion that the judge ought, as a rule, to treat the statement on oath of the proper officer of the Crown to the effect that the vessel or goods which is sought to requisition are urgently required F for use in connection with the defence of the realm, the prosecution of the war, or other matters involving national security, as conclusive of the fact.