111. We have already held that the relationship between the Union and NCTD resembles an asymmetric federal model, where the latter E exercises its legislative and executive control in specified areas of the State List and the Concurrent List. Article 239AA, which conferred a special status to NCTD and constitutionally entrenched a representative form of government, was incorporated in the Constitution in the spirit of federalism, with the aim that the residents of the capital city must have a voice in how they are to be governed. It is the responsibility of the F government of NCTD to give expression to the will of the people of Delhi who elected it. Therefore, the ideal conclusion would be that GNCTD ought to have control over “services”, subject to exclusion of subjects which are out of its legislative domain. If services are excluded from its legislative and executive domain, the ministers and the executive G who are charged with formulating policies in the territory of NCTD would be excluded from controlling the civil service officers who implement such executive decisions. 112. In the backdrop of the above discussion on the necessity to provide the control of “services” to GNCTD, we consider the next H 560 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A argument of the Union of India that Part XIV does not envisage “services” for Union Territories. K. Balakrishnan Committee Report 113. The Union of India relied on the report of the Balakrishnan Committee which led to the 1991 Constitution Amendment and the B insertion of Article 239AA to argue that “services” are not available to Union territories. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of the Amending Act referred to the Committee’s Report: “Statement of Objects and Reasons The question of reorganisation of the administrative set-up in the C Union Territory of Delhi has been under the consideration of the Government for some time. The Government of India appointed on 24-12-1987 a Committee [Balakrishnan Committee] to go into the various issues connected with the administration of Delhi and to recommend measures inter alia for the streamlining of the D administrative set-up. The Committee went into the matter in great detail and considered the issues after holding discussions with various individuals, associations, political parties and other experts and taking into account the arrangements in the National Capitals of other countries with a federal set-up and also the debates in the Constituent Assembly as also the reports by earlier Committees E and Commissions. After such detailed inquiry and examination, it recommended that Delhi should continue to be a Union Territory and provided with a Legislative Assembly and a Council of Ministers responsible to such Assembly with appropriate powers to deal with matters of concern to the common man. The F Committee also recommended that with a view to ensure stability and permanence the arrangements should be incorporated in the Constitution to give the National Capital a special status among the Union Territories. 2. The Bill seeks to give effect to the above proposals.” G 114.