It inter-alia provided that if for a particular issue in “some other proceedings” a lower forum, gave a decision which is prejudicial to the interest of the revenue and an appeal against such decision is pending before the higher forum then the period spent in such litigation will be excluded while computing period of limitation for revision. By giving such provision retrospective eff ect the State legislature thus sought to enable reopening of assessments which had already attained fi nality. The Gujarat High Court struck down the amendment on the ground of lack of legislative competence, on the part of the legislature, after 01.07.2017, and also that it was manifestly arbitrary. THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 159 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] III. Arguments of the appellant-states 17. It was argued on behalf of the State of Telangana, by Mr. Arvind Datar, Senior Advocate, Mr. Balbir Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General (ASG), on behalf of Maharashtra, that the Constitutional Amendment was introduced on 16.09.2016. It was highlighted that by its provisions various entries in the State and Union list were amended drastically to limit the powers of the two legislatures. The object of the amendment was to re- organize the powers of indirect taxation that the original Constitution makers had envisioned. Indirect taxes: more specifi cally, sales tax, service tax, central excise and value added tax were the subject matter of this amendment. The original intent of the Constitution and powers in relation to levy of customs duty were retained as it were. For the fi rst time, the amendments denuded the States and Parliament of exclusive fi elds of legislation and introduced the concept of shared or pooled sovereign powers in relation to value added tax, central excise and service tax. These were brought into one compendious term “goods and services tax”, ensuring that all aspects in this fi eld of taxation were covered. For the fi rst time, the power of taxation could be traced to a substantive provision of the Constitution, introduced by the Amendment. Furthermore, the issue of evolving principles division of pooled fi eld of taxation was left to a new entity, the Goods and Service Tax Council (hereafter “GST Council”), created as a constitutional entity. This design was to ensure that the federal balance of power was retained and in fact furthered. 18. Learned counsel relied upon the provisions of the Amendment to emphasize that the GST Council is comprised of Finance Ministers of all States and that the Union has only 1/3rd weightage in its decision making. The balance is with the States collectively. Furthermore, any decision in the council becomes eff ective when it is voted for by a 3/4 ths majority. 19. It was contended, that the almost the revolutionary change brought about by redistribution of indirect taxation power and the giving eff ect to it through the Amendment meant that both Parliamentary and state legislative powers were denuded in respect of fi elds of taxation as far as they covered central excise, service tax, sales tax and other taxes which the states could hitherto levy and collect.