We have already highlighted the salient features regarding the composition of the Election Commission. We have pointed out the provisions regarding the tenure, conditions of service, salary, allowances, removability, etc., of the CEC, the ECs and the RCs. The CEC and the ECs alone constitute the Election C Commission whereas the RCs are appointed merely to assist the Commission…” Furthermore: “17. Under clause (3) of Article 324, in the case of a multi- member Election Commission, the CEC “shall act” as the D Chairman of the Commission. As we have pointed out earlier, Article 324 envisages a permanent body to be headed by a permanent incumbent, namely, the CEC. The fact that the CEC is a permanent incumbent cannot confer on him a higher status than the ECs for the simple reason that the latter are not E intended to be permanent appointees. Since the Election Commission would have a staff of its own dealing with matters concerning the superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of electoral rolls, etc., that staff would have to function under the direction and guidance of the CEC and hence it was in the fitness of things for the Constitution-makers to F provide that where the Election Commission is a multi-member body, the CEC shall act as its Chairman. That would also ensure continuity and smooth functioning of the Commission.” Also, held: “21. We have pointed out the distinguishing features from G Article 324 between the position of the CEC and the ECs. It is essentially on account of their tenure in the Election Commission that certain differences exist. We have explained why in the case of ECs the removability clause had to be different. The variation in the salary, etc., cannot be a determinative factor H 218 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A otherwise that would oscillate having regard to the fact that the executive or the legislature has to fix the conditions of service under clause (5) of Article 324. The only distinguishing feature that survives for consideration is that in the case of the CEC his conditions of service cannot be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment whereas there is no such B safeguard in the case of ECs. That is presumably because the posts are temporary in character. But even if it is not so, that feature alone cannot lead us to the conclusion that the final word in all matters lies with the CEC. Such a view would render the position of the ECs to that of mere advisers which does not C emerge from the scheme of Article 324.” (emphasis added) 103. The in T.N. Seshan did not directly consider the issues which are before this Bench. Furthermore, the observations made in T.N. Seshan indicate that the Election Commissioners were not mere D advisors, but have a crucial constitutional role. VI.Reports of Various Commissions on Manner of Appointment of Chief Election Commissioner and Election Commissioners: A. Dinesh Goswami Commission, 199049 E “Appointment of CEC 1. The appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner should be made by the President in consultation with the Chief Justice of India and the Leader of the Opposition (and in case no Leader of the opposition is available, the consultation should F be with the leader of the largest opposition group in the Lok Sabha).