This does not in any way imply that ordinary citizens who form the great mass of the citizenry of this Country can shun responsibility for G vitriolic, unnecessarily critical, diabolical speech, bing on all those aspects mentioned under Article 19 (2) either against public functionaries / figures or against other citizens in general or against particular individuals. 34. Every citizen of India must consciously be restrained in speech, and exercise the right to freedom of speech and expression under Article H 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 19(1)(a) only in the sense that it was intended by the framers of the Constitution, to be exercised. This is the true content of Article 19(1)(a) which does not vest with citizens unbridled liberty to utter statements which are vitriolic, derogatory, unwarranted, have no redeeming purpose and which, in no way amount to a communication of ideas. Article 19(1)(a) vests a multi-faceted right, which protects several species of speech B and expression from interference by the State. However, it is a no brainer that the right to freedom speech and expression, in a human-rights based democracy does not protect statements made by a citizen, which strike at the dignity of a fellow citizen. Fraternity and equality which lie at the very base of our Constitutional culture and upon which the superstructure C of rights are built, do not permit such rights to be employed in a manner so as to attack the rights of another. Verse 15 of Chapter 17 of the Srimad Bhagavad Gita describes what constitutes discipline of speech or ‘vâE-maya tapas:’ D Anudvega-karaA vâkyaA satyaA priya-hitaA cha yat SvâdhyâyâbhyasanaA chaiva vâE-mayaA tapa uchyate E Words that do not cause distress, are truthful, inoffensive, pleasing and beneficial, are said to be included within the discipline of speech, and are likened to regular recitation of the Vedic scriptures. 35. The discussion presented hereinabove was with a view to F rekindle some ideas on the content of Article 19 (1) (a) of the Constitution and on other pertinent issues surrounding the right to free speech guaranteed under the aforesaid Article. However, as far as the substantial analysis of Question No. 1 is concerned, I respectfully agree with the reasoning and conclusions proposed by His Lordship, G Ramasubramanian, J. Re: Question No. 2:Can a fundamental right under Article 19 or 21 of the Constitution be claimed other than against the ‘State’ or its instrumentalities? H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 769 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 36. All human beings are endowed at birth, with certain inalienable A rights and among such rights are right to life and liberty, including liberty of thought and expression. These rights have been recognized as inalienable rights, having regard to the supreme value of human personality. Incidentally, some of such rights have come to be Constitutionally recognized under Part III of the Constitution of India. Fundamental Rights B were selected from what were previously natural rights and were later termed as common law rights.