Ltd. in support of their contention that the variable fee even prior to 31 July, 1999 should be treated as revenue expenditure. As noted above, this was the 4 year and the contention of the assessee is that in this year even as per the 1994 agreement, payment had to be made on revenue sharing basis subject to the minimum guarantee. Learned counsel for the assessee had relied upon CIT v. Sharda Motors Industry Ltd. (supra). In the said case reference was made to J.K. Synthetics Ltd. (supra) to hold that no substantial question of law arises. The Revenue had relied upon Southern Switch Gear Ltd. v. CIT (1998) 232 ITR 359 (SC), but the said was distinguished on the ground that lump-sum royalty was paid and 25% thereof was disallowed by the tribunal on the ground that it was capital payment. In Sharda Motor Industries Ltd. (supra), royalty was to be paid on quantity of goods produced calculated per piece. However, this does not appear to be sole basis why the payment made was treated as C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 389 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] revenue expenditure. The court had relied upon other facts which are noticed in paragraph 3 of the same i.e. the payment was made for running business. The question of apportionment and payment was not made to establish business. In CIT v. Modi Revlon (P.) Ltd. (2012) 26 Taxmann.com 133 (Delhi), a Division Bench of this High Court observed that the tests evolved over the period have disapproved the applicability of the ‘once and for all’ payment and more structured approach which would take into account several factors like the licence tenure; whether licence created further rights; whether there was restriction for use of confi dential information; whether benefi ts were transferred once and for all; whether after expiry of the licence, plans and drawings were to be returned, etc. As held and observed above, it is nature and object for which the payment is made which determines the character of payment. In the said case, it was observed that there was nothing to show or to suggest vesting of knowhow in the assessee and therefore, the assessee did not derive any enduring benefi t. Thus, the royalty payment was held to be revenue in nature.” In view of the above discussion, the substantial question was answered by the High Court in the following manner: “47. In view of the aforesaid findings, the substantial question mentioned above in item Nos. 1 to 9 is answered in the following manner: (i) The expenditure incurred towards licence fee is partly revenue and partly capital. Licence fee payable upto 31 July, 1999 should be treated as capital expenditure and licence fee on revenue sharing basis after 1 August, 1999 should be treated as revenue expenditure. (ii) Capital expenditure will qualify for deduction as per Section 35ABB of the Act. 48. The appeal ITA No. 417/2013 by the Revenue in the case of Hutchison Essar Pvt. Ltd., pertains to the assessment year 1999-2000 i.e.