4. Learned counsel for the appellant submitted that no doubt the G respondent no.1 submitted his option in 1991 for the pension scheme in terms of the 1990 Regulations. However, thereafter repeated conduct of the respondent no.1 shows that he in fact was not interested in that. There were regular deductions from his salary towards provident fund. The statements were being sent to him. However, he never objected to H 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A it. He raised the issue only after his retirement. In such circumstances, he should not be allowed to avail the benefit of the pension scheme. 5. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent no. 1 submitted that the requirement under the 1990 Regulations was to submit an option within the prescribed time. The respondent no.1 had submitted B his option for availing the pension scheme. Thereafter, it was the duty of the employer, namely, the appellant to have properly calculated his salary and the deductions required to be made therefrom under different heads. In case any error was committed by the Corporation, he should not be made to suffer on that account. Whatever amount was paid to the respondent no.1 on his retirement, he accepted the same considering C that the same may be due on his retirement. He did not know that the Corporation will not pay pension to him and some other amount has been paid in excess. It was the fault of the Corporation only. It is only after the retirement of respondent no.1 that he came to know that the pension was not being paid to him. As the representation made by him D was not considered, he had to approach the High Court. There is no error in the s passed by the Single Judge and Division Bench of the High Court. Equities have been balanced. The amount, which was not due to the respondent no.1, has been directed to be refunded to the appellant Corporation along with interest and same interest is required to be paid to him on release of arrears of pension. In fact, when the E respondent no.1 approached the High Court and the writ petition was allowed, it was immediately after his retirement. However, the Corporation has wasted about five years’ time in avoidable litigation and deprived the respondent no.1 of his rightful claim. 6. Heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the paper F book. 7. The undisputed facts are that the respondent no.1 was appointed in the Corporation as conductor on 6.7.1981. The 1990 Regulations were framed providing for pension scheme for the employees, which was effective from 1.4.1984. In terms thereof, the existing G employees were to give an option to avail benefit under the 1990 Regulations. Prior to this Contributory Pension Scheme was in force. It is not in dispute that the respondent no.1 had submitted his option within time. He sought voluntary retirement on 21.7.2017, w.e.f. 31.07.2017. Certain retiral benefits were paid to him, however, no pension was paid to him for which he had exercised the option.