The assessee Firm also sought legal advice in regard to matters G connected with some proceedings. Summons were issued against the assesseefirm but were eventually dismissed. The assessee contended that the whole of the costs incurred in connection with the proceedings were “wholly and exclusively” laid out or expended for the appellant’s profession and were therefore allowable deductions. The Special Commissioner had held against the H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 115 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] assessee which was upheld by the Court. The test laid down by A Lord Davey in Strong & Co. v. Woodifield [(1906) AC 448] was applied and applying that test it was held that except the expenses for obtaining legal advice the other expenses were not admissible. In Farrie v. Hall [(1947) 28 TC 200] F, a sugar broker was sued in the High Court for libel and the Court held that F had B acted maliciously and that the defence of privilege could not prevail and awarded damages against him. F sought to claim the amount of damages as an allowable deduction contending that it was an expenditure laid out wholly and exclusively for the purposes of his trade or was a loss connected with or arising out of the trade. C Relying on the cases abovementioned this amount was disallowed because it fell on the assessee in his character of a calumniator of a rival sugar broker and it was only remotely connected with his trade as a sugar broker. Therefore it was not laid out exclusively and wholly for the purpose of his business. We were also referred to the observations of Danckwerts, J. in Newson v. D Robertson [(1952) 33 TC 452 at p. 459] where it was said that if the expenditure is incurred by the tax-payer for more than one purpose including the commercial purposes in the sense that it is incurred for the purposes of earning profits of the trade and also some outside purpose then the expenses cannot be claimed at all E as not being wholly and exclusively laid out or expended for the purpose of the trade. In that case expenses claimed by a Barrister for travelling between his house and his chambers were disallowed because his object and purpose in travelling was mixed and not wholly and exclusively for the purpose of the profession. F Coming now to Indian cases; In Mask & Co. v. Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras [(1943) 11 ITR 454] the assessee in breach of his contract sold crackers at a lower rate and a decree was passed against him for damages for breach of contract which he claimed as an allowable deduction. It was held that as the assessee had disregarded the undertaking G given and his conduct was palpably dishonest it did not constitute an allowable expenditure. Sir Lionel Leach, C.J., after referring to Warne’s case [(1919) 2 KB 444] and Von Glehn’s case [(1920) 2 KB 553] held that the amount did not constitute an expenditure falling within Section 10(2)(xii).