The difference, any, in the amount of duty shall be payable by the person liable to pay the duty. Explanation. - The payment of deficit stamp duty by any person under any of registering officer under sub-section (1) G shall not prevent the Collector from initiating proceedings on any instrument under sub-section (3). (4) The Collector may, suo motu, or on a reference from any court or from the Commissioner of Stamps or an Additional Commissioner of Stamps, or a Deputy Commissioner of Stamps H 528 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A or an Assistant Commissioner of Stamps or any Officer authorized by the Board of Revenue in that behalf, within four years from the date of registration of any instrument on which duty is chargeable on the market value of the property, not already referred to him under sub-section (1) or sub-section (2), call for and examine the instrument for the purpose of satisfying himself B as to the correctness of the market value of the property which is the subject of such instrument and the duty payable thereon and if after such examination, he has reason to believe that the market value of such property has not been truly set forth in the instrument, he may determine the market value of such property and the duty C payable thereon in accordance with the procedure provided for in sub-section (3). The difference, if any, in the amount of duty shall be payable by the person liable to pay the duty. Provided that, with the prior permission of the State Government, an action under this sub-section may be taken after the period D of four years but before the period of eight years from the date of the registration of the instrument on which the duty is chargeable on the market value of the property. Explanation - The payment of deficit stamp duty by any person by any of the registering officer under sub-section (1) E shall not prevent the Collector from initiating proceedings on any instrument under sub-section (3). (4) If on enquiry under sub-section (2) and examination under sub-section (3) the Collector finds the market value of the property – F (i) truly set forth and the document duly stamped, he shall certify by endorsement that it is duly stamped and return it to the person who made the reference; ii) not truly set forth and not truly stamped, he shall require the payment of the proper duty or the amount required to make up G the deficiency in the same together with a penalty of an amount not exceeding four times the amount of proper duty or the deficit portion thereof. (4A) The Collector shall also require along with the deficit stamp duty or penalty required to be paid under clause (ii) of sub-section H (4), the payment of a simple interest at the rate of one and half SHANTI BHUSHAN (D) THR. LR. & ORS. v. STATE OF U.P. 529 AND ORS. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.]