51. Furthermore, as this Court noted, material objects were recovered on the basis of the petitioner’s statement: H 1048 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 28. We may now refer to some further material on the record of the case, to substantiate our aforesaid conclusion. In this behalf, it would be relevant to mention, that when the accused-appellant was detained on 30.7.2009, he had made a confessional statement in the presence of Kasinathan (PW13) stating, that he had strangulated Suresh to death, whereupon his body was put into a B gunny bag and thrown into the Meerankulam tank. It was thereafter, on the pointing out of the accused-appellant, that the body of Suresh was recovered from the Meerankulam tank. It was found in a gunny bag, as stated by the accused-appellant. Dr. Kathirvel (PW12) concluded after holding the post mortem C examination of the dead body of Suresh, that Suresh had died on account of suffocation, prior to his having been drowned. The instant evidence clearly nails the accused-appellant as the perpetrator of the murder of Suresh. Moreover, the statement of Kasinathan (PW13) further reveals that the school bag, books and slate of Suresh were recovered from the residence of the D accused-appellant. These articles were confirmed by Maheshwari (PW1) as belonging to Suresh. In view of the factual and legal position dealt with hereinabove, we have no doubt in our mind, that the prosecution had produced sufficient material to establish not only the kidnapping of Suresh, but also his murder at the hands E of the accused-appellant. 52. The evidence in the form of CDRs was merely to corroborate the evidence that had been given through the depositions of PW1 and PW8. Both of their testimonies stand corroborated not only through the CDRs but also through the recovery of the mobile phone on the basis of F the confessional statement of the petitioner. The High Court discussed this evidence in the following para: […] At this juncture, P.W.13 has categorically spoken to the fact that at the time of arrest, A-1 came forward to give a confessional statement voluntarily, and the same was recorded by the G Investigator. The admissible part is marked as Ex.P9 pursuant to which he produced three cell phones out of which it was one which contained the number through which he made two phone calls to P.W.8 at about 9.22 P.M. and 9.25 P.M. respectively on 27.7.2010, and also at about 9.39 P.M. to P.W.1 making a demand for ransom. At this juncture, the contentions put forth by the learned H SUNDAR @ SUNDARRAJAN v. STATE BY INSPECTOR OF 1049 POLICE [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Counsel as to whether one Shankar who made the calls at 9.22 A and 9.25 P.M., was alive or a fictitious person, and the cellphone recovered from A-1, did not belong to him even as per the documentary evidence have got to be rejected since they do not carry merit. The cellphone from which all the three calls were made namely two calls to P.W.8 at about 9.22 and 9.25 P.M. in B the name of Shankar and one call at 9.39 P.M. by A-1 to P.W.1, has been recovered, and the particulars of those calls have been recorded in the cellphone, and it was actually kept by P.W.8 during the relevant time and also A-1 during the relevant time.