In this regard, our attention was also drawn to a of the Telengana High Court in Jubilee Hills International Centre vs. Income Tax Offi cer reported in 2023 SCC OnLine TS 41, wherein it was observed that the Tribunal was not justifi ed in taking a view that the principle of mutuality would not apply with reference to transactions entered into by the appellant therein with regard to non-permanent or non-life members. Learned senior counsel therefore, also contended that the of this Court in Bangalore Club requires reconsideration. 6.12 Learned senior counsel Sri Andhyarujinawith reference to the facts in the case of Secunderabad Club submitted that it is an association of persons which is a mutual association and the Club is a social or recreational Club existing solely for the benefi t of its members. The main object of the Club is for promoting social activities including sports and recreation amongst 1002 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. its members and various services can be availed by its members. That the surplus income generated by the Club consists of payments made by the members for use of the Club. The surplus income of the Club is deposited in banks by way of fi xed deposits, post offi ces, national savings certifi cates etc., which are the only modes in which the surplus income could be deposited having regard to the provisions of the Act. Therefore, the said deposits being surplus income generated by the Club from the members, through the activities of the Club, the interest earned on the said deposits is also exempt from payment of income tax on the principle of mutuality. It was submitted that irrespective of whether the banks are corporate members of the club or not, there is complete identity between the source of deposits made by the Club in banks, post offi ces etc. and the benefi ciaries of the interest earned, as the interest earned on the said deposits are being used for the benefi t of the members of the Club. It was further submitted that the members of the Club, as a class, contribute towards earning the surplus income and if the same is deposited in a bank, which is a corporate member and interest is earned which is ultimately used for the benefi t of the members, the said transaction would attract the principle of mutuality. 6.13 In this regard, it was pointed out that it was not right to reason that when fi xed deposits are made in banks by the clubs such as Secunderabad club and such funds are utilised by the banks for their lending and other business, there would be a rupture or diversion in the application of the principle of mutuality. It was highlighted that when the surplus income of the clubs is deposited in fi xed deposit and interest earned on the said deposits is ultimately accounted for in the kitty of the clubs to be utilised for the benefi t of the members of the clubs, there is no diversion of funds by the clubs to any member or to non-members.