premise of parliamentary supremacy. It would indeed mean supremacy of the Executive over Parliament.” 217. This Court in SR Bommai (supra) distinguished between the exercise of power before a Proclamation is approved by Parliament and after the approval. The approval of the Proclamation by Parliament grants legislative legitimacy to the executive action under Article 356. The argument of democratic defi cit fails after the Proclamation is approved by Parliament. For the above reasons, the rejection of the enduring rights theory in Krishna Kumar Singh (supra) cannot be transposed to the interpretation on the limits on the exercise of power under Article 356. The interpretation of neither the text of Articles 356 and 357 nor the decision of this Court in Krishna Kumar Singh (supra) lead to the inference that power under Article 356 cannot be exercised to create ‘irreversible’ consequences. 218. Any other interpretation would also lead to the Court testing the validity of outcomes and not the exercise of power. Challenging the exercise of power on the ground of irreversibility would open the way for challenging every day administrative actions against which we have cautioned above. Hence, we cannot accept the proposition which has been urged on behalf of the Petitioners that the exercise of power by the President under Article 356 of the Constitution can be challenged on the ground that it has given rise to irreversible consequences. IV. The distinction between legislative and constitutional functions of the Legislature 219. Article 356(1)(a) states that the President may declare that the “powers of the Legislature of the State” shall be exercised by or under the authority of Parliament. There are two competing interpretations to the phrase “powers of the Legislature of the State”. It could be read expansively to include “all” the powers of the State Legislature or narrowly to place limitations on the nature of legislative power that can be exercised by Parliament. The petitioners term it as the distinction between legislative and constituent power, or the law and non-law powers of the State legislature. However, regardless of the manner in which the distinction is drawn, the issue is whether all the powers of the Legislature of the State (that is, both law-making and non-law making powers) are vested in Parliament when the President issues a declaration in terms of Article 356(1)(b). IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 135 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 220. In addition to the legislative powers granted to the States under List II of the Seventh Schedule, the States have also been granted various non-law making powers to ensure the voice of their electorates are well represented at the constitutional plane. This is a recognition that even though Parliament has representatives from the entire country, and the Rajya Sabha is elected entirely by State Legislatures, the outlook of such a body is fundamentally national. The actual polity of Parliament is the entire nation. The Constitution recognises that this creates a risk that the interests of specifi c states may not be adequately represented despite such States being particularly impacted.