The relevant parts of his testimony read as under: “…On the same day at about 17.00 hours, I had arrested the D accused Vahida in the Perambalur New Bus Stand. I had examined the margin accused and recorded her confession statement before the witnesses Devaraj and Parameswaran. The margin accused said in her confession statement that she had killed the child by strangling her neck with the saree which she was wearing. The admitted portion of the confession statement E had already been marked as Ex. P9. As per the confession statement, the saree which she was wearing was seized by me with the assistance of the lady police under the mahazar. The mahazar for the same was the one shown to me. That had already been marked as Ex. P8. The saree which was seized by me is the F one shown to me. That had already been marked as M.O.3. …. Cross-Examination: In Ex.P8 Mahazar, it had been indicated that through the Sub-Inspector, Subbulakshmi the accused was given the alternate saree. The accused who was arrested at 5.00 P.M. on that day, was kept by me till 6.45 P.M. in the Perambalur New Bus Stand only. In the last portion of the confession statement, it G had not been mentioned that the sub-inspector Subbulakshmi was sent to get the alternate saree. It had been indicated that the lady police had been sent and the alternate saree was brought… The evening newspapers which are published in Perambalur would come at 5.00 P.M. If it is said that in the Maalai Malar newspaper H 962 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A dated 21.6.2007, which had been circulated at 5.00 P.M. on that day, it was indicated that the accused of this case had been arrested, I do not know of the same. I did not give such a news. If it is said that in the same newspaper, the news stating that the police authorities are conducting the investigation to witness Basheera, I do not know of the same. The witnesses Basheera B and Mumtaz had deposed that after the incident was over, the margin accused ran from the house. If it is said that in the circulation of Dinakaran and Dinamalar newspapers, it had been indicated that after the incident was concluded, the mother of the child was lying down near the child, I do not know of the same. It is incorrect C to state that after the death of the child the margin accused had ran away from the house and that we had published the news falsely stating that the margin accused was lying near the deceased child. It is incorrect to state that the witnesses Basheera, Mumtaz and Ashabegum had deposed during my investigation that they had seen that the child was dead. It is incorrect to state that on D 20.6.2007 itself, the margin accused had left her female child to the witness Basheera, and she went to Kolakkudi Village on the same day.