E 114. Take for instance a suit filed for partition by a member of the Hindu Undivided Family. If one of the coparceners or an alienee from such coparcener, claims independent title to one of the properties bought in his individual name, it may be open to the Court while trying the suit for partition to decide whether such a property belongs exclusively to the defendant.To this limited extent, examining the title of a party to the F suit schedule property is permissible even in a suit for partition. 115. But in a simple suit for partition, the parties cannot assert title against strangers, even by impleading them as proforma respondents. The strangers who are impleaded in a partition suit, may have nothing to say about the claim to partition. But they may have a claim to title to the G property and such a claim cannot be decided in a partition suit. 116. Realising this difficulty, it was contended by Shri Gopal Sankarnarayanan, learned senior counsel for the appellants that the suit was not just a suit for partition simpliciter, but a suit for declaration that the properties are Mathruka properties of late Nawab Khurshid Jah. H M/s TRINITY INFRAVENTURES LTD. & ORS. ETC. v. M. S. 341 MURTHY & ORS. ETC. [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] He drew our attention in this connection to the relief sought in paragraph A 18(a) of the plaint. 117. At the cost of repetition, we shall extract the relief sought in paragraph 18(a) of the plaint once again as follows: “directing that the properties detailed in Schedule IV which B are in the possession of the party as detailed therein and the other (b) category properties detailed in para (12) above which are in the possession of defendant No.43 and all other properties whatsoever that may be found to belong to Mathruka of the late Nawab Khurshid Jah be divided by metes and bounds and plaintiff be given her 29/1944th share therein.” C 118. Since the relief sought in paragraph 18(a) of the plaint refers to paragraph 12 of the plaint, we may have to take a look at paragraph 12 of the plaint. Paragraph 12 of the plaint (extracted elsewhere) states that as per Farman dated 17.01.1929, the Nizam prevented the distribution of two classes of Mathruka properties and that the list of D properties purchased out of the income of the Paigah, detailed in Schedule IV and IVA are of the approximate value of Rs.6,52,058-2-0. But in paragraph 13 of the plaint, the approximate aggregate tentative value of the suit schedule properties is mentioned as O.S. Rs.7,52,058- 20. The value of the plaintiff’s share namely 29/2944th share, is arrived E at in paragraph 13 as O.S. Rs.7,408-1-1. 119. The way in which the suit claim has been valued and court- fee paid, demonstrates very clearly that it was nota suit for declaration of title to any property. It was only a suit for partition. All the suit schedule properties have been valued at a particular rate and court-fee was paid on the value of the share, of which the plaintiff was seeking partition.