vi. United States of America 55. The Federal Arbitration Act is silent on the aspect of the joinder of non-signatory parties to the arbitration agreement. Nevertheless, the US courts have often used the general principles of contract law such as incorporation by reference, assumption, agency, veil piercing or alter ego, and estoppel for binding non-signatories to arbitration agreements.37 Although the United States follow a pro-arbitration policy, an important issue that often comes up for deliberation is whether the domestic doctrines could be applied for binding non-signatories in cases of international arbitration. 56. In G E Energy Power Conversion France SAS v. Outokumpu Stainless,38 the issue before the United States Supreme Court was whether the New York Convention precludes a non-signatory to an international arbitration agreement from compelling arbitration by invoking domestic doctrines such as equitable estoppel. In that case, the Eleventh Circuit Court refused to apply the domestic doctrine of equitable estoppel on the ground that it confl icts with the signature requirements under the New York 36 [2014] SGHC 181 37 Andrijana Misovic, ‘Binding non-signatories to arbitrate: the United States approach’ (2021) 37(3) Arbitration International 749-768. 38 140 S. Ct. 1637 (2020) COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 665 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Convention. The Circuit Court observed that Article II of the New York Convention contains a strict requirement that the parties “actually sign” the arbitration agreement in to compel the parties to arbitration. The US Supreme Court held that the Article II of the New York Convention does not restrict the contracting states from applying domestic law to refer parties to arbitration agreements. Moreover, it was observed that “the provisions of Article II contemplate the use of domestic doctrines to fi ll gaps in the Convention.” Thus, it was held that the New York Convention does not set out a comprehensive regime to preclude the use of domestic law to enforce arbitration agreements. 57. Unlike the English courts, the US Courts have used non-consensual doctrines to extend arbitration agreements to non-signatory parties. For instance, the US Courts have pierced the corporate veil and held the alter ego liable in exceptional circumstances where the parent company exercised complete control over the subsidiary with respect to the transaction at issue.39 Similarly, the doctrine of arbitral estoppel has been developed by the US Courts to bind non-signatory parties to an arbitration agreement. The doctrine of arbitral estoppel suggests that a party is estopped from denying its obligation to arbitrate when it received a ‘direct benefi t’ from a contract containing an arbitration agreement.40 The second type of arbitral estoppel developed by the US courts places emphasis on the substantial interdependent relationship between the signatory and non-signatory party.41 In a situation where claims of concerted misconduct were raised against both the signatory and non-signatory to the contract, the courts have resorted to the doctrine of equitable estoppel to further the policy of pro-arbitration.42 58. The above discussion shows that international jurisdictions, in some form or the other, have moved beyond the formalistic requirement of consent to bind a non-signatory to an arbitration agreement.