b) When a substantial question of law is formulated by the Court then the same must be made known to parties and thereafter they have to be given an opportunity to advance arguments thereon. c) If any additional questions were framed at the time of hearing, the Court must hear the parties on that question as well. 23. Here, the questions of law, were framed on the second date of hearing, the parties were heard right then and there, and the second appeal was disposed of with the being dictated and fi ndings of fact reversed. That, as the above discussion points out, is not in consonance with the manner set out for the disposal of a second appeal. 24. The impugned overturns concurrent fi ndings of fact in respect of readiness and willingness on the part of the plaintiff to perform the contract, without pointing out the exceptional circumstance or the perversity in the fi ndings which were returned by the Courts below. 25. For the Court to have done so, in accordance with law, the actual evidence, which was before the Courts below, in our view, had to be called for. This is so because, if the fi ndings returned are to be upturned on perversity, the same should unmistakably be refl ected from record. If this is not so done, the Court of fi rst appeal being the “fi nal Court of fact”, would 28 (2012) 13 SCC 405 Two Judge Bench SURESH LATARUJI RAMTEKE v. SAU. SUMANBAI 503 PANDURANG PETKAR [SANJAY KAROL J.] be reduced to a mere saying, of no actual eff ect. After all, a second appeal is not a “third trial on facts”, and so, for reappreciation of evidence to be justifi ed, and for the same to be required - as well as being demonstrably, at a diff erent threshold from merely, a “possible diff erent view”, perversity or the other conditions of “no evidence” or “inadmissible evidence” ought to be urged, and subsequently, with the Court being satisfi ed on the arguments advanced, of such a possibility, the Court would then, proceed to call for the record. That is to say that accepting the argument of perversity merely on the submissions made and not having appreciated the record, would be unfair to the Court of fi rst appeal. 26. The haste with which the Court proceeded to dispose of the appeal without proper and adequate opportunity to address arguments cannot be appreciated. The governing statute lays considerable emphasis on hearing the parties on all questions- and the same is refl ected in various pronouncements of this Court. The approach adopted by a Court in disposing of such appeals must abide by the same. 27. The questions of law raised in the instant appeal are answered as under : 27.1 A Court sitting in second appellate jurisdiction is to frame substantial question of law at the time of admission, save and except in exceptional circumstances. Post such framing of questions the Court shall proceed to hear the parties on such questions, i.e., after giving them adequate time to meet and address them.