While no inflexible guidelines are laid down, the notion that such a transfer is an “extraordinary power” to be used “sparingly” and “in exceptional circumstances” comports with the idea that routine transfers would belie not just public confidence in the normal course D of law but also render meaningless the extraordinary situations that warrant the exercise of the power to transfer the investigation. Having balanced and considered the material on record as well as the averments of and submissions urged by the petitioner, we find that no case of the nature which falls within the ambit of the E tests enunciated in the precedents of this Court has been established for the transfer of the investigation.” 19. Hence it is clear that though there is no inflexible guideline or a straightjacket formula laid down, the power to transfer the investigation is an extraordinary power. It is to be used very sparingly and in an F exceptional circumstance where the Court on appreciating the facts and circumstance arrives at the conclusion that there is no other option of securing a fair trial without the intervention and investigation by the CBI or such other specialized investigating agency which has the expertise. 20. In that background, even if the rival contentions are taken G note, we do not find that there is any issue of public importance which requires to be unearthed by an investigation to be conducted by the CBI. Even from the facts noted above and the allegations made against the police, though we are sensitive to the sentiment of the appellants herein, the contention ultimately is that the offence alleged against him to have been committed on 21.10.2020 could not have been committed by him H ROYDEN HAROLD BUTHELLO & ANR. v. STATE OF 163 CHHATTISGARH & ORS. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] inasmuch as he had been abducted from a different State and was already A in the illegal detention of the police on 20.10.2020 itself. This essentially would be the defence in the criminal trial. As already noted, the charges have been framed and the evidence is being tendered. Insofar as the allegation that the said persons namely Pramod Behra, Sultan, Santosh and Ali had gone to Odisha and had illegally abducted him, from the very B details furnished by the appellants themselves, it is noted that the High Court had through the dated 17.03.2022 in a collateral proceeding directed that the five officers stated in the said be called as witnesses for examination and cross-examination. 21. In that view, even though it is contended that the CCTV footage C would be relevant to establish the presence of the said four persons in the hotel at Odisha and the same has not been seized by the police, the fact remains that even from the same what is sought to be established is that the said four persons had abducted the appellant No.1. In the course of trial the five persons specified by the appellants would now be available to be cross-examined and any other s in that regard can be sought D in the pending proceedings.