D Thus, having regard to the said legal position, it could not be said that the trial court had committed any error in entertaining the complaints filed by the respondent complainant, when the previous complaint filed by him was pending before the other court, and more particularly when the said court had dismissed the said previous complaint for non- prosecution, without taking cognizance of the alleged offences therein. E 16. It was also submitted by the learned Senior Counsel, Mr. Luthra that similar complaints filed by other complainants against the appellant and others making similar allegations were not found to be of any substance. In the opinion of the Court, there is hardly any substance in the said submission. Apart from the fact that the names of the F complainants and of the accused were different in the said complaints, it is difficult to cull out whether all other complaints pertained to the same properties for which the present complaints have been filed. It may also be noted that in one of the complaints filed by the other complainant Shine Varghese, though a closure report was filed by the police, the G protest petition has been filed by the said complainant, and that the concerned trial court has reopened the case for hearing. 4 (2001) 2 SCC 570 5 (2009) 9 SCC 642 6 (2010) 2 SCC 631 H 7 (2020) 5 SCC 378 CARDINAL MAR GEORGE ALENCHERRY v. STATE OF 1031 KERALA & ANR. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 17. The Sessions Court in the Revision petitions filed by the A appellant had also upheld the said s passed by the trial court issuing summons against the appellant and others after dealing with each and every aspect of the matter including the ingredients of alleged offences for which the summons were issued against the appellant. The High Court in the impugned has also discussed in detail the submissions B made by the counsels for the parties in the petitions filed by the appellant under Section 482 of Cr.P.C. and upheld the passed by the Sessions Court. In view of the said observations made and prima facie findings recorded by the three courts below as regards the alleged involvement of the appellant in the alleged offences, this Court is not inclined to interfere with the same. C 18. No doubt, summoning of an accused is a serious matter and therefore the Magistrate before issuing the summons to the accused is obliged to scrutinize carefully the allegations made in the complaint with a view to prevent a person named therein as accused from being called upon to face any frivolous complaint, nonetheless one of the objects of D Section 202 Cr.P.C. is also to enable the Magistrate to prosecute a person or persons against whom grave allegations are made. Just as it is necessary to curtail vexatious and frivolous complaints against innocent persons, it is equally essential to punish the guilty after conducting a fair trial. In the instant cases, all the three courts below have discussed in E detail about the prima facie involvement of the appellant in the alleged offences, and therefore it is not necessary for this Court to reiterate the same.