Certainty of the law, consistency of rulings and comity of courts – all fl owering from the same principle – converge to the conclusion that a decision once rendered must later bind like cases. We do not intend to detract from the rule that, in exceptional instances, where by obvious inadvertence or oversight a fails to notice a plain statutory provision or obligatory authority running counter to the reasoning and result reached, it may not have the sway of binding precedents. It should be a glaring case, an obtrusive omission.” 23. A precise observations made by a three Judge Bench in Sant Lal Gupta and Others vs. Modern Cooperative Group Housing Society Limited and Others10, are worth noting – “17. A coordinate Bench cannot comment upon the discretion exercised or rendered by another coordinate Bench of the same court. The rule of precedent is binding for the reason that there is a desire to secure uniformity and certainty in law. Thus, in judicial administration precedents which enunciate the rules of law form the foundation of the administration of justice under our system. Therefore, it has always been insisted that the decision of a coordinate Bench must be followed. (Vide Tribhovandas Purshottamdas Thakkar vs. Ratilal Motilal Patel, Sub-Committee of Judicial Accountability vs. Union of India, and State of Tripura vs. Tripura Bar Association. )” 24. Apart from the well-settled legal position that a co-ordinate Bench cannot comment upon the rendered by another co-ordinate Bench of equal strength and that subsequent decision or a of a co-ordinate Bench or larger Bench by itself cannot be regarded as a ground for review, the submissions made by the learned Counsels for the Review Petitioners that the court in the impugned decision had failed to consider the waterfall mechanism as contained in Section 53 and failed to consider other provisions of IBC, are factually incorrect. As evident from the bare reading 9 (1975) 2 SCC 232 10 (2010) 13 SCC 336 238 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. of the impugned , the Court had considered not only the Waterfall mechanism under Section 53 of IBC but also the other provisions of the IBC for deciding the priority for the purpose of distributing the proceeds from the sale as liquidation assets. 25. To be precise, the Court in the impugned had categorically reproduced Section 53 in Paragraph 20, other provisions of IBC along with the Regulations of 2016 in Paragraph 21, and the subsequent amendments in the Regulations of 2018, with regard to the submission of claims to be made by the creditors in Paragraphs 22 & 23 of the . The Court in the impugned has also considered the earlier decisions of this Court in case of Ghanashyam Mishra and Sons Private Limited through the authorized signatory vs. Edelweiss Asset Reconstruction Company Limited through the Director and Others11 in Paragraph 42. The decision in case of Ebix Singapore Private Limited vs. Committee of Creditors of Educomp Solutions Limited and Another12 in Paragraph 47, and thereafter observed as under: - “48.