Though, in the examination- in-chief, he states that he and Surat Singh had carried the deceased to the hospital, he states that the clothes of Surat Singh were soiled with blood but his clothes were not soiled because it was Surat Singh who was actually lifting Hoshiyar Singh and he was only helping him with his hands. 11. Though Jai Singh (PW-20) states that he had informed the police about the description of the accused, i.e., he told the police that one boy was fair and the other was having a wheatish complexion, there is substantial improvement inasmuch as his statement recorded under Section 161 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973 does not contain such description. He further states that his house is 40 feet away from the room where the incident had taken place. He has further admitted that there is one house situated between his house and the house of Hoshiyar Singh. As such, the 54 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. very presence of PW-20 appears to be doubtful. 12. It is pertinent to note that the learned Judges of the High Court have themselves noted that Naresh Kumar (PW-21), in his cross-examination, has stated that he was shown Kamal Kishore and Manoj on 12th September 2009 in the Police Station where Kavita and Jai Singh were also present and therefore, the refusal by them for Test Identifi cation Parade (TIP) was justifi ed. The High Court goes on to observe that the witnesses having identifi ed the appellants in the dock is suffi cient to hold that they have been duly identifi ed by the witnesses and prove the guilt of the accused. 13. We fail to appreciate the correctness of this fi nding. If the accused are already shown to the witnesses in the Police Station, then the sanctity of TIP before the court is doubtful. 14. The other circumstance on which the prosecution relies are the Call Detail Records (CDRs). The courts below have relied on the circumstance that when the incident had occurred, the identifi cation of the CDRs of the mobile used by the accused Manoj and Kamal Kishore would show that their location was at the place of incident. 15. Firstly, it is to be noted that one of the mobile numbers 9278453468 alleged to have been used by accused Manoj is not in the name of Manoj but one Ashok Kumar, son of Shri Krishan Kumar, resident of Subhash Nagar, Kanpur. No evidence is placed on record to show as to how the said SIM came to be in possession of the accused Manoj. Apart from that, if at the time of the incident both of them were at the same place and according to the prosecution inside the house of the deceased Hoshiyar Singh, and they were talking to each other on telephone, this itself creates a doubt on the prosecution version. 16. Undisputedly, the present case is a case which rests on circumstantial evidence. The law with regard to conviction based upon circumstantial evidence is very well crystalised in the case of Sharad Birdhichand Sarda v. State of Maharashtra1.