25. Mr. Ranjan Kumar Das, Deputy Superintendent of Police, E Vigilance Cell Unit, Bhubaneswar was not a person interested but as an informant submitted a complaint against respondent no. 1 (MLA Gopalpur Constituency) to Odisha Lokayukta regarding possession of disproportionate assets and intentionally enriching himself illicitly adopting mal-practices. On the said complaint being received, the appellant directed the Directorate of Vigilance, Cuttack to conduct a preliminary F inquiry against respondent no.1 in exercise of his power under Section 20(1) of the Act, 2014 by an dated 11th December, 2020. Before any action could have been taken by the Directorate of Vigilance in conducting a preliminary inquiry, a writ petition was filed by respondent no.1 before the High Court and on the first motion stage, the High Court, G without affording an opportunity of hearing to the appellant, set aside the dated 11th December, 2020 passed by the appellant for conducting a preliminary inquiry. The action of the Division Bench of the High Court indeed was in violation of the principles of natural justice. 26. The aim to the rule of natural justice is to secure justice or to put it negatively, these rules can operate only in areas not covered by H OFFICE OF THE ODISHA LOKAYUKTA v. DR. PRADEEP 573 KUMAR PANIGRAHI [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] any law validly made. The concept of natural justice, indeed, has A undergone a change with the passage of time, but still the time- tested rules, namely, are (i) no one shall be a judge in his own case (Nemo debet essse judex propria causa) and (ii) no decision shall be given against a party without affording him a reasonable opportunity of hearing (audi alteram partem). At the same time, action of the authority must B be held in good faith without bias and not arbitrary or unreasonable. 27. In the first instance, the Division Bench of the High Court has committed a manifest error in passing of the impugned dated 3rd February, 2021 while setting aside the of the appellant dated 11th December, 2020 to conduct a preliminary inquiry against respondent C no.1 in exercise of powers under Section 20(1) of the Act, 2014 which is in violation of the principles of natural justice. 28. Even on merits, the Division Bench has completely overlooked Section 20(1) of the Act, 2014 that empowers the Lokayukta, on receipt of a complaint, obviously after recording satisfaction, in its discretion if intended to proceed and to hold any inquiry, can conduct either a D preliminary inquiry against a public servant by its inquiry wing or any other agency to ascertain whether there exists a prima facie case for proceeding in the matter or hold investigation by any agency or authority empowered under any law to investigate whether there exists a prima facie case. E 29. So far as the term ‘any agency’ is concerned, it clearly manifests from Section 25 of Chapter VIII which entrusts the power of superintendence to the Lokayukta to exercise in such a manner so as to require any agency, including the State Vigilance and Crime Branch.