The statement of the mother given to the police is reproduced below: “TRUE TRANSLATED COPY OF STATEMENT OF SMT JASMAIR KAUR FIR/DD NO. 615/07 DATE: 21.09.2007 U/s 307,302 Indian Penal Code, Police Station : Model Town, Delhi. Statement of Jasmair Kaur W/o Late Sardar Harvinder Singh, age 61 years, R/o House No. 17-F, Ward No.15, Govind Nagar, Roped, Punjab 908 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. STATEMENT Made the statement that I use to stay in the above address with my family and I am housewife. There was set in fi re by pouring petrol on my daughter on 21.09.2007 by Abhishek Sharma, who was admitted in LNJP Hospital by police, on the same day, I along with family members made the arrangements to admit her in Maharaja Agersain Hospital with the intention to give her good treatment. During the treatment, my daughter namely Km. Mandeep Kaur died in the hospital today as on 03.10.2007 at about 3.35 am at Maharaja Agarsain Hospital, I identifi ed her dead body at BJRM Hospital. This is the dead body of my daughter namely Km. Mandeep Kaur, who died due to set in fi re. Heard the statement and found correct. Sd/- Jasmair Kaur Attested by Sd/- SI, Balwant Singh Police Station: Model Town, Delhi Date: 03.10.2007 Sd/- SI, Balwant Singh Police Station: Model Town, Delhi Date: 03.10.2007” 21. We notice that in her cross-examination, this witness denies ever having made any statement to the police on 03 October 2007. Be that as it may, assuming that she actually made such a statement, we are of the view that still, such a statement, in no manner can be said inculpatory towards the accused, for it is lacking in particulars with regard to the person mentioned therein, i.e., Abhishek Sharma and having no linkage for the same which could lead to the accused person. ABHISHEK SHARMA v. STATE (GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI) 909 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 22. It is evident from the above that the dying declaration does not exist in any written or other verifi able form. Here, only we may refer to the examination-in-chief of PW-5 (mother of the deceased) post, which, taking both the statement and the testimony together, the evidentiary value of DD-IV shall be examined. 23. The relevant portion of her testimony (examination-in-chief) allegedly implicating the accused is extracted as follows:- “Mandeep had told me that Abhishek had taken her in car from her offi ce. He did not leave her at her resident but had taken her to a place in Model Town. She was made to come out of the car. Since she did not come out, she was beaten up by Abhishek. As soon as she came out from the car, Abhishek poured petrol on her and set her on fi re”. 24. It is important to appreciate the law on interested witnesses as enunciated by this court. In Hari Obula Reddy and others v. The State of Andhra Pradesh21, a three-judge Bench has held that evidence of interested witnesses is not necessarily unreliable evidence.