A regulation under Section 178 is in the nature of a subordinate legislation. Such subordinate legislation can even B override the existing contracts including power purchase agreements which have got to be aligned with the regulations under Section 178 and which could not have been done across the board by an of the Central Commission under Section 79(1)(j). C ********* 43. [..] While deciding the nature of an (decision) vis- à-vis a regulation under the Act, one needs to apply the test of general application. On the making of the impugned 2006 Regulations, even the existing power purchase agreements D (PPA) had to be modified and aligned with the said Regulations. In other words, the impugned Regulations make an inroad into even the existing contracts. This itself indicates the width of the power conferred on CERC under Section 178 of the 2003 Act. All contracts coming into existence after making of the impugned 2006 Regulations have also to factor E in the capping of the trading margin. This itself indicates that the impugned Regulations are in the nature of subordinate legislation. Such regulatory intervention into the existing contracts across the board could have been done only by making regulations under Section 178 and not F bypassing an under Section 79(1)(j) of the 2003 Act. Therefore, in our view, if we keep the above discussion in mind, it becomes clear that the word “” in Section 111 of the 2003 Act cannot include the impugned 2006 Regulations made under Section 178 of the 2003 Act.” G 63. Whilst there cannot be any doubt that regulations framed under the Act can be made applicable to existing contracts, what is discernible from PTC India (supra) is that in that case, the applicability of the Trading Margin Regulations which for the first time, compelled persons engaged in trading of electricity, in terms of Section 2 (17) of the Act, to register, obtain licenses, and operate within the margin limits indicated in the H 714 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A regulations. These provisions introduced a new regime, regulating an area, or activity which had hitherto been unregulated. The entire edifice of prescribing general standards for application to all those operating within its sweep, is to ensure that they are universal and constitute a code. The observations in PTC India (supra), therefore, are to be seen in this context. Being regulations of general application, dealing with a B range of commercial activity, there could have been no question of existing contracts, operating in isolation, through separate silos, outside of their framework. In the present case, however, the PPAs were entered into in the exercise of equal bargaining power, after due negotiation by the parties, and within the framework of existing regulations: both central C and state. Therefore, unless any later amendment expressly overrides existing contracts, the terms of such agreements bind the parties. 64. That amendments to laws, or regulations, unless expressly retrospective, are always prospective, is a settled proposition. In Purbanchal Cables & Conductors (P) Ltd. v. Assam State Electricity D Board & Ors.33, the position was articulated in this manner: “39.