Therefore, if a person has an M.Phil. degree at the time of recruitment as a Lecturer, he or she would be entitled to two advance increments and if any Lecturer possesses a Ph.D. degree at F the time of appointment as a Lecturer, four advance increments are admissible. This, is in contrast to, being eligible for two advance increments when a Lecturer acquires a Ph.D. degree during the course of service/career. On the other hand, if a Lecturer with an M.Phil. degree acquires a Ph.D. degree within two years of recruitment would be admissible to one increment. Also, a Lecturer with Ph.D. degree would G be eligible for two advance increments when promoted as a Selection Grade Lecturer/Reader. In fact, in the subsequent State Government dated 29th March, 2001 also, paragraph 3 reiterates that teachers holding both M.Phil.degree and Ph.D. degrees at the time of their entry in service H SREE SANKARACHARYA UNIVERSITY OF SANSKRIT & 383 ORS. v. DR. MANU & ANR. [NAGARATHNA, J.] are entitled to four advance increments which is on par with paragraph A 6.16 of the Government dated 21st December, 1999. Paragraphs 4 and 6 of the said categorically state that the incentive specified in paragraphs 6.16 to 6.18 and paragraphs 6.18 and 6.19 of the earlier Government would not be simultaneously applicable. Even paragraph 7 of the said states that the teacher is not eligible for B the benefits specified both in paragraphs 6.17 and 6.19 simultaneously. 8. The next aspect that requires consideration is whether such a modification could be made applicable retrospectively., i.e., whether the Government dated 29th March, 2001 to the extent that it modifies the Government dated 21st December, 1999 would be applicable C to those lecturers who had acquired a Ph.D. degree at the time of their recruitment, such as, Respondent No. 1, who were placed in the selection grade before 29th March, 2001. 8.1. It is trite that any legislation or instrument having the force of law, which is clarificatory or explanatory in nature and purport and which D seeks to clear doubts or correct an obvious omission in a statute, would generally be retrospective in operation, vide Ramesh Prasad Verma. Therefore, in to determine whether the Government dated 29th March, 2001 may be made applicable retrospectively, it is necessary to consider whether the said was a clarification or a substantive amendment. E 8.2. In to effectively deal with the aspect as to retrospective operation of the Government dated 29th March, 2001 it may be useful to refer to the following extract from the treatise, Principles of Statutory Interpretation, 11th Edition (2008) by Justice G.P. Singh on the sweep of a clarificatory/declaratory/explanatory provision: F “The presumption against retrospective operation is not applicable to declaratory statutes. As stated in Craies and approved by the Supreme Court: For modern purposes a declaratory Act may be defined as an Act to remove doubts existing as to the common law, or the meaning or effect of any Statute. Such acts G are usually held to be retrospective.