Justice Venkataramiah authored a concurring opinion. 93 Justice Fazl Ali dissented allowing the claim for non-disclosure. H 682 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 119. Justice Bhagwati further observed that the non-appointment of a Judge for an additional term, which was under challenge in this case, could only be challenged on the ground that there was no full and effective consultation between the three constitutional functionaries, or that the decision was mala fide. Hence, the correspondence that is sought is the only documentary evidence that would aid in establishing the claim. B On the other hand, the non-disclosure would have the effect of ensuring the dismissal of the writ petition. Moreover, it was held that other than the impact of non-disclosure on the applicant’s case, it would also affect the wider constitutional principles of independence of the judiciary if the appointment process is insulated from public view. Further, when the C transfer of a High Court Judge is challenged, the burden to prove that the transfer was not mala fide is on the Union of India. It was observed that the Union of India cannot seek to discharge such a heavy burden by merely filing an affidavit for non-disclosure. Justice Bhagwati rejected the claim for non-disclosure by observing that the Union of India has been unable to prove its claim that the disclosure of the correspondence D must be injurious to public interest. 120. The view taken by Justice Mathew in Raj Narain (supra) and Justice Subba Rao in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh (supra) was partially adopted by Justice Bhagwati, writing for the majority in SP Gupta (supra) and was further developed upon. The principles elucidated in the E are summarised below: (i) Open government is one of the crucial components of a democratic form of government. Disclosure of information is advantageous to the affected party in the proceedings. In addition, it also furthers public interest in access to F information and open government. The conflict which Sections 123 and 162 seek to redress is not between public interest and private interest but between two conflicting conceptions of public interest; (ii) The majority opinion in Sodhi Sukhdev Singh (supra) G perpetuates two inconsistencies. Firstly, it would be difficult to determine if a document relates to affairs of the state without inspecting it . The court determines the effect of its disclosure on public interest only after inspection. This conclusion is apparent since Sodhi Sukhdev Singh (supra) has already held that only documents which affect public H MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 683 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] interest can be regarded as documents relating to state A affairs; and secondly, the court and not the head of the department determines if the disclosure of the information would affect public interest. On an objection raised by the head of the department, the court conducts an exercise to determine if the document relates to affairs of the State by B assessing the effect of disclosure on public interest.