38. In Tamil Nadu Power42, the APTEL had held that the minimum ownership and consumption criteria for captive users are required to be 41 (2009) 15 SCC 570. 42 Supra note 6. M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 371 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] satisfi ed only on the last day of the fi nancial year, that is, 31st March. This, the APTEL in Tamil Nadu Power43 observes, will account for any change in shareholding of the CGP, and consequent captive status, throughout the fi nancial year. It is observed: “292. It is critical for us to note the practical diffi culties staring down at the face of the captive users and CGPs in the event the concept of weighted average is applied. We agree with the submissions of the Appellant that the nature of shareholding in a captive structure is fl uid and dynamic. That, existing captive users within the said captive structure can choose to give-up its ownership along with consumption of captive power at any point of time if it considers no usage for the same. In such a scenario, if no new captive user(s) is added then the shareholding along with consumption is accordingly adjusted. A CGP cannot foresee the future and predict as to how many of its shareholders may give up their ownership along with consumption of captive power, neither can it be predicted, if any new/ how many captive user(s) will be inducted within the structure. In such a scenario, if in terms of Rule 3 of the Rules verifi cation of minimum shareholding along with minimum consumption is not done annually, at the end of the fi nancial year but done considering ownership at diff erent periods during the year, then same would create unforeseen diffi culties for a CGP to maintain its captive structure. As such, we opine that the verifi cation mandated under the Rule 3 has to be done annually, by considering the shareholding existing at the end of the fi nancial year. This is also evident from a perusal of Format-5 formulated by TNERC as a part of the impugned , which also specifi cally contemplates verifi cation to be done as per the shareholding existing at the end of the fi nancial year. Similar view has already been taken by us in Appeal No. 02 and 179 of 2018 titled as “Prism Cement Limited v. MPERC & Ors” (supra). ×× ×× ×× 43 Supra note 6. 372 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 294. In light of our fi ndings, we also observe that suppose there are ten (10) captive users who avail open access for captive use under Section 9 of the Act at the start of the fi nancial year, and in the event three (3) of such captive users stops sourcing captive power after six months, and instead three new captive users are introduced within the captive structure by subscribing equity shareholding with voting rights immediately thereafter, then when the verifi cation of captive status will be done annually on the basis of the shareholding existing at the end of such fi nancial year, in that case the total number of captive users throughout the fi nancial year would be treated as thirteen (7+3+3) and not 10.