23. The law so far developed and settled by this Court with regard to the non-compliance of the requirement of Section 83(1)(a) of the EP Act, namely-”an Election petition must contain a concise statement of material facts on which the petitioner relies”, is that such non-compliance E of Section 83(1)(a) read with VII, Rule 11, CPC, may entail dismissal of the Election Petition right at the threshold. “Material facts” are facts which if established would give the petitioner the relief asked for. The test required to be answered is whether the court could have given a direct verdict in favour of the election petitioner in case the returned candidate had not appeared to oppose the Election petition on F the basis of the facts pleaded in the petition. They must be such facts as would afford a basis for the allegations made in the petition and would constitute the cause of action as understood in the Code of Civil Procedure 1908. Material facts would include positive statement of facts as also positive statement of a negative fact. G 24. A Three-Judge Bench in Hari Shanker Jain vs. Sonia Gandhi (supra) had an occasion to deal with Section 83(1)(a) of the RP Act and the Court dismissed the Election petition holding that the bald and vague averments made in the election petitions do not satisfy the requirements of pleading “material facts” within the meaning of Section 83(1)(a) of H KANIMOZHI KARUNANIDHI v. A. SANTHANA KUMAR 815 [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] the RP Act read with the requirements of VII Rule 11 CPC. It A was observed in para 23 and 24 as under: - “23. Section 83(1)(a) of RPA, 1951 mandates that an election petition shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies. By a series of decisions of this Court, it is well settled that the material facts required to be stated are B those facts which can be considered as materials supporting the allegations made. In other words, they must be such facts as would afford a basis for the allegations made in the petition and would constitute the cause of action as understood in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. The expression “cause of action” has been C compendiously defined to mean every fact which it would be necessary for the plaintiff to prove, if traversed, in to support his right to the of court. Omission of a single material fact leads to an incomplete cause of action and the statement of claim becomes bad. The function of the party is to present as full a picture of the cause of action with such further information in D detail as to make the opposite party understand the case he will have to meet. (See Samant N. Balkrishna v. George Fernandez [(1969) 3 SCC 238 : (1969) 3 SCR 603] , Jitendra Bahadur Singh v. Krishna Behari [(1969) 2 SCC 433] .) Merely quoting the words of the section like chanting of a mantra does E not amount to stating material facts.