governing the institutions running in that particular State except the Centrally funded institutions like IIT, NIT, etc. because no one can be a better judge B of the requirements and inequalities-in-opportunity of the people of a particular State than that State itself. Only the State legislation can create equal level playing field for the students who are coming out from the State Board and other streams.” C v) In Chintpurni Medical College and Hospital vs. State of Punjab and Ors., AIR 2018 SC 3119, (“Chintpurni Medical College and Hospital”)this Court considered the question, whether, a State Government can withdraw an Essentiality Certificate once granted to a medical college D and whether such power is ultra vires the Central Act. An essentiality certificate is required to be issued by the State Government within the territory of which the medical college is proposed to be established, certifying the need in the subject state, of a medical college. The concerned State Government is required to certify that it has decided to issue E an essentiality certificate for the establishment of a medical college with a specified number of seats in public interest, and further that such establishment is feasible. In examining whether such certificate, which is required to be secured by a college before seeking permission under Section 10A F of the IMC Act, 1956, could be subsequently cancelled by the State, this Court held that the only purpose of the essentiality certificate is to enable the Central Government acting under Section 10A to take an informed decision for permitting the opening or establishment of a new medical college. Once the college is established, its functioning and G performance and even the de-recognition of its courses is controlled only by the provisions of the Central Act and not any other law. That it would therefore be impermissible to allow any authority including a State Government which merely issues an essentiality certificate, to exercise any H power which could have the effect of terminating the BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 965 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] existence of a medical college permitted to be established A by the Central Government. As regards the power of the Parliament under Entry 66 of List I, as juxtaposed with the power with the State Legislatures under Entry 25 of List III, this Court made the following observations: B “The IMC Act, which is a Legislation under Entry 66 of List I of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India is a complete code which governs the establishment, functioning, including maintenance of standards of education and even de-recognition of Medical Colleges vide Section 19 of the C Act. The States are denuded of the Legislative Power to legislate on medical education under Entry 25 of the Concurrent List since Parliament has exercised its power under Entry 66 and enacted the IMC Act” vi) In Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association vs. Union D of India, (2021) 6 SCC 568,(“Tamil Nadu Medical Officers Association”) a Constitution Bench of this Court, considered the question, whether, under the scheme of the Constitution of India and the provisions of the IMC Act, 1956, read with the Medical Council of India Postgraduate E Medical Education Regulations, 2000, a State has the legislative competence to enact legislation to provide for reservation of seats for admission in postgraduate medical courses, in favour of medical professionals working in government organisations within the State.