When faced with this situation, it is clear that theCourt is required to consider this question “more seriously”. The fi rst part of burden of proof as discussed in Revamma (supra) is undoubtedly met with since the subject land being Government land, was never in dispute. The burden of proof once shifted, 284 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. it was for the claimants to prove their possession to be openly hostile to the rights of the government. 25. By way of evidence adduced, nothing, save in except testimonies of villagers, has been brought on record. A perusal of such evidence also shows no decisive statements being made and instead, on the basis of the estimated age of trees on such land, is the length of possession of the respondents being calculated. 26. On separate analysis, the testimonies upon which the claimants seek to place reliance and which the impugned judgement terms as “unshaken”, while undoubtedly pointing towards the long-term possession of the claimants on the land in question, are not of such a nature to satisfy the requirement of a “more serious and eff ective” enquiry. 27. A perusal of the testimonies reveals that consistency is lacking in terms of the age of the rubber trees. Certain witnesses claim the age to be 15 years while others claim the same to be 18 years. 28. In fi rst appeal, the Court noted that no independent commission, or verifi cation had been carried out of the age of the trees on the basis of which possession was being calculated. In view of this uncontroverted position, whether the standard of proof as held by this Court in Harphool Singh (supra) in no uncertain terms - “When the property was a vacant land before the alleged construction was put up, to show open and hostile possession which could alone in law constitute adverse to the State, in this case, some concrete details of the nature of occupation with proper proof thereof would be absolutely necessary and mere vague assertions cannot by themselves be a substitute for such concrete proof required of open and hostile possession.” (Emphasis supplied) cannot be termed as met. An estimation of age of the trees cannot be, by any stretch, termed as suffi cient proof required to disturb the title that undisputedly rests with the Government as also testifi ed by PW-1 and PW-2. Proper and concrete proof as required would need for the claimants to show some proof of possession, other than statements which may be vague. It is also clear from the above discussion that merely a long period of possession, does not translate into the right of adverse possession. GOVERNMENT OF KERALA & ANR. v. 285 JOSEPH AND OTHERS [SANJAY KAROL, J.] Surmises, conjectures and approximations cannot serve the basis for taking away the right over land resting with the State and place the said bundle of rights in the hands of one who did not have any such rights. 29. It is a matter of record that proceedings of ejectment of the claimant stood initiated before the concerned Tehsildar in which claimant neither pleaded nor claimed title by way of adverse possession.