Original defendant Nos.3 to 5 are not party to the arbitration agreement and as such they are third parties who have alleged to B have purchased the properties from the original defendant No.1 during the subsistence of the license agreement as well as they have purchased the said property surreptitiously. The prayer in terms of paras 33(D) and 33(F) can be said to be against the original defendant No.2 – Bank of Baroda who admittedly is not a party to the arbitration agreement. All these reliefs are C interconnected and the reliefs sought in the plaint are on the basis of multiple cause of actions and multiple reliefs against the defendants and it is not possible to bifurcate the dispute in the suit between the plaintiff and the original defendant No.1 (parties to the arbitration agreement) and the original plaintiff and the original D defendant Nos.2 to 5 (nonparties to the arbitration agreement). Therefore, applying the law laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Sukanya Holdings (P) Ltd. (Supra) and other decisions referred to herein above, it cannot be said that the learned Commercial Court has committed any error in rejecting section 8 application and refusing to refer the matter / dispute in the suit for E arbitration. *** *** *** [8.13] Considering the facts and circumstances of the case narrated herein above and the law laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court F in the case of Sukanya Holdings Pvt. Ltd. (Supra) and other decisions referred to herein above, it cannot be said that the learned Commercial Court has committed any error in rejecting the application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996 and refusing to refer the dispute / matter for arbitration. On facts it is not proper, advisable and/or possible to bifurcate the disputes viz. G arbitrable and nonarbitrable. We are in complete agreement with the view taken by the learned Commercial Court while rejecting the application under Section 8 of the Arbitration Act, 1996.” 5.3. Accordingly, the High Court proceeded to dismiss both the appeals and thereby affirmed the passed by the Commercial Court H 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A in rejection of the applications moved by the appellant under Section 8 of the Act of 1996. Hence, these appeals. 6. Learned counsel for the appellant has, after reference to the background aspects, strenuously argued that the Commercial Court and the High Court have erred in law as also on facts in declining the B applications moved by the appellant in terms of the amendment to Section 8 of the Act of 1996; and with reference to the later decisions of this Court including the 3-Judge Bench decisions, has contended that the impugned and s deserve to be set aside and the applications made by the appellant deserve to be allowed. C 6.1. Learned counsel for the appellant has contended that the civil suits in question and the application therein for referral to arbitration were filed subsequent to the amendment to Section 8 of the Act of 1996 in the year 2015, and therefore, the present matter is governed by the amended Section 8 whereby and whereunder, there is no choice but to refer the parties to arbitration, even for deciding the arbitrability of the D dispute.