H 186 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 8. It was raised by the petitioners that the issue of appointment of Election Commission is linked not just with the right to vote but with the conception of free and fair elections. Reference was also made to the selection processes in other jurisdictions to emphasize on the point that a larger set of parameters or factors play an important role in appointment of Commissioners. Points were also debated regarding the term of the B Chief Election Commissioner/Election Commissioners, and the process of removal of Election Commissioners. The petitioners further argued that there must be constitutional safeguards in the term and tenure of the Election Commissioners, so that they can function independently. 9. This case not only raises certain fundamental questions about C the interpretation of Article 324 of the Constitution but also forces us to look at the larger perspective about how the process of selection of Election Commission is linked with the working of a democracy, the right to vote, idea of free and fair elections, and the importance of a neutral and accountable body to monitor elections. This Court ought to make a discussion on these interconnected debatable issues raised for D our consideration. All these points are indeed sacrosanct for democracy and for maintaining the independence of the Election Commission. II. Election Commission of India 10. Article 324 (1) provides that the power of superintendence, direction, and control of the preparation of the electoral rolls for, and the E conduct of, elections to Parliament and to the Legislature of every State and of elections to the offices of President and Vice-President held under the Constitution is vested in the Election Commission. 11. As to the composition of the Election Commission, Article 324(2) provides that the Election Commission shall consist of the Chief F Election Commissioner and such number of other Election Commissioners, if any, as the President may from time to time fix, and the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners, subject to the provisions of any law made in that behalf by the Parliament, be made by the President. G 12. By an dated 1st October 1993, the President has fixed the number of Election Commissioners as two, until further s. The current composition of the Election Commission is that of Chief Election Commissioner and two Election Commissioners. 13. Article 324(3) provides that the Chief Election Commissioner shall act as the Chairman of the Election Commission. H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 187 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 14. As regards the service conditions, Article 324(5) provides that A subject to the provisions of any law made by Parliament, the conditions of service and tenure of office of the Election Commissioners and the Regional Commissioners shall be determined by the rules made by the President. In exercise of its power under Article 324(5), the Parliament has enacted the Act 1991. B 15. The provisos to Article 324(5) provide the mechanism for removal of Chief Election Commissioner, Election Commissioners, and Regional Commissioner.