20.3. Another ingredient of payment as royalty is that in most cases, it relates to and is dependent on the profi t earned or sales made by working an asset, rather than the acquisition of the asset itself. Such periodic payments, particularly those which are based on turnover of profi t and which are not related to any predetermined lump-sum are towards royalty and correctly deductible as revenue expenditure. 20.4. In CIBA India Ltd., this Court held that payments made for the right to have access to technical knowledge and the fruits of continuing research and experience of a foreign company and to use its patents and trademarks would be chargeable on revenue account. This would demonstrate that even where technical know-how is a capital asset, amounts paid for its mere use, or for the use of a trademark, trade name or the right to manufacture and sell certain goods, are allowable as revenue expenditure 460 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. in the nature of royalty as the payment is made for the use of the asset and not for its acquisition. In such cases, the payment of royalty, has no relation to the capital value of the asset authorised to be used. 21. In our view, the following considerations are immaterial in determining the question, as to, whether, a payment is a capital disbursement or in the nature of a revenue expenditure: i. Lump-sum and periodical payment: Lord Greene in Inland Revenue vs. Williams, 11 ITR Suppl. 84 famously remarked, “There is no magic in the distinction between a lump-sum and periodic sums”. That the expense is a periodic expense or a lump-sum payment is immaterial for the purpose of determining its nature. A lump-sum payment may be revenue expenditure, for instance, when it represents the commutation of a series of annual revenue payments; and a recurring periodic payment may be capital expenditure, for instance when it represents the payments by instalments of a capital sum, vide Assam Bengal Cement Co. Ltd. ii. Magnitude of payment: The magnitude of a disbursement is immaterial for the purpose of determining its nature, for, magnitude is a relative term, videPrendergast vs. Cameron, 8 I.T.R. Suppl. 75 (HL). iii. Entries in books of accounts: That an item of expenditure is debited in an entity’s books of account to revenue account is by no means conclusive of its nature. Businesses frequently prefer to debit to the revenue account, payments which are in their nature to be carried to capital account. Conversely, an assessee may be entitled to a revenue deduction in respect of expenditure which is capitalised in the accounts, videIndia Cements vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, 60 I.T.R. 52 (SC). 22. In considering whether an item of expenditure is of a capital or revenue nature, we reiterate that one must consider the nature of the concern, the ordinary course of business usually adopted in that concern and the object with which the expenditure is incurred, videAssam Bengal Cement Co. Ltd. Attention must be paid not only to the form of the transaction, but also its C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 461 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]