70 lakhs towards the premium of the government land, the appellant – Mahanadi Coalfields Ltd. has preferred the present appeal. 2. The facts leading to the present appeal in a nutshell are as under: - E 2.1 That the lands in question owned by the State Government of Odisha came to be acquired by the Government of India under Section 9 of the Coal Bearing Areas (Acquisition and Development) Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the Act, 1957). That thereafter, vide dated 04.09.1981 and in exercise of powers conferred by Sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the Act, 1957 with respect to some lands acquired, F the Central Government directed that the rights in or over the lands vested absolutely in the Central Government, shall, instead of continuing to vest in the Central Government, under Sub-section (1) of Section 10, vest in the Western Coalfields Limited. That vide dated 15.12.1988, with respect to some other lands acquired by the Central Government G and in exercise of powers conferred by the Sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the Act, 1957, the Central Government directed that the said lands and rights so vested shall, with effect from 16.05.1987 instead of continuing to so vest in the Central Government, shall vest in the Government Company, subject to the terms and conditions mentioned in the said . That is how, the appellant acquired the lands and rights H over the lands in question. That respondent issued the demand notice MAHANADI COALFIELDS LTD. v. STATE OF ODISHA & ORS. 1057 [M. R. SHAH, J.] dated 15.03.1984 for a sum of Rs. 70 lakhs towards premium for A Government land and Rs. 40 lakhs towards compensation. That various similar demand notices were issued for area of Non-Forest Government land and Revenue Forest land. The demands were challenged by the appellant by way of writ petition before the High Court. Before the High Court, Section 18(a) of the Act, 1957 was pressed into service by the appellant herein and it was submitted that in view of the notification as B the lands and rights on the lands absolutely vested in the Central Government thereafter, the State Government is not entitled to any compensation with respect to the lands so acquired/vested except the royalty leviable under Section 18(a) of the Act, 1957. By the impugned and the High Court has interpreted Section 2(d) of the Act, 1957 andhas observed that the State Government can be said to be C person interested in land and therefore, entitled to the compensation over and above in lieu of losing the rights over the land. That thereafter, by the impugned and the High Court has dismissed the writ petition and has confirmed the demand(s). 2.2 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned D and passed by the High Court the appellant – original writ petitioner – Mahanadi Coalfields Limited has preferred the present appeal. 3. Shri K.M. Nataraj, learned ASG, appearing on behalf of the appellant has taken us to the entire scheme of the Act, 1957 right from Section 4 to Section 11.