Right of pre-emption application of - The right of pre- emption shall mean the right of a person to acquire agricultural land or village immoveable property or urban immoveable property in preference to other persons, and it arises in respect of such land only in the case of sales and in respect of such property only D in the case of -sales or of foreclosures of the right to redeem such property. Nothing in this section shall prevent a Court from holding that an alienation purporting to be other than a sale is in effect a sale.” E 6. Section 15 deals with vesting of right of pre-emption in favour of certain categories of persons. The relevant part thereof is reproduced as under: - “15.Persons in whom right of pre-emption vests in respect of sales of agricultural land and village immovable property ~ F (1) The right of pre-emption in respect of agricultural land and village immovable property shall vest- (a)……. (b) Where the sale is of a share out of joint land or property and is not made by all the co-sharers jointly, - G First, in the sons or daughters or sons’ sons or daughters’ sons of the vendor or vendors; Secondly, in the brothers or brother’s sons of the vendor or vendors; 1 AIR 1958 SC 838 H 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Thirdly, in the father’s brother or father’s brother’s sons of the vendor or vendor’s; Fourthly, in the other co-shares; Fifthly, in the tenants who hold under tenancy of the vendor or vendor the land or property sold or a part thereof; B (c)…….” 7. The procedure for giving notice to the pre-emptor has been laid down in Section 19 and the procedure for giving notice by the pre-emptor to the vendor has been laid down in Section 20. Section 21 of the Pre- emption Act states that any person entitled to a right of pre-emption C may, when the sale or foreclosure has been completed, bring a suit to enforce that right. 8. So far as the provisions contained in the Punjab Land Revenue Act, are concerned, Chapter IX thereof pertains to the “Partition”. As per Section 111 thereof, the application for partition could be made by D any joint owner of land or any joint tenant of a tenancy in which a right of occupancy subsists, to the Revenue Officer in the circumstances mentioned therein. The procedure to be followed by the Revenue Officer on receiving the application under Section 111 is laid down in Sections 113 to 120. E 9. Section 118 pertaining to the disposal of other questions and to the Appeal reads as under: - “118. Disposal of other question: -(1) When there is a question as to the property to be divided, or the mode of making a partition, the Revenue-officer shall, after, such injury as he deems necessary, F record an stating his decision on the question and his reasons for the decision. (2) An appeal may be preferred from an under sub-section (1) within fifteen days from the date thereof, and, when such an appeal is preferred and the institution thereof has been certified G to the revenue-officer by the [authority to whom the appeal has been preferred] the Revenue-officer shall stay proceeding pending the disposal of the appeal.