He shall be retained in the service till the inquiry into the charge levelled against him is concluded and a fi nal passed thereon. 9. Learned counsel for the appellant-Bank further argued that the High Court had misdirected itself while referring to the 1979 Regulations as being amended in the year 1993 i.e., after the retirement date of the respondent no.1. Whereas the fact remains that these were amended in the year 1986 itself. Though this Court opined in the case of UCO Bank & 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Anr. v. Rajender Lal Capoor (2007) 6 SCC 6948 that, any proceeding against an employee shall be deemed to be pending only when a chargesheet is issued, but the was delivered while ignoring true meaning of the plain language used in Regulation 20 of the 1979 Regulations. He further submitted that on the same day another was delivered by the same Benchof this Court in Ramesh Chandra Sharma v. Punjab National Bank (2007) 8 SCALE 240, wherein this Court opined that, the Regulation should be given full eff ect even with reference to the legal fi ction provided therein. Identical Regulations with reference to the case of Punjab National Bank (supra) were under consideration therein. Subsequently, the matter was referred to a three-Judge Benchof this Court for consideration in Canara Bank v. D.R.P. Sundharam, (2016) 12 SCC 724,wherein this Court upheld the view expressed in UCO Bank v. Rajinder Lal Capoor, (2008) 5 SCC 2579. However, the fact remains that in that case the issue was not considered in its entirety with reference to the 1979 Regulations and its true spirit, especially the deeming provisions. He further submitted that recently in Chairman-cum-Managing Director, Mahanadi Coalfi elds Ltd. v. Rabindranath Choubey, (2020) 18 SCC 71, a three-Judge Bench of this Court had expressed its reservation with reference to the view expressed in Rajender Lal Capoor-I (supra) delivered by a Two-Judge Bench of this Court. 10. While concluding the argument, the learned counsel for the appellant-Bank submitted that the impugned of the High Court goes even beyond the views expressed by this Court in Rajender Lal Capoor-I (supra). In any case, there being a confl ict of opinion among the two s of Three-Judge Benches each i.e., Canara Bank (supra) and Mahanadi Coalfi elds Ltd. (supra), the matter may be referred to a larger Bench. 11. In response, Mr. Aman Hingorani, learned counsel appearing for the respondent no.1, submitted that the facts of the case in Rajender Lal Capoor-I (supra)were totally diff erent, as in that case chargesheet had been issued to the employee while he was in service. Hence, the proceeding could 8 Rajender Lal Capoor - I. 9 Rajender Lal Cooper -II. UCO BANK AND OTHERS v. M.B. MOTWANI (DEAD) THR. 531 LRS. & OTHERS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] continue even after his retirement. The of this Court in Mahanadi Coalfi elds (supra) is also not relevant as the issue involved therein was altogether diff erent. There also, the chargesheet was issued to the employee during the course of his employment, after which the employee was suspended.