Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 – Non-compliance to second proviso to s. 17 – A superior police officer of the rank of Superintendent of Police or any officer higher in rank is required to pass an before an investigation, if any, for offence u/s. D 13(1)(e) is commenced – The argument canvassed on behalf of the accused persons is that there is no such of the police officer not below the rank of Superintendent of Police in the charge-sheet – Held: In the instant case, this issue was not raised before the High Court – Even otherwise, this is a question of fact and a matter of record – If it is the case of the accused that there is no such E on record, the same may be pointed out to the trial court in the course of the trial – It is for the trial court to verify the record, look into it and take an appropriate call on this issue in accordance with law. Maxim – Nullum tempus aut locus occurrit regi – discussed. F Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: Section 169 of CrPC 1. Section 169 of the CrPC is silent in making report to the Magistrate, however the Investigating Officer is under an G obligation to submit its report to the Magistrate under Section 173 of the CrPC. Thus, though Section 169 of the CrPC does not contemplate making a report, it contemplates of obtaining a bond with or without sureties from the accused to appear if and when so required before the Magistrate empowered to take cognizance H 136 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A of the offence on a police report and such report is contemplated under Section 173 of the CrPC. [Para 39][153-A-B] What is the meaning of the term “Further Investigation”? 2. In Rama Chaudhary Vs. State of Bihar reported in (2009) 6 SCC 346, this Court held that, “further investigation within the B meaning of provision of Section 173(8) CrPC is additional; more; or supplemental. “Further investigation”, therefore, is the continuation of the earlier investigation and not a fresh investigation or reinvestigation to be started ab initio wiping out the earlier investigation altogether.” [Para 48][156-B-C] C What are the alternatives before a Magistrate when a “Final Report” is filed? 3. Wherever a final report forwarded by the Investigating Officer to a Magistrate under Section 173(2)(i) of the CrPC is placed before him, several situations may arise. The report may D conclude that an offence appears to have been committed by a particular person and persons, and in such a case the Magistrate may either:(1) accept the report and take cognizance of offence and issue process, (2) may disagree with the report and drop the proceeding or may take cognizance on the basis of report/material submitted by the investigation officer, (3) may direct further E investigation under Section 156(3) and require police to make a report as per Section 173(8) of the CrPC. (4) may treat the protest complaint as a complaint, and proceed under Sections 200 and 202 of the CrPC.