The findings of the Appellate Tribunal in this regard are also difficult to be accepted. C 42.1. It has rightly been contended on behalf of the resolution professional that Form G was published in all leading newspapers on 09.08.2020 and then, IBBI was also informed about technical issues in uploading the Form on the website. The Adjudicating Authority has also rightly observed that a statutory provision regulating a matter of practice or procedure would generally be read as directory and in the present D case, no prejudice has been shown by anyone as regards technical non- compliance of all the requirements of publication. It has been too far- stretched on the part of the Appellate Tribunal to observe that when CIRP was conducted during the periods of lockdown in the face of Covid-19 pandemic, most of the people avoided reading newspapers E under the apprehension of Covid infection. As noticed, initially as many as 13 EOIs were received. It has also rightly been contended on behalf of the resolution professional that all the requisite steps having been reasonably taken, the process that had reached an advanced stage could not have been annulled on such technicalities. F 42.2. An argument has been advanced on behalf of the appellant- resolution applicant that this issue relating to publication of Form G was dealt with by NCLAT in the earlier dated 05.05.2021 and that decision would operate as res judicata. In the relevant part of the said dated 05.05.2021, the NCLAT even while dealing with the questions raised against time enlargement granted by NCLT, took note of various G features related with the CIRP in question and in that regard, also observed that it was the commercial decision of CoC not to seek extension of time for submission of resolution plans and to issue directions to the resolution professional to expedite the process on the resolution plans already submitted. The NCLAT had observed as under: - H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 899 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “ 23. On perusal of the minutes of the CoC, it appears that the RP A apprised the CoC about the legal options available either to seek an extension of the timeline for submission of Resolution Plan or to make the decision for publication of fresh Form-G. It was the CoC’s commercial decision that “no extension of time for submission of Resolution Plan should be done and RP was B directed to expedite the valuation process and check the feasibility and viability of the Resolution Plan already submitted and present the eligible Resolution Plan before the CoC for consideration.” 42.3. The NCLAT held that the aforesaid was a commercial C decision of CoC not requiring interference of the Court. It has been argued on behalf of the contesting respondents that, the aforesaid decision cannot be considered res judicata for they being not the parties to the said appeals decided by NCLAT on 05.05.2021. In our view, even if principles of res judicata are as such not applied, fact of the matter remains that at the given stage, the process as undertaken by the D resolution professional had been consistently approved by CoC, Adjudicating Authority and the Appellate Tribunal.