A any law or policy. It must also not be against any public interest or public policy. V. The public interest must be demonstrated:If a legitimate expectation is being taken away by way of a modification to an existing policy on grounds of public interest, such public interest must be demonstrated by the said modification. B VI. Public Interest must supersede change in policy: In cases where a legitimate expectation is being taken away by way of a modification to policy, such modification must not be antithesis to public policy, and if such a modification runs counter to public interest, the remedy of legitimate expectation would become C exercisable. VII. The expectation must be based on a legitimate interest: The expectation must be based on a legitimate interest of the individual or group. It must not be based on any vested interest or personal gain. D VIII. The expectation must be protected: Once a legitimate expectation is created, it must be protected and not arbitrarily or capriciously withdrawn by the public authority. The public authority must provide a reasonable opportunity for the individual or group to be heard before any decision is taken to withdraw or modify E the expectation. APPLICATION OF LEGITIMATE EXPECTATION IN THE PRESENT FACTUAL MATRIX 36. A tax holiday was granted to new small scale industrial units involved in the manufacture of tea for a specified period of time under Section 39 of the Bengal Finance (Sales Tax) Act, 1941 (hereinafter F referred to as the ‘1941 Act’) read with Section 17(3)(1)(xi) of the said Act with Rule 52 of the West Bengal Sales Tax Rules, 1995. 37. It is important to note that at this period, statutorily, blending of tea was read under the definition of “manufacture”, and as such, the tax holiday was also applicable to small scale industrial units involved in the G blending of tea. 38. Subsequent to such a tax holiday being granted, the appellants herein, relying upon the assurance and faith made by the government, set up small scale industrial units, and got the necessary authorizations to certify them as the same. However, by way of an amendment in the H West Bengal Finance Act, 2001, the words “blending of tea” were omitted M/S. K.B. TEA PRODUCT PVT. LTD. v. COMMERCIAL TAX 855 OFFICER, SILIGURI [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] from the definition of “manufacture”, as a consequence of which, the A appellants herein became ineligible to claim benefit under the tax holiday. 39. From an understanding of the facts, it can be clearly seen that the tax holiday, granted by way of an amendment to small scale industries involved in the manufacture and blending of tea, created a legitimate expectation in favour of the appellants herein. Such a legitimate B expectation, created by way of an amendment, lured the appellants to pour their hard earned money into setting up small scale industrial units, under the assumption that the authority would hold true to its promise, act in a fair manner and abide by the decision made by it.