The decision of D the ECI is to be based on a consideration of all the available facts and circumstances as well as the representations advanced by the rival groups and other persons who desire to be heard. Paragraph 15 is reproduced below: “15. Power of Commission in relation to splinter groups or rival sections of a recognised political party – E When the Commission is satisfied on information in its possession that there are rival sections or groups of a recognised political party each of whom claims to be that party, the Commission may, after taking into account all the available facts and circumstances of the case and hearing such representatives of the sections or F groups and other persons as desire to be heard, decide that one such rival section or group or none of such rival sections or groups is that recognised political party and the decision of the Commission shall be binding on all such rival sections or groups.” 136. The natural consequence of the decision of the ECI is that G the group that is recognised as constituting the political party is allotted the symbol that was reserved for that political party. Prior to 1997, the faction which was not granted the symbol of the political party (and by corollary was not recognised as the political party) was also recognised as a National Party or a State Party under the Symbols .51 The H 51 V S Rama Devi and S K Mendiratta, How India Votes (3rd edition, 2014), at 621 SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 941 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] ECI departed from this practice in 1997. The ECI has since held that the A faction that is not recognised as the political party in the proceedings under Paragraph 15 cannot be automatically recognised as a State or National Party because its members were not elected on the ticket of the newly formed political party but on the ticket of the political party from which their faction emerged.52 The unsuccessful group must now B apply for the registration of its political party under Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act 1951. The ECI will allot a symbol to the political party when it is recognised as a State or National Party under the Symbols . 137. The essence of the decision of the ECI cannot be understood C as solely a determination as to who is entitled to the symbol for the purposes of election. While that is the outcome of the decision under Paragraph 15, the substance of the decision is the determination as to which of the groups is the lifeblood of the recognised political party. In to reach a determination as to which group is entitled to the symbol, it becomes necessary for the ECI to adjudicate which group is that political D party itself. In other words, the ECI determines who the “real” political party is and the symbol is allotted as a consequence of this decision.