This Court has already found that the appellant M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 581 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] is bereft of any of the rights or powers associated with ownership of A property. The only aspect was the alleged possession of the goods which is clearly wrongful when it continued with the appellant contrary to the terms of the contract and the law. 62. The Court is conscious of the fact that income derived from an illegal business can be legitimately brought to tax [See AIR 1980 SC B 1271]. However, that is a far cry from justifying invocation of Section 69A of the Act as it is indispensable to invoke the said provision that the assessing officer must find that the articles in question was under the ownership of the assessee in the financial year. This is apart from other requirements being met. C 63. This Court may approach the issue from another angle. Section 69A was inserted in 1964 to get at income which was sought to be screened from tax by purchasing valuable articles such as bullion and gold and jewellery besides keeping it in the form of money also. The object of such assessee would also be achieved by becoming the owners D of other valuable articles. In this case, is it a case where the appellant was attempting to conceal taxable income by illegally possessing the bitumen? Proceeding further and assuming again that the assessee possessed the bitumen albeit illegally and proceeded to dispose of the same. The rationale of the Revenue involves ownership of the bitumen being ascribed to the appellant based on possession of the bitumen E contrary to the contract of carriage and with the intention to misappropriate the same, which further involves the sale of the bitumen for which there is no material as such. But this Court proceeds on the basis that such a sale also took place. What is however important is, the requirement in Section 69A that the assessing officer must find that the F assessee is the owner of the bitumen. This Court is unable to agree that in the facts it could be found that the appellant could be found to the owner. It is further found that the appellant could not be said to be in possession in his own right, accepting the case of the Revenue that there was short delivery. This Court finds that the appellant did not possess the power of alienation. Quite clearly, if the case of short delivery G is accepted, the consignee if property had passed to it had every right over the bitumen and proceeding on the basis that the assessing officer’s reasoning is correct, the department definitely had a case that it had not received the bitumen in question. The right over the bitumen as an owner at no point of time could have been claimed by the appellant. The H 582 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A possession of the appellant at best is a shade better than that of a thief as the possession had its origin under a contract of bailment.