Azad and Mukesh were also present”. Further, the oral testimony of PW-10 would reveal he categorically deposed that he did not join the cremation of Devinder. The contradictions brought out from PW-8 and PW-10 by confronting with their previous statements, not inspire confi dence.” 30. In the contextual situation, one may really feel that the prosecution had withheld their best evidence, for reasons best known to them. Obviously, in respect of the questions whether Poonam is the sister of the appellants; whether she was in love with the deceased Devinder; if so, whether she promised Devinder to meet at the fodder room near Katvawala passage in the evening of 25.06.1999; whether they had actually met at the said place near about that time; whether the appellants reached there and snatched her chunni and whether they strangulated the deceased using her chunni, the best witness ought to have been Poonam herself. But the fact is that she was not examined by the prosecution. Nothing is discernible from the records as to her questioning during investigation. What is more disturbing in this context is the observation of the trial Court that Poonam had not been examined by the accused to distort the motive of the occurrence. 31. When the prosecution comes out with a motive and the motive is either not proved or held to be insuffi cient, the evidence of witnesses of the said fact has to be scrutinized with great care and caution. It is so held by this Court in State of U.P. v. Babu Ram8. There cannot be any doubt with respect to the position that in India the burden to prove the prosecution case in criminal matters involving off ences in respect of which the appellants were made to stand the trial, is on the prosecution. If the prosecution got no good reason for not producing the best evidence, in the sense, the best witness who could help the prosecution to establish their case, then adverse inference could have been taken only against 8 AIR 2000 SC 1735 KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF 879 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] the prosecution and certainly that cannot be a reason to hold that the defence could have distorted/ disproved the motive that was projected by the prosecution by examining that witness. In the decision in Zahira Habibullah Sheikh & Anr. v. State of Gujarat & Ors.9 this Court held thus: “It is a cardinal rule in the law of evidence that the best available evidence should be brought before the court. Sections 60, 64 and 91 of the Evidence Act, 1872 (in short “the Evidence Act”) are based on this rule. The court is not empowered under the provisions of the Code to compel either the prosecution or the defence to examine any particular witness or witnesses on their side. This must be left to the parties. But in weighing the evidence, the court can take note of the fact that the best available evidence has not been given, and can draw an adverse inference” 32.