107. It is therefore, held that the provisions of the ordinance, as approved by the later state act, which amended the local VAT Act’s, are valid. D. Gujarat and Maharashtra Acts 108. In the case of the Gujarat VAT Act, the brief facts are that the Deputy Commissioner of Commercial Tax, passed an assessment on 38 The relevant part of Section 174 (2) inter alia, is as follows: “(2) The repeal of the said Acts and the amendment of the Acts specifi ed in section 173 (hereafter referred to as ―such amendmentǁ or ―amended Actǁ, as the case may be) to the extent mentioned in sub-section (1) or section 173 shall not— (a) revive anything not in force or existing at the time of such amendment or repeal; or (b) aff ect the previous operation of the amended Acts or repealed Acts and s or anything duly done or suff ered thereunder; or (c) aff ect any right, privilege, obligation, or liability acquired, accrued or incurred under the amended Acts or repealed Acts or s under such repealed or amended Acts:” 206 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. December 23, 2009, for the fi nancial year 2006-07 against the assessee and reversed the input tax credit to the extent of eight per cent., i.e., four per cent, under each of the provisions of sections 11(3)(b)(ii) and 11(3)(b)(iii) of the Gujarat VAT Act. The appellate authority dismissed the assessee. On April 26, 2012, the Gujarat VAT Tribunal allowed the assesses second appeal by quashing and setting aside both the s of the sales tax authorities by holding that reduction of the input tax credit to the extent of eight per cent, for purchases was not applicable to consignment of branch transfer transactions. The High Court, by 39 dated January 18, 2013, dismissed the State Government’s appeal against the aforesaid of the VAT Tribunal, while holding, inter alia, that the reduction of input tax credit under section 11(3) (b) would, in no case, exceed four per cent. It was held that the limitation of availing of the tax credit as provided under section 11(3)((b) could be applied only once irrespective of the fact as to whether particular commodity purchased falls in more than one sub-clauses of section 11(3)(b) of the VAT Act. An assessment was made by the concerned offi cer, for two separate issues. The of the High Court was given eff ect to by tax authorities. In a decision of the VAT Tribunal, rendered in another case wherein it was observed that tax paid by the assessee on purchases of goods used in manufacture of taxable goods exported outside the country was not to be included. In other words, according to the Tribunal, the said incentive limit cannot be curtailed by the said tax paid by the assessee. These fi ndings were set aside by the High Court40. In view of that , the commissioner issued a revision notice, in March, 2018 under Section 75 of the VAT Act, why the benefi t given to them should not be revised to give eff ect to the of the High Court.