Hence, it is the duty of every genuine advocate of the country to ensure that they H 510 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A cooperate with the Bar Council of India which is seeking to ensure that the certificates of practice are duly verified, together with the underlying educational degree certificates. Unless this exercise is carried out periodically, there is a danger that the administration of justice would be under a serious cloud. The written submission which has been placed on the record by the Bar Council of India indicates that several such persons B have been elected to State Bar Councils and some persons have thereafter occupied judicial office in the district judiciary as well. 11. The communication which was issued by the Bar Council of India on 1 November 2022 took exception to the fact that the Bar Council of the State of Uttar Pradesh had started the process of verification in a C hurried manner without verifying the genuineness and validity of the educational certificates and degrees of advocates. The letter adverts to the fact that certificates of practice were being issued by the State Bar Council. Hence, all State Bar Councils were directed not to proceed with the process of verification till further s. However, it was clarified D that the State Bar Councils which are verifying the genuineness and validity of degree certificates shall continue to do so. 12. Mr Manan Kumar Mishra, Senior Counsel and the Chairperson of the Bar Council of India, has clarified, during the course of the submission, that the intent of the letter dated 1 November 2022 E was not to direct the cessation of the process of verification, but only to ensure that the process of verification was not carried out merely on the basis of the certificates of practice issued by the State Bar Council without verifying the genuineness and validity of degree certificates. 13. Having regard to the larger dimensions of this matter and the direct impact which the enrollment of fake degree holders and other F persons who are not found to be in possession of the qualifications required for entry into the Bar have on the administration of justice, we accede to the suggestion of the Bar Council of India that a High Powered Committee should be constituted by this Court to monitor the process of verification. In our view, such a High Powered Committee should be chaired by a G former Judge of this Court and its members should consist of: (i) two Judges of the High Court; (ii) two senior advocates; and (iii) three members of the Bar Council of India. The above suggestion has been accepted by the Bar Council of India. H AJAY SHANKAR SRIVASTAVA v. BAR COUNCIL OF INDIA & 511 ANR. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 14. We accordingly direct that the Committee shall consist of the A following persons: (i) Mr Justice Deepak Gupta, former Judge of the Supreme Court; (ii) Mr Justice Arun Tandon, former Judge of the High Court of B Judicature at Allahabad; (iii) Mr Justice Rajendra Menon, former Chief Justice of the High Court of Delhi; (iv) Mr Rakesh Dwivedi, Senior Advocate; and C (v) Mr Maninder Singh, Senior Advocate.