(c) The land shall be allotted on “as it where it is” UPSIDC will not responsible for carrying out any B development at any stage except existing development like Roads and Strom water drainage. (d) All works shall be completed in 05 years from the date of allotment. Any further extension shall be C as per terms decided by MD, UPSIDC. (e) The allottee will have to pay Lease Rent from the date of Allotment. 9. The allottee shall have to right to sell of the built portion to any person for its choice for first such transfer no levy shall be charged D by UPSIDC. 10. In case of any dispute between Corporation and Allottee/ Developer, the decision of Managing Director, UPSIDC Ltd., shall be final and binding on both the parties. 11. The Corporation will have no objection on the request made E by Bidder Company for allowing them 1.8 FAR with 60% ground coverage subject to the approval of the same by UPSIDC Ltd. 12. The allottee shall obtain completion certificate from UPSIDC. F 13. Allottee will have to abide by general terms and conditions of Allotment of UPSIDC and also to observe the laws & other rules and regulation carry out any specific activity from appropriate Govt. bodies before undertaking such activities. Failure to do so may result in Cancellation of allotment of the whole plot or part thereof as UPSIDC deems fit. .……” G 3.3. In addition to the aforesaid allotted parcel of land, another adjacent plot admeasuring 3297 sq. mtrs. was also allotted in favour of the petitioner, and another lease deed for this additional parcel of land was executed on 30.03.2009. The relevant clause of the said lease deed reads as under: - H BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. 1065 v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “3. AND THE LESSEE DOTH THEREBY COVENANTS A WITH THE LESSOR AS UNDER: **** **** **** (j) (a) The allottee shall have the right to sell of the builtup portion to any person for its choice for first such B transfer no levy shall be charged by UPSIDC. (b) The triparite lease deed of the built-up premises shall be executed by the UPSIDC LTD., with the ultimate allottees of Developer on the request of the developer in writing. C In triparite lease deed, the allottee of developer shall be the lessee, the UPSIDC Ltd., will be lessor and the developer shall be a confirming party. The UPSIDC will be transferring the proportionate undelivered interest in the land while the developer will be transferring the interest in the built-up space. D (c) The Lease Deed of the built-up space will be executed only after the corporation has given completion certificate. For that built up space. ……” E 3.4. Thereafter, possession of the entire parcel of land comprising the aforesaid two lease deeds, i.e., 40505 sq. mtrs., was handed over to petitioner on 31.03.2009. Then, on 08.10.2009, respondent No. 2 sanctioned the building plan for construction over the aforesaid allotted land and pursuant thereto, construction over an area of 179017.82 sq.