It was for this reason that the goods were sold to the noticees at lower prices, details of which were mentioned in paragraph 11 of the reply. 5.5. After saying so, it was pointed out that diff erent prices in export declarations and in import invoices did not necessarily mean that the price shown in the export declarations was correct and that the one declared in the import invoices was incorrect. 5.6. The reply also touched upon the method of valuation as well as the valuation of the goods by the customs authority in India. After adverting to various provisions of the Customs Valuation Rules, it was asserted that the price at which the goods of the respondents were assessed and cleared was more or less correct. It was pointed out that the department could not adduce any single piece of evidence to arrive at the so called correct value of the goods. No value of identical or similar goods could be produced. No evidence of market value was adduced. No attempt to fi nd out the price per unit was made for a comparison. That apart, no incriminating document or material was produced to establish under valuation. There was no evidence as to how remittances over and above the invoice price were made. One and only ‘evidence’ relied upon by the department was the initial value shown in the export declarations which was declared to be incorrect by the COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 181 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] supplier itself and later on rectifi ed. Thus, there was no mis-declaration either in respect of description of the goods or value of the goods. No question of confi scation under Sections 111(d) and 111(m) of the Customs Act was made out. That apart, the goods were not prohibited ones, the import of which would warrant confi scation. In any view of the matter, the goods on being cleared by the customs authority were sold by the noticees much before the issuance of the show cause notice. Therefore, there cannot be any confi scation of such goods. In so far deposit of Rs. 30 lakhs by Mr. Yashpal Sharma is concerned, the same was to fulfi l the bail condition imposed by the Additional Sessions Judge. Since there was no short payment of customs duty, question of appropriation of the aforesaid amount did not arise; neither any penalty was imposable nor interest leviable. M/s Ganpati Overseas, therefore, requested the Commissioner to drop the proceedings. 6. Reply of the respondents was found to be not acceptable. Therefore, the case was taken up for adjudication. Accordingly, the case was transferred to Commissioner of Customs (Adjudication-1), New Customs House, Mumbai for the purpose of adjudication. During the adjudication process, personal hearing was aff orded to the respondents. 6.1. Adjudicating authority noted that the customs department had alleged under valuation of the goods in question resulting in evasion of customs duty to the tune of Rs.