[Judicial discretion, (ibid) p. 33]” (emphasis supplied) 10. The fact, that out of the twelve charge-sheeted accused, six E co-accused have not been granted bail, five have availed the benefit of default bail and only one is on regular bail, have also persuaded this Court not to interfere. We have also considered the allegations levelled and perused carefully the statements of the witnesses shown to the Court. In Niranjan Singh v Prabhakar Rajaram Kharote, (1980) 2 F SCC 559, this Court opined: “3… Detailed examination of the evidence and elaborate documentation of the merits should be avoided while passing s on bail applica- tions. No party should have the impression that his case has been prejudiced. To be satisfied G about a prima facie case is needed but it is not the same as an exhaustive exploration of the merits in the itself.” (emphasis supplied) 11. In Vilas Pandurang Pawar v State of Maharashtra, (2012) 8 SCC 795, this Court observed “…Moreover, while considering the H ATULBHAI VITHALBHAI BHANDERI v. STATE OF GUJARAT 245 [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] application for bail, scope for appreciation of evidence and other A material on record is limited. The court is not expected to indulge in critical analysis of the evidence on record…”. We are in respectful agreement with the law exposited in these cases. We consciously refrain from detailing our views on the merits of the matter. 12. Insofar as parity is concerned, we need only reproduce the B apt observations from Ramesh Bhavan Rathod v Vishanbhai Hirabhai Makwana (Koli), (2021) 6 SCC 230, of which we take note: “26.… Parity while granting bail must focus upon the role of the accused. Merely observing that another accused who was granted bail was armed with a similar weapon is not sufficient C to determine whether a case for the grant of bail on the basis of parity has been estab- lished. In deciding the aspect of parity, the role attached to the accused, their position in relation to the incident and to the victims is of utmost importance. The High Court has pro- ceeded on the basis of D parity on a simplistic assessment as noted above, which again cannot pass muster under the law.” (emphasis supplied) 13. In the facts and circumstances, at the present juncture, this Court is not inclined to allow the prayer for enlarging the Appellant on E bail. Accordingly, the prayer for bail is hereby rejected. 14. However, the stand taken on behalf of the State of Gujarat is that the prayer for bail of the Appellant may be considered only after the protected witnesses are examined. In this context, learned Additional Solicitor General has indicated that six months’ time be granted for F recording statements of the protected witnesses. 15. In such light, it is observed that upon the completion of recording of statements of the said protected witnesses, the Appellant is at liberty to renew his plea for bail, if so advised. 16. The Appeal stands disposed of accordingly, with liberty afore G granted.