[2023] 2 S.C.R. 965 965 RAVASAHEB @ RAVASAHEBGOUDA ETC. A v. STATE OF KARNATAKA (Criminal Appeal Nos. 1109-1110 of 2010) MARCH 16, 2023 B [B. R. GAVAI, VIKRAM NATH AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – s.302 – Victim was murdered – The trial court and the High Court, despite most of the prosecution witnesses turning hostile, found the prosecution case to be established beyond C reasonable doubt through the unrefuted testimony of PW-1 and convicted the accused persons – The only point for consideration on appeal was, whether eight men can be convicted based on the testimony of a solitary witness, who was the only eyewitness to the crime – Held: Presence of the accused on the spot is not disputed by anyone – Witness, despite being cross-examined extensively, is D consistent in his testimony to the effect that the accused caught hold of the deceased and inflicted serious injuries upon his person – Though, the witness is not clear as to which one of the accused had assaulted the deceased after he fell down, but then he is categorical with regard to the role played by each one of them – E Testimony of the sole eyewitness PW-1 is worthy of credence, trustworthy, truthful and believable and the prosecution had established its case beyond reasonable doubt against all accused persons – The findings of the trial court and the High Court upheld. Dismissing the appeals, the Court F HELD: 1. The presence of the accused on the spot is not disputed by anyone of them. This Court may say so not only from the line of their cross-examination of the witnesses but also it is noticed hereinafter, to have come on record through the testimonies of the witnesses, who despite not having supported G the prosecution on the issue of the accused having assaulted the deceased, have supported on this count. Perusal of cross- examination part of the testimony of PW-1 unrefutedly reveals all the accused hiding in bushes at the spot. This witness, despite being cross-examined extensively, is consistent in his testimony to the effect that the accused caught hold of the deceased and H 965 966 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A inflicted serious injuries upon his person. The accused had used chilli powder as a weapon to stop him from fleeing away and pushed him to the ground. Though, the witness is not clear as to which one of the accused had assaulted the deceased after he fell down, but then he is categorical with regard to the role played by each one of them. The questions in respect of the testimony of the B sole eye-witness PW-1 being worthy of credence, trust-worthy, truthful and believable are answered in the affirmative. [Paras 12 and 14][973-B-G] 2. Merely because no recovery was made from anyone apart from accused Nos.2 and 4 would not mean that others were not C present at the scene of the crime; simply because a number of witnesses had turned hostile, does not on its own give a ground to reject the evidence of PW-1; and that PW-1 being the brother of the deceased and therefore, is an interested as well a chance witness, are untenable submissions.