10. Having noticed the rival submissions, before we proceed further, D it would be useful to notice the provisions of Section 256 of the Code, which are reproduced below: “256. Non-appearance or death of complainant.—(1) If the summons has been issued on complaint, and on the day appointed for the appearance of the accused, or any day subsequent thereto E to which the hearing may be adjourned, the complainant does not appear, the Magistrate shall, notwithstanding anything hereinbefore contained, acquit the accused, unless for some reason he thinks it proper to adjourn the hearing of the case to some other day. Provided that where the complainant is represented by a pleader or by the officer conducting the prosecution or where the F Magistrate is of opinion that the personal attendance of the complainant is not necessary, the Magistrate may dispense with his attendance and proceed with the case. (2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall, so far as may be, apply also to cases where the non-appearance of the G complainant is due to his death.” 1 (1998) 1 SCC 687 2 (2008) 4 SCC 67 3 (2008) 5 SCC 535 H 188 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A A plain reading of the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 256 would indicate that where the Magistrate is satisfied that the personal attendance of the complainant is not necessary, he can dispense with the attendance of the complainant and proceed with the case. Such a situation may arise where complainant’s/prosecution’s evidence has been recorded and to decide the case on merits, complainant’s presence is B not necessary. 11. In the case of S. Anand (supra), addressing a situation where the complainant was absent but had already examined his witnesses,this Court observed as follows: C “12. Section 256 of the Code provides for disposal of a complaint in default. It entails in acquittal. But, the question which arises for consideration is as to whether the said provision could have been resorted to in the facts of the case as the witnesses on behalf of the complainant have already been examined. 13. The date was fixed for examining the defence witnesses. The D appellant could have examined witnesses, if he wanted to do the same. In that case, the appearance of the complainant was not necessary. It was for her to cross-examine the witnesses examined on behalf of the defence.” After observing as above, in paragraph 15, it was held thus: E “15. … when the prosecution has closed its case and the accused has been examined under Section 311 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Court was required to pass a on merit of the matter.” F 12. In Associated Cement Co. Ltd.(supra), the purpose of inserting a provision like Section 256 of the Code was discussed and in light thereof, in paragraph 16, it was observed as under: “16. What was the purpose of including a provision like Section 247 in the old Code (or Section 256 in the new Code).