On the other hand, whether a party goes to the marketplace is immaterial and the court can award damages, keeping in mind the diff erence between the contract price and the market price. Reliance was placed on a decision of the court in M/S. Murlidhar Chiranjilal vs M/S. Harishchandra Dwarkadas & Anr (hereafter, “Murlidhar Chiranjilal”)4 that even if a party does not purchase the goods in the market “on the date of breach it would be entitled to damages on proof of rate for similar canvas prevalent” at the relevant place “on the date of breach, if that rate was above the contracted rate resulted in loss to it.”. The decision in Foley vs. Classique Coaches Ltd.5 too was relied on to support the above view. 9. Baker argued that the assumption by the Division Bench, that the price of the goods, on the date of the breach, was not proved is unwarranted. Counsel relied on the award, to show that the prices for the relevant period, formed part of the consideration, which weighed with the tribunal, in ultimately fi xing the market price, on a reasonable basis, i.e., at US$ 300,000/. It was urged that the price lists for the period, on the contractual goods, published by the standard “Fertecon” reports, which the parties agreed, refl ected the sale position of sulphur in the international market. The reports spoke about a large number of sales at prevalent market prices of sulphur during 1992. It was argued that the view in the award regarding the measure of damages, 4 1962 SCR (1) 653 5 (1934) 2 K.B. 1 292 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. as well as damages was fair, evidence based and not arbitrary. To underline this, it was argued that Baker had also placed on record, some invoices in support of its claim about the sale price of the relevant goods, during the subject period. As long as the award contained a plausible basis for grant of the amount, which it did, towards damages, it could not have been set aside, as the impugned did. 10. It was contended that the award of damages for the earlier period too, was based on the actual quantities that had to be lifted. The basis for granting damages, therefore, did not vary, given that the determination of what was the market price was the same. In these circumstances, the rejection of the award of damages for the second period was illogical and unjustifi ed, in appeal against dismissal of objections to the award. Baker also supported the impugned , to the extent it upheld the grant of damages, in the award, for the fi rst period. 11. Ms. Kiran Suri, learned senior counsel appearing for MMTC, justifi ed the impugned to the extent it set aside the award. She argued that the award of damages and compensation for breach of contract has to be in accordance with Section 73 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 (hereafter, “the Contract Act”). 12.