19. The Act contains a general non-discriminatory provision: “3. Equality and non-discrimination. (1) The appropriate Government shall ensure that the persons with disabilities enjoy the right to equality, life with dignity and respect for his or her integrity equally with others. (2) The appropriate Government shall take steps to utilise the capacity of persons with disabilities by providing appropriate environment. (3) No person with disability shall be discriminated on the ground of disability, unless it is shown that the impugned act or omission is a proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim. (4) No person shall be deprived of his or her personal liberty only on the ground of disability. (5) The appropriate Government shall take necessary steps to ensure reasonable accommodation for persons with disabilities.” 20. The twin conditions of falling within defi ned categories, and also a threshold condition of a minimum percentage, of such disabilities, in fact are a barrier. The facts of this case demonstrate that the appellant is fi t, in all senses of the term, to discharge the duties attached to the post he applied and was selected for. Yet, he is denied the position, for being “disabled” as he is colour blind. At the same time, he does not fi t the category of PWD under the lexicon of the universe contained within the Act. These challenges (e) multiple disabilities from amongst persons under clauses (a) to (d) including deaf-blindness in the posts identifi ed for each disabilities: Provided that the reservation in promotion shall be in accordance with such instructions as are issued by the appropriate Government from time to time: Provided further that the appropriate Government, in consultation with the Chief Commissioner or the State Commissioner, as the case may be, may, having regard to the type of work carried out in any Government establishment, by notifi cation and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specifi ed in such notifi cations exempt any Government establishment from the provisions of this section. MOHAMED IBRAHIM v. THE CHAIRMAN & MANAGING 939 DIRECTOR & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] traditional understandings of what constitute “disabilities”. The court has to, therefore, travel beyond the provisions of the Act and discern a principle which can be rationally applied. 21. In Jeeja Ghosh v. Union of India23 this court observed: “40. In international human rights law, equality is founded upon two complementary principles: non-discrimination and reasonable diff erentiation. The principle of non-discrimination seeks to ensure that all persons can equally enjoy and exercise all their rights and freedoms. Discrimination occurs due to arbitrary denial of opportunities for equal participation. For example, when public facilities and services are set on standards out of the reach of persons with disabilities, it leads to exclusion and denial of rights. Equality not only implies preventing discrimination (example, the protection of individuals against unfavourable treatment by introducing anti-discrimination laws), but goes beyond in remedying discrimination against groups suff ering systematic discrimination in society. In concrete terms, it means embracing the notion of positive rights, affi rmative action and reasonable accommodation.” 22.