Given the fundamental right that each childbearing individual has, and the objective of the Act, the classifi cation on the basis of marital status, was wholly arbitrary. The JJ Act and its regulations are on a diff erent footing. Here, the object of the Act and guiding principle, is the best interest of the child (and not to enable adoption for all). 128. It is agreeable that all marriages may not provide a stable home, and that a couple tied together in marriage are not a ‘morally superior choice’, or per se make better parents. Undoubtedly, what children require is a safe space, love, care, and commitment – which is also possible by an individual by themselves, or a couple– married or unmarried. There is no formula for a guaranteed stable household. Principally, these are all conclusions we do not diff er with. As a society, and in the law, we have come a long way from the limited conception of a nuclear family with gendered roles, and privileging this conception of family over other ‘atypical’ families. However, 149 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the fact that Parliament has made the legislative choice of including only ‘married’ couples for joint adoption (i.e., where two parents are legally responsible), arises from the reality of all other laws wherein protections and entitlements, fl ow from the institution of marriage. To read down ‘marital’ status as proposed, may have deleterious impacts, that only the legislature and executive, could remedy – making this, much like the discussion on interpretation of SMA, an outcome that cannot be achieved by the judicial pen. Having said this, however, there is a discriminatory impact on queer couples, perhaps most visible through this example of adoption and its regulation, that requires urgent state intervention (elaborated in Part C). 129. Furthermore, the previous analysis of SMA has led this Court to conclude that its provisions cannot be modifi ed through any process of interpretation and that the expression “spouse” means husband and wife or a male and female as the case may be, on an overall reading of its various provisions. By Section 2(64) of the JJ Act, expressions not defi ned in that Act have the same meanings as defi ned in other enactments. The SMA is one example. Likewise, the other enacted laws with respect to adoption is the Hindu Adoption and Maintenance Act. That contains the expression “wife and husband”. In these circumstances, we are of the opinion that the manner in which Section 57(2) is cast, necessitating the existence of both spouse and their consent for adoption of a child. In such a relationship, Regulation 5(3) cannot be read down in the manner suggested by the learned Chief Justice. 130. Therefore, in our opinion, whilst the argument of the petitioners is merited on some counts, at the same time, the reading down of the provision as sought for would result in the anomalous outcome that heterosexual couples who live together, but choose not to marry, may adopt a child together and would now be indirect benefi ciaries, without the legal protection that other statutes off er – making it unworkable (much like the discussion on SMA in Part V).