309 and Seventh Schedule, List II, Entry 41. H GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 497 Answering the reference, the Court A HELD: 1.1 The legislative and executive power of NCTD over Entry 41 shall not extend over to services related to “public ”, “police”, and “land”. However, legislative and executive power over services such as Indian Administrative Services, or Joint Cadre services, which are relevant for the implementation B of policies and vision of NCTD in terms of day-to-day administration of the region shall lie with NCTD. Officers thereunder may be serving in NCTD, even if they were not recruited by NCTD. In such a scenario, it would be relevant to refer, as an example, to some of the Rules, which clearly C demarcate the control of All India or Joint-Cadre services between the Union and the States. NCTD, similar to other States, also represents the representative form of government. The involvement of the Union of India in the administration of NCTD is limited by constitutional provisions, and any further expansion would be contrary to the constitutional scheme of governance. D [Para 160][579-H; 580-A-C] 1.2 The example of the Indian Administrative Service (Cadre) Rules, 1954, which deal with the posting of IAS Officers. Rule 2(a) defines ‘cadre officer’ to mean a member of IAS. Rule 2(b) defines ‘Cadre post’ as any post specified under item I of E each cadre in the schedule to the Indian Administrative Service (Fixation of Cadre Strength) Regulations, 1955. Rule 2(c) defines ‘State’ to mean a State specified in the First Schedule of the Constitution and includes a Union Territory. Rule 2(d) defines ‘State Government concerned’, in relation to a Joint cadre, to F mean the Joint Cadre Authority. The constitution and composition of a ‘Joint Cadre Authority’ is understood with reference to the All India Services (Joint Cadre) Rules 1972. The 1972 Rules apply to a “Joint Cadre constituted for any group of States other than the Joint Cadre of Union Territories.” Rule 3 of the IAS (Cadre) Rules 1954 provides for the constitution of cadres for G each State or group of States “as a ‘State Cadre’ or, as the case may be, a ‘Joint Cadre’”. Rule 5 empowers the Central Government to allocate cadre officers to various cadres. In terms of Rule 5(1), the allocation of cadre officers to the various cadres H 498 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A shall be made by the Central Government in consultation with the State Government or the State Government concerned. Rule 7 stipulates that all appointments to cadre posts shall be made “on the recommendation of the Civil Services Board” — by the State Government “in the case of a state cadre”, and by the State Government concerned, as defined in Rule 2(d), “in the case of a B joint cadre”. Under Rule 11A, the “Government of that State” is provided with powers to take decisions under Rule 7 (and other mentioned rules) in relation to the members of the Joint Cadre Service “serving in connection with the affairs of any of the Constituent States”.