For the purpose of ensuring proper investigation of the FIRs which are transferred to the CBI, the Union Ministry of Home Aff airs shall place at the disposal of the CBI fi ve offi cers drawn from the States of Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and NCT of Delhi at least of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police. At least one of these fi ve offi cers shall be a woman. For this purpose, the Directors General of Police of the above States shall nominate an offi cer at least of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police for deputation to the CBI. On deputation, the offi cers shall perform their functions under the overall structure of the CBI and submit periodical information and reports as may be required by Shri Dattatray Padsalgikar, the offi cer appointed by this Court for supervising the investigation. They shall abide by the directions as may be issued in that regard by him from time to time; and c. Shri Dattatray Padsalgikar is also requested to investigate the allegations that certain police offi cers colluded with perpetrators of violence (including sexual violence) during the confl ict in Manipur. The Union Government and the State Government shall provide any assistance required in to carry out this investigation. The fi ndings shall be submitted to this Court in the form of a report. 26. The State of Manipur has, in its submission before the Court, indicated that in to ensure that the investigation into the FIRs is conducted in a time bound manner, the following SITs shall be constituted: DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1111 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “For FIRs related to murder and/or any other heinous crime, the SITs are proposed to be headed by an offi cer not below the rank of SP and such SITs will also include the following :- i. 02 (two) Inspectors ii. 06 (six) Sub-Inspectors iii. 12 (twelve) Constables. For FIRs related to rape, outraging of modesty and such other sexual off ences, the SITs are proposed to be headed by an offi cer not below the rank of SP and such SITs will also include the following :- i. At least 01 (one) female Inspector ii. At least 02 (two) female Sub-Inspectors iii. At least 04 (four) Women PCs. For other FIRs, SITs headed by an offi cer not below the rank of Dy SP will be constituted. The composition of these SITs will be as follows: i. 02 (two) Inspectors ii. 06 (six) Sub-Inspectors iii. 12 (twelve) Constables. For the districts of Churachandpur, Kangpokpi, Imphal West, Imphal East, Bishnupur and Kakching, there will be 06 (six) SITs in each district with the above composition. For Thoubal and Tengnoupal districts, there will be 03 (three) SITs each with the above composition. These SITs will be supervised weekly by an offi cer of the rank of DIG/ IG/ ADG. In addition, the DGP will also monitor these cases fortnightly. In total, 42 (forty-two) nos. of SIT teams of Manipur Police are being proposed to tackle these cases in a focused and timely manner.” 27.