The respondents are in possession of the property for the last more than 34 years. In fact, even in the appeal before the High Court, no substantial G question of law was framed and there is no legal issue as such, which requires determination by this Court. 10. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and perused the relevant material on record. H 370 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 11. From the s on record it is evident that a and decree dated 30.7.1965 was passed in favour of the predecessors in interest of the appellants in Harsarup vs. Municipal Committee by Sub Judge, Karnal. (Suit No. 292 of 1962) 12. The appellant filed a petition for execution of the aforesaid B decree against the Municipal Committee for the2 disputed property in the year 1974. The predecessor-in-interest of the respondents were also impleaded as respondents in the Execution Petition as they were obstructing the execution of decree and trying to raise construction thereon. C 13. A Local Commissioner was appointed in the aforesaid execution proceedings, who after visiting the site, submitted his report on 19.1.1975 before the Court. In the report, he stated that the shops in question constructed by the respondents are built on Khasra No. 4833. Nothing was pointed out from record about the status of the aforesaid execution proceedings. D 14. As has been noticed by the Lower Appellate Court in dated 16.1.1997 that during the course of proceedings in the aforesaid Execution Petition, the respondents were allowed to raise construction on an undertaking given by their predecessor-in-interest that in case they lose, they will not claim any compensation. E 15. During the pendency of the aforesaid execution petition, the predecessor-in-interest of the respondents filed a suit bearing No. 371/ 1981 against Bhagwat Sarup, Trustee of the appellant Trust. In the said suit, two main issues were framed, namely, whether the plaintiffs therein had become owners of the property by way of adverse possession and F the second was as to whether the plaintiffs are bound by the decree in Suit No. 292 of 1962, Harsarup vs. Municipal Committee, Karnal. The mere fact that the predecessor-in-interest of the respondents had filed the suit claiming ownership of the property on the basis of adverse possession, pre-supposes that the ownership of the appellants on the suit G property was admitted. In any case, the issue regarding the predecessor- in-interest of the respondents having become owner of the property in dispute by way of adverse possession was decided against the plaintiffs therein. It was specifically held that the plaintiffs in the aforesaid suit had failed to prove their adverse possession. Finally, the plaintiffs therein partly succeeded as only a decree of permanent injunction was passed H MURTI SHRI DURGA BHAWANI (HETUWALI) TRUST v. SH. 371 DIWAN CHAND (DEAD) THROUGH LRS [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] in their favour restraining the defendants therein from interfering in their A possession except in due course of law on 30.09.1981. In the aforesaid suit Sadar Kanoongo was appointed as Local Commissioner.