Indisputably, it was not a regular identifi cation in accordance with law. 69. The appellant convict argues that the only substantive evidence against him is in the form of his identifi cation by the PW 1 before the Trial Court. He says that there is no question of drawing any adverse inference against him for refusing to participate in the TIP because from day one, he had been saying that the witnesses had seen the accused persons. He further says that the PW 1 was in a position to identify him for the fi rst time before the Trial Court only because he had the opportunity to see him on 15.09.2008. In such circumstances, it is argued on behalf of the appellant convict that there is no evidence worth the name to hold him guilty for the alleged crime. On the other hand, the State says that although the witnesses had a chance to see the accused persons on 15.09.2008 when they were present at the Rohini Court Complex, but that, by itself, is not a suffi cient or a good ground to discard the substantive evidence of identifi cation before the Trial Court. The State wants us to draw adverse inference against the appellant convict as he had refused to participate in the TIP and at the same time also wants us to accept the identifi cation of the appellant by the PW 1 before the Trial Court. The State further says that the PW 1 being an injured eye 930 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. witness had an opportunity of having more than a fair glimpse of the four accused persons including the appellant convict and, therefore, irrespective of the fact that the PW 1 had an opportunity to see the appellant convict on 15.09.2008 at the Rohini Court Complex, the identifi cation before the Trial Court should be accepted. 70. The evidence of PW 1 Sushil Kumar regarding the occurrence that took place on 16.08.2008 early in the morning at 3.30 is fully supported by the medical evidence on record. The PW 1 along with the deceased was immediately taken for medical attention. The deceased was found to have suff ered multiple injuries in the form of punctured wounds caused by a sharp pointed weapon. The PW 1 was also found to have suff ered two injuries and one of those was in the form of a punctured wound in the chest caused by a sharp pointed weapon. Considering the nature of injuries suff ered by the PW 1 and the deceased and the fact that the PW 1 and the deceased were cornered by the accused persons and further that they were robbed of their money, the entire incident could certainly have aff orded suffi cient time and opportunity to the PW 1 to recall and identify the assailants including the appellant convict herein. It is a long settled law that if a witness is trustworthy and reliable, the mere fact that no identifi cation parade could be conducted and the appellant convict was identifi ed for the fi rst time before the Trial Court, would not be a reason to discard the evidence of the witness.