5.1. PW-1 Basheera has been the key witness for the prosecution. E In her testimony, she stated that her son Abdul Raheem had married the appellant; that a female child was born to the appellant after the marriage; and that Abdul Raheem was sending all the money earned by him to the appellant. She further stated that Abdul Raheem had called her to say that his daughter should be admitted in a school in Perambalur and he would send her money for that purpose; and subsequently, on 18.06.2007, F PW-6 Jamal Mohammed, father of the appellant, dropped the appellant and the child to the house of PW-1 with request to educate the child in Perambalur since Abdul Raheem was allegedly not sending the appellant any money. She stated that on the morning of 21.06.2007, the appellant gave her Rs. 100 and asked her to buy idli; that when she came back to G the house, the appellant was sitting silently next to the child; and that upon asking, the appellant told her that she had killed the child. During cross-examination, this witness stated that she went to the police station with the appellant immediately after the occurrence. The relevant parts of her statement read as under: - H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 953 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] “……About 10 months ago, 18th day of 6th month, my daughter- A in-law’s father Jamal Mohammed had brought his daughter, the margin accused and our grand child to my house at Perambalur. My daughter-in-law’s father was telling his daughter, the margin accused, that on the next day, 19th he would be leaving to his village and she has to take care of everything. The margin accused B told her father that she would take care. On the next day 19th, the accused’s father went back to his village. On the next day to that, on 20th Wednesday we cooked and had our food and were available in the house of my daughter Mumtaz. ….. I am residing separately after 4 or 5 houses from her house. (the witness repeats the same.) I told the margin accused to come to my house along with her C daughter and we would admit the grand daughter in school. The accused said OK for the same and on that day Wednesday, night, I, the accused and the grand daughter Farhana three of us went to the house wherein I am staying as a tenant for our sleep. In the morning of the next day, at about 6.00 A.M. I went to get the D society milk. … I bought the milk and made tea and gave to her. Thereafter I told her that I would get meat. For that the margin accused said that no need of getting meat, and gave me Rs.100/- and asked me to get idli. It would be around 7.00 A.M. I came to Farmers’ market. It took some time. By that time I got the change for Rs.100/- and got the idli and came back to home.