Gupta had retracted his statement within a short time by fi ling an affi davit. He thereafter got his further statement recorded where he reiterated his stand taken in the affi davit. In view of the above, Tribunal set aside the of the assessing offi cer as affi rmed by the CIT (A) and allowed the claim of the assessee. 50. Revenue preferred appeal before the High Court of Bombay under Section 260A of the Act raising the above issue along with another issue. The High Court vide the dated 30.01.2019 answered the above issue in 522 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. favour of the assessee and against the revenue by holding that no substantial question of law arose from the decision of the Tribunal. 51. From the materials on record, we fi nd that the assessing offi cer had solely relied upon the statements made by Shri S.K. Gupta on 12.12.2006 and 23.12.2006 during the course of the search. However, the assessing offi cer overlooked the fact that within a short span of time, Shri S.K. Gupta had retracted from the said statements by fi ling an affi davit on 05.02.2007. Thereafter, he reiterated the statements made by him in the affi davit dated 05.02.2007 in a statement recorded on 08.02.2007. We fi nd that in the later statements, Shri S.K. Gupta had categorically stated that he had rendered services to the assessee. He also mentioned that the name of the assessee was not referred to as one of the benefi ciaries of the accommodation bills in his earlier statement. He had categorically stated that he had rendered service to the assessee and that the assessee had not obtained any bogus accommodation bills from him. Assessing offi cer had dis-believed the affi davit as well as the subsequent statement of Shri S.K. Gupta without any justifi able and cogent reason. That apart when the revenue had relied upon the retracted statement of Shri S.K. Gupta, it ought to have provided an opportunity to the assessee to cross- examine Shri S.K. Gupta which was however denied. Thus, revenue was not justifi ed in disallowing the claim of professional expenses of the assessee on account of payment to Shri S.K. Gupta and his group of companies. 52. Therefore, we agree with the view taken by the High Court. As noted by the High Court, the entire issue is based on appreciation of the materials on record. Tribunal had scrutinized the materials on record and thereafter had recorded a fi nding of fact that there were suffi cient evidence to justify payment made by the assessee to Shri SK Gupta, a consultant of the assessee, and that the assessing offi cer had wholly relied upon the statement of Shri Gupta recorded during the search operation which was retracted by him within a reasonable period. In these circumstances, we are of the view that there is no admissible material to deny the claim of expenditure made by the assessee. Accordingly, this issue is answered in favour of the assessee and against the revenue.