63. Justice Hrishikesh Roy in paragraph-84 of his draft Judgement F finds that in paragraph-29 in Garware (supra), this Court relied onUnited India Insurance Company Limited v. Hyundai Engineering and Construction Company Limited26. Our learned Brother further notes in paragraph-84.1 that in Hyundai(supra), the issue of stamping was not in consideration and the question was whether the matter fell within G excepted matter as the Arbitration Clause was dependant on whether the insurer accepted liability. Justice Hrishikesh Roy further finds that the approach in Garware (supra) in relying upon Hyundai (supra) was incorrect. This is as Hyundai (supra) has nothing to do with stamping 25 (2018) 17 SCC 607 H 26 (2018) 17 SCC 607 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 347 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] and should have been distinguished. Our learned Brother notices the A contention of the learned Amicus that Hyundai (supra) relied on Oriental Insurance Company v. Narbheram Power and Steel Private Limited27, in which case, the Court did not have occasion to interpret Section 11(6)(a) of the Act. 64. It is true that in Hyundai (supra), this Court was not dealing B with the impact of the Stamp Act. The Court was dealing rather with the issue as to the effect of the Clause, in which it was agreed that there would be no arbitration, if the insurer disputed or did not accept liability under or irrespective of the policy. In the context of the said Clause, this Court, in Hyundai (supra), went on to hold, inter alia, that the denial of C the plea about its liability by the insurer, rendered the ‘making of the Arbitration Clause ineffective and incapable of being enforced, if not non-existent’. No doubt, in paragraph-29 of Garware(supra),this Court found that ‘likewise in the facts of the present case, it is clear that the Arbitration Clause, i.e., contained in the sub-contract, would not exist as a ‘matter of law’ until the sub-contract is duly stamped as has been held D by us above’. Therefore, the rationale for finding that an Arbitration Agreement in an unstamped sub-contract would not exist, was already furnished in paragraph-22. This Court was only drawing support from Hyundai (supra) for the proposition about non-existence of the instrument ‘in law’. While, Hyundai (supra) did not relate to the Stamp Act, and E even, removing the reference to Hyundai(supra), the finding about the non-existence of an unstamped agreement, would be supportable on the reasoning that what is contemplated in Section 11(6)(a) is no mere facial existence or existence in fact but also existence in law. 65. This Court in Garware (supra) took the view that unless the F sub contract was stamped, the arbitration clause contained therein would not exist as a matter of law. This finding has been rendered apparently on the basis of the impact of the amendment leading to the insertion of Section 11(6A). The Court in Garware (supra) had infact after setting out the law prior to the amendment based on the Two Hundred and G Forty-Sixth Report of the Law Commission of India found in paragraph- 19 that the Law Commission Report did not mention about SMS Tea Estates (supra).