xxxxxx By Ms. Sadhna Bhatia (Amicus Curie) for the accused Prem Singh. No complaint was lodged to the police when the quarrel erupts E between accused and his wife. Accused was having affection and love towards his both the sons.” *** *** *** “PW9- Statement of Sunita Yadav, aged-35 years W/O Sh Prem Singh R/O H. NO-225 Village Haider Pur Delhi. F On SA I have been married with accused Prem Singh in the year 1996. After marriage I have been blessed with 2 sons. I used to run my house with the money earned by husband as well as some money given by my father from the rent premises. I am 12th passed. G Before marriage, I used to reside with my maternal uncle Mahender Kumar Yadav since the age of three years. My real parents were living in UP in a village Lohara Sarai, Distt. Bagpat. The residence of my maternal uncle is at H.N -WZ/350, Shakurpur village, Delhi. My husband used to live me happily after marriage. I have no H PREM SINGH v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 821 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] complaint with my husband. On the day of incident, I went to the A house of my maternal uncle as my Nani was ill leaving my both the sons with their father/accused. There were no other reason for leaving my matrimonial house. I do not know what happened with the children. Later on, I received a phone call from Prashant Vihar police station and stated that my both the sons have expired. B I have not given statement to the police. Police has not recorded my statement nor police inquired from me. I do not want to say anything else in regard to this case. At this stage Ld. APP wants to cross examine the witness as she is supressing the truth and is resiling from her earlier statements C recorded by the police. Heard. Allowed. xxxx by LD. APP for the State I have not signed my statement on 4.5.2006. It is wrong to suggest that police has recorded my statement on 4.5.2006 and D the same is marked PW9/A signed by me at point A. It is correct that as the condition of my husband was not well as such he was admitted 4/5 months before the incident to Nasha Mukti Kender. Vol. Stated that my husband was not taking liquor at all and the doctors of Nasha Mukti Kender stated that they will treated my E husband from a good doctor. I have not stated to the police that after my husband was released from Nasha Mukti Kender by my father in law, we live peacefully for 2/3 days thereafter but on 3.5.2009 at about 11.00 a.m my husband has given beatings to me as a result of which I had gone to the house of my maternal uncle leaving my both the sons with him and later on I came to know F that my both the sons had drown in Haiderpur canal.