On information, he along with his mausi (mother’s sister), Kiran Devi came to Sabour and along with family members and with the help of local villagers did exhaustive search in the nearby places, but could not fi nd X anywhere. During the course of search, when I went to the house of Naval Kishore Ojha, I saw that his house is locked. Few people suspected that Pritam Tiwary had taken her somewhere or is inside the room, because the light of bulb was emitting light from his house. Then all the people called Munna Pandey and asked him to open the lock to which he declined and made an excuse that he does not possess the key. Then the suspicion of all the people grew more. Then villagers informed Naval Kishore Ojha @ Fucchan Pandey, brother of Munna Pandey about the occurrence of the incident on telephone. At that time of call Fuchchan Pandey was at his in-laws house at Shobhapur. He was not living here since last two months. On date 01.06.15 at about 12:00 noon, Fucchan Pandey came along with his family and opened the lock of the house and saw Pritam Tiwary hiding in his house. When local people strictly enquired about the deceased girl X, he informed that X (deceased) was in Munna Pandey’s house and then he tried to escape. Then all the people broke the lock on the door of Munna Pandey’s room and when they looked inside they found the dead body of X lying under the bed (wooden cot). The clothes on her body were in haphazard condition. The women of the village told that a lot of blood stained injury and swelling was found around the private parts of X (deceased). The face of deceased X was extremely swollen, blood stained injury on both the lips which was hanging after being swollen. He further stated that both accused persons. named in the FIR called the girl on the pretext to watch TV and raped her and with a view to hide the evidence strangled her and killed her and hid the dead body below the palang (wooden cot). The local police station was then informed about the incident. Police came and started its proceeding. He did not inform any important thing further.” (Emphasis supplied) MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1041 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 38. The police statement of PW 3 Priya Kumari, the elder sister of the victim, reads thus:- “In further investigation of this case I recorded the statement of witness Priya Kumari, aged about 15 years, s/o - Arvind Sah, R/o - Thatheri, tola PS - Sabour, District Bhagalpur. After certifying the FIR, she informed in her statement that on dated 31.05.15 she was cooking in her house. Her mother Kiran Devi had gone to the house of her aunt (her mother’s sister) in Parvatta. Her father works as a laborer in Gujarat. There was no one else in the house. At about 09:00 am her younger sister deceased X had gone to the house of Fucchan Pandey to watch TV.