A 96. If the main part of Section 3 is dissected with forensic precision, it will be clear that Section 3 addresses itself to three things (we may call them 3 ‘P’s) namely, (i) person; (ii) process or activity; and (iii) product. Insofar as persons covered by Section 3 are concerned, they are, (i) those who directly or indirectly attempt to indulge; or (ii) those who knowingly assists; or (iii) those who are knowingly a party; or (iv) B those who are actually involved. Insofar as process is concerned, the Section identifies six different activities, namely (i) concealment; (ii) possession; (iii) acquisition; (iv) use; (v) projecting; or (vi) claiming as untainted property, any one of which is sufficient to constitute the offence. Insofar as product is concerned, Section 3 identifies “proceeds of crime” C or the property representing the proceeds of crime as the product of the process or activity. 97. Out of the three things that Section 3 addresses, namely (i) person; (ii) process; and (iii) product, the first two do not require any interpretation or definition. The third aspect namely “product”, which D Section 3 refers to as “proceeds of crime” requires a definition and hence it is defined in Section 2(1)(u) as follows:- “2. Definitions. — (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, — xxx xxx xxx E (u) “proceeds of crime” means any property derived or obtained, directly or indirectly, by any person as a result of criminal activity relating to a scheduled offence or the value of any such property or where such property is taken or held outside the country, then the property equivalent in value held within the country or abroad; F Explanation.—For the removal of doubts, it is hereby clarified that “proceeds of crime” including property not only derived or obtained from the scheduled offence but also any property which may directly or indirectly be derived or obtained as a result of any criminal activity relatable to the scheduled G offence;” 98. Keeping in mind these essential elements that make up the molecular structure of Section 3, if we go back to the case on hand, we will find (i) that the offences under Sections 120B, 419, 420, 467 and 471 IPC are scheduled offences included in paragraph 1 of the Schedule; H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1089 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] and (ii) that the offences under Sections 7 and 13 of the PC Act are A included in paragraph 8 of the Schedule. 99. All the three FIRs allege that the accused herein had committed offences included in the Schedule by taking illegal gratification for providing appointment to several persons in the Public Transport Corporation. In one case it is alleged that a sum of more than Rs.2 B crores had been collected and in another case a sum of Rs.95 lakhs had been collected. It is this bribe money that constitutes the ‘proceeds of crime’ within the meaning of Section 2(1)(u). It is no rocket science to know that a public servant receiving illegal gratification is in possession of proceeds of crime.