The clause directs C banks to take cognizance of EWS and launch a detailed investigation into an RFA. 22. Clause 8.8 deals with situations where a bank is the sole lender. In such situations, the FMG is entrusted with the responsibility to take a call on whether a bank account in which EWS are observed should be D classified as RFA. The bankis permitted to use external auditors before taking a final call on RFA status. However, within six months the bank is required to either lift the RFA status or classify the account as fraud in accordance with the investigation or forensic audits. 23. Clause 8.9 deals with lending under consortium or multiple E banking arrangements19. Clause 8.9.2 provides that all banks which have financed a borrower under an MBA should take coordinated action based on a commonly agreed strategy for subsequent legal actions, follow-ups, exchange of details and information on a consistent basis. Clauses 8.9.4 and 8.9.5 provide the procedure for classification of a borrower’s account as fraud: F “8.9.4 The initial decision to classify any standard account or NPA account as RFA or Fraud will be at the individual level and it would be the responsibility of this bank to report the RFA or Fraud status of the account on the CRILC platform so that other banks are alerted. In case it is decided at the individual bank G level to classify the account as fraud straightaway at this stage itself, the bank shall then report the fraud to RBI within 21 days of detection and also report the case to CBI/Police, as it is being 18 “FMG” H 19 “MBA” STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 499 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] done hitherto. Further, within 15 days of RFA/Fraud classification, A the bank which has red flagged the account or detected the fraud would ask the consortium leader or the largest lender under MBA to convene a meeting of the JLF to discuss the issue. The meeting of the JLF so requisitioned must be convened within 15 days of such a request being received. In case B there is a broad agreement, the account should be classified as fraud; else based on the majority rule of agreement amongst bank with at least 60% share in the total lending, the account should be red flagged by all the banks and subjected to a forensic audit commissioned or initiated by the consortium leader or the largest lender C under MBA. All banks, as part of the consortium of multiple- banking arrangement, shall share the costs and provide the necessary support for such an investigation. 8.9.5 The forensic audit must be completed within a maximum period of three months from the date of the JLF meeting D authorizing the audit. Within 15 days of the completion of the forensic audit, the JLF shall reconvene and decide on the status of the account, either by consensus or the majority rule as specified above. In case the decision is to classify the account as a fraud, the RFA status shall be changed to Fraud in all banks E and reported to RBI and on the CRILC platform within a week of the said decision.