which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall refer the parties to arbitration “unless it fi nds that the agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed.” It is evident that Section 8 has made a departure from Article 8 by using the expansive term “judicial authority” rather than “court.” The intention of the legislature to provide an expansive application can also be gauged from the fact that the expression “unless it fi nds that the agreement is null and void, inoperative or incapable of being performed” does not fi nd place in Section 8.135 137. According to the UNCITRAL Working Group Commentary on the Model Law, Article 8 of the Model Law enshrines the “negative eff ect” of an arbitration agreement.136 Moreover, Article 8 gives eff ect to the intention of the parties to submit their disputes to arbitration to the exclusion of courts, irrespective of whether such exclusion is expressed in the agreement. Similar legislation has also been incorporated under the English137 and French138 national laws. It is worth noting that most of the national legislations entitle the courts at the referral stage to review the existence and validity of arbitration agreements. For example, Section 9(4) of the English Arbitration Act, 1996 provides that a court can stay the legal proceedings unless satisfi ed that the arbitration agreement “is null and void, inoperative, or incapable of being performed.” Similarly, Article 1458 of 135 A Ayyasamy v. A Paramsivam, (2016) 10 SCC 386 136 Analytical Commentary on Draft Text of a Model Law on International Commercial Arbitration, A/CN.9/264 (25 March 1985) 38. 137 Article 9(1) of UK Arbitration Act: It reads: “(1)A party to an arbitration agreement against whom legal proceedings are brought (whether by way of claim or counterclaim) in respect of a matter which under the agreement is to be referred to arbitration may (upon notice to the other parties to the proceedings) apply to the court in which the proceedings have been brought to stay the proceedings so far as they concern that matter. […] (4) On an application under this section the court shall grant a stay unless satisfi ed that the arbitration agreement is null and void, inoperative, or incapable of being performed.” 138 Article 1458 of French Code of Civil Procedure, 1981. It reads: “If a dispute pending before an arbitral tribunal on the basis of an arbitration agreement is brought before a State court, it shall declare itself incompetent. If the dispute is not yet before an arbitral tribunal, the State court shall also declare itself incompetent, unless the arbitration agreement is manifestly null and void.” IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1159 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] the French Civil Code provides that a state court is incompetent to decide on issues pertaining to an arbitration agreement, unless the arbitration agreement is “manifestly null and void.” Thus, the standard of review that the court should adopt at the pre-arbitral stage diff ers considerably across jurisdictions.