The language of the article is very clear … These are quite general and wide terms. … these writs … ought to be mentioned by their name in the Constitution without prejudice to the right of the Supreme Court to do justice in some other way if it felt it was desirable to do so. I, therefore, say that Mr. Kamath need have no ground of complaint on that account.”66 (emphasis supplied) The power of this Court to do justice is not, therefore, limited either by the manner in which Article 32 has been constructed or by any part of 63 Vikram Aditya Narayan and Jahnavi Sindhu, ‘A historical argument for proportionality under the Indian Constitution’ (2018) Vol. 2(1) ILR 51 64 Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 7, 9 December 1948. 65 Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 7, 9 December 1948. 66 Constituent Assembly Debates, Volume 7, 9 December 1948. 128 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the Constitution. It is amply clear from both the plain meaning of Article 32 as well as the Constituent Assembly Debates that this Court has the power to issue directions, s, or writs for the enforcement of the rights incorporated in Part III of the Constitution. b. Judicial review and separation of powers 66. The doctrine of separation of powers, as it is traditionally understood, means that each of the three organs of the state (the legislature, the executive, and the judiciary) perform distinct functions in distinct spheres. No branch performs the function of any other branch. The traditional understanding of this doctrine (also termed the “pure doctrine”67) does not animate the functioning of most modern democracies. That our Constitution does not refl ect a rigid understanding of this doctrine has long been acknowledged by this Court.68 In practice, a functional and nuanced version of this doctrine operates, where the essential functions of one arm of the state are not taken over by another arm and institutional comity guides the actions of each arm.69 In other words, the functional understanding of the separation of powers demands that no arm of the state reigns supreme over another. 67. Thu Union of India suggested that this Court would be violating the doctrine of separation of powers if it determines the lis in this case. The separation of powers undoubtedly forms a part of the basic structure of the Constitution, but equally, the power of courts to conduct judicial review is also a basic feature of the Constitution.70 The doctrine of separation of powers certainly does not operate as a bar against judicial review.71 In fact, judicial review promotes the separation of powers by seeing to it that no organ acts in excess of its constitutional mandate. It ensures that each organ acts within the bounds of its remit. Further, as discussed in the previous segment of this , the Constitution demands that this Court conduct judicial review and enforce the fundamental rights of the people. The framers of our Constitution were no doubt conscious of this doctrine when they provided 67 MJC Vile, Constitutionalism and the Separation of Powers (2nd ed.