(2) A person shall not be qualified for appointment as a Judge of a High Court unless he is a citizen of India and— (a) has for at least ten years held a judicial office in the territory of India; or (b) has for at least ten years been an advocate of a High Court or of two or more such E Courts in succession; Explanation.— For the purposes of this clause— (a) in computing the period during which a person has held judicial office in the territory of India, there shall be included any period, after he has held any judicial office, during which the person has been an advocate of a High Court or has held the office of a member of a tribunal or any post, under the Union or a State, requiring special knowledge of law; F (aa) in computing the period during which a person has been an advocate of a High Court, there shall be included any period during which the person has held judicial office or the office of a member of a tribunal or any post, under the Union or a State, requiring special knowledge of law after he became an advocate; (b) in computing the period during which a person has held judicial office in the territory of India or been an advocate of a High Court, there shall be included any period before the commencement of this Constitution during which he has held judicial G office in any area which was comprised before the fifteenth day of August, 1947, within India as defined by the Government of India Act, 1935, or has been an advocate of any High Court in any such area, as the case may be. (3) If any question arises as to the age of a Judge of a High Court, the question shall be decided by the President after consultation with the Chief Justice of India and the decision of the President shall be final. 2 (2009) 8 SCC 273. H 468 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A would fall within the scope of judicial review. However, the question whether a person is fit to be appointed as a judge essentially involves the aspect of suitability and stands excluded from the purview of judicial review. 4. The ratio in this has been followed in M. Manohar B Reddy and Another v. Union of India and Others3, inter alia, observing that the consultative process envisaged under Article 217(1) is to limit the judicial review, restricting it to the specified area, that is, eligibility, and not suitability. After referring to two decisions of the 9 Judges’ Bench in Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association and Others v. C Union of India4, and Special Reference No. 1 of 1998, Re:5 , it is opined that judicial review lies when there is lack of eligibility or ‘lack of effective consultation’. Judicial review does not lie on ‘content’ of consultation. 5. Elaborating on what is meant by the term ‘lack of effective D consultation’, we would like to refer to the observations made by this Court in Supreme Court Advocates-on-Record Association and Others (supra): “JUSTICIABILITY E Appointments and Transfers 480.