It further states that as a follow up, the FSAs between the CIL/its subsidiaries and the H 120 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A power producers will have to be modified through Supplementary Agreements. 71. After referring to clause 10.1.1 of the Standard PPA for Procurement of Power under Case-1 Bidding Procedure, which deals with ‘Change in Law’, the statutory advice states thus: B “For claiming any benefits under change in law, the Project Developer would have to move the appropriate Commission and the decision of that Commission in this regard would be final, in terms of the provisions of Articles 10.3.3 and 10.3.4 of the Standard PPA. The appropriate Commissions are expected to take decisions C on the merits of each case including the claims of the Project Developers for compensation on account of imported coal after consultation with the stakeholders.” 72. It can thus be seen that the CERC states that for claiming any benefits under the Change in Law, the Project Developer would have to move the appropriate Commission. It further records that the appropriate D Commissions are expected to take decisions on the merits of each case including the claims of the Project Developers for compensation on account of imported coal after consultation with the stakeholders. 73. Subsequent to the aforesaid communication, the MoC issued a Press Release on 21st June 2013. It will be relevant to refer to the E following part of the said Press Release. “The Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) today approved the following mechanism for supply of coal to power producers: F (i) Coal India Ltd. (CIL) to sign Fuel Supply Agreements (FSA) for a total capacity of 78000 MW including cases of tapering linkage, which are likely to be commissioned by 31.03.2015. Actual coal supplies would however commence when long term Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) are tied up. G (ii) Taking into account the overall domestic availability and actual requirements, FSAs to be signed for domestic coal quantity of 65 percent, 65 percent, 67 percent and 75 percent of Annual Contracted Quantity (ACQ) for the running four years of the 12th Five Year Plan. H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 121 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] (iii) To meet its balance FSA obligations, CIL may import coal and A supply the same to the willing Thermal Power Plants (TPSs) on cost plus basis. TPPs may also import coal themselves. MoC to issue suitable instructions. (iv) Higher cost of imported coal to be considered for pass through as per modalities suggested by CERC. MoC to issue suitable s B supplementing the New Coal Distribution Policy (NCDP). MoP to issue appropriate advisory to CERC/SERCs including modifications if any in the bidding guidelines to enable the appropriate Commissions to decide the pass through of higher cost of imported coal on case to case basis.” C 74. It is thus clear that taking into account the overall domestic availability and actual requirements, FSAs were to be signed for domestic coal quantity of 65%, 65%, 67% and 75% of ACQ for the running/ remaining four years of the 12th Five Year Plan.