8. In her examination-in-chief PW-2 consistently held the position that she and her husband were working on their fi eld, and each of the accused was armed with either ‘axe’, ‘farsi’ or other weapon and that they were 90 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. seven in number, who assaulted her and her husband. It was Jethnath who attacked on head with axe, Meghnath with ‘fawda’, Dhurnath with ‘dang’ on the head of her husband, Raghunath assaulted him with ‘fawda’1, Malanath attacked her husband with an axe, as did Raghunath and Babunath. All of them had attacked her as well, and as a result she sustained injuries on her head, left hand, right hand, joints and legs. Her husband too had injuries on his head, hands and legs. His hand and legs were fractured. When she raised an alarm, Pratapnath, Rampyari, Cheni, Ramnath, Birbalnath, Dudhnath, Purkharam and Ruparam came running to the spot and tried to save them. Chandernath her husband died on the way to the hospital at Jodhpur. She (PW-2) was given medical treatment and was examined by a doctor. 9. Rampyari (PW-3) who is again a witness to the incident states that on the fateful day at about 1.00 o’clock in the afternoon she heard someone crying for help. She recognised the voice of Rami and Chandernath and then she immediately ran towards the fi eld. Chena, Birbalnath, Dudhnath and Purkharam were also with her. They saw Jethnath, Dhumnath, Meghnath, Rughnath, Babunath, Malanath and Devnath, all armed with either axe, farsi, dang and “fawda”. They were all attacking Chandernath. On seeing them the accused ran away from the spot. They saw Chandernath lying on his belly and was bleeding, and so was Rami. There were injuries on her head and ear. 10. Dr. Ramvilas who was examined as (PW-4) confi rmed that the deceased died due to injuries particularly the injuries sustained on his head. Apart from Rami (PW-2) and Rampyari (PW-3) there are other eye witnesses as well (PW-6 and PW-7), who had reached the spot after they heard an alarm raised by Rami. The ‘site plan’ shows that the “chapper” of these witnesses is nearby and hence the fact that these witnesses were in the neighbourhood was rightly held by the Trial Court, and their presence seemed natural. 11. PW-6 and PW-7 had again made similar depositions as PW-3, being in the neighbourhood at the time of the incident. Though it may be doubtful whether they had witnessed the entire sequence of events, yet they had defi nitely seen the assailants fl eeing from the place of occurrence. 1 Shovel BIRBAL NATH v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS 91 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] These are also important witnesses though the High Court has said nothing on their deposition. 12. The post mortem of the body was conducted on 23.05.2001. The post mortem report shows the following ante mortem injuries: “(i): Lacerated wound in the size of 1 ½” X ½” bone deep over the left parietal region of scalp.