Irshad also slept by the side of Islamuddin in the room. Islamuddin, Irshad and Naushad slept together in one room. The door of that room was open. PW- 2 and his sister Soni slept in the adjoining room. At about 12.30 in the night, they saw smoke and fl ames coming out from the room, in which all the three deceased were sleeping. Then, he saw that the convict had poured some highly infl ammable substance in the room in which Islamuddin, Irshad and Naushad were sleeping and set it on fi re. The convict ran away after closing the door of the room from outside. All the three were severely burnt. All the three injured died at the RML Hospital. When the convict had solemnised second marriage, the same was opposed by Islamuddin. The convict at that point of time had beaten Islamuddin and had threatened that he would expel him from the house. 28. Soni (PW-4) was examined as an eye-witness to the incident. She deposed that the convict was her real brother. She was present at her house on 05.08.2014. She herself had prepared the meal in the evening on that day. Her brothers, the convict, Naushad and Irshad and her nephew Islamuddin were present on the second fl oor of her house. All of them had meal together. After taking meal, Naushad and Islamuddin went to sleep in the adjoining room and Irshad was sleeping on a cot outside the room. The convict asked Irshad to sleep inside the room, as the weather outside was bad. Irshad also slept by the side of Islamuddin in the room. They shut the IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 803 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] door of the room from inside. The convict shut the door of the room from outside. Then cries “bachao-bachao” came from the room and fl ames of fi re were seen inside the room. When she opened the room, she saw that the convict was running towards the stairs. Amzad and Shafi q saw the convict while he was running away. They all saw the burning room. After opening the door, they evacuated Naushad, Irshad and Islamuddin. All three were severely burnt. The skin of their legs got stuck on the fl oor. They took all the three injured to Pooja hospital in a vehicle. On refusal to admit, they were taken to Bijnore, thereafter to Meerut and from Meerut to the RML Hospital. During travel, her brothers and nephew were talking. Her brothers and nephew said that the convict set fi re in the room after pouring petrol on account of which, all of them got burnt. All the three died at the RML Hospital, Delhi. The convict had solemnised second marriage after coming out from jail. Her brothers Irshad, Naushad and nephew Islamuddin had objected to it. The convict wanted to oust Islamuddin from their house. Her brothers Irshad, Naushad took the side of Islamuddin. For this reason, the convict burnt all of them by pouring petrol, setting them on fi re and shutting the room from outside in to kill them.