The court cannot create substantive rights and obligations to fi ll a legislative vacuum because it would amount to judicial legislation. This Court can neither direct the legislature to enact a law nor direct the legislature when to enact a law. These are established parameters of separation of powers and must be respected. 44. Mr. Arvind P Datar, learned senior counsel appearing for one of intervenors made the following submissions: a. This Court has recognised the right to marry in KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra), Shafi n Jahan (supra), Shakti Vahini (supra) and Navtej (supra). However, only Justice Nariman’s opinion in Navtej (supra) held that non-heterosexual couples also have a right to marry; b. A statute can be struck down after a passage of time only if the rationale of the law ceases to exist as in the case of Section 377 of the IPC where medical research indicated that same sex relationships are not unnatural or against the of nature; c. This Court while interpreting provisions of a statute can “iron out the creases but not alter the fabric.” The exercise of reading up can only be undertaken by the Courts when it would be consistent SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1277 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] with legislative intention, when it would not alter the nature of the enactment, and when the new state of aff airs would be of the same kind as the earlier state of aff airs to which the enactment applies; d. The of the High Court of Madras in Arunkumar (supra) interpreting the word “bride” in the Hindu Marriage Act to include transgender and intersex persons is contrary to the of this Court in Madhu Kishwar v. State of Bihar59 where it was held that male pronouns must not be expansively interpreted to include female pronouns within their ambit; e. The legal recognition of non-heterosexual unions is a polycentric issue which cannot be resolved solely by the judiciary; f. Unenumerated rights or derivate rights, which are recognised by courts through judicial interpretation are inchoate rights because they are an exception to the rule of ubi jus ibi remedium.60 Thus, even if this Court recognises the petitioners’ right to marry, it is not enforceable. 45. Ms. Aishwarya Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General, appearing for one of the intervenors made the following submissions: a. Article 21 guarantees that every child will have the best upbringing. The petitioners have not submitted any data to prove that the interests of the child would be protected if they are raised by non-heterosexual parents. A child born to a heterosexual couple is innately adaptable to a similar family environment and naturally seeks out a family environment which is comparable to their birth family; b. Chapter II of the JJ Act which lays down the General Principles of Care and Protection of Children stresses upon the best interest of the child. Principle xiii states that every child in the juvenile justice system has a right to be restored to the same socio- economic and cultural status as they were earlier in; 59 (1996) 5 SCC 125 60 HM Seervai, The Privy Purse Case: A Criticisum, (1972) 74 Bom LR (journal) 37 127 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.