The petitioners urge that when proceedings under Paragraph 15 of the B Symbols and the Tenth Schedule have arisen concurrently, this Court ought to lay down a ‘constitutional sequence’ for the proceedings. They submit that proceedings under the Tenth Schedule must be adjudicated before the dispute under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols is determined, and that a symbol can be allotted only after “the final C adjudication of the Tenth Schedule proceedings.” 147. The contentions of the petitioners cannot be brushed aside. If the faction which enjoys a majority in the House is disqualified soon after being adjudicated to be the political party, the very foundation of their claim of being the political party no longer subsists. Even if they are D not disqualified, the foundation of their claim (i.e., a legislative majority) is still on uncertain ground at the time of adjudication. This is not a constitutionally desirable outcome. e. Harmonising the Tenth Schedule with Paragraph 15 of the Symbols E 148. This Court cannot accept the solution proposed by the petitioners and lay down a constitutional sequence. To hold that the ECI is barred from adjudicating petitions under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols until the “final adjudication” of the disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule would be, in effect, to indefinitely stay the proceedings before the ECI. This is because an of the Speaker attains finality F only after all avenues for appeal have been exhausted or are barred by the passage of time. The time that it would take for an of the Speaker to attain finality is uncertain. The ECI is a constitutionally entrenched institution which is entrusted with the function of superintendence of and control over the electoral process. The ECI, G which is a constitutional authority, cannot be prevented from performing its constitutional duties for an indefinite period of time. Proceedings before one constitutional authority cannot be halted in anticipation of the decision of another constitutional authority. H 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 149. This Court must also be alive to the possibility of the death of a political party in the intervening period, or further complications that may arise if elections are announced during the period when proceedings before the ECI are stayed, if a stay were to be granted. When a dispute under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols is pending adjudication, it is standard practice for the ECI to freeze the symbol reserved for that B political party and allot interim symbols to the rival groups. If the reserved symbol is frozen for an inordinately long period of time and the interim symbols must be resorted to for every by-election and election, it may well end the association between the reserved symbol and the political party in the minds of the electorate. This will no doubt be a blow to the C political party which is lawfully entitled to the symbol reserved for its use. Therefore, the ECI must render a decision as to which group constitutes that political party.