It needs no emphasis that the power of exemption under Section 25(1) of the Act has been granted to the Government by the Legislature with a view to enabling G it to regulate, control and promote the industries and industrial productions in the country. Where the Government on the basis of the material available before it, bona fide, is satisfied that the “public interest” would be served by either granting exemption or by withdrawing, modifying or rescinding an H 1126 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A exemption already granted, it should be allowed a free hand to do so. We are unable to agree with the learned counsel for the appellants that Notification No. 66 of 1979 could not be withdrawn before 31-3-1981. First, because the exemption notification having been issued under Section 25(1) of the Act, it was implicit in it that it could be rescinded or modified B at any time if the public interest so demands and secondly it is not permissible to postpone the compulsions of “public interest” till after 31-3-1981 if the Government is satisfied as to the change in the circumstances before that date. Since, the Government in the instant case was satisfied that the very C public interest which had demanded a total exemption from payment of customs duty now demanded that the exemption should be withdrawn it was free to act in the manner it did. It would bear a notice that though Notification No. 66 of 1979 was initially valid only up to 31-3-1979 but that date was extended in “public interest”, we see no reason why it D could not be curtailed in public interest. Individual interest must yield in favour of societal interest.” 23. In Bannari Amman Sugars Ltd. (supra), the court held that there is no “vested right as to tax-holding is acquired by a person who is granted concession. If any concession has been given it can E be withdrawn at any time and no time-limit should be insisted upon before it was withdrawn.” This court also held that promissory estoppel “can be invoked only if on the basis of representation made by the Government, the industry was established to avail benefit of exemption.” F 24. The reliance by the assessee, on MRF Ltd (supra), in this court’s opinion, is unfounded. This court held that the denial of exemption, through an amendment, effected retrospectively, was arbitrary and agreed with view taken by Kerela HC in M.M Nagalingam Nadar Sons v. State of Kerela15 wherein it was observed that: G “[..] Government has also no power to levy a tax with retrospective effect. The retrospective cancellation/withdrawal of an exemption or a reduction in rate tantamounts to levy of a tax, or tax at a higher rate from a date in the past, for H 15 (1993) 91 STC 61 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. A. B. P. PVT. LTD. & ANR. 1127 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] which the Government has no power under sub-section (3). A [..]” 25.