As on 3rd April, 2007, the respondent No.6 had already completed 37 years of age and therefore, he was clearly over age on the date of the advertisement itself, i.e., on 13th July, 2008. This aspect was duly noted by the learned Single Judge and the submission made by the appellant was upheld but the Division Bench did not discuss the said issue at all in the impugned . 8. On the aforesaid aspect, Dr. Adish C. Aggarwala, learned Senior Advocate appearing for the respondent No.6 seeks to place reliance on a document fi led by the appellant with the appeal paper book and marked as “Annexure-P4” which is a typed copy of the fi le notings of the respondent No.1 - University wherein, it has been recorded by the Registrar that for the purposes of calculating the eligibility with respect to the age of the candidates, it was decided that the age shall be counted as on 1st January, 2008 since the advertisement process was commenced in the said year. The said recommendation made by the Registrar was duly approved by the Vice-Chancellor on the same day. NUTAN KUMARI v. B.R.A. BIHAR UNIVERSITY 707 9. We have perused the records and given our thoughtful consideration to the arguments advanced by both sides. 10. It has been time and again held in judicial verdicts that the selection process is bound by the terms and conditions of an advertisement inviting applications from eligible candidates. Unless it can be demonstrated that an advertisement has been issued contrary to any Statute or the applicable rules, it is binding on all the participants to the point that not even the Selection Committee has the jurisdiction to lay down a separate yardstick or basis for selection as that would be tantamount to legislating rules of selection. It is equally well settled that once the process of selection commences, the criteria prescribed in the advertisement for conducting the selection of the eligible candidates cannot be altered. There is sound logic behind the same which is that if the selection criteria is tinkered with in midstream, say for example by lowering the standards, a party can have a legitimate grievance that had it known that the criteria would be reduced subsequently, it too could have applied for the said post. 10.1. To elucidate the point above, we may usefully refer to the decision in Dr. Krushna Chandra Sahu and Others v. State of Orissa and Others8 where it has been held thus : “31. Now, power to make rules regulating the conditions of service of persons appointed on Government posts is available to the Governor of the State under the proviso to Article 309 and it was in exercise of this power that the present rules were made. If the statutory rules, in a given case, have not been made, either by Parliament or the State Legislature, or, for that matter, by the Governor of the State, it would be open to the appropriate Government (the Central Government under Article 73 and the State Government under Article 162) to issue executive instructions.