This is of course fluid and subject to adapting to the demands of a situation in the given facts of a case. B J. THE STATUTORY REGIME (a) GOA UNIVERSITY STATUTE 46. In the above background, we may now proceed to examine the relevant Rules that govern the conditions of service of the appellant herein. The Statutory regime in respect of teachers employed in the C respondent no. 2 – University is governed by the Goa University Statute SSB-1 (XXVI). SC-6(i) of the Statute contemplates as follows– “For disciplinary and departmental action, the teachers shall be governed under the CCS (CCA) Rules, 1965, Fundamental Rules and Supplementary Rules as applicable to the employees of the D Goa Government”. (b) CCS (CCA) RULES : 47. The CCS (CCA) Rules mentioned above, have been enacted by the President of India in exercise of the powers conferred by the proviso to Article 309 and Clause 5 of Article 148 of the Constitution of E India. Part VI of the CCS (CCA) Rules lays down the procedures for imposing penalties. Rule 3(C) has been incorporated in the CCS (CCA) Rules vide GSR 49 dated 7th March, 1998 and subsequently, vide GSR 823 (E) dated 19th November, 2014. The said provision states as follows:- “3C. Prohibition of sexual harassment of working women F (1) No Government servant shall indulge in any act of sexual harassment of any women at any work place. (2) Every Government servant who is incharge of a work place shall take appropriate steps to prevent sexual harassment to any G woman at the work place. Explanation – (1) For the purpose of this rule – (a) “sexual harassment” includes any one or more of the following acts or behaviour (whether directly or by implication), namely – (i) physical contact and advances; or H AURELIANO FERNANDES v. STATE OF GOA AND OTHERS 807 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] (ii) a demand or request for sexual favours; or A (iii) making sexually coloured remarks; or (iv) showing pornography; or (v) any other unwelcome physical, verbal or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature.” B (c) PRAGMATIC APPLICATION OF THE “AS FAR AS IS PRACTICABLE” RULE 48. Rule 14 of the CCS (CCA) Rules stipulates the procedure for imposing major penalties and is extracted below : C “14. Procedure for imposing major penalties (1) No imposing any of the penalties specified in clauses (v) to (ix) of Rule 11 shall be made except after an inquiry held, as far as may be, in the manner provided in this rule and rule 15, or in the manner provided by the Public Servants D (Inquiries) Act, 1850 (37 of 1850), where such inquiry is held under that Act. (2) Whenever the disciplinary authority is of the opinion that there are grounds for inquiring into the truth of any imputation of misconduct or misbehaviour against a Government E servant, it may itself inquire into, or appoint under this rule or under the provisions of the Public Servants (Inquiries) Act, 1850, as the case may be, an authority to inquire into the truth thereof.