The power to scrutinize and to reason enables the citizens of a democratic polity to make informed decisions on basic issues which govern their rights.” C 30. The right to vote is now widely recognized as a fundamental human right.7 However, this was not always the case. The history of the adult franchise tells us that it was limited to the privileged in society.8 It took several decades of struggles by marginalized communities to gain the right to vote. The right to vote is so intrinsic to the practice of democracy. D 31. It has been argued by the counsel for the Election Commission of India, that the right to vote is merely a statutory right, and since no fundamental right is violated, it does not call the attention of this Court. This Court does not agree with the view argued by the Election Commission. Furthermore, it becomes necessary to look at the Constituent Assembly Debates to examine the scope of the right to vote. E 32. The demand for the adult franchise was consistently raised by several Indian leaders. In their drafts prepared for the consideration of the Constituent Assembly, Dr. BR Ambedkar9 and KT Shah10 had proposed the incorporation of the right to vote in the fundamental rights portion. This proposal was initially endorsed in the initial draft report of F the Fundamental Rights Sub-Committee, which was a part of the Advisory Committee of the Constituent Assembly.11 The draft provision also included a sub-clause on an independent Election Commission. Reproduced as follows: 7 https://www.ohchr.org/en/elections G 8BR Ambedkar, “Evidence before the Southborough Committee”, in Babasaheb Ambedkar: Writings and Speeches, published by Government of India, Vol. 1, pages 243-278 9 BR Ambedkar, “States & Minorities”, in Babasaheb Ambedkar: Writings and Speeches, published by Government of India, Vol. 1., pages 381-541 10 B. Shiva Rao, The Framing of India’s Constitution, Select Documents, Vol. 2, at Page 54 (hereinafter “Shiva Rao”) H 11 Shiva Rao, at pages 137 & 139 (dated 03.04.1947) ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 193 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 1. “Every citizen not below 21 years of age shall have the A right to vote at any election to the Legislature of the Union and any unit thereof, or, where the Legislature is bicameral, to the lower chamber of the Legislature, subject to such disqualifications on the ground of mental incapacity, corrupt practice or crime as may be imposed, and subject to such B qualifications relating to residence within the appropriate constituency, as may be required by or under the law. 2. The law shall provide for free and secret voting and for periodical elections to the Legislature. 3. The superintendence, direction and control of all elections C to the Legislature whether of the Union or the unit, including the appointment of Election Tribunals shall be vested in an Election Commission for the Union or the unit, as the case may be, appointed in all cases, in accordance with the law of the Union.” D 33. This shows that the Framers envisaged that the right to vote must be accompanied by a provision establishing the Election Commission.