Flaws in the of the Trial Court and the High Court 8.1 The Trial Court in its makes only a brief discussion of the evidence and erroneously records that Pritam Tiwari and Munna Pandey were found inside the house. 8.2 The High of Judicature at Patna, in the impugned [at para 9]; observes that it is prima facie satisfi ed that the Trial Court has not committed any error in both convicting the Appellant and sentencing him to death. In its said prima facie opinion on the matter it heavily MUNNA PANDEY v. STATE OF BIHAR 1021 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] relies on the deposition of interested witnesses PW1, PW2 and PW3 all of whom improved their versions. The High Court has disregarded the evidence of the independent witness and also the absence of material evidence, compliance with section 53A requirements, the absence of FSL report and pathological report. Hence the said suff ers from perversity and is contrary to the law 9. Mitigation 9.1 Without prejudice to the above submissions on merits, the Courts below have incorrectly sentenced the Appellant to undergo the sentence of death. 9.2 The Appellant has fi led a mitigation report along with the affi davits of the family members and the villagers before this Hon’ble Court vide IA No 172211 of 2022. The following are the mitigating circumstances of the Appellant: (i) No criminal antecedents; (ii) Satisfactory jail conduct as certifi ed by the Superintendent of Shahid Jubba Sahni Central Jail, Bhagalpur; (iii) Family impact - since his arrest, his family including his wife Sangeeta and his 2 sons - Krishna (18 years at the time of incident) and Balram (12 years at the time of incident) were ostracized from the village and they have been residing with Sangeeta’s parents in village Panchkathiya, Bihar (iv) Continued family ties (v) Strong community links - Munna Pandey’s wife Sangeeta was elected as the ward councilor in 2010. As per the affi davit of Mohd. Aktar @ Pairu Miyan (resident of village Sabour) the Appellant worked actively for the community alongside his wife. He was considered resourceful and many villagers approached him with their problems in the village. (vi) Age of the Appellant - he is currently 56 years old (vii) Strong probability of reformation” (Emphasis supplied) 1022 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 14. In such circumstances, referred to above, the learned counsel prayed that there being merit in his appeals, the same be allowed and the and of conviction and capital sentence be set aside and the appellant may be acquitted of all the charges. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE PROSECUTION 15. On the other hand, these appeals were vehemently opposed by Mr. Samir Ali Khan, the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State. He submitted that no error, not to speak of any error of law, could be said to have been committed by the Courts below in holding the appellant guilty of the off ence charged with and treating the case to be one falling under the category of “rarest of the rare cases”.