It is submitted that it is further observed that the intention to cause dis or incite people to violence is the sine qua non of the offence under Section 153-A of the IPC and the prosecution has to prove D the existence of mens rea in to succeed. 7.13 It is further submitted that in the case of Kartar Singh v. State of Punjab, (1994) 3 SCC 569, this Court held that: i) mens rea is an essential ingredient of a crime; E ii) vague provisions can implicate innocent persons in offences; and iii) mens rea must be read into Section 2(i)(a) of TADA It is submitted that the reasoning in Kartar Singh (supra) will F also apply to Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act, 1967. It is further submitted that in fact, even at the Constituent Assembly debates, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar clarified that “…it is wrong to say that fundamental rights in America are absolute. The difference between the position under the American G Constitution and the Draft Constitution is one of form and not of substance. That the fundamental rights in America are not absolute rights is beyond dispute. In support of every exception to the fundamental rights set out in the Draft Constitution, one can refer to at least one of the United States Supreme Court. H 530 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A What the Draft Constitution has done is that instead of formulating fundamental rights in absolute terms and depending upon our Supreme Court to come to the rescue of Parliament by inventing the doctrine of police power, it permits the State directly to impose limitations upon the fundamental rights. There is really no difference in the result. What one does directly the other does indirectly. In B both cases, the fundamental rights are not absolute.” 7.14 It is submitted that the submissions made on behalf of the Union of India by the Solicitor General are mostly on non-applicability of American cases and they do not deal with the applicability of the principle evolved in American cases and their acceptance by the Indian Supreme C Court. 8. It is further submitted that even otherwise the provisions of Section 10(a)(i) of the UAPA Act and Section 3(5) of the TADA Act are vague and overbroad and will have a chilling effect and therefore this Court in the aforesaid three decisions have rightly read down the said D provisions to bring them in consonance with Articles 14, 19 and 21 of the Constitution of India. 8.1 It is further submitted by Shri Sanjay Parikh, learned Senior Counsel that in the recent decision of this Court in the case of Thawaha Fasal v. Union of India, 2021 SCC OnLine SC 1000, this Court has E observed and held that “mere association with a terrorist organization is not sufficient to attract Section 38 and mere support given to a terrorist organization is not sufficient to attract Section 39.” It is submitted that it is further observed that “association and the support have to be with intention of furthering the activities of a terrorist organization.” F 8.2 It is further submitted that even if there can be restrictions under Article 19(2), in that case also, the restrictions should be reasonable and shall stood the test of reasonableness or proportionality.