Consequently, the steps taken pursuant to the said were also reversed. Liquidator was given liberty to initiate fresh process of auction in accordance with the provisions of the Code read with The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (Liquidation Process) Regulations, 2016 (briefl y the ‘Regulations’ hereinafter). (xi) Aggrieved, the auction purchaser as the appellant has preferred the present appeal. 4. This court by dated 10.01.2022 had issued notice and passed an interim staying the subsequent auction which was scheduled on 17.01.2022. 5. Respondent No.1 - Punjab National Bank in its counter affi davit at the outset pleaded that the appeal deserves to be dismissed at the threshold 868 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. and that the impugned of the Appellate Tribunal upholding the decision of the Liquidator to cancel the auction sale is fully justifi ed. Appellant was the sole bidder and quoted exactly the reserve price. Reasoning given by the Appellate Tribunal in paragraphs 11 to 22 of the impugned are just and proper and calls for no interference. In this connection, Respondent No.1 has referred to Clause 3 (k) of the auction sale notice which says that the Liquidator has the absolute right to accept or reject any or all the bids or adjourn/postpone/cancel the E-auction or withdraw any asset/property or portion thereof from the E-auction at any stage without assigning any reason. Reliance has also been placed on Clause 5 (m) of the auction sale notice as per which the bidder with the highest off er/bid does not get any right to demand acceptance of its bid. It is in the above context that Respondent No.1 has contended that the Liquidator was well within his rights to cancel the auction sale, which decision has been rightly affi rmed by the Appellate Tribunal. 5.1. According to Respondent No.1, it is a settled position that any auction sale, before completion, can always be cancelled. Tribunal had overlooked the provisions contained in Clause-13 of the Regulations which makes it clear that auction sale shall stand completed only on payment of full amount and not at the stage when the highest bidder is invited to provide balance sale consideration within 90 days from the date of demand. Tribunal relied upon Clause 12 of the Regulations as per which, on the closure of auction, the highest bidder shall be invited to provide the balance sale consideration within 90 days of the date of demand; fi rst proviso mentions that payments made after 30 days would attract interest of 12% with the second proviso clarifying that the sale would be cancelled if the payment is not received within 90 days. According to Respondent No.1, Tribunal by placing reliance on Clause 12 mis-directed itself in directing the Liquidator to send a communication to the appellant for depositing the balance sale consideration within the time specifi ed in the E-auction notice. 5.2. There is no express bar or prohibition either under the Code or under the Regulations restraining the Liquidator from cancelling an auction sale even after declaration of the highest bidder but before completion of sale as understood under Clause 13 of the Regulations.