The respondent has already paid an additional amount of Rs.3,75,000/- towards land development cost for which a separate demand had been raised as such no further demand could be raised on the basis of revision of prices. Any change in the price refl ected in the Letter of Allotment ought to have been done at the earliest in view of the expressions used “as soon as it may be” in clause 13 (b) of the Lease cum Sale Agreement dated 30.10.2006. Reliance has been placed upon a of this Court in the case of Karnataka Industrial Development Board Anr. vs. M/s Prakash Dal Mill and Ors.4. (b) The respondent has already paid the demand raised vide letter dated 24.09.2007 for an amount of Rs.5 Lakhs with respect to the charges for change in activity. After much delay further demand of more than Rs.83 Lakhs has been made based on some audit objection. The same has rightly been held to be illegal by the Single Judge as also the Division Bench of the High Court. (c) The demand raised on the basis of the rates determined in the 141st Board meeting of the appellant was not applicable to the respondent inasmuch as the said fi xation was for fresh allotment of stray plots. (d) The appellant had themselves admitted in response to the audit objections that the prevailing rate was Rs.1 Crore per acre and not Rs.3.2 Crores per acre and, therefore, they cannot keep on changing their stand from time to time in to extract more money from the respondent who has always been compliant to their previous demands. (e) It was only when the respondent repeatedly requested the appellant to execute the fi nal lease cum sale deed and was compelled to issue a legal notice that an additional demand of Rs.83 Lakhs was raised vide communication dated 25.07.2012. The said conduct 4 (2011) 6 SCC 714 KARNATAKA STATE ELECTRONICS DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION 783 LTD. v. KUMAON ENTERTAINMENT AND HOSPITALITIES PVT. LTD. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] of the appellant was wholly unjustifi ed and has been rightly disapproved by the High Court. The repeated fi ling of reviews and appeals by the appellant also shows their malicious conduct in somehow or the other stalling the execution of the lease cum sale deed and to somehow or the other extract unwarranted amount from the respondent which was otherwise not payable. Reliance was placed upon the following four s: • M. Nagabhushana v. State of Karnataka5, paras 12, 13, 18 & 22; • Dnyandeo Sabaji Naik v. Pradnya Prakash Khadekar6 – para 14; • Vinod Kapoor v. State of Goa7, paras 11to 13; • Sandhya Educational Society v. Union of India8, paras 13, 16 to 18. (f) Benefi t of the Limitation Act was not admissible to the appellant in as much as the entire exercise and the time spent in fi ling reviews and appeals repeatedly was in itself an abuse of process of law. Reliance was placed upon the following two s: • Neeraj Jhanji v. Commr.