Just like any prudent individual who would invest surplus income in fi xed deposits until the said amounts are needed for use, in the same way the clubs, instead of keeping the surplus income idle, are depositing the same in fi xed deposits and when interest is generated on the said deposits, the same would ultimately fl ow towards the use and expenditure for the benefi t of the members of the clubs. Therefore, there is complete identity which is one of the essentials for application of the principle of mutuality and the same has been explained in the case of Calcutta Club with reference to the in the case of Bangalore Club. That the three-judge Bench in Calcutta Club has categorically SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 1003 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] observed that the principle of mutuality is applicable to incorporated or unincorporated clubs even after the 46th Amendment to Article 366 (29-A) of the Constitution of India and therefore, by the said reasoning of the three- Judge Bench, the in Bangalore club would call for reconsideration. 6.14 Sri Kapur, learned senior counsel only highlighted with regard to the income earned from fi xed deposits made by the clubs in member banks only. That in Bangalore Club, this Court had failed to distinguish between the two kinds of transactions, namely, one between the club and the banks and the other, between the banks and its borrowers which are totally disjunct and therefore, the reasoning in the of this Court in Bangalore Club would call for a reconsideration. Our attention was also drawn to the of this Court in CIT vs. Venkatesh Premises Coop. Society Ltd., (2018) 15 SCC 37, particularly, paragraph 19 thereof. Submissions of respondents: 6.15 Sri Balbir Singh, learned senior counsel and Additional Solicitor General appearing for the respondent - Revenue at the outset submitted that the s impugned in these appeals would not call for any interference as they have proceeded on a correct analysis of the nature of transaction involved when the clubs invest their surplus income in Banks, Post Offi ces, or other similar deposits so as to earn interest thereon. It was contended that the of this Court in Bangalore Club squarely covers the facts and issues involved in these cases and the said does not call for reconsideration. In this regard, it was submitted at the outset that the three- Judge Bench decision in the case of Calcutta Club does not cover the issues involved in the present case and therefore, the same has to be distinguished. 6.16 While dealing with the facts and the reasoning of this Court in Bangalore Club, it was contended by the learned ASG that as regards the generation of surplus funds, the principle of mutuality would apply but as soon as the funds are invested in the form of fi xed deposits in the banks (whether corporate members of the club or not), in post offi ces or through national savings certifi cates etc., the funds suff er a defl ection as a result of being exposed to commercial banking operations or operations of the post offi ces, which utilise the said funds deposited by the said clubs for advancing loans to their customers and thus, generating a higher income by lending it a higher rate to the third party customers and paying a lower 1004 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.