A respect of IFIN was incomplete – Proceedings before the High Court were at the stage of direction u/s.212(14) to allow the prosecution and the sanction to prosecute – Ample opportunity was available to the concerned accused – Therefore, High Court erred in setting aside the direction u/s.212(14). B Companies Act, 2013 – Chapter X – Audit and Auditors – Held: Role of auditors cannot be equated with directors and/or management. Words and Phrases – Word “any” used in second proviso to s.140(5) of the Act, 2013 – Meaning – Under second proviso to C s.140(5), on the final being passed by the Tribunal that the auditor/firm has, directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted or colluded in any fraud by, or in relation to, the company or its directors or officers, he/it shall not be eligible to be appointed as an auditor of any company for a period of five years – Held: The word “any” is significant – On the final being passed by D the Tribunal, such an auditor not only shall be removed or changed as an auditor of a company, but such an auditor/firm shall also be ineligible to be appointed as an auditor of any other company for a period of five years – Companies Act, 2013 – s.140(5). Disposing of the appeals, the Court E HELD:1. The powers of the NCLT in first part of Section 140(5) of the Companies Act, 2013 is quasi-judicial in nature and the Tribunal would have the powers of a civil court to examine the role of auditors and adjudicate on their fraudulent conduct and abdication of their function. The powers under the first proviso F to Section 140(5) can be said to be interim or pro tem measure to prevent an existing auditor from continuing and substitute him with an auditor based on a prima facie satisfaction that a fraud has been perpetrated and when circumstances warrant the substitution. Such an can be said to be an interim akin to a temporary suspension during the pendency of the G detailed enquiry as provided in Section 140(5) of the Act and before any final is passed by the Tribunal. [Para 5.2][1005- D-G] 2. As such, second proviso to Section 140(5) can be said to be a substantive provision and it operates on the final H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 953 AND SELLS LLP passed by the Tribunal under Section 140(5) (first part). The A second proviso to Section 140(5) was introduced after detailed analysis and after taking into consideration recommendations of the Parliamentary Standing Committee and with a view to make the provision more stringent and to provide for consequences for an auditor when such auditor is found to have been B perpetrating a fraud and is removed by the NCLT for such fraud. On passing of the final by the NCLT under first part of section 140(5) and if an auditor is found to have been indulged into fraudulent activities or abetting or colluding in a fraud with the management of the company, consequences provided under the second proviso to section 140(5) shall follow.