13. Sole respondent is the victim of circumstances as there was never any blemish in his entire service career and he was exonerated in all fi rst three inquiries on same allegation. That too with a type of punishment which was not at all recommended by the Central Level Complaint Committee. Surprisingly, the authority on same allegations instituted 4th inquiry and imposed penalty just to victimize the sole respondent for reasons best known to them. The sole respondent was the unfortunate victim of interdepartmental rivalry and he was traumatized due to unproved allegations and his innocence was upheld time to time by the fi rst three inquiries and same was discussed in detail by the Hon’ble High Court at para 40, 43, 46 and 47 of the impugned while rightly setting aside the impugned of penalty. (Page no.-54, 70-74, 75-76 of the SLP) 14. The contention of the petitioner authority that the penalty of withholding of 50% of pension is just and suffi cient. In this regard, the sole respondent submits that when all three inquiry reports exonerated him and even Hon’ble High Court acquitted him all his charges and set aside the impugned of penalty then the sole respondent has proved his honesty and agitating his case for his reputation and honour as a decorated retired offi cer as DIG of SSB apart from unjustifi ed penalty withholding 50% of pension.” E. ANALYSIS 30. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the following four questions fall for our consideration: - UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 513 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] I. Whether the Central Complaints Committee committed any egregious error in looking into the second complaint dated 18.09.2012? II. Whether the Central Complaints Committee committed any egregious error in putting questions to the witnesses in the course of the departmental enquiry and thereby vitiating the disciplinary proceedings? III. Whether the Central Complaints Committee could be said to have based its fi ndings on mere conjectures and surmises? Whether the case on hand is one of “No Evidence”? IV. Whether the High Court committed any egregious error in passing the impugned and ? E.1 Relevant Statutory Scheme and Case Law 31. Before adverting to the rival contentions canvassed on either side, we must look into the statutory scheme relating to the complaints of sexual harassment. 32. Sexual harassment is a pervasive and deeply rooted issue that has plagued the societies worldwide. In India, it has been a matter of serious concern, and the development of laws to combat sexual harassment is a testament to the nation’s commitment towards addressing this problem. Sexual harassment has existed in India for centuries, but it was only in the latter half of the 20th century that it began to gain legal recognition. 33. The turning point against the growing social menace of sexual harassment of women at work place could be traced back to the pathbreaking decision of this Court in Vishaka and Others v. State of Rajasthan and Others reported in (1997) 6 SCC 241, whereby this Court recognized sexual harassment at the workplace as a violation of a woman’s fundamental right to equality and dignity.