A proper party is one whose presence would be necessary to eff ectually and completely adjudicate upon the disputes. In either case the respondents cannot be said to be either necessary or proper parties to the suit in which the primary relief was found on the basis of the registered Will executed by the appellant's mother, Smt Hira Devi. Moreover, admittedly the respondents claimed right, title and interest pursuant to the registered sale deeds said to have been executed by the defendants-heirs of Rajender Kaur on 2-12-1991 and 12-12-1991, pending suit. 6. Section 52 of the Transfer of Property Act envisages that: “During the pendency in any court having authority within the limits of India … of any suit or proceeding which is not collusive and in which any right to immovable property is directly and specifi cally in question, the property cannot be transferred or otherwise dealt with by any party to the suit or proceeding so as to aff ect the rights of any other party thereto under the decree or which may be made therein, except under the authority of the court and on such terms as it may impose.” It would, therefore, be clear that the defendants in the suit were prohibited by operation of Section 52 to deal with the property and could not transfer or otherwise deal with it in any way aff ecting the rights of the appellant except with the or authority of the court. Admittedly, the authority or of the court had not been obtained for alienation of those properties. Therefore, the alienation obviously 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. would be hit by the doctrine of lis pendens by operation of Section 52. Under these circumstances, the respondents cannot be considered to be either necessary or proper parties to the suit. (Emphasis supplied) 95. This Court in Bibi Zubaida Khatoon v. Nabi Hassan Saheb and Another reported in (2004) 1 SCC 191, was called upon to consider whether the High Court's , which had declined to interfere with the passed by the trial court dismissing the applications fi led by the appellant for impleadment as party to the cross suits of which one was fi led for redemption of mortgage and the other was fi led for specifi c performance of the agreement for sale, was correct. While dismissing the appeal, this Court referred to the s in Sarvinder Singh (supra) and Dhurandhar Prasad Singh v. Jai Prakash Universityand Others reported in (2001) 6 SCC 534, and observed that: “10. … There is no absolute rule that the transferee pendente lite without leave of the court should in all cases be allowed to join and contest the pending suits. …” (Emphasis supplied) 96. We may also be pertinent to refer to and rely upon the decision in D.N. Taneja v. Bhajan Lal reported in (1988) 3 SCC 26, whereunder it was held that in contempt proceedings there are only two parties, i.e., the court and the contemnor. This Court held as under: “12.