D 153. An evaluation of whether rival groups are adhering to the aims and objects of the party as incorporated in its constitution, and which of the rival groups is more in consonance with such aims and objects, is an entirely subjective exercise. Different groups may adopt different paths or methods to achieve the same object. It would not be E appropriate for the ECI to accord its stamp of approval to the routes or methods chosen by one group over those chosen by another group. This would amount to entering the political arena. For example, one of the aims detailed in the constitution of a party could be that it will work towards attaining economic justice. Two rival sections of this party may F emerge. The first group may happen to advocate for direct benefit transfers whereas the second group may be of the belief that subsidising the cost of certain products is a preferable alternative. The exercise of the ECI in determining which of these methods (and by extension, which of the rival groups) is more suited to attaining economic justice is subjective. Although this is a simplified example, it is illustrative of the G manner in which the same goal can be sought to be attained by different routes, and the ECI while making such an assessment would be rendering its opinion without any objective basis. The ECI must remain a neutral body and refrain from passing a subjective judgement on the approaches preferred by the rival factions. H 948 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 154. At this stage, a question may arise as to whether the decision of the ECI under the Symbols must be consistent with the decision of the Speaker under the Tenth Schedule. The answer is no. This is because the decision of the Speaker and the decision of the ECI are each based on different considerations and are taken for different purposes. B 155. The decision of the ECI has prospective effect. A declaration that one of the rival groups is that political party takes effect prospectively from the date of the decision. In the event that members of the faction which has been awarded the symbol are disqualified from the House by the Speaker, the members of the group which continues to be in the C House will have to follow the procedure prescribed in the Symbols and in any other relevant law(s) for the allotment of a fresh symbol to their group. 156. The disqualification proceedings before the Speaker cannot be stayed in anticipation of the decision of the ECI. In cases where a D petition under Paragraph 15 of the Symbols is filed after the (alleged) commission of prohibitory conduct, the decision of the ECI cannot be relied upon by the Speaker for adjudicating disqualification proceedings. If the disqualification petitions are adjudicated based on the decision of the ECI in such cases, the decision of the ECI would have retrospective effect. This would be contrary to law.