It observed that Section 79(j) read with 72 Company Petition 15 of 1994 H 73 Company Application 349 of 1999 in Company Petition 15 of 1994 K. C. NINAN v. KERALA STATE ELECTRICITY BOARD & 721 ORS. [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Section 49 of the 1948 Act gave considerable latitude to the Board to A make regulations governing the supply of electricity, and the Board could effect supply of electricity upon such terms and conditions as it thinks fit, that is, in accordance with Clause 15(e). The Court further noted that even when all formalities have been satisfied by a prospective consumer in accordance with Clause VI of the Schedule to the 1910 B Act, the Board retains the power to lay down appropriate regulations to safeguard electricity, which is public property and take actions in the best interest of the Board. The Court placed reliance on the judgement of the Kerala High Court in A Ramachandran v. KSEB74 in reaching its decision. C 153. In the impugned judgement dated 14 September 2001 in the Review Petition, the Court further clarified that Clause 15(e) can also be invoked in winding up proceedings as the manner in which the new person became owner, allottee or occupier of the property is immaterial. Finally, the High Court clarified that the mere fact that the Electricity Board was trying to recover the due amount as a secured creditor before D the winding up proceedings as against the previous owner, would be of no consequence on the applicability of Clause 15(e). 154. Notice was issued by this Court on 25 January 2002. By an dated 28 February 2007, this Court directed the parties to negotiate a settlement and arrive at a formula to recover the amount agreeable to E both parties. This Court observed: “Balancing the equities as they arise in the present case would be a delicate task, and whichever way we decide this case the losing party may feel that justice has been denied to it. At the same time, we cannot lose sight of the fact that the appellants have made F huge investments as claimed by them, and only the interest component on such investment may create a huge liability as against the appellant. On the other hand, if the industry starts functioning, perhaps the Electricity Board will also stand to gain. We have no doubt that instead of litigating, if the parties could G have settled the dispute, both would have benefited to a great extent.” However, no settlement could be reached. 74 2000 SCC OnLine Ker 75 H 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 155. We are of the view that the Kerala High Court was correct in upholding the validity of Clause 15(e). Clause 15 of the Conditions of Supply of the Electrical Energy, which is statutory in character, unequivocally provides that the Board is not obligated to give reconnection or a new connection in the premises where there are any arrears of electricity charges from a previous consumer, unless the arrears including B penalty are cleared by the new owner/ occupier/ allottee.