v. UNION OF INDIA & 265 ORS. (iii) Architects; A (iv) Chartered accountants; (b) To appear for the All India Pre-Medical Test or such other tests to make them eligible for admission in pursuance of the provisions contained in the relevant B Acts. [F.No.OI-15013/13/2008-DS] D.N. SRIVASTAVA, Jt. Secy.” (emphasis supplied) C 19. Through the said notification dated 05.01.2009 the OCI Cardholders were given the right to pursue the professions indicated therein, in India and also to appear for the All-Indian Pre-Medical Test or such other tests to make them eligible for admission in pursuance of the provisions contained in the relevant Acts. Since NRIs had parity with the Indian Citizens in that regard, the D same benefit became extended to the OCI Cardholders including the petitioners herein. 20. A cumulative perusal of the three notifications of 2005, 2007 and 2009 heavily relied on by the learned senior counsel for the petitioners would certainly indicate that from the stage of amendment to Act, 1955 E through Section 7A to 7D thereof and the notifications issued pursuant thereto, conferring rights under Section 7B(1) and such right being expanded from stage to stage, it would indicate that based on the need, progression was made in conferring better right to the Overseas Citizens of India who, except for the incident of their birth in a foreign country F were in all other respects similarly placed as that of Indian citizens and the limited foreign affiliation of NRI and OCI Cardholders made them to be compared with each other for parity. In fact, for the purpose of air fares and entry fee to places of interest, they were given parity with Indian nationals. It is in that view contended that taking away such a right that was available in the changing social scenario would G amount to retrogression when in fact better right should have been conferred. 21. In that background, it would be necessary to refer to the impugned notification dated 04.03.2021 which reads as hereunder: H 266 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A “MINISTRY OF HOME AFFAIRS NOTIFICATION New Delhi, the 4th March, 2021 S.O. 1050(E) – In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of section 7B of the Citizenship Act, 1955 (57 of 1955) and in B supersession of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Home Affairs published in the Official Gazette vide number S.O. 542(E), dated the 11th April, 2005 and the notifications of the Government of India in the erstwhile Ministry of Overseas Indian Affairs published in the Official Gazette vide numbers S.O. C 12(E), dated the 5th January, 2007 and S.O. 36(E), dated the 5th January, 2009, except as respect things done or omitted to be done before such supersession, the Central Government hereby specifies the following rights to which an Overseas Citizen of India Cardholder (hereinafter referred to as the OCI cardholder) shall be entitled, with effect from the date of publication of this D notification in the Official Gazette, namely:- (1) grant of multiple entry lifelong visa for visiting India for any purpose Provided that for undertaking the following activities, the E OCI cardholder shall be required to obtain a special permission or a Special Permit, as the case may be, from the competent authority or the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer or the Indian Mission concerned, namely:- (i) to undertake research; F (ii) to undertake any Missionary or Tabligh or Mountaineering or Journalistic activities; (iii) to undertake internship in any foreign Diplomatic Missions or foreign Government organisations in India or to take up employment in any foreign Diplomatic G Missions in India; (iv) to visit any place which falls within the Protected or Restricted or prohibited areas as notified by the Central Government or competent authority; H ANUSHKA RENGUNTHWAR & ORS.