*** 25. *** Not only there was lack of credible and required evidence placed on record by the respondent in support of Claim No.12 as set out in the extracts from the book Law of Building and Engineering Contracts, and (sic) the arbitrator also took into consideration such factors which could not and should not be (sic, have) infl uenced his mind. Therefore, the award was passed by the arbitrator against the fundamental policy of Indian Law attracting the provisions of Section 34 (2)(b) (ii) of the Act. I set aside the award given by the arbitrator against Claim No.12 and remit the same for re-consideration by the arbitrator and to pass a fresh award in respect of the said claim without being in any manner infl uenced by such factors and on the basis of the evidence available on record. Since the award passed by the arbitrator is set aside to the aforesaid extent, the award of interest in Claim No. 13 in respect of the amount of Claim No. 12 also stands set aside and quashed and the same are remitted for reconsideration and decision. Subject to the aforesaid modifi cations in the award, the remaining part of the award is upheld.” (emphasis ours) c) The Arbitrator passed a fresh award dated 15th July, 2002 (“Second Award”, hereafter) maintaining the award for loss of profi t and interest to the appellant vide First Award. By referring to the communications between the parties, the Arbitrator reiterated that the respondent had failed to provide the complete site and drawings within the stipulated contract period, leading to delays. As per established legal principles, the party responsible for the breach of the contract is liable for reasonably foreseeable losses. Considering the appellant’s status as an established contractor, handling substantial projects, the Arbitrator inferred that it was reasonable to assume earning of expected profi ts elsewhere by the appellant. Employing the doctrine that within a contract, gains 690 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. prevented qualify as loss sustained, the Arbitrator observed that the appellant was not required to establish the exact amount of gain or loss with absolute certainty; instead, presenting fairly persuasive and the best available evidence under the particular circumstances of the case would suffi ce. d) The respondent fi led a petition under Section 34 of the Act, seeking to set aside the Second Award. The learned Single Judge of the High Court vide and fi nal dated 25th February 2010 allowed the objection under Section 34 and rejected the appellant’s claim under Claim No. 12 with an observation that there was no suffi cient evidence presented by the appellant to establish the claimed loss of profi t; the lack of records regarding the alleged utilization of men, material, machinery, overheads, and other resources in the contract performance that could have otherwise been used for other profi table contracts raised doubts about the legitimacy of the claimed losses under Claim No. 12. With an observation that the Union of India was forced into litigation due to the appellant’s misconceived claim, the Single Judge awarded costs of Rs.