vi. The Appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. The prosecution examined as many as 19 witnesses to bring C home the guilt of accused-appellants. Their defence was that the Appellants exercised the right of private defence as Accused No.1- Lal Chand (since deceased) was assaulted by both the deceased who were hired as there was litigation pending between the parties. At the conclusion D of the trial, the Sessions Judge acquitted Accused No.5- Om Prakash and Accused No.6-Kishan Chand and convicted Accused Nos. 1 to 4 and 7 under section 302, 148 and 149 of the RPC and sentenced them to life imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 500 each and three months E simple imprisonment in case of default in payment of fine. vii. Being aggrieved thereby, Appellants-accused filed an appeal before the High Court. Accused No.1- Lal Chand died during the pendency of the appeal. Accused No.2-Bias Raj was absconding and his presence could not be secured even F after issuing Non-Bailable Warrant. On 5th June, 2009, High Court vide impugned , dismissed the appeal filed by the Appellants and upheld their conviction and confirmed the sentence awarded to them by the Sessions Judge. 3. Being aggrieved thereby the present Appeal was filed by G Accused No.3-Mohinder Pal, Accused No.7-Madan Lal and Accused No.4-Basant Kumar. 4. We have heard Mr. Tripurari Ray, learned counsel appearing for the Appellants-Accused and Mr. Shailesh Madiyal, learned counsel appearing on behalf of respondent-State of Jammu and Kashmir. H 380 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 5.Mr. Tripurari Ray submits that the High Court and the Sessions Judge have grossly erred in convicting the appellants-accused. Mr. Ray submits that it was the deceased-Manjeet Kumar and Jaswinder who trespassed into the house of the Appellants and assaulted Accused No.1- Lal Chand (since deceased). Thereafter, the appellants exercised their B right of private defence and assaulted the deceased. Further, most of the injuries that were caused to the deceased were on their legs and not with an intention to cause severe harm. 6.Mr. Ray further submits that on a perusal of the dying declaration i.e. statement of deceased Jaswinder it would reveal that Dr. Renu C Jamwal stated that the patient was not in a condition to sign the statement due to swelling. The said statement does not state any details regarding the mental/physical state of the patient whether he is of sound mind and consciousness. Further, Dr. Renu Jamwal admitted that the patient was ‘minimum conscious and not fully oriented to place’. D 7.Mr. Ray urged that the evidence of P.W.1-Praveen Kumar and P.W.3-Chhajju Ram contradict the dying declaration on several points. The dying declaration does not state that P.W.1-Praveen Kumar was assaulted and confined in the house of the Appellants which is why both the deceased went to the house of the Appellants instead it just states E that they were finishing their work and were assaulted by the Appellants. 8.Mr. Shailesh Madiyal appearing on behalf of the respondent- state submits that the Sessions Judge and High Court have concurrently held that dying declaration is a substantive piece of evidence.