The rights acquired or accrued or the liabilities incurred or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred during its operation are kept FIRST GLOBAL STOCKBROKING PVT. LTD. v. ANIL 431 RISHIRAJ [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] alive. Investigations to be made or any remedy which may have been available before the repeal be enforced are also preserved. Such rights, liabilities, penalty, forfeiture or punishment, due to repeal “shall not lapse”. The saving clause, thus, aimed to preserve the legal eff ect and consequences of things done though those eff ects and consequences projected to post-repeal period. The things done adumbrated in Section 81(2) or Section 6 of the General Clauses Act or penalty or punishment incurred would envisage that the things already done or liabilities, penalty punishment or forfeiture incurred, though happened before the Act came into force, Section 81(2) of the Act empowers to eff ectuate the liabilities, penalties, etc. as if they have been in existence and amenable to be pursued under the Act or under the Repealed Act by operation of Section 6 of General Clauses Act. What is unaff ected by the repeal of the Act 7 of 1947 is a right accrued, etc. There is a distinction between a legal proceeding for enforcing a right acquired or accrued or liability, penalty, forfeiture, punishment incurred and the legal proceedings for acquisition of a right, the former is saved whereas the latter is not. In spite of repeal the right to investigation or to take legal proceedings remain unaff ected and preserved as if the old Act continues to be operative. What remains to be done, after the Act came into force, is the quantifi cation, if necessary, after due investigation and legal proceedings and if proved to impose the penalty, forfeiture or punishment. The Court takes cognizance of the off ence and not the off ender or the acts done. What the Court is to enquire into is whether the Act is incompatible with the repealed Act and whether it manifested any contrary intentions to the Repealed Act. Unless a diff erent intention has been manifested in the Act, the Repealed Act would continue to be operative. Even in a case of bare repeal accompanied by a fresh legislation on the same subject, the provisions of the new Act will have to be looked into to fi nd where and how far the new Act envisages a contrary intention aff ecting the operation of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act. Unless such contrary intention is manifested, liabilities, penalties, forfeiture or punishment under the Repealed Act will continue to exist and remain in force by operation of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act. 432 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 8. We have already seen that the Act did not evince any contrary intention. It merely reiterated the earlier law operating in the fi eld. Therefore, clause (d) of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act gets attracted to the acts done or the penalties of forfeiture or punishment for any off ence which had already been committed before the repeal of the enactment, though no criminal proceedings have been actually initiated under repealed enactment before its repeal.