Though another Power of Attorney was executed in F favour of said Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar, it was executed only by the appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar. As such, Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar had no right to file appeal on behalf of the other legal heirs. 11. The Registry of the High Court, noticing that the Vakalatnama G was not signed by all the appellants, had raised office objections. On non-removal of the office-objections, the Second Appeal came to be dismissed on 27th November 2015. Thereafter, Miscellaneous Civil Application No. 894 of 2016 came to be filed for restoration of the Second Appeal. The said application also came to be filed by said Vitthalbhai H 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Maganbhai Parmar. It will be relevant to note the averments made by said Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar in the said application, which read thus: “3. The applicants state that an office objection was raised by the Registry as regards non-production of power of attorney or B authority letter on behalf of all the heirs of deceased plaintiff authorizing the deponent to prefer the second appeal. The applicant state that the deponent had informed the Registry about inability to obtain the authority letter of all the heirs of the deceased plaintiff and requested to permit their transposition as defendants. C The applicants submit that the applicants were under a bona fide impression that the same shall be allowed and the appeal shall be listed by the Registry before the Hon’ble Court for admission hearing in due course. …” D 12. It appears that the High Court, vide dated 9th March 2016, restored the Second Appeal to its original status. 13. It appears that, vide the Office Endorsement dated 13th April 2016, the draft amendment and fresh title with names were accepted E and, as such, office objection came to be removed. 14. It would further appear from the record that an application for Draft Amendment came to be filed by Nanavati & Company, Advocate for the appellants in Second Appeal No.238 of 2015. It will be relevant to refer to the same, which reads thus: F “The applicant prays to make amendment in the memorandum of petition in the above matter. The applicant submits that due to bona fide mistake the names of all the plaintiffs were mentioned in the title (appellant side) in the above mentioned second appeal. The applicant submits that only one of the legal heirs-Lalitbhai G Jesangbhai Parmar through Power of Attorney Vitthalbhai Maganbhai Parmar is desirous of pursuing the legal remedy. Therefore, I humbly request this Hon’ble Court to substitute the title of the memorandum of appeal with a new title provided herewith.” H YOGESH NAVINCHANDRA RAVANI v. NANJIBHAI 287 SAGRAMBHAI CHAUDHARY & ORS. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 15. Subsequently, a notorised pursis dated 19th July 2017 came to A be filed by appellant-Lalitbhai Jesangbhai Parmar, stating therein that, on account of transposition of the other appellants, he was the sole appellant and he wanted to withdraw the Second Appeal.