), and not any other educational qualifi cation, including B.Ed. Apart from this the teachers eligibility test or TET would further test the skills of a candidate to handle students at primary level. It must be emphasised that the pedagogical approach required from a teacher at primary level is in some manners unique. These are the initial formative years where a student has just stepped inside a classroom, and therefore needs to be handled with care and sensitivity. A candidate who has a diploma in elementary education (D.El.Ed.) is trained to handle students at this level, as he has undergone a pedagogical course specifi cally designed for this purpose. The ‘Academic Authority’ which is NCTE is mandated by the Act to set up a curriculum and evaluation procedure for the all round DEVESH SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. 179 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] development of a ‘child’, mindful of all the fears and anxieties which a child may have. Section 29 of the Act reads as under :- 29. Curriculum and evaluation procedure.—(1) The curriculum and the evaluation procedure for elementary education shall be laid down by an academic authority to be specifi ed by the appropriate Government, by notifi cation. (2) The academic authority, while laying down the curriculum and the evaluation procedure under sub-section (1), shall take into consideration the following, namely:— (a) conformity with the values enshrined in the Constitution; (b) all round development of the child; (c) building up child’s knowledge, potentiality and talent; (d) development of physical and mental abilities to the fullest extent; (e) learning through activities, discovery and exploration in a child friendly and child-centered manner; (f) medium of instructions shall, as far as practicable, be in child’s mother tongue; (g) making the child free of fear, trauma and anxiety and helping the child to express views freely; (h) comprehensive and continuous evaluation of child’s understanding of knowledge and his or her ability to apply the same.” As we can see the curriculum and evaluation procedure which the ‘Academic Authority’ is mandated to set up requires a pedagogical approach which can be best given by teachers who are trained to deal with child students. A person who has a B.Ed. qualifi cation has been trained to impart teaching to secondary and higher secondary level of students. He is not expected to impart training to primary level students. In to appreciate the difference between Diploma in Elementary Education (it is called by diff erent names in each State), and Bachelor of Education (B.Ed. ), we look no further than the Notifi cations 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. issued by National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) itself from time to time. The Appendix 2 to the NCTE Regulations, 2009 spells out as to what is the aim of Elementary Education. It is stated to be as follows: “1. Preamble 1.1 The Diploma in Elementary Education (D.El.Ed) is a two year professional programme of teacher education. It aims to prepare teachers for the elementary stage of education, i.e.