1. An enquiry/investigation is going on against respondent No. 1 with respect to the scheduled offences. Therefore, the enquiry/investigation itself is sufficient at this stage. D 6.2 While granting the anticipatory bail, what is weighed with the High Court and what is observed by the High Court is as under: - “A careful reading of the aforesaid legal position and in the light of the circumstances of the case on hand, which clearly indicates that the 1st respondent has a doubt regarding the involvement of E the petitioner in commission of the crime and he is being summoned for disclosure and in case of his non-disclosure of any material, on the pretext of non-co-operation, the 1st respondent may proceed to arrest him. The petitioner is a retired employee aged about 60 years and is a permanent resident of Hyderabad, Further, major part of the investigation has been completed with respect to the F incriminating documents and digital devices, which have already been seized. Hence, there may not be a chance of tampering with the investigation at this stage, because as rightly pointed out by the learned Senior Counsel for the petitioner that a criminal case has already been filed against the other accused and the same is pending before the Special Court at Bhopal.” G 6.3 From the aforesaid, it can be seen that the High Court has not at all considered the nature of allegations and the seriousness of the offences alleged against respondent No. 1. As per the catena of decision of this Court, more particularly, observed in the case of P. Chidambaram (supra) in case of economic offences, which are having an impact on H 90 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A the society, the Court must be very slow in exercising the discretion under Section 438 of Cr.PC. 7. Considering the overall facts and circumstances of the case and the reasoning given by the High Court and as observed hereinabove, the rigour of Section 45 of the Act, 2002 shall be applicable even with B respect to the application under Section 438 Cr.PC and therefore, the impugned and passed by the High Court granting anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1 herein in connection with F. No. ECIR/HYZO/36/2020 dated 15.12.2020 is unsustainable. Consequently, the impugned and passed by the High Court granting anticipatory bail to respondent No. 1 is hereby quashed and set aside. C Respondent No. 1 be dealt with in accordance with law. However, it is observed and made clear that after respondent No. 1 is arrested, if he files any regular bail application, the same be considered in accordance with law and on its own merits and considering the material collected during enquiry/investigation of the case. Present appeal is accordingly D allowed. No costs. Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Pratap Singh and Shevali Monga, LCRAs) E F G H