19. Signifi cantly, at this stage, it will be material to note that the amendments which have been made to the GNCTD Act 1991 by the insertion of Pat IV-A contain analogous provisions in clause (i) of Section 45A by excluding offi cers who are serving in connection with any subject matter whether fully or in part connected with Entries 1, 2 and 18 of List II (and Entries 64, 65 and 66 insofar as they relate to Entries 1, 2 and 18) from the ambit of the defi nition of Group A offi cers. Likewise, while defi ning the powers and functions of the National Capital Civil Service Authority in Section 45H, offi cers who are serving in connection with any subject matter, either fully or in part, connected with Entries 1, 2 and 18 of List 2 are excluded specifi cally. 20. The petitioners submit that the Lieutenant Governor has always exercised the power under Rule 55(2) under the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. In terms of Article 239-AA(4), the Lieutenant Governor shall exercise his functions with the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers in relation to matters with respect to which the Legislative Assembly has the power to make laws, except insofar as he is, by or under any law, required to act in his discretion. 21. Section 41 of the GNCTD Act lists the matters on which the Lieutenant Governor may act at his discretion. The provision states that the Lieutenant Governor may act in his discretion: (a) on matters which are beyond the powers of the Legislative Assembly and where the President has delegated the powers and functions to the Lieutenant Governor in relation to such matters; and (b) on matters which by law require him to act in his discretion or where he is exercising judicial or quasi-judicial functions. GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 479 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y. CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 22. The question of whether the Lieutenant Governor should act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers while discharging the function under Rule 55(2)(b) must be answered in light of the following position of law: a. The of this Court in the 2023 Constitution Bench that the legislative and executive power of NCTD shall extend to services except services related to the excluded entries (that is, public , police, and land); and b. The Lieutenant Governor is required to act on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers only on matters over which the Legislative Assembly of NCTD has competence. Even with respect to such matters, the Lieutenant Governor may act on his discretion if the law provides so. [2023 Constitution Bench , Article 239-AA(4) of the Constitution and Section 41 of the GNCTD Act] 23. The Lieutenant Governor while exercising the power under Rule 55(2)(b) is required to act at their discretion without the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers for the following reasons: a.