It was further held, after this process glass sheet is reduced to a mere medium and if any part of the coating is scratched and removed that particular area of the glass mirror will cease to be a glass mirror. It was further held that said commodity is referred to as a glass mirror only because the word “glass” which is descriptive of the mirror and basis or fundamental character of the article lies in its being a mirror cannot be regarded as glass. Thus, the legislative intent is clear as regards the product, namely, the primary product is not coupled with goods and articles made of that primary product. Thus, it would emerge from the test commonly applied to determine whether an article after subjecting it to manufacturing process becomes a diff erent article or remains same and as held in the aforesaid it will have to be examined as to how the product is identifi ed by the class or section of people dealing with or using the product. This test acquires signifi cance particularly when the statue does not contain any defi nition and by its functional character a product is so identifi ed. 22. In fact, the High Court has noticed this fact and has recorded the following fi nding: “The said issue can be resolved from the point of view as to how the persons who are in the business understands the meaning of plain glass sheets in commercial words, as noticed by the tribunal, plain glass sheets means colourless glass or having a colour of water. The tribunal has noticed that a dealer of glass sheet, is not required to exhibit all kinds of sheet glass including coloured one when a customer demands plain glass sheet. Unless a coloured glass is asked for, a dealer exhibits M/S TRIVENI GLASS LIMITED REP. BY ITS DEPUTY 1111 GENERAL MANAGER (SALES AND P.R.) SHRI R.K. SINHA v. COMMISSIONER OF TRADE TAX, U.P. [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] the (uncoloured) plain glass sheet. The said fi nding of the tribunals essentially a fi nding of fact. In common parlance also, in window and doors, plain glass sheet i.e. uncoloured glass sheets are used generally These glass sheets are also used as table top, in showcase and also as racks in Almirah. It may be noted that only plain glass sheets which is not coloured is used generally.” 23. Now, we proceed to note the simple dictionary meaning assigned with regard to “plain glass panes” in to examine the claim of assessee to extend the meaning assigned to “plain glass sheet” to “tinted glass sheet.” PLAIN: Webster’s Encyclopaedic Unabridged Dictionary 1989 Edition defi nes “Plain” as- “Plain (plan) adj. 1. clear to distinct to the eye or ear: a plain trail to the river, to stand in plain view. 2. one’s meaning plain, a dislike of the subject that was plain. 3. conveying the meaning clearly and simply: easily understood; plain 4. downright; sheer; utter; plain folly, plain stupidly. 5. free from ambiguity or evasion; candid; outspoken: the plain truth of the matter.