The contention put forth is that when specific matters are expressly mentioned, anything not mentioned should be deemed to have been excluded. d) Fourthly, Exemption Entry No. 8 envisages maize which is C a raw product and not maize starch which is a processed product. This proposition is further emphasized by the mention of items like ‘flour’ and ‘bran of cholam’ in the exempting entry which are processed products. e) Finally, the legislative intent is clearly discernible from the D 2002 amendment, wherein Exemption Entry No. 8 was repositioned as Entry No. 44, and the specific reference to ‘maize’ was eliminated, thereby denying exemption to all the maize products. 7. Mr. Kumar, thus, submitted that the appeals being devoid of any merit are liable to be dismissed. Heprayed for an to that effect. E STATUTORY SCHEME UNDER THE ACT 8. The entries under Schedule I are taxed under Section 3(2) of the Act while the entries under Schedule III are exempted under Section 8 thereof. F 9. Exemption Notification dated 14th March, 1970 held the field in excess of two decades. While the Exemption Notification was in force, the Act was amended by Act No.24 of 1993. The existing Schedule I was replaced with a new Schedule, and ‘sago and starch of any kind’ came to be inserted at Entry 53 of Part C of Schedule I with tax rate of G 5%. 10. Act No. 32 of 1994, i.e., the Tamil Nadu General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1994, further amended the Act. Entry 8 in Part B of 17 (1985) 3 SCC 398 18 (1969) 1 SCC 1 H 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A Schedule III included the item which was hitherto covered by the Exemption Notification and, thus, the same ceased to be operative with such amendment. 11. By Act No. 37 of 1996, the rate of tax was reduced from 5% to 4% in respect of ‘sago and starch of any kind’. B 12. Considering that the statutory scheme as regards the classification of ‘maize’ underwent several changes over time, we deem it appropriate to provide a comprehensive overview of the applicable taxing and exempting entries at relevant time periods. To facilitate clarity, the following table enumerates the applicability of these entries: C D E F G ANALYSIS AND FINDINGS 13. We have considered the submissions advanced by learned counsel for the parties and have also perused the materials on record. H SANTHOSH MAIZE & INDUSTRIES LIMITED v. THE STATE 113 OF TAMIL NADU & ANR. [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 14. While we are not ad idem with all the reasons assigned by the A High Court in the impugned , we see no reason to differ with the ultimate conclusion reached by it. We would, therefore, proceed to assign our own reasons for agreeing with the High Court that the appellant is not entitled to any relief. 15. The Exemption Notification was erroneously held by the High B Court not to have statutory backing.