This is subject only to an earlier termination as contemplated in clause (56). Clause (56), it is pointed out, provided for termination by IOC on certain acts and omissions by the dealer. He further contended that it is only after the expiry of first 15 years that the parties contemplated extension of the contract by 5 F years at a time. The total period of the contract is 15 years to begin with and, by virtue of subsequent extension of 5 years each, could go upto 30 years. However, the facility of termination of the dealership by giving a three months’ notice, in writing, was impermissible during the first 15 years. He would submit that such an interpretation is warranted having regard to the fact that a person who would have invested a huge sum G would lose the dealership by the IOC being endowed with the power to terminate the contract by merely giving a notice of three months’ duration. Since the notice was, in this case, admittedly sent within the first 15 years, clause (3) was inapplicable, and there was no termination in law. The learned counsel did agree that such a contention was never raised H 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A before the arbitrator, the District Judge or the High Court. Next, he contended that the alleged acceptance dated 28.11.2006 was not unambiguous. He supported the view taken by the High Court. He pointed out that before the actual acceptance which, he points out, took place only on 07.12.2006 by the Management, the first respondent had withdrawn the earlier communication. He would submit that in the facts B of the case there was no error committed by the High Court in interfering with the Award. In regard to the complaint of the appellants that the High Court has exceeded its authority acting under Section 36 of the Act by modifying the Award, he very fairly submits that there may be merit in the said contention having regard to the view taken by this Court. C ANALYSIS 18. The controversy revolves around clause (3) which we have set out earlier. We must proceed in the matter on the basis that we cannot permit the first respondent to contend that termination of the dealership cannot be brought about by giving a three months’ notice D during the first 15 years of the dealership. Such an interpretation was not placed for the consideration of the Arbitrator. It is not even raised before the District Court or the High court. The first respondent is calling upon this Court in a case arising under the Act to place a wholly novel interpretation. It is not as if the contention canvassed is the only view E possible. In fact, the conduct of the first respondent is premised on the interpretation which leaves it open to the parties to terminate the contract by giving three months’ notice even within the first 15 years of the dealership. 19. On a perusal of clause (3), in fact, it occurred to this Court that here is a term in a contract which expressly does not require any F acceptance of the other party for the premature termination of the contract by giving a notice of three months.