As noticed, the scope of remand in terms of Rule 23 of XLI CPC is extremely limited and that provision is inapplicable because the suit in question had not been disposed of on a H 18 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A preliminary point. The remand in the present case could only be correlated with Rule 23-A of XLI CPC and for its applicability, the necessary requirements are that “the decree is reversed in appeal and a re-trial is considered necessary”. As noticed hereinabove, there is no reason whatsoever available in the impugned as to why and on what basis the decree was reversed by the High Court. Obviously, the reversal B has to be based on cogent reasons and for that matter, adverting to and dealing with the reasons that had prevailed with the Trial Court remains a sine qua non. Thus, remand in the present case cannot be held justified even in terms of Rule 23-A of XLI CPC. 12. On the facts of the present case and the nature of passed C by the High Court, the enunciations and observations in the case of Sanjay Kumar Singh (supra) are of no application whatsoever as none of the parties have sought any permission to adduce evidence nor the High Court has specified as to what specific evidence was considered necessary to enable it to pronounce or for any substantial cause. D Moreover, it does not appear from the of the High Court if the plaintiff-respondent No. 1 (appellant before the High Court), ever projected that the Trial Court did not allow her to produce any evidence that was sought to be produced. It is also not borne out if any of the parties at all made out any case for production of additional documents or oral evidence with reference to the applicable principles. Hence, the E general observations of the High Court cannot be correlated with Rule 27(1) either. With respect, we are constrained to apply the observations of this Court in Municipal Corporation, Hyderabad (supra) to say that the present of remand has been passed only on ipse dixit of High Court sans any reason or justification. F 13. It gets perforce reiterated that in the suit filed by respondent No. 1, the Trial Court had indeed returned its findings on the basis of evidence on record. Whether those findings are sustainable or not is a matter entirely different and the High Court may examine the same but merely because the High Court could not reach to a conclusion on preponderance of probabilities, the evidence on record could not have G been treated as insufficient so as to not pronounce the in terms of Rule 24 of XLI CPC. 14. In regard to the want of any particular evidence, we may observe in the passing that if the Court finds any particular evidence directly within the control and possession of a party having not been H SIRAJUDHEEN v. ZEENATH & ORS. 19 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] produced, the necessary consequences like those specified in illustration A (g) to Section 114 of the Evidence Act3 may follow but, merely because a particular evidence which ought to have been adduced but had not been adduced, the Appellate Court cannot adopt the soft course of remanding the matter.