The system of checks and balances has to be utilised in a balanced manner with the primary objective of accelerating economic growth rather than suspending its growth by doubting its constitutional efficacy at the threshold H itself.” (emphasis supplied) MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 121 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] 23. In Directorate General of Foreign Trade v. Kanak A Exports, (2016) 2 SCC 226, this Court has held : “109. Therefore, it cannot be denied that the Government has a right to amend, modify or even rescind a particular scheme. It is well settled that in complex economic matters every decision is necessarily empiric and it is based on experimentation or what B one may call trial and error method and therefore, its validity cannot be tested on any rigid prior considerations or on the application of any straitjacket formula. In BALCO Employees’ Union v. Union of India, (2002) 2 SCC 333] , the Supreme Court held that laws, including executive action relating to economic activities should C be viewed with greater latitude than laws touching civil rights such as freedom of speech, religion, etc. that the legislature should be allowed some play in the joints because it has to deal with complex problems which do not admit of solution through any doctrine or straitjacket formula and this is particularly true in case of legislation dealing with economic matters, where having regard D to the nature of the problems greater latitude require to be allowed to the legislature.” **** The raison d’être for the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code E **** 27. As is discernible, the Preamble gives an insight into what is sought to be achieved by the Code. The Code is first and foremost, a Code for reorganisation and insolvency resolution of corporate debtors. Unless such reorganisation is effected in a F time-bound manner, the value of the assets of such persons will deplete. Therefore, maximisation of value of the assets of such persons so that they are efficiently run as going concerns is another very important objective of the Code. This, in turn, will promote entrepreneurship as the persons in management of the corporate debtor are removed and replaced by entrepreneurs. When, G therefore, a resolution plan takes off and the corporate debtor is brought back into the economic mainstream, it is able to repay its debts, which, in turn, enhances the viability of credit in the hands of banks and financial institutions. Above all, ultimately, the interests of all stakeholders are looked after as the corporate debtor H 122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A itself becomes a beneficiary of the resolution scheme—workers are paid, the creditors in the long run will be repaid in full, and shareholders/investors are able to maximise their investment. Timely resolution of a corporate debtor who is in the red, by an effective legal framework, would go a long way to support the development of credit markets. Since more investment can be B made with funds that have come back into the economy, business then eases up, which leads, overall, to higher economic growth and development of the Indian economy.