It further states that when the views were obtained from all the State Governments, some of the State Governments had raised concern over applicability of 10 kilometres range from the Protected Area boundary and informed that most of the human habitation and E other areas including important cities in these States would come under the purview of ESZs and will adversely affect the development. The said Guidelines also refer to the National Wildlife Action Plan (2002- 2016). The NBWL, in its meeting held on 17th March 2005, decided that the delineation of ESZs would have to be site specific and relate to F regulation rather than prohibition of specific activities. The said decision was communicated to all the State Governments for compliance vide letter dated 27th May 2005. 34. The said Guidelines thereafter refer to the directions of this Court dated 4th December 2006. It also refers to the statutory provisions G as contained in Section 5C (1) of the 1972 Act, Section 3 of the 1986 Act and Rule 5 of the 1986 Rules. The said Guidelines state that the purpose of declaring ESZs around National Parks and Sanctuaries is to create some kind of Shock Absorber for the Protected Areas. They would also act as a transition zone from areas of high protection to areas involving lesser protection. It also reiterates the decision of the NBWL that the H 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A activities in the ESZs would be of a regulatory nature rather than prohibitive nature unless and otherwise so required. Paragraph 4 of the said Guidelines notes that many of the existing Protected Areas have already undergone tremendous development in close vicinity to their boundaries. It refers to the Guindy National Park, Tamil Nadu, Sanjay Gandhi National Park, Maharashtra, etc. and notes that the Protected B Areas are lying in the urban set up. It therefore observes that defining the extent of ESZs around Protected Areas will have to be kept flexible and Protected Area specific. It notes that the width of ESZs and type of regulations will differ from one Protected Area to another Protected Area. It however notes that, as a general principle, the width of the C ESZs could go up to 10 kilometres around a Protected Area as provided in the Wildlife Conservation Strategy-2002. It further notes that in case where sensitive corridors, connectivity and ecologically important patches, crucial for landscape linkage, are even beyond 10 kilometres width, these should be included in the ESZs. It further notes that even in context of a particular Protected Area, the distribution of an area of the ESZ and the D extent of regulation may not be uniform all around and it could be of variable width and extent. The said Guidelines notes that though the directions were issued by this Court to all the States/Union Territories, except a few States, several other States/Union Territories have not come forward with the proposals for declaration of ESZs. It was E observed that this could be perhaps for want of guidelines in this regard.