44 dated 15.11.1952. The inference drawn by this Court was that the Constituent Assembly of the State did not desire for this Article to cease to be operative. In fact, it agreed to the continued operation of this Article by recommending that it should be considered operative with this modifi cation only. 73 1994 Supp (1) SCC 324 74 1969 (2) SCR 365 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 327 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] ii. Part XXI of the Constitution, which incorporates Article 370 is titled as “Temporary, Transitional and Special Provisions.” With respect to how the expression ‘temporary’ is to be understood, a common theme of submissions was presented by Mr. Kapil Sibal, Mr. Gopal Shankarnarayan. The use of the phrase “temporary” was stated to be in a limited sense by the nature of Article 370, i.e., and the fi nal decision on its continuance was to be taken by the Jammu & Kashmir Constituent Assembly. However, once the Assembly dissolved, there is no conceivable way that Article 370 could remain temporary, even if the phrase was not deleted from the Constitution. In a sense it was urged that the phrase ‘temporary’ became infructuous after the Constituent Assembly of the State had done its task. iii. The Constituent Assembly of the State had a wide and defi ned role. Since no other body could take over the role of the State Constituent Assembly, neither could the Legislative Assembly. The constituent power was urged to be a diff erent genus from the legislative power, as per Mr. Sibal. iv. It was urged by the petitioners that the marginal heading to the provision could not dictate the very contents of the provisions. To stress this the speeches of Dr. Ambedkar from the Constituent Assembly and the observations made in Kesavananda Bharati v. State of Kerala75 were quoted. v. The C.O. 48 was urged to be a bilateral effort and a sign of confi rmation both by the Jammu & Kashmir Constituent Assembly and the Indian Government that the provision must continue. The report of the J&K Constituent Assembly Drafting Committee was adopted verbatim as C.O. 48 to clearly defi ne the sphere of Parliament’s jurisdiction in the State. vi. A uniquely divergent view was urged by Mr. Dinesh Dwivedi, learned senior counsel, which was not common to any of the other counsel. It was his say that once the Jammu & Kashmir Constituent Assembly was dissolved, Article 370 came to an end. Article 370(2) of 75 (1973) 4 SCC 225 328 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. the Constitution, gave the Constituent Assembly the fi nal authority on deciding upon the continuance of the Presidential s made under Article 370(1) and, thus, no fresh s could be made after the Assembly ceased to be in existence. Thus, he urged that all C.O.s issued from time to time were without the constitutional mandate and that the view adopted in Sampat Prakash76 case was not the correct view. Nevertheless, the two Constitutions would keep operating concurrently and in perpetuity.