Article 19(1)(e) proscribes diff erentiation on the 199 Evan Gerstmann, Same-sex marriage and the Constitution, (Cambridge University Press 2017) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1359 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] basis of the native place of a person. As with other fundamental rights, it is subject to reasonable restrictions. In Maneka Gandhi v. Union of India,200 this Court observed that it was a historical fact that there were rivalries between some states in the country. It was therefore not beyond the realm of possibility that a particular state would restrain individuals domiciled in another state from residing or settling in the fi rst state. In view of this, the Court held that the intention behind Article 19(1)(d) (the right to move freely throughout the territory of India) and Article 19(1)(e) was to prevent the states from imposing such restrictions. In this way, the provision was thought to emphasize the unity and oneness of India. 225. Article 19(1)(e) uses the expressions “reside” and “settle.” The term “reside” can mean either a temporary residence or a permanent residence but there is a certain level of permanency attached to the word “settle” in India. One can reside in a particular place in the course of their education or employment but to settle down in that place means to build one’s life there and reside their permanently.201 In P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Law Lexicon (1997 edition), it is stated: “The word “settled” has no precise or determinate meaning. In popular language, it intends going into a town or place to live and take up one’s abode. A person is said to be settled where he has his domicile or home.” Colloquially, people say that a person has “settled down” when they are well established in their careers or when they have chosen a life partner or married somebody. 226. Citizens of India have the right to settle in any part of the territory of India in terms of Article 19(1)(e). They, like all other citizens, may exercise this right in two ways: a. First, they may build their lives in a place of their choosing (in accordance with law) either by themselves or with their partner. They may reside in that place permanently (subject to other 200 (1978) 1 SCC 248 201 The term “settle down” has previously been used by this Court in this sense. See, for instance, Pradeep Jain v. Union of India, (1984) 3 SCC 654 136 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. reasonable restrictions including those intended to protect the rights of tribal communities). This right is uniquely signifi cant to persecuted groups (such as queer persons, inter-caste couples, or interfaith couples) who migrate from their hometowns to other places in the country, including cities;202 and b. Second, they may “settle down” with another person by entering into a lasting relationship with them. In fact, this mode of the exercising the right under Article 19(1)(e) is encompassed by the fi rst mode because to many people, building a life includes choosing their life partner.