H 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A description of the property in question and had taken the pleadings in a misleading manner about the facts concerning right, title and interest of the wife of his brother-in-law in the property in question and about the fact that the building was constructed on two adjoining plots as a common superstructure. B 4. For what has been noticed hereinabove, the short point arising for determination in these appeals is as to whether the High Court has been justified in reversing the respective s of eviction. The factual aspects pertaining to both these cases lie in a narrow compass and could be noticed as follows: C 4.1. In the petition bearing No. 02 of 2011, the appellant sought eviction of the respondent-tenant with the averments that the respondent was inducted as tenant by her predecessor in the year 1995 at the rent of Rs. 1200/- per month in one room on the first floor of the property bearing No. C-586, Gali No. 12, Majlis Park, Delhi – 110033. The appellant also stated that the current monthly rent of the suit premises D was Rs. 2100/- but, the tenant had not paid the rent since 01.06.2010. 4.2. The description of the property by the appellant in her petitions seeking eviction has formed the basis of the view of the High Court about want of forthrightness on her part. Therefore, it would be appropriate to reproduce the relevant parts of the pleadings taken by E the appellant in that regard, which read as under: - “18. (a) The grounds on which the eviction of the tenant is sought:- i) Petitioner and her family are presently residing in the ground floor of aforesaid property and the accommodation presently available with the petitioner is totally insufficient for them and for F the family members, who are dependent upon them for their residence. Petitioner resides in a joint family which comprises of her husband’s real brother (=Brother in law), his wife, 2 unmarried daughters, 1 married daughter and 1 son and she considers family of her brother in law as her own family. Entire family of the G petitioner needs at least 5 bed rooms, 2 drawing rooms, 2 kitchen, 3 toilets, 3 bathrooms, 1 pooja room, 1 guest room, 1 verandah and a servant quarter. Petitioner also requires two rooms with 1 toilet, kitchen and verandah for opening of ‘Play-way’ by third daughter of her brother in law, Ms. Charu Sharma. However, accommodation presently available with the petitioner is only 2 H KUSUM LATA SHARMA v. ARVIND SINGH 497 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] bed rooms, 1 drawing room, 2 kitchens, 2 latrine/bathroom, 2 small A store rooms, 1 pooja room and one verandah on the ground floor and 1 room each on the first and second floor which is grossly insufficient. Married daughter of brother in law of the petitioner and other close relatives of the petitioner keep visiting the petitioner and wants to stay with her out of love and affection for reasonable B period, however due to lack of accommodation, they cannot stay.