was empowered to extend the period of such exchange. Such A being the scheme of the Act regarding exchange of high denomination banknotes it cannot be said that the time and the manner in which the high denomination banknotes could be exchanged were unreasonable, unjust and violative of the petitioners’ fundamental rights.” B [emphasis supplied] 286. The Constitution Bench found that if the time for such exchange was not limited, the high denomination bank notes could be circulated and transferred without the knowledge of the authorities concerned, from one person to another and any such transferee could C walk into the Bank on any day thereafter and demand exchange of his notes. It was held that, in such an eventuality, the very object which the Demonetization Act sought to achieve would have been defeated. The Court found that between 16th January 1978 and 19th January 1978, the holder was entitled to get the exchange value of his notes from the Bank without any limit or hindrance. The challenge that the period of three D days was unreasonable, unjust and violative of the petitioners’ fundamental rights, stood specifically rejected. 287. In the present case, the period for exchanging any amount of SBNs and depositing the same in the KYC compliant bank account without any limit or hindrance was 52 days, whereas the said period in E the case of Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah (supra) was only three days, which is much less as compared to the one provided by the impugned Notification. In the light of what has been held by the Constitution Bench in the case of Jayantilal Ratanchand Shah (supra), we fail to understand as to how the said period of 52 days could be construed to be F unreasonable, unjust and violative of the petitioners’ fundamental rights. 288. We, therefore, hold that the period provided for exchange of notes vide the impugned Notification dated 8th November 2016 cannot be said to be unreasonable. ISSUE NO. (vi): AS TO WHETHER THE RBI HAS AN G INDEPENDENT POWER UNDER SUB-SECTION (2) OF SECTION 4 OF THE 2017 ACT IN ISOLATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 3 AND SECTION 4(1) THEREOF TO ACCEPT THE DEMONETIZED NOTES BEYOND THE PERIOD SPECIFIED IN NOTIFICATIONS ISSUED UNDER SUB-SECTION (1) OF SECTION 4 OF THE 2017 ACT? H 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 289. It is sought to be urged by Shri Divan that the RBI has independent power under sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the 2017 Act. Contextual and harmonious construction of the provisions of the 2017 Act. 290. For appreciating the said contention, it will be appropriate to B refer to Sections 3 and 4 of the 2017 Act, which read thus: “3. Specified bank notes to cease to be liability of Reserve Bank or Central Government.— On and from the appointed day, notwithstanding anything contained in the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 (2 of 1934) or any other law for the time being in C force, the specified bank notes which have ceased to be legal tender, in view of the notification of the Government of India in the Ministry of Finance, number S.O.