There is no good reason given by the Court in these decisions as to why a Magistrate’s powers to further investigation would suddenly cease upon process being issued, G and an accused appearing before the Magistrate, while concomitantly, the power of the police to further investigate the offence continues right till the stage the trial commences. Such a view would not accord with the earlier s of this Court, in particular, Sakiri [Sakiri Vasu v. State of U.P., (2008) 2 SCC H 74 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 409], Samaj Parivartan Samudaya [Samaj Parivartan Samudaya v. State of Karnataka, (2012) 7 SCC 407], Vinay Tyagi [Vinay Tyagi v. Irshad Ali, (2013) 5 SCC 762], and Hardeep Singh [Hardeep Singh v. State of Punjab, (2014) 3 SCC 92]; Hardeep Singh [Hardeep Singh v. State of Punjab, (2014) 3 SCC 92] having clearly held that a criminal trial does not B begin after cognizance is taken, but only after charges are framed. What is not given any importance at all in the recent s of this Court is Article 21 of the Constitution and the fact that the Article demands no less than a fair and just investigation. To say that a fair and just investigation would lead to the conclusion that C the police retain the power, subject, of course, to the Magistrate’s nod under Section 173(8) to further investigate an offence till charges are framed, but that the supervisory jurisdiction of the Magistrate suddenly ceases midway through the pre-trial proceedings, would amount to a travesty of justice, as certain cases may cry out for further investigation so that an innocent D person is not wrongly arraigned as an accused or that a prima facie guilty person is not so left out. There is no warrant for such a narrow and restrictive view of the powers of the Magistrate, particularly when such powers are traceable to Section 156(3) read with Section 156(1), Section 2(h) and Section 173(8) CrPC, E as has been noticed hereinabove, and would be available at all stages of the progress of a criminal case before the trial actually commences. It would also be in the interest of justice that this power be exercised suo motu by the Magistrate himself, depending on the facts of each case. Whether further investigation should or should not be ed is within the discretion of the learned F Magistrate who will exercise such discretion on the facts of each case and in accordance with law. If, for example, fresh facts come to light which would lead to inculpating or exculpating certain persons, arriving at the truth and doing substantial justice in a criminal case are more important than avoiding further delay being G caused in concluding the criminal proceeding, as was held in Hasanbhai Valibhai Qureshi [Hasanbhai Valibhai Qureshi v. State of Gujarat, (2004) 5 SCC 347]. Therefore, to the extent that the s in Amrutbhai Shambhubhai Patel [Amrutbhai Shambhubhai Patel v. Sumanbhai Kantibhai Patel, (2017) 4 SCC 177], Athul Rao [Athul Rao v. State of Karnataka, (2018) H ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF 75 MAHARASHTRA & ORS.