If the building had been completed within three years as promised by the respondents, the complainant may have got possession thereof and utilised the same. She could not do so during her lifetime and her legal representatives have been compelled to pursue this litigation. H 1134 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A It is an admitted position that between August 1989 and October 1993, Smt Gursharan Kaur and the complainant deposited a total sum of Rs 4,53,850 in the form of instalments. The respondents not only failed to complete the project within the stipulated time but also failed to return the instalments deposited by Smt Gursharan Kaur and the complainant. The amount was B returned only along with the cancellation letter and, as mentioned above, the complainant had returned the pay with the legal notice sent on 7-9-2005. 43. Though Section 12-B empowers the Tribunal to award compensation but no criteria has been laid down by the C legislature for exercise of that power. However, keeping in view the fact that the construction of the flat was delayed by more than one decade and the amount of instalments deposited by Smt Gursharan Kaur and the complainant totalling Rs 4,53,850 was retained by the respondents for a period ranging D from 15 years to more than 12 years, I feel that ends of justice would be served by directing the respondents to pay compound interest @ 15% per annum to the legal representatives of the complainant. 44. Accordingly, UTPE No. 90 of 2005 and CA No. 39 of E 2009 are disposed of in the following terms: (i) It is declared that the respondents have acted in violation of Sections 36-A(1)(i), (ii) and (ix) of the Act and they are guilty of unfair trade practice, (ii) The complainant’s prayer for directing the respondents to F deliver possession of Flat B-301 in Siddharth Shila Apartments is rejected, (iii) The respondents are directed to pay compound interest @ 15% per annum to the legal representatives of the complainant. The interest shall be calculated on each instalment G paid by Smt Gursharan Kaur and the complainant from the date of deposit till 30-4-2005 i.e. the date on which the allotment was cancelled, and (iv) The respondents shall pay Rs 4,53,850 and compound interest to the legal representatives of the complainant in terms H of (iii) above within a period of three months from today. If M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1135 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the needful is not done, then the legal representatives of the A complainant shall be entitled to file appropriate application for execution of this .” 3. Since the facts have clearly emerged from what we have extracted above, we need not to go into the factual matrix. The contention of the appellant is that since the allotment has been B cancelled, the appellant should be entitled to compound interest @ 15% from the original dates of payment from 1989 till the date of payment and there is no justification in limiting the interest to 30-4-2005.