Further during the pendency of the suit, the parties were directed to maintain status-quo in respect of the suit property as regards possession and alienation while reserving all contentions to be kept open to be urged before the Trial Court. At this stage itself, it may be pointed out that the learned Judge of the High Court also lost sight of the fact that the fi rst appellate court had not considered the Regular Appeal on merits but the matter has been remanded to the trial court by passing the fi rst appellate court. Being aggrieved by the dated 13.04.2022 the appellants herein, who were plaintiff s in the suit which had been decreed, preferred Review Petition No.536/2022. By dated 23.06.2022, the review petition has been dismissed. Hence, these appeals. We have heard learned counsel for the appellants and learned senior counsel for the contesting respondent No.1. Learned counsel for respondent No.2 submitted that respondent No.2 Venkataramanappa died during the pendency of the matter(s) before this Court on 12.01.2023 and his legal representatives have not been brought on record. He further submitted that the said Venkataramanappa had preferred R.A. No.62/2012 but had withdrawn the same and the said appeal(s) was dismissed as withdrawn on 10.08.2018. HEMAVATHI AND ORS. v. V. HOMBEGOWDA 481 [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] In the circumstances, in view of our proposed , we do not think at this stage the matter(s) would require the legal representatives of the deceased-respondent No.2 to be brought on record. Learned counsel for the appellants submitted that there are two main serious errors in the impugned : fi rstly, the Regular Second Appeal has been allowed at the stage of admission without framing a substantial question of law which is contrary to the mandate of Section 100 of the CPC; Secondly, it was submitted that all respondents before the High Court were not heard in the matter(s) and this is evident on a reading of the cause title of the impugned wherein only respondent No.2 was represented by a counsel as a caveator. Therefore, in the absence of hearing respondent Nos.1, 3 and 4 before the High Court, the Second Appeal could not have been allowed. Thirdly, it was contended that the High Court was not right in condoning the delay of 2945 days in fi ling Regular Appeal No.1/2021 inasmuch as the fi rst appellate court by a detailed had dismissed the said appeal on the ground of delay and laches. Therefore, the impugned / of the High Court dated 13.04.2022 as well as the passed in the Review Petition dated 23.06.2022 may be set aside. Per contra, learned senior counsel appearing for the fi rst respondent who is the contesting respondent and appellant in R.A. No.1/2021 supported the impugned and submitted that since the matter(s) was being remanded to the Trial Court reserving all contentions to be left open and by giving additional opportunity to all parties the non-framing of the substantial question of law and non-hearing of some of the respondents before the High Court, is immaterial.