refusal or defiance, apart from failure to observe the provisions of the A Model Code of Conduct for Guidance. Therefore, after 1994, enormous powers have been conferred on the Election Commission to ensure compliance with the Model Code of Conduct for Guidance of Political Parties issued by the Election Commission in 1991 or as amended by it from time to time. The power can also be exercised under Paragraph- B 16A in regard to failure or defiance in the matter of following lawful directions and instructions by the Commission. 177. In Subramanian Swamy v. Election Commission of India through its Secretary63, this Court held that the purpose of making the Symbols was to maintain the purity of elections. The Court C highlighted the duty of the Election Commission to hold free, fair and clean elections. 178. Paragraph-18 of the Symbols reads as follows: “18. Power of Commission to issue instructions and directions. The Commission, may issue instructions and directions- D (a) for the clarification of any of the provisions of this ; (b) for the removal of any difficulty which may arise in relation to the implementation of any such provisions; and (c) in relation to any matter with respect to the reservation and E allotment of symbols and recognition of political parties, for which this makes no provision or makes insufficient provision, and provision is in the opinion of the Commission necessary for the smooth and ly conduct of elections.” 179. Dealing with the ambit of paragraph-18, this Court held, inter F alia, in Edapaddi K. Palaniswami v. T.T.V. Dhinakaran and others64, as follows: “24. Indeed, allotment of an election symbol cannot be claimed as a fundamental right as much as contesting election is not, as observed in Jyoti Basu v. Debi Ghosal [Jyoti Basu v. Debi G Ghosal, (1982) 1 SCC 691] . It is a statutory right. It is also well settled that the Election Commission has plenary powers and could exercise the same to ensure free and fair elections. Clause 18 of 63 (2008) 14 SCC 318 64(2019) 18 SCC 219 H 146 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the Symbols predicates the facet of such plenary power to be exercised by the Election Commission. Clause 18 reads thus : “18. Power of Commission to issue instructions and directions.—The Commission, may issue instructions and directions— B (a) for the clarification of any of the provisions of this ; (b) for the removal of any difficulty which may arise in relation to the implementation of any such provisions; and (c) in relation to any matter with respect to the reservation and allotment of symbols and recognition of political parties, for which C this makes no provision or makes insufficient provision, and provision is in the opinion of the Commission necessary for the smooth and ly conduct of elections.” 25. The Election Commission in the past has exercised plenary powers under Para 18 for issuing interim directions regarding D allocation of common symbols to the two factions, when the dispute under the Symbols was still pending before it.