7, page 127 and following) and the interesting discussion—para 527 negative averments and para 528—“require affi rmative counter-evidence” at page 438 and foil, of Kenny’s outlines of Criminal Law, 17th Edn. 1958. 45. But Section 106 has no application to cases where the fact in question having regard to its nature is such as to be capable of being known not only by the accused but also by others if they happened to be present when it took place. From the illustrations appended to the section, it is clear that an intention not apparent from the character and circumstances of the act must be established as especially within the knowledge of the person whose act is in question and the fact that a person found travelling without a ticket was possessed of a ticket at a stage prior in point of time to his being found without one, must be especially within the knowledge of the traveller himself : see Section 106 of the Indian Evidence Act, illustrations (a) and (b). BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 845 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 46. A manifest distinction exists between the burden of proof and the burden of going forward with the evidence. Generally, the burden of proof upon any affi rmative proposition necessary to be established as the foundation of an issue does not shift, but the burden of evidence or the burden of explanation may shift from one side to the other according to the testimony. Thus, if the prosecution has off ered evidence which if believed by the court would convince them of the accused’s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, the accused is in a position where he should go forward with counter- vailing evidence if he has such evidence. When facts are peculiarly within the knowledge of the accused, the burden is on him to present evidence of such facts, whether the proposition is an affi rmative or negative one. He is not required to do so even though a prima facie case has been established, for the court must still fi nd that he is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt before it can convict. However, the accused’s failure to present evidence on his behalf may be regarded by the court as confi rming the conclusion indicated by the evidence presented by the prosecution or as confi rming presumptions which might have been rebutted. Although not legally required to produce evidence on his own behalf, the accused may therefore as a practical matter fi nd it essential to go forward with proof. This does not alter the burden of proof resting upon the prosecution (Wharton’s Criminal Evidence, 12th Edn. 1955, Vol. 1, Ch. 2 p. 37 and foil). Leland v. State reported in 343 U.S. 790=96 L.Ed. 1302, Raff el v. U.S. reported in 271 U.S. 294=70 L.Ed. 1054. WHAT IS “PRIMA FACIE CASE” IN THE CONTEXT OF SECTION 106 OF THE EVIDENCE ACT? 47. The Latin expression prima facie means “at fi rst sight”, “at fi rst view”, or “based on fi rst impression”.