Provided always that in any case in which any of the powers conferred upon the Company (IRCON) hereof shall have become exercisable and the same shall not H 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A be exercised, the non-exercise thereof shall not constitute a waiver of any of the conditions hereof and such powers shall notwithstanding be exercisable in the event of any future case of default by the contractor for which his liability for past and future shall remain unaffected.” B Considering the material on record and on appreciation of evidence, the learned Arbitral Tribunal though observed that the IRCON was not justified in rescinding the contract under Clause 60.1, rescinding of the contract / termination of the contract was justified under Clause 17.4, and thereby has rejected the Claim Nos.33 and 34 of the NBCC which were with respect to forfeiture of the security deposits. The learned C Single Judge as well as the Division Bench of the High Court have set aside the award passed by the learned Arbitral Tribunal rejecting Claim Nos.33 and 34 inter alia on the ground that once the Arbitral Tribunal gave the finding that the IRCON was not justified in invoking Clause 60.1, thereafter it was not open for the Arbitral Tribunal to take the help D of Clause 17.4 and therefore, the learned Arbitral Tribunal was not justified in rejecting Claim Nos.33 and 34 which were with respect to forfeiture of security deposits, which could have been under Clause 17.4. However, it is required to be noted that as such the finding recorded by the Arbitral Tribunal on applicability of Clause 17.4 and/or rescinding E of the contract under Clause 17.4 has not been set aside either by the learned Single Judge or by the Division Bench of the High Court and therefore, the findings recorded by the learned Arbitral Tribunal on applicability of Clause 17.4 has attained the finality. The learned Arbitral Tribunal as such was absolutely justified in considering whether IRCON was justified in rescinding the contract, may be either under Clause 60.1 F or under Clause 17.4. Even otherwise, from the material on record and even the notice dated 21.02.1994 and the subsequent notice dated 07.03.1994, we are satisfied that the IRCON was satisfied that the work could not be completed by the contractor even within further extension of time. Clause 17.4 provides that if the company (IRCON) is not satisfied G that the works can be completed by the contractor and in the event of failure on the part of the contractor to complete the works within further extension of time allowed, the IRCON shall be entitled, without prejudice to any other right or remedy available in that behalf, to appropriate the contractor’s security deposits and rescind the contract, whether or not actual damage is caused by such default. Even Clause 60.1 also provides H INDIAN RAILWAY CONST. COMPANY LTD. v. M/S 725 NATIONAL BUILDINGS CONST. CORP. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] for determination of contract owing to default of contractor.