There is no error in the view expressed by the High Court which may call for interference. [Para 32][93-C-D] H 82 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 1.8 The submission that the appellants in Civil Appeal No. 10127 of 2011 have not participated in the bidding process and made an offer at the later stage, have no locus standi to challenge the of the AAIFR confirming the bid of the appellants. In the facts and circumstances of the case, it may not be of any assistance for the reason that the appellants in Civil Appeal No. B 10127 of 2011 indeed were not the bidders and have not tendered any sealed bid, but at the same time, they have made an offer at a later stage and directly interested in the subject property in question as they are residing there for sufficiently long time, and not the strangers to the proceedings, being the person aggrieved C their right to question invoking the jurisdiction of High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution cannot be ruled out. The of the AAIFR confirming the bid pursuant to its impugned dated 1st April, 2005 is not legally sustainable, there is no justification at this stage to non-suit the claim of the appellants prayed for in Civil Appeal No. 10127 of 2011. [Paras D 33, 34][93-E-H] 1.9 The submissions that the conditions of the ASC were scrupulously adhered to and the entire bid amount was deposited after the came to be passed by the AAIFR confirming the bid on 3rd June, 2005 and 7th June, 2005 and Tripartite MOU E was executed is of no substance for the reason that the very procedure in the first instance initiated by the Operating Agency was defective at its very inception and before initiation of the auction proceedings, neither the value of the property was assessed through the approved valuer nor the reserve price was F notified in the auction notice and the solitary bid of the appellant was accepted and confirmed by the AAIFR without taking note of the fact that the appellant has failed to comply with the guidelines laid down by the ASC indicating that successful purchaser has to furnish a bank guarantee valid for a period of one year within 15 days of intimation regarding acceptance of the G bid and the balance of the purchase consideration has to be paid in two instalments in terms of clause (h) and (i) of the procedure and guidelines laid down by the ASC and that being a part of the auction notice, the appellant was under obligation to comply with and despite opportunity the appellant failed to comply with both H RAJIV KUMAR JINDAL v. BCI STAFF COLONY 83 RESIDENTIAL WELFARE ASSOCIATION the twin conditions and, thus the Division Bench of the High Court A rightly set aside the of AAIFR. [Para 35][94-A-E] 1.10 The submission of the appellants in CA No. 10127 of 2011 that the offer made by the appellants was higher than the sealed bid is concerned, has no substance for the reason that the appellants did not participate in the bidding process and it is not B the case of the appellants that the auction notice published was not in their knowledge.