20 SUPREME COU[2R0T2 3R] E5P SO.CR.TRS. 20 [2023] 5 S.C.R. A PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU & ORS. (Civil Appeal No. 2913-2915 of 2018) B MARCH 29, 2023 [A. S. BOPANNA AND J. B. PARDIWALA, JJ.] Hindu Succession Act, 1956– Amendment in law governing the parties – Partition suit – s.6, 1956 Act was amended by 2005 Amendment, before the conclusion of the final decree proceedings C – Effect of – Held: Partition suit is required to be decided in stages and the same can be regarded as fully and completely decided only when the final decree is passed – Thus, as the law governing the parties was amended before the conclusion of the final decree proceedings, the party benefitted by such amendment (like the two D daughters in the present case) can make a request to the Trial Court to take cognizance of the Amendment and give effect to the same – Plaintiff entitled to 1/3rd share in all the properties of her late father scheduled in the plaint – Preliminary decree drawn by the Trial Court as affirmed by the High Court modified to the said extent – Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005. E Hindu Succession Act, 1956 – s.6 as amended by 2005 Amendment – Interpretation of, in Vineeta Sharma case – Position of law pre and post the amendment – Discussed – Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005. F Code of Civil procedure, 1908 – O.XXIII, r.3; Or.XLI, r.22, o.XLIII, r.1-A (2) – Cross Appeal – Maintainability of – Held: Right of appeal is the creature of statute – The right to prefer cross- objection partakes of the right to prefer an appeal – A cross-appeal is the exercise of substantive right of appeal and only the procedure varies – Cross-appeal objector is entitled u/o.XLI, r.22 r/w O.XLIII, G r.1-A (2) to make good the submission that she was entitled in law to question the legality and validity of the settlement agreement recorded u/ O.XXIII, r.3 by way of a cross-appeal – Thus, in the present case, the cross-appeal filed by the Original Defendant No.2, H 20 PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 21 & ORS. questioning the legality and validity of the settlement was A maintainable in law. Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 – Or.XXIII, r.3 – Settlement Agreement without written consent of all the parties – Validity of – Held: Under Or.XXIII, r.3, when a claim in suit has been adjusted wholly or in part by any lawful agreement or compromise, the B compromise must be in writing and signed by the parties and there must be a completed agreement between them – In the present case, the plaintiff did not put her signature on the deed of settlement, which was produced before the High Court in first appeal – Thus, it was unlawful, being without written consent of all the parties – In a C suit for partition of joint property, a decree by consent amongst only some of the parties cannot be maintained – Hence, settlement between the Defendant no.1 and 2 was not in accordance with law.