x x x E 13. Recognition of medical qualifications granted by certain medical institutions whose qualifications are not included in the First or Second Schedule.— (1) The medical qualifications granted by medical institutions in F India which are not included in the First Schedule and which are included in Part I of the Third Schedule shall also be recognised medical qualifications for the purposes of this Act. (2) The medical qualifications granted to a citizen of India— (a) before the 15th day of August, 1947, by medical institutions G in the territories now forming part of Pakistan, and (b) before the Ist day of April, 1937, by medical institutions in the territories now forming part of Burma, which are included in Part I of the Third Schedule shall also be recognised medical qualifications for the purposes of this Act. H 972 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (3) The medical qualifications granted by medical institutions outside India before such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify which are included in Part II of the Third Schedule shall also be recognised medical qualifications for the purposes of this Act, but no person possessing any such qualification shall be entitled to enrolment on any State B Medical Register unless he is a citizen of India and has undergone such practical training after obtaining that qualification as may be required by the rules or regulations in force in the country granting the qualification, or if he has not undergone any practical training in that country he has undergone such practical training as may C be prescribed. x x x 15. Right of persons possessing qualifications in the Schedules to be enrolled.— (1) Subject to the other provisions contained in this Act, the medical D qualifications included in the Schedules shall be sufficient qualification for enrolment on any State Medical Register. (2) Save as provided in section 25, no person other than a medical practitioner enrolled on a State Medical Register,— E (a) shall hold office as physician or surgeon or any other office (by whatever designation called) in Government or in any institution maintained by a local or other authority; (b) shall practise medicine in any State; (c) shall be entitled to sign or authenticate a medical or fitness F certificate or any other certificate required by any law to be signed or authenticated by a duly qualified medical practitioner; (d) shall be entitled to give evidence at any inquest or in any court of law as an expert under section 45 of the Indian G Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872) on any matter relating to medicine. (3) Any person who acts in contravention of any provision of sub- section (2) shall be punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to one H thousand rupees, or with both. BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 973 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]