[Para 6.1][98-C-D] C 1.2 On going through the impugned and passed by the High Court, it appears that the High Court has simply relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh. The High Court has materially erred in relying upon the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh. [Para 6.2][98-E] CIT, Patiala vs. Piara Singh 124 ITR 4 – held D inapplicable. 1.3 In the present case the ownership of the confiscated silver bars of the assessee now cannot be disputed and even the assessee is not disputing the same. Even on that also there are concurrent findings by all the authorities below and including the E customs authorities. Therefore, the next question which is posed for consideration before this Court is whether the assessee can claim the business loss of the value of the silver bar confiscated and whether the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh would be applicable? To answer to the aforesaid question, it can F be seen that in the present case the main business of the assessee is dealing in silver. His business cannot be said to be smuggling of the silver bars as was the case in the case of Piara Singh. In the assessee’s case he was carrying on an otherwise legitimate silver business and in attempt to make larger profits, he indulged into smuggling of silver, which was an infraction of G Civil law. In that view of the matter the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh which has been relied upon by the High Court while passing the impugned and and it has been relied upon by the assessee shall not be applicable to the H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 87 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. facts of the case. On hand or the other hand the decision of this A Court in the case of Haji Aziz and the decisions of the Andhra Pradesh High Court and the Bombay High Court which were pressed into service by the Revenue in Piara Singh would be applicable with full force. [Paras 6.7, 6.8][99-H; 100-A-D] Haji Aziz & Abdul Shakoor Bros. v. CIT, AIR 1961 SC B 663 : [1961] SCR 651 – relied on. Soni Hinduji Kushalji & Co. vs. CIT, (1973) 89 ITR 112(AP); JS Parkar v. VB Palekar, (1974) 94 ITR 616 (Bom) – approved. C 1.4 In view of the above and for the reason stated above and looking to the business of the assessee namely silver business and was not in the business of smuggling silver, the decision of this Court in the case of Piara Singh shall not be applicable and therefore the impugned and passed by the High Court quashing and setting aside the passed by the D Assessing Officer, CIT(A) and the ITAT rejecting the claim of the Assessee to treat the silver bars confiscated by the customs authorities as business loss and consequently value allowing the same as business loss is unsustainable and the same deserves to be quashed and set side.