714 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 3E PSO.CR.RT.S 714 [2023] 3 S.C.R. A TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR & ORS. (Civil Appeal Nos. 2164–2172 of 2023) B MARCH 28, 2023 [K. M. JOSEPH AND B. V. NAGARATHNA, JJ.] Service law: Selection process – Quashing of – Selection process conducted for appointment of drug inspectors – 64 persons including some appellants selected and appointed as drug inspectors C and are serving on the said posts – However, the said selection and appointment challenged alleging discrepancies in the selection procedure – High Court quashed the selection and appointment – Upheld by the Division Bench – On appeal, held: Candidates, having taken part in the selection process without any demur or protest, D cannot challenge the same after having been declared unsuccessful – Candidates cannot approbate and reprobate at the same time – Simply because the result of the selection process is not palatable to a candidate, he cannot allege that the process of interview was unfair or that there was some lacuna in the process – Challenge ought not to have been entertained in light of the principle of waiver E and acquiescence – Furthermore, no mala fide or arbitrariness is found in the selection process – Recasting the selection criteria was only with regard to allocation of marks for the respective educational qualification of the candidates – It was with a view to preserve the standards of the selection process – Furthermore, the F assessment and evaluation of the performance of candidates appearing before the Selection Committee/Interview Board should be best left to the members of the committee – In light of the pertinent selection procedure that was followed, the Court is unable to hold that the same was mechanical or casual or suffered from irregularities which were so grave or arbitrary in nature so as to justify quashing G the entire selection process –Thus, the High Court not justified in quashing and setting aside the entire selection process, more so when sixty-four candidates including the appellants had been serving on the said post for over a decade – Jammu and Kashmir Subordinate Services Recruitment Rules, 1992 – rr. 9 and 9A. H 714 TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 715 AND KASHMIR & ORS. Selection process for public employment – Scope of judicial A review – Held: Courts generally avoid interfering in the selection process of public employment, to maintain the autonomy and integrity of the selection process – Process of selection involves a high degree of expertise and discretion – Not appropriate for Courts to substitute their for that of a selection committee – Courts B intervene only when there are proven allegations of malfeasance or violations of statutory rules, or inherent arbitrariness. Words and Phrases: ‘Pharmacology’ and ‘Pharmacy’– Meaning of – Discussed. Allowing the appeals, the Court C HELD: 1.1 The Courts generally avoid interfering in the selection process of public employment, recognising the importance of maintaining the autonomy and integrity of the selection process.