4. Procedure for filing applications.—(1) An application to the Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government in this regard shall be presented in the Form annexed to these rules by the applicant either in person or by an H 1084 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A agent or by duly authorised legal practitioner or sent by registered post addressed to the Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government in this regard of the concerned State or the Union Territory. (2) The application under sub-rule (1) shall be presented in B four complete sets within a period of one hundred and eighty days from the date of publication of these rules. (3) The applicant may attach to and present with his application an acknowledgement slip as is given in the Form which shall be signed by the official receiving the application on behalf C of the Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government in this regard in acknowledgement of the receipt of the application. 5. Presentation and scrutiny of applications.—(1) The Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government in this regard shall endorse on every application the D date on which it is presented or deemed to have been presented under that rule and shall sign the endorsement. (2) If on scrutiny, the application is found to be in , it shall be duly registered and given serial number. E (3) If the application, on scrutiny, is found to be defective, the same shall be returned to the applicant within fifteen days for rectifying the defects and resubmitting the corrected application within fifteen days from the date of its receipt. (4) If the applicant fails to rectify the defect within the time F allowed under sub-rule (3), the Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government in this regard may, by and for the reasons to be recorded in writing, decline to register the application. 6. Place of filing application.—The applicant shall file G application with the Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government in this regard. 7. Date and place of hearing to be notified.— The Chief Wild Life Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government in this regard shall notify to the parties the date, place H and time of hearing of each application, if required. VISHALAKSHI AMMA v. STATE OF KERALA & ORS. 1085 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 8. Decision on applications.—(1) The Chief Wild Life A Warden or the officer authorised by the State Government in this regard shall verify the facts mentioned in the application and make such inquiry as may be required. (2) The Chief Wild Life Warden shall, as far as possible, decide the application within six months of the date of its B presentation and communicate the same to the applicant in writing under his own signature by registered post. 9.