As pointed out in Swamy Shraddananda(supra), the Court would take recourse to the expanded C option primarily because the life sentence of 14 years imprisonment may amount to no imprisonment at all in a given case. This observation is wide enough to take within its ambit all sentences of life imprisonment. Similarly, in V. Sriharan (supra), the majority opinion noted that there is no prohibition in the Penal Code, where death penalty or life imprisonment D is provided for, that imprisonment cannot be imposed for a specified period within the said life span and when life imprisonment means the whole life span of the convict, the Court which is empowered to impose the said punishment would also have the power to specify the period up to which the said sentence of life should remain, befitting the nature of crime. Again, this edict would hold good for all sentences of life E imprisonment. No doubt, the majority opinion also linked it to capital punishment, by observing that such special category of sentences could be substituted for death. More recently, in Shiva Kumar (supra), this Court affirmed that even in a case where capital punishment is not ‘proposed’, Constitutional Courts would have the power to impose a F modified or fixed-term sentence. 15. The above observations manifest the applicability of the same principle in cases where the maximum punishment prescribed by law is imprisonment for life with nothing further. Even in such cases, it would be a parody of justice to allow the convicts so sentenced to avail the G benefit of remissions and the like, liberally conferred by the State, and cut short the length of their life sentence to a mere 14 years. We are, therefore, of the considered opinion that the law laid down in Swamy Shraddananda(supra) and V. Sriharan(supra) with regard to special category sentencing to life imprisonment in excess of 14 years by fixing a lengthier term would be available to the High Courts and this Court, H 492 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A even in cases where the maximum punishment, permissible in law and duly imposed, is life imprisonment with nothing further. We must, however, hasten to add that exercise of such power must be restricted to grave cases, where allowing the convict sentenced to life imprisonment to seek release after a 14-year-term would tantamount to trivializing the very punishment imposed on such convict. Needless to state, cogent reasons B have to be recorded for exercising such power on the facts of a given case and such power must not be exercised casually or for the mere asking. 16. In the case on hand, the appellant was found guilty of one of the most monstrous and horrific of offences, viz, the physical violation of C his own daughter, who was not even in the first flush of youth. In the event he secures release after putting in just 14 years in jail, his possible re-entry into his daughter’s life, while she is still in her twenties, may cause her further trauma and make her life difficult.