24.02.2021 and the date of registration of FIR No.94 of 2022 on 25.03.2022 there was yet another FIR No.142 of 2021 registered by the mother of the victim regarding theft of jewellery against Vivek and there was no whisper of rape against respondent (Deepak) or others and the investigating offi cer is said to have recovered the jewellery from the accused Vivek. This chain of events would indicate that fi rst respondent – Deepak had no remote connection to the alleged incident of rape and he has been roped in to settle political scores. It is in these circumstances the investigating offi cer had found no material which can be imputed to point the guilt of the fi rst respondent (Deepak) and as such he had fi led a closure report while fi ling the charge-sheet against other two accused. She would also contend that fi rst respondent (Deepak) is innocent of the alleged off ence and, hence, she has prayed for rejection of the appeals. 10. Learned counsel appearing for Netram Special Leave Petition (Crl.) No.6200 of 2023 has contended that there has been delay of 13 months 476 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. in lodging the FIR; he would also contend that during the course of trial prosecution has made certain admissions which would depict there being a hole in prosecution theory, hence, he has sought for dismissal of the appeal. 11. Learned counsel appearing for the State, by reiterating the contentions urged in the counter affi davits fi led in the respective appeals, has prayed for the bail granted in favour of Netram being set aside or in other words, the appeal being allowed and has sailed along with the complainant. Whereas in the counter affi davit that has been fi led opposing the bail in Special Leave Petition (Crl.) No.6199 of 2023 against the granting bail in favour of respondent – Deepak, the State has virtually supported the defence of the accused Deepak and the material collected during the course of investigation, to stave off the claim of the complainant. Hence, he has prayed for dismissal of the appeals. DISCUSSION AND FINDINGS: 12. The grant of bail is a discretionary relief which necessarily means that such discretion would have to be exercised in a judicious manner and not as a matter of course. The grant of bail is dependant upon contextual facts of the matter being dealt with by the Court and may vary from case to case. There cannot be any exhaustive parameters set out for considering the application for grant of bail. However, it can be noted that; (a) While granting bail the court has to keep in mind factors such as the nature of accusations, severity of the punishment, if the accusations entails a conviction and the nature of evidence in support of the accusations; (b) reasonable apprehensions of the witnesses being tempered with or the apprehension of there being a threat for the complainant should also weight with the Court in the matter of grant of bail.