15. We may next consider the reliance in the impugned , on certain provisions of the Indian Evidence Act- particularly 137- 138,139, 154 and 155. For ready reference, the provisions are extracted as under: Section 137 Examination-in-chief. –– The examination of witness by the party who calls him shall be called his examination-in-chief. Cross-examination. –– The examination of a witness by the adverse party shall be called his cross-examination. Re-examination. ––The examination of a witness, subsequent to the cross-examination by the party who called him, shall be called his re-examination. 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Section 138 of examinations. –– Witnesses shall be fi rst examined-in-chief, then (if the adverse party so desires) cross-examined, then (if the party calling him so desires) re-examined. The examination and cross- examination must relate to relevant facts, but the cross-examination need not be confi ned to the facts to which the witness testifi ed on his examination-in-chief. Direction of re-examination. –– The re-examination shall be directed to the explanation of matters referred to in cross-examination; and, if new matter is, by permission of the Court, introduced in re-examination, the adverse party may further cross-examine upon that matter. Section 139 Cross-examination of person called to produce a document. –– A person summoned to produce a document does not become a witness by the mere fact that he produces it, and cannot be cross-examined unless and until he is called as a witness. Section 154 Question by party to his own witness. –– 1 [(1)] The Court may, in its discretion, permit the person who calls a witness to put any questions to him which might be put in cross- examination by the adverse party. 2 [(2) Nothing in this section shall disentitle the person so permitted under sub-section (1), to rely on any part of the evidence of such witness.] Section 155 Impeaching credit of witness.––The credit of a witness may be impeached in the following ways by the adverse party, or, with the consent of the Court, by the party who calls him:–– (1) By the evidence of persons who testify that they, from their knowledge of the witness, believe him to be unworthy of credit; (2) By proof that the witness has been bribed, or has 1 [accepted] the MOHAMMED ABDUL WAHID v. NILOFER & ANR. 885 off er of a bribe, or has received any other corrupt inducement to give his evidence; (3) By proof of former statements inconsistent with any part of his evidence which is liable to be contradicted; * * * * * Explanation. –– A witness declaring another witness to be unworthy of credit may not, upon his examination-in-chief, give reasons for his belief, but he may be asked his reasons in cross-examination, and the answers which he gives cannot be contradicted, though, if they are false, he may afterwards be charged with giving false evidence. 16. The thrust of the reliance was that this Act by the use of the phrase ‘by the parties who calls him’ in the extracted provision, recognizes the diff erence between a party to a suit and a witness called on to testify by a party.