15. In the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, it is further directed that the petitioner shall continue to function as JAG (Air) till the process of formulating a policy for fi lling up the post of JAG (Air) in the rank of AVM and aff ording an opportunity to the petitioner for being considered by the Promotion Board to be UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. AIR COMMODORE NK 1035 SHARMA (17038) ADM/LGL [SANJAY KAROL J.] constituted under the policy is completed. We hope and trust that the respondent No. 1 shall complete the process as far as practicable within a period of 3 months from today.” ARGUMENTS ADVANCED 10. By way of the Civil Appeal, the Appellants contend that the Tribunal was not justifi ed in directing that the Respondent be allowed to function as JAG (Air) till such time that the formulation of a policy for fi lling up the possession of AVM takes place, and he’s given an opportunity to be considered under such policy. Such a direction, it is submitted, is against public policy as it would allow the Respondent to continue in service beyond the age of superannuation, 57 years. He was due to retire from service on 30 November 2015. 10.1 Further, it was contended that the Tribunal could not direct that a person should be considered for promotion in particular manner or in terms of a new policy, framed upon such direction. 10.2 It was submitted that the Tribunal failed to consider the fact that the Respondents had duly been considered for promotion to the rank of AVM along with his colleagues of the administrative branch and was “not found fi t to be promoted.” 11. The Respondent, vide his counter affi davit dated 21stMarch 2016 has submitted the following: – 11.1 It is submitted that the Indian Air Force failed to formulate any policy to fi ll up the updated vacancy of AVM JAG (Air). It demonstrates utter disregard on part of the Appellants for the s of the Delhi High Court. 11.2 It is further submitted that, the of the AFT, contrary to the submission of the Appellants, is not opposed to public policy. If a fundamental right of the Respondent is violated or contravened, the learned Tribunal has the power to intervene and pass suitable s. 11.3 It is contended that the direction in favour of the Respondent enabling him to continue past the age of superannuation, was called for since the Appellants inaction continued since 2012. The direction to formulate a policy for fi lling up the above said post and subsequently considering the Respondent in accordance therewith was also necessitated thereby. 103 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 11.4 It is incorrect to state that the Tribunal has directed that the Respondent must be promoted. Therefore, the direction passed is not against the proposition of law that a person does not have the right to be promoted but has the right to be considered for promotion.