He has to prove good faith for the purpose of protection of the interests of the person making it or any other person or for the public good. The said proposition would defi nitely apply to any Exception who wants to have the benefi t of the same. Therefore, the argument that if the said Exception should be taken into consideration at the time of issuing summons it would be contrary to established criminal jurisprudence and, therefore, the stand that it cannot be taken into consideration makes the provision unreasonable, is absolutely an unsustainable one and in a way, a mercurial one. And we unhesitatingly repel the same.” (underlining ours, for emphasis) 23. Now, we take up for consideration the fi rst decision cited by Ms. Viswanathan, i.e., Rajendra Kumar Sitaram Pande (supra). The facts, the relevant issue and the fi nding – all are captured in paragraph 7, which we reproduce hereunder: “The next question that arises for consideration is whether reading the complaint and the report of the Treasury Offi cer which was obtained pursuant to the of the Magistrate under sub-section (1) of Section 201, can it be said that a prima facie case exists for trial or Exception 8 to Section 499 clearly applies and consequently in such a case, calling upon the accused to face trial would be a travesty of justice. The gravamen of the allegations in the complaint petition is that the accused persons made a complaint to the Treasury Offi cer, Amravati, containing false imputations to the eff ect that the complainant had come to the offi ce in a drunken state and abused the Treasury Offi cer, Additional Treasury Offi cer and the Collector and circulated in the offi ce using fi lthy language and such imputations had been made with the intention to cause damage to the reputation and services of the complainant. In to decide the correctness of this averment, the Magistrate instead of issuing process had called upon the Treasury Offi cer to hold an enquiry and submit a report and the said Treasury Offi cer did submit a report to the Magistrate. The question for consideration is whether M/S IVECO MAGIRUS BRANDSCHUTZTECHNIK GMBH v. 237 NIRMAL KISHORE BHARTIYA [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] the allegations in the complaint read with the report of the Magistrate make out the off ence under Section 500 or not. Section 499 of the Penal Code, 1860 defi nes the off ence of defamation and Section 500 provides the punishment for such off ence. Exception 8 to Section 499 clearly indicates that it is not a defamation to prefer in good faith an accusation against any person to any of those who have lawful authority over that person with regard to the subject-matter of accusation. The report of the Treasury Offi cer clearly indicates that pursuant to the report made by the accused persons against the complainant, a departmental enquiry had been initiated and the complainant was found to be guilty. Under such circumstances the fact that the accused persons had made a report to the superior offi cer of the complainant alleging that he had abused the Treasury Offi cer in a drunken state which is the gravamen of the present complaint and nothing more, would be covered by Exception 8 to Section 499 of the Penal Code, 1860.