177. We further find that non-quantification of the dues by the Electricity Regulatory Commissions and the untimely payment of the dues by the DISCOMS is also detrimental to the interests of the end consumers. If timely payment is not made by DISCOMS, under the clauses in the PPA, they are required to pay late payment surcharges, D which are much higher. Even in case of ‘Change in Law’ claims, the same procedure is required to be followed. 178. Ultimately, these late payment surcharges are added to the cost of electricity supplied to the end consumers. It is, thus, the end consumers who suffer by paying higher charges on account of the E DISCOMS not making timely payment to the Generators. 179. It is further to be noted that the appeal to this Court under Section 125 of the Electricity Act, 2003 is only permissible on any of the grounds as specified in Section 100 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908. As such, the appeal to this Court would be permissible only on F substantial questions of law. However, as already observed herein, even in cases where well-reasoned concurrent s are passed by the Electricity Regulatory Commissions and the learned APTEL, the same are challenged by the DISCOMS as well as the Generators. On account of pendency of litigation, which in some of the cases in this batch has G been more than 5 years, non-payment of dues would entail paying of heavy carrying cost to the Generators by the DISCOMS, which, in turn, will be passed over to the end consumer. As a result, it will be the end consumer who would be at sufferance. We are of the opinion that such unnecessary and unwarranted litigation needs to be curbed. 12 (2019) 5 SCC 325 H 242 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 180. To a pointed query, the learned counsel for the DISCOMS fairly conceded the position that the prices at which the electricity is purchased from the ‘Independent Power Producers’ is substantially lesser than the power purchased from the ‘State Generating Companies’. 181. We, therefore, appeal to the Union of India through Ministry B of Power (“MoP” for short) to evolve a mechanism so as to ensure timely payment by the DISCOMS to the Generating Companies, which would avoid huge carrying cost to be passed over to the end consumers. 182. The Union of India, through MoP, may also evolve a mechanism to avoid unnecessary and unwarranted litigation, the cost of C which is also passed on to the ultimate consumer. 183. Before we part with the , we place on record our appreciation for the valuable assistance rendered by Mr. Balbir Singh, learned Additional Solicitor General, Dr. A. M. Singhvi, Mr. V. Giri, Mr. M.G. Ramachandran, Mr. C.A. Sundaram, Mr. Maninder Singh, Mr. Sajan Poovayya and Mr. Niranjan Reddy, learned Senior Counsel, and D Mr. Vishrov Mukerjee, Ms. Poorva Saigal, Ms. Anushree Bardhan, and Ms. Poonam Sengupta, learned counsel. 184. In view of the above, all the appeals are dismissed.