Counsel also highlighted that in many appeals, the DRB constituted an internal mechanism by NHAI, comprised entirely of technical personnel, nominated by it (NHAI) had also endorsed the opinion, which favoured the contractors’ interpretation. Given this background and the further like interpretation given in arbitration, by the tribunal, which again comprised of experts, there was no scope for interference. M/S HINDUSTAN CONSTRUCTION COMPANY LIMITED v. 629 M/S NATIONAL HIGHWAYS AUTHORITY OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 7. Learned counsel submitted that the impugned failed to or overlooked that there are two kinds of embankments- one with soil and the other, with fl y ash and soil. Therefore, the contractor had quoted rates for these two kinds of embankment. 8. It was highlighted that Clause 305 of MoRTH4 technical specifi cations read together with the project specifi c amendments contained in additional technical specifi cations provides the formation of embankment with two types, viz. embankment with soil and embankment with pond ash, the material requirements for each of the above two types have been specifi ed in clauses 305.2.2.2 (for soil) and 305.2.2.3 (for pond ash) of additional technical specifi cations. 9. Counsel submitted, that furthermore, the impugned overlooked that the TS clause 305 of MoRTH dealt only with embankment with soil; therefore a project specific sub-clause 305.2.2.3.2 of the construction operations, was included in the contract which specifi es the various operations (viz., setting out, stripping and storing of top soil, compacting ground supporting embankment, spreading material, compaction, fi nishing, quality control, a measurement for payment etc) to be followed by the contractor for embankment with pond ash. It was submitted that clause 305.2.2.3.2 further provides, “the work shall conform to clause 4.7.l of IRC SP:58 - 2001”. It was highlighted that the contract contemplated payment for ‘construction of earth embankment with soil’ in BOQ5 item 2.02(a) and ‘construction of Pond ash embankment with pond ash’ in BOQ item No. 2.02. It was also contended that BOQ pertains to the execution and completion of the entire item of work in compliance with the contract requirements and does not relate only to any individual material/ consumables used in the execution of the work. 10. It was argued that the contract conditions and stipulations are to be read as a whole; thus, technical specifi cations, drawings and other documents form part of the contract which cannot be considered in isolation. The counsel also emphasized that the preamble to the BOQ and the technical specifi cations read together also mandate that the rates given 4 Ministry of Road Transport and Highways 5 Bill of Quantities 630 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. in BOQ item 2.02 (a) and (b) are for the construction of embankment i.e., soil embankment and pond ash embankment and not for the usage of materials in an embankment. It was highlighted that the applicable test for interference with awards was clearly enunciated in Associate Builders v Delhi Development Corporation (“hereafter, “Associate Builders”)6 and was ignored by the impugned .