[2023] 5 S.C.R. 87 87 SUNIL & ORS. A v. HIGH COURT OF DELHI & ORS. ETC. (Civil Appeal Nos. 2883-2885 of 2023) APRIL 28, 2023 B [M. R. SHAH AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Service Law – Inter-se seniority – Filling of vacant posts of private secretaries in the High Court of Delhi – Written examination was conducted – Results were declared – Writ petitions filed by C some of the candidates seeking re-evaluation – High Court constituted a Special Committee, which recommended re-evaluation of 13 candidates, resulting in increased marks for all – Revised list was drawn – Issue of inter-se seniority arose – Special Committee by its decision dated 01.10.2018 accorded notional seniority as per the revised marks/merit list – Held: Considering the fact that D the earlier decision of re-evaluation of 13 candidates attained the finality and thereafter, the marks of 13 candidates came to be increased, the Special Committee was absolutely justified in its decision dated 01.10.2018 to accord notional seniority as per the revised marks/merit list – Once on re-evaluation, the marks are E increased the respective candidates whose marks are increased will have to be placed at appropriate place in the merit list – Non-grant of seniority based on revised marks, thus, would render the process of re-evaluation redundant. Allowing the appeals, the Court F HELD: 1. Considering the fact that the earlier decision of re-evaluation of 13 candidates attained the finality and thereafter, the marks of 13 candidates came to be increased, the Special Committee was absolutely justified in its decision dated 01.10.2018 to accord notional seniority as per the revised marks/ G merit list. At the relevant time, none of the selected candidates (22 candidates – respondents herein) applied for re-evaluation and even challenged the decision of the Special Committee to re-evaluate the marks of only 13 candidates. Having failed to challenge the earlier decision to have the re-evaluation of 13 candidates only and even having not applied for the re-evaluation H 87 88 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A at the relevant time though the exercise of re-evaluation was going on thereafter, it was not open for the respondents to make a grievance subsequently that the re-evaluation of the marks of 13 candidates cannot be at their disadvantage. Once on re- evaluation, the marks are increased the respective candidates whose marks are increased will have to be placed at appropriate B place in the merit list. Non-grant of seniority based on revised marks, thus, would render the process of re-evaluation redundant. The candidates whose marks have been increased cannot be deprived of their position in the select list dated 30.01.2017 and on the correction of error, they were required to be given the C benefit of notional seniority i.e., inter se seniority on the basis of merit. There was no fault on the part of the appellants. It was because of the wrong marking at the relevant time they were deprived of the appointments and they were not placed in the merit list and as such was required to be corrected on the revision of the marks on re-evaluation.