A similar provision is also contained in the fi rst proviso to Rule 15(1) of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha.14 Therefore, it is common practice for the Rules of Procedure of State Legislatures and Parliament to permit the Speaker to call a sitting of the House after it has been adjourned sine die. 36. In Ramdas Athawale (5) v. Union of India and Others15, a Constitution Bench of this Court distinguished between the prorogation of the House and its adjournment. The Court held that: “22. An adjournment is an interruption in the course of one and the same session, whereas a prorogation terminates a session. The 9 Rule 13, Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Rajasthan Legislative Assembly. 10 Rule 16, Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Haryana Legislative Assembly. 11 Rule 26, Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Rules. 12 Rule 14, Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Kerala Legislative Assembly. 13 Rule 15, Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the West Bengal Legislative Aseembly. 14 15. Adjournment of House and procedure for reconvening. - (1) The Speaker shall determine the time when a sitting of the House shall be adjourned sine die or to a particular day, or to an hour or part of the same day: Provided that the Speaker, if thinks fi t, may call a sitting of the House before the date or time to which it has been adjourned or at any time after the House has been adjourned sine die. 15 (2010) 4 SCC 1 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. effect of prorogation is to put an end with certain exceptions to all proceedings in Parliament then current. … 23. In May’s Parliamentary Practice, which has assumed the status of a classic on the subject and is usually regarded as an authoritative exposition of parliamentary practice, it is stated: “A session is the period of time between the meeting of a Parliament, whether after the prorogation or dissolution, and its prorogation…. During the course of a session, either House may adjourn itself of its own motion to such as it pleases. The period between the prorogation of Parliament and its reassembly in a new session is termed as ‘recess’; while the period between the adjournment of either House and the resumption of its sitting is generally called an ‘adjournment’.” … 25. It is thus clear that whenever the House resumes after it is adjourned sine die, its resumption for the purpose of continuing its business does not amount to commencement of the session. The resumed sitting of the House, in this case, on 29-1-2004, does not amount to commencement of the fi rst session in the year 2004. 37. The Constitution and established legislative practice distinguish between adjournment sine die and prorogation of the session of the House. In the case before us the Vidhan Sabha was adjourned on 22 March 2023 without prorogation. Therefore, the Speaker was empowered to reconvene the sittings of the House within the same session.