5.3 It is submitted that the passed by the AO was a well- reasoned passed after scrutiny of the return of income and the view taken by the AO was plausible view and therefore, the assessment cannot be considered to be erroneous and prejudicial to the interest E of the Revenue, which was required to be taken in revision by the Commissioner under Section 263 of the IT Act. 5.4 It is submitted that view taken by the AO on allowability of the claim of deduction as cost of improvement was duly supported by a judicial decision of the Bombay High Court in the case of Smt. F Shakuntala Kantilal (supra). It is submitted that as such the Commissioner failed to appreciate that unless the shareholders’ claims were satisfied there would not have been a sale of the entire portion of the property. It was only to derive the benefit by sale of the encumbrance asset that the parties resorted to settlement through arbitration. The G dispute being settled, payments having been made, the AO committed no error in allowing the claim of deduction as cost of improvement. 5.5 It is further submitted by learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee that in the case of Malabar Industrial Co. Ltd. (supra), this Court has held that if the is erroneous but is not H COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX 7 v. M/S PAVILLE 317 PROJECTS PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] prejudicial to the interest of the Revenue, the Commissioner cannot A exercise the revisional jurisdiction under Section 263 of the IT Act. It is submitted that it is further observed and held that every loss of revenue as a consequence of an of AO cannot be treated as prejudicial to the interest of revenue. As observed and held, if the AO has adopted one of the courses permissible in law and it has resulted in loss of revenue B or where two views are possible and the AO has taken one view with which CIT does not agree, it cannot be treated as erroneous prejudicial to the interest of revenue. 5.6 It is further submitted by the learned Counsel appearing on behalf of the assessee on encumbrances that in the present case there C was arbitration proceeding between the shareholders of the company whereof all the litigations came to an end and an interim arbitration award was entered into whereby the entire matter was amicably settled and the settlement which is “Family Settlement” partook the character of an interim award and later on achieved its finality on fulfillment of commitment. It is submitted that in the present case the shareholders D have been paid Rs.10.35 Crores each. It is submitted that the said payment was made by the Company for (i) smooth running and functioning of the business; (ii) to put an end to litigation amongst the shareholders; (iii) to preserve the assets of the company; (iv) to ensure that there is continuity and safeguard and, amicable settlement amongst the brother E and two sisters, who are the shareholders of the company and (v) to remove encumbrances on the property.