Section 123 reverses the burden of proofs of certain specified seized goods. 14. Chapter XIVA contains the mechanism for the settlement of cases. E 15. Chapter XVI of the Act lays down offences and prosecution under the Customs Act. This chapter imposes, as a penalty, imprisonment for certain offences. They are: making a false declaration relating to customs (Section 132; may extend to 1 year), obstruction of an officer of customs (Section 133; may extend to 1 year), refusal to be X-rayed (Section 134; may extend to 6 months) and evasion of duty or prohibitions F (Section 135; may extend to seven years). 16. Given the above, it is evident that the scheme of the act involves the imposition of customs duty, confiscation of goods and consequences of skirting or attempting to skirt the same in the form of varied penal consequences, including imprisonment. This follows the purpose of the G Act, as noted by this Court in Ambalal (supra), which is to sternly and expeditiously deal with goods smuggled into India in contravention of the prohibitions within the law. 17. Considering the intention of the Act as above, I now discuss the sections pertaining to the controversy at hand: Section 123 and Section H 127B of the Act. YAMAL MANOJBHAI v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 933 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] 18. Section 123 of the Act elucidates the burden of proof in certain A cases. It reads as follows: “123. Burden of proof in certain cases.— (1) Where any goods to which this section applies are seized under this Act in the reasonable belief that they are smuggled B goods, the burden of proving that they are not smuggled goods shall be— (a) in a case where such seizure is made from the possession of any person,— (i) on the person from whose possession the goods were seized; C and (ii) if any person, other than the person from whose possession the goods were seized, claims to be the ownerthereof, also on such other person; (b) in any other case, on the person, if any, who claims to be the owner of the goods so seized. D (2) This section shall apply to gold [and manufactures thereof],watches, and any other class of goods which the Central Government may by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.” 19. Section 127B of the Act pertains to the application procedure E for the settlement of cases by a person in respect of a case pending adjudication. Importantly, the proviso to the said states that no application shall be made concerning goods to which Section 123 applies. It reads as follows: “127B. Application for settlement of cases.— F (1) Any importer, exporter or any other person (hereinafter referred to as the applicant in this Chapter) may, in respect of a case, relating to him make an application, before adjudication to the Settlement Commission to have the case G settled, in such form and in such manner as may be specified by rules, and containing a full and true disclosure of his duty liability which has not been disclosed before the proper officer, the manner in which such liability has been incurred, the additional amount of customs duty accepted to be payable by him and such other particulars as may be specified by rules H 934 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R.