In my opinion, when the State on the one hand, has, by legislation, laid down that SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1479 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 92. The principle of purposive interpretation was relied upon by the petitioners to urge that a gender neutral interpretation or use of words which include non-heterosexual couples should be resorted to. This court, in S.R. Chaudhuri v. State of Punjab & Ors92 remarked that “The words used may be general in terms but, their full import and true meaning, has to be appreciated considering the true context in which the same are used and the purpose which they seek to achieve.” 93. Ahron Barrack93 in his treatise94 stated as follows: “Purposive interpretation is based on three components: language, purpose, and discretion. Language shapes the range of semantic possibilities within which the interpreter acts as a linguist. Once the interpreter defi nes the range, he or she chooses the legal meaning of the text from among the (express or implied) semantic possibilities. The semantic component thus sets the limits of interpretation by restricting the interpreter to a legal meaning that the text can bear in its (public or private) language.” 94. This court has also held that there can be occasions when words may be read in a particular manner, if it is sure that the draftsman would have wished it to be so, given the nature of the expressions, and, at the same time, indicated the limits for that principle, while quoting from the treatise Principles of Statutory Interpretation by G.P. Singh95, in Ebix Singapore Private Limited and Ors. v. Committee of Creditors of Educomp Solutions Ltd & Ors.96: abetting child marriage is a criminal off ence, it cannot, on the other hand defend this classifi cation of girls below 18 years on the ground of sanctity of marriage because such classifi cation has no nexus with the object sought to be achieved. Therefore, also Exception 2 in so far as it relates to girls below 18 years is discriminatory and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution. 92 (2001) 7G SCC 126, 93 the former President of the Israeli Supreme Court 94 Aharan Barak-Purposive Interpretation in Law (quoted in Shailesh Dhairyawan v. Mohan Balkrishna Lulla ([2015] 12 SCR 70) 95 Lexis Nexis, First Edition (2015) 96 [2021] 14 SCR 321 148 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “A departure from the Rule of literal construction may be legitimate so as to avoid any part of the statute becoming meaningless. Words may also be read to give eff ect to the intention of the Legislature which is apparent from the Act read as a whole. Application of the mischief Rule or purposive construction may also enable reading of words by implication when there is no doubt about the purpose which the Parliament intended to achieve. But before any words are read to repair an omission in the Act, it should be possible to state with certainty that these or similar words would have been inserted by the draftsman and approved by Parliament had their attention been drawn to the omission before the Bill passed into law.” Other decisions too have endorsed this line of reasoning.97 95.