This obviously lends credence to the view that thumb impression must have been obtained on a blank paper and in C a hurry, the contents were filled up subsequently. 32. From the above analysis, we are not inclined to treat the so- called statement as the one actually given by the deceased to P.W.20. In any case, it cannot be taken as a dying declaration, particularly in the light of the evidence adduced by the other prosecution witnesses. We do D find force in the submission made by the counsel for appellants that Ex. P-28 does appear to be created by a legally trained mind. The deceased Hukum Singh merely knows how to put a signature, leave alone the fact that he put his thumb impression, which could have been possible because of the injuries suffered by him. A reading of the statement would clearly E show that a legal mind was at work, as the deceased may not know the difference between a common object and common intention. The statement also excludes others specifically for reasons which we do not know. The excluded persons were shown as witnesses by the same investigating officer. F Dying Declaration: 33. There is absolutely no explanation given by P.W.20 as to why he has not utilized the services of either a Magistrate or a doctor, even after his first recording. We have already discussed the fact that he deposed that the statement was recorded once again which, however, was not a part of the record. If the deceased Hukum Singh was so badly G injured, and therefore died within few days of his admission into the hospital, nothing prevented P.W.20 to record the statement in the presence of a Judicial Magistrate and duly certified by the doctor. The irresistible conclusion which we have arrived at already, is that the deceased was not in a state of consciousness fit enough to make a statement, and that H 858 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A is the reason why the thumb impression was obtained subsequently, and thereafter a statement was created. On the issue of recording of dying declarations by the investigating officer, we would like to reiterate the decision of this Court in Munnu Raja and Another v. The State of Madhya Pradesh (1976) 3 SCC 104: B “11. We might, however, mention before we close that the High Court ought not to have placed any reliance on the third dying declaration, Ex. P-2, which is said to have been made by the deceased in the hospital. The investigating officer who recorded that the statement had undoubtedly taken the precaution of keeping a doctor present and it appears that some of the friends and relations C of the deceased were also present at the time when the statement was recorded. But, if the investigation officer thought that Bahadur Singh was in a precarious condition, he ought to have requisitioned the services of a magistrate for recording the dying declaration. Investigating officers are naturally interested in the success of D the investigation and the practice of the investigating officer himself recording a dying declaration during the course of investigation ought not to be encouraged.