[HRISHIKESH ROY, J.] mean and imply, no period of limitation can be said to be attracted A for execution or a limitless period of limitation is available. The intent of the legislature in engrafting the Limitation Act shall have to be given its proper weightage. Absurdity cannot be the outcome of interpretation by a court and wherever there is even a possibility of such absurdity, it would be a plain exercise of B judicial power to repel the same rather than encouraging it. The whole purport of the Indian Stamp Act is to make available certain dues and to collect revenue but it does not mean and imply overriding the effect over another statute operating in a completely different sphere.” [Emphasis supplied] C 31.3. Thus, it was held that the Stamp Act, 1899 cannot override the effect of another statute such as the Limitation Act, 1963 operating in a completely different sphere. Further, the expression “executability” and “enforceability” was distinguished to mean that “enforceability” cannot be a subject matter of Section 35 of Stamp Act, 1899. It was D conclusively held that enforceability cannot be suspended until furnishing of stamp paper. At most, a document can be rendered non- executable. 31.4. Thereafter, a 3-judge bench of this Court in Chiranji Lal (Dr.) v. Hari Das35 after discussing the above in Hameed E Joharan (supra) on the question of period of limitation beginning to run from the date of the decree being engrossed on the stamp paper, pertinently held as under: “23. Such an interpretation is not permissible having regard to the object and scheme of the Indian Stamp Act, 1899. The F Stamp Act is a fiscal measure enacted with an object to secure revenue for the State on certain classes of instruments. It is not enacted to arm a litigant with a weapon of technicality to meet the case of his opponent. The stringent provisions of the Act are conceived in the interest of the Revenue. Once that object is secured according to law, the party staking his claim on the G instrument will not be defeated on the ground of initial defect in the instrument (Hindustan Steel Ltd. v. Dilip Construction Co. [(1969) 1 SCC 597]).” [emphasis supplied] 35 2005) 10 SCC 746 H 444 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 31.5. It was specifically held that “the starting of period of limitation for execution of a partition decree cannot be made contingent upon the engrossment of the decree on the stamp paper.” 31.6. Thus, unstamped/insufficiently stamped document does not affect the enforceability of a document nor does it render a document B invalid36. A plain reading of the provisions would also make it clear that a document can be “acted upon” at a later stage. It is therefore a curable defect. 32.The learned Counsel for the Appellant, Mr. Gagan Sanghi argued that Section 35 and 33 are mandatory provisions as it uses the word “shall” and an unstamped document must be impounded at the C threshold.