A. Valliammai wanted to extricate herself from the agreement. He was ready and willing to perform his obligations under the agreement to sell (Exhibit A-1). The demand to execute the sale deed was not pre-mature. K. Sriram had spent a lot of money to obtain an approval of the layout plan. K. Sriram had instructed his advocate to fi le a suit for specifi c performance. But before that he wanted to give one last opportunity to A. Valliammai to execute the sale deed in 2 weeks, when he would off er the balance sale consideration. Further, the partition suit in O.S. No. 787 of 1985 was dismissed for default on 04.07.1991. Wrong survey demarcation viz. the land belonging to the Trust stood corrected such that the Trust’s property was situated on the east and the Suit Property on the west. 8. A. Valliammai responded vide rejoinder reply dated 16.09.1991, Exhibit S-14, in which she denied that a sale deed could be executed and specifi cally enforced. While accepting that the partition suit in O.S. No. 787 of 1985 had been dismissed for default, it was stated that an application for its restoration was fi led. The suit might be restored. A. Valliammai claimed that she was illiterate. Although she was taken to the Revenue Offi ce, she was unaware about the contents of the statement said to have been made by her. In any event, exchange of property requires a registered document. A partition deed cannot be corrected in the survey proceedings. 9. On 15.07.1991, K. Sriram fi led a suit for permanent injunction in O.S. No. 1508 of 1991 to restrain A. Valliammai from dealing with the Suit Property till she executes the sale deeds. A. Valliammai, it was alleged, was negotiating with third parties to sell the Suit Property. K. Sriram would be A. VALLIAMMAI v. K.P. MURALI AND OTHERS 189 [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] fi ling a suit for specifi c performance in a short time, and was waiting for a reply to his notice. 10. A. Valliammai contested the suit, and in her written statement, she had alleged that K. Sriram was never ready and willing to perform the agreement to sell (Exhibit A-1). He had therefore fi led a suit of injunction instead of a suit of specifi c performance. She had claimed that time was essence of the contract. She had consented for extension of time till 26.11.1989, but K. Sriram had not paid the balance sale consideration till that date. Suit Property had been leased out to one A. Gopalakrishnan, who was in possession and was cultivating the land. 11. An of temporary injunction was passed in favour of K. Sriram and against A. Valliammai by the trial court. However, on 23.12.1992 the suit was dismissed as not pressed. Liberty to fi le a fresh suit was neither prayed nor granted. 12. On 23.12.1992 itself, K. Sriram assigned his rights under the agreement to sell (Exhibit A-1) in favour of respondent no.1 – K.P.