circulars shall be issued by all the statutory bodies such as the A Bar Council of India, Medical Council of India, Council of Architecture, Institute of Company Secretaries within two months from today. On receipt of any complaint of sexual harassment at any of the places referred to above the same shall be dealt with by the statutory bodies in accordance with Vishaka and Others B v. State of Rajasthan and Others (1997) 6 SCC 241, guidelines and the guidelines in the present .” (c) ENACTMENT OF THE PoSH ACT AND RULES : 52. After the passage of fifteen years from the date of the verdict delivered in Vishaka’s case (supra), the PoSH Act, was legislated on C 22nd April, 2013 and finally notified on 9th December, 2013. The Act lays down a comprehensive mechanism for constitution of Internal Complaints Committee, Local Committee and Internal Committees, the manner of conducting an inquiry into a complaint received, duties of an employer, duties and powers of the District Officer and others, penalties for non- D compliance of the provisions of the Act, etc. Accompanying the Act are the Rules, 201368 that have been framed in exercise of powers conferred under Section 29 of the PoSH Act and amongst others, lays down the manner in which an inquiry into a complaint of sexual harassment ought to be conducted (Rule 7), the interim reliefs that can be extended to the aggrieved women during the pendency of the inquiry (Rule 8), the manner E of taking action for sexual harassment (Rule 9) etc. It is noteworthy that sub-rule (3) of Rule 7 provides that the respondent shall file his reply to the complaint within a stipulated time along with the relevant documents and give details of the witnesses and sub-rule (4) stipulates that the Complaints Committee shall make an inquiry into the complaints “in F accordance with the principles of natural justice”. (d) BREATHING REASONABLENESS INTO THE PROCEDURAL REGIME : 53. Thus, it can be seen that the journey from Vishaka’s case (supra) that acted as a springboard and sowed the seeds of future G legislation by structuring Guidelines to deal with cases of sexual harassment, blossomed into a comprehensive legislation with the enactment of the PoSH Act and Rules. At the same time, however, 68 The Sexual Harassment of Women at Work Pace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 H 814 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A women centric the Guidelines and the Act may have been, they both recognize the fact that any inquiry into a complaint of sexual harassment at the workplace must be in accordance with the relevant rules and in line with the principles of natural justice. The cardinal principle required to be borne in mind is that the person accused of misconduct must be informed of the case, must be supplied the evidence in support thereof B and be given a reasonable opportunity to present his version before any adverse decision is taken. Similarly, the concerned employer is also expected to act fairly and adopt a procedure that is just, fair and reasonable.