48. The use of the words “Any person aggrieved shall prefer a complaint before the Complaints Committee at the earliest point of time” connotes two pertinent aspects; (i) fi rst, that the word “prefer” stipulates that the said provision is an enabling provision that permits a person from making a complaint of sexual harassment directly to the complaints committee which is the designated committee for looking into such complaints and (ii) secondly, the said provision contains nothing which could be construed to inhibit the fi ling of a subsequent or additional complaint before the complaints committee. 49. What emerges from the aforesaid is that irrespective of whether a prior complaint had already been made to any authority, a complaint regarding sexual harassment could be made under Clause 10(i) of the 2006 Standing to the complaints committee as-well. Whether the additional or second complaint should be entertained by the complaints committee is a completely diff erent tangent and must be ascertained on the touchstone of whether it was fi led at the earliest point of time and whether the same 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. has been mischievously fi led at a belated stage to cause prejudice to the person-charged. In the instant case, the Central Complaints Committee was constituted on 06.08.2012 and its fi rst hearing took place on 25.09.2012 whereas the second complaint had been fi led by the complainant before the Central Complaints Committee on 18.09.2012. Thus, the second complaint had been promptly preferred right after the Central Complaints Committee was constituted and duly before its fi rst hearing. 50. The High Court’s reasoning that as the Central Complaints Committee was constituted on the basis of the fi rst complaint, its scope of inquiry was restricted to its content, is completely erroneous inasmuch as the Central Complaints Committee owed its existence to the 2006 Standing and not to the complaint. Moreover, even if it is assumed for a moment that the complaints committee owed its existence to the complaint, Clause 10(i) of the 2006 Standing envisages fi ling of a complaint to the complaints committee i.e., it envisages a situation where after a complaints committee had come into existence, a complaint may be preferred to it. 51. In the aforesaid context, we may refer to the decision of this Court in State of Haryana and Another v. Rattan Singh reported in (1977) 2 SCC 491, wherein the Court held that all material that are logically probative to a prudent mind ought to be permissible in disciplinary proceedings keeping in mind the principles of fair play. The relevant observations are reproduced below: - “4. It is well settled that in a domestic enquiry the strict and sophisticated rules of evidence under the Indian Evidence Act may not apply. All materials which are logically probative for a prudent mind are permissible. There is no allergy to hearsay evidence provided it has reasonable nexus and credibility. It is true that departmental authorities and administrative tribunals must be careful in evaluating such material and should not glibly swallow what is strictly speaking not relevant under the Indian Evidence Act.