Therefore, when the penalty on the difference of amount of tax paid and F tax payable is more than 25% of the amount of tax so paid, there shall be automatic levy of penalty under Section 45(6) of the Act. 6.4 From the language of Section 45(6) of the Act, it can be seen that the penalty leviable under the said provision is a statutory penalty. The phrase used is “shall be levied.” The moment it is found that a G dealer is deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent mentioned in sub-section (5) of Section 45, there shall be levied on such dealer a penalty not exceeding one and one-half times the difference referred to in sub-section (5). As per sub-section (5), where in the case of a dealer the amount of tax assessed or re-assessed exceeds the amount of tax H 496 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A already paid by the dealer in respect of such period by more than 25% of the amount of tax so paid, the dealer shall be deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent of the difference between the amount so assessed or re-assessed and the amount paid. Therefore, the moment it is found that a dealer is to be deemed to have failed to pay the tax to the extent mentioned in sub-section (5), the penalty is automatic. Further, there is B no discretion with the assessing officer either to levy or not to levy and/ or to levy any penalty lesser than what is prescribed/mentioned in Section 45(6) of the Act, 1969. In that view of the matter, there is no question of considering any mens rea on the part of the assessee/dealer. 6.5 At this stage, a few decisions of this Court as well as decisions C of the Gujarat High Court (on levy of penalty and interest under the Gujarat Sales Tax Act) are required to be referred to. In the case ofDharamendra Textile Processors(supra) after referring and considering another decision of this Court in the case of Shriram Mutual Fund(supra), it is observed and held that when the term used “shall be D leviable,” the adjudicating authority will have no discretion. 6.6 In the case of Shriram Mutual Fund(supra) while dealing and/or considering similar provision under the SEBI Act, it is observed and held that mens rea is not an essential ingredient for contravention of the provisions of a civil Act. While interpreting the similar provision of E SEBI Act, it is observed that the penalty is attracted as soon as contravention of the statutory obligations as contemplated by the Act is established and, therefore, the intention of the parties committing such violation becomes immaterial. In the case before this Court, the Tribunal relied on the in the case of Hindustan Steel Ltd.(supra). However, this Court did not agree with the view taken by the Tribunal F relying upon the decision in the case of Hindustan Steel Ltd. (supra)by observing that it pertained to criminal/quasi criminal proceedings.This Court observed that the decision in the case of Hindustan Steel Ltd. (supra)shall not have any application as the same relates to imposition of civil liabilities under the SEBI Act and the Regulations and the G proceedings under the said Act are not criminal/quasi-criminal proceedings.In paragraphs 34 and 35, it is observed and held as under: - “34.