Each of them will have to be interpreted, in a manner as would serve the object sought to be achieved, without treading into the constitutional expanse of the other. The interpretation would have to be such, as would maintain C constitutional purpose and harmony.” 55. Khehar, J. observed that if the Speaker decided a disqualification petition before surviving the vote, it would prejudice the MLAs facing disqualification but not the Speaker. The disqualified MLAs would not have a right to participate in the motion moved against the Speaker even D if the of disqualification was set aside. They would, in his view, have been effectively deprived of the opportunity to participate in the motion against the Speaker. However, the MLAs would not lose their right to participate if the disqualification petition was taken up after the motion against the Speaker was put to vote. E 56. Referring to the first proviso to Article 179, Misra, J. observed that the Speaker would gain an advantage if they were allowed to change the composition of the Assembly by adjudicating the disqualification petitions in the fourteen days when the notice was pending. This, he observed, would result in a constitutional conflict between the role of the Speaker as the presiding member of the Assembly and the role of the F Speaker as a Tribunal under the Tenth Schedule. Misra, J. also referred to the amendment to Article 179(c) (draft Article 158) that was negatived by the Constituent Assembly, to reach the same conclusion as Khehar, J. Article 181(2) of the Constitution provides that the Speaker shall have the right to speak in and take part in the proceedings of the Legislative G Assembly while a resolution for their removal from office is under consideration but shall not be entitled to vote in case of an equality of votes. The learned Judge held that the requirement under Article 181(2) when contradistinguished with Article 189 restricts the power of the Speaker to participate in the proceedings seeking their removal since the Speaker has been given the power to vote in the event of an equality H 904 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A of votes under the latter provision. This constitutional design indicated, in the view of the Judge, that the Speaker cannot be given the power to interfere with the resolution for their removal. 57. Madan Lokur, J. held that the Court was not called upon to decide this issue: B “401. In the view that I have taken, I am of the opinion that the view expressed by my learned Brothers relating to the power or propriety of the Speaker taking a decision under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution with regard to the fourteen Members of the Legislative Assembly does not at all arise in these appeals.” C 58. As noticed in the previous segment of this , this Court deferred taking a view on the question of whether the decision in Nabam Rebia (supra) ought to be referred to a larger Bench until the hearing on the merits of the case was concluded.