It is the further case of the first respondent that under the PPA, the appellant is under an obligation to procure the power from the first respondent for a period of 25 years if the first respondent E commences the generation of power within the “control period” and is also obliged to pay for the power procured by it at the rates specified in Article 5.2 of the PPA. But the obligation of the first respondent to sell power generated by it to the appellant at the rates specified in Article 5.2 of the PPA comes into existence only on the happening of the two F contingencies i.e. the first respondent (i) commencing the generation of power within the “control period” stipulated under the First Tariff ; and (ii) choosing to avail the “benefit of accelerated depreciation” under the Income Tax Act. According to the first respondent, the stipulation under G the First Tariff that the tariff fixed there under is not applicable to those Projects which “do not get such benefit, the Commission would on a petition in that respect determine a separate tariff taking into account all the relevant facts from not” would only imply that tariff fixed under the First Tariff is not applicable to those Projects/power H 702 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A producers which do not avail the “benefit of accelerated depreciation” under the Income Tax Act. xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx 13. We have already noticed that the first respondent did not commence generation of power within the “control period” B stipulated under the First Tariff and also did not avail the “benefit of the accelerated depreciation” under the Income Tax Act. It is admitted on all hands that the “benefit of accelerated depreciation” mentioned in the First Tariff and the PPA is the stipulation contained in Section 32(1)(i) of the Income Tax Act read with Rule 5(1-A) of the Income Tax C Rules. They provide for the method and manner in which depreciation of the assets of an assessee is to be calculated. xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx 26. Apart from that, the conclusion of the Tribunal in the instant case is wrong. First of all the PPA does not give any option to D the respondent to opt out of the terms of the PPA. It only visualises a possibility of the producer not commissioning its Project within the “control period” stipulated under the First Tariff and provides that in such an eventuality what should be the tariff applicable to the sale of power by the E first respondent. Secondly, the PPA does not “entitle” the first respondent to the “tariff as determined by the” second respondent by the Second Tariff . On the other hand, the PPA clearly stipulates that in such an eventuality: “Above tariff shall apply for solar projects commissioned on F or before 31-12-2011. In case, commissioning of solar power project is delayed beyond 31-12-2011, GUVNL shall pay the tariff as determined by the Hon’ble GERC for solar projects effective on the date of commissioning of solar power project or abovementioned tariff, whichever is lower.” G (emphasis supplied)” 50.