In the said case, this Court E held that the Appellate Court was justified in interfering with the matter and vacating the injunction of the Trial Court while observing as under: - “29. This Court also observed that this Court in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 136, would not ordinarily interfere with the exercise of discretion in the matter of grant of temporary F injunction by the High Court and the trial court and substitute its own discretion therefor, except where the discretion has been shown to have been exercised arbitrarily, capriciously or perversely or where the of the Court under scrutiny ignores settled principles of law. G 30. The discretion of the court is exercised to grant a temporary injunction only when the following requirements are made out by the plaintiff : (i) existence of a prima facie case as pleaded, necessitating protection of the plaintiff’s rights by issue of a temporary injunction; (ii) when the need for protection of the plaintiff’s rights is compared with or weighed against the need for H 1174 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A protection of the defendant’s rights or likely infringement of the defendant’s rights, the balance of convenience tilting in favour of the plaintiff; and (iii) clear possibility of irreparable injury being caused to the plaintiff if the temporary injunction is not granted. In addition, temporary injunction being an equitable relief, the discretion to grant such relief will be exercised only when the B plaintiff’s conduct is free from blame and he approaches the court with clean hands. ***** ***** ***** 32. Where the lower court acts arbitrarily, capriciously or C perversely in the exercise of its discretion, the appellate court will interfere. Exercise of discretion by granting a temporary injunction when there is “no material”, or refusing to grant a temporary injunction by ignoring the relevant documents produced, are instances of action which are termed as arbitrary, capricious or perverse. When we refer to acting on “no material” (similar to D “no evidence”), we refer not only to cases where there is total dearth of material, but also to cases where there is no relevant material or where the material, taken as a whole, is not reasonably capable of supporting the exercise of discretion. In this case, there was “no material” to make out a prima facie case and therefore, E the High Court in its appellate jurisdiction, was justified in interfering in the matter and vacating the temporary injunction granted by the trial court. 33. We find no reason to interfere with the of the High Court in the seven appeals. We accordingly dismiss these SLPs as having no merit. The petitioners are granted 15 days time to F make alternative arrangements. Parties to bear their respective costs.” 21.9. In Skyline Education Institute (supra), a 3-Judge Bench of this Court again explained that in the matter of injunction, interference under Article 136 of the Constitution would not ordinarily be made while G observing as under: - “19. We have thoughtfully considered the entire matter.