The High Court then observed that unless a specifi c direction in the form of novation is created with regard to payment of the time-barred debt, Section 25(3) of the Contract Act cannot be invoked. The High Court then went into the question whether issuance of cheque itself is a promise to pay time-barred debt and referred to Sections 4 and 6 of the NI Act. After referring to certain s on the question of legally enforceable debt, the High Court stated that for the purpose of invoking Section 138 read with Section 142 of the NI Act, the cheque in question must be issued in respect of legally enforceable debt or other liability. The High Court then observed that since at the time of issuance of cheque i.e. on 1-2-2011, the alleged debt of the accused had become time-barred, the proceedings deserve to be quashed. 418 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 7. In our opinion, the High Court erred in quashing the complaint on the ground that the debt or liability was barred by limitation and, therefore, there was no legally enforceable debt or liability against the accused. The case before the High Court was not of such a nature which could have persuaded the High Court to draw such a defi nite conclusion at this stage. Whether the debt was time-barred or not can be decided only after the evidence is adduced, it being a mixed question of law and fact.” 9. The Learned counsel has further referred to the decision in the case of A.V. Murthy vs. B.S. Nagabasavanna (2002) 2 SCC 642 wherein it is held as hereunder: “5. As the complaint has been rejected at the threshold, we do not propose to express any opinion on this question as the matter is yet to be agitated by the parties. But, we are of the view that the learned Sessions Judge and the learned Single Judge of the High Court were clearly in error in quashing the complaint proceedings. Under Section 118 of the Act, there is a presumption that until the contrary is proved, every negotiable instrument was drawn for consideration. Even under Section 139 of the Act, it is specifi cally stated that it shall be presumed, unless the contrary is proved, that the holder of a cheque received the cheque of the nature referred to in Section 138 for discharge, in whole or in part, of any debt or other liability. It is also pertinent to note that under sub-section (3) of Section 25 of the Indian Contract Act, 1872, a promise, made in writing and signed by the person to be charged therewith, or by his agent generally or specially authorized in that behalf, to pay wholly or in part a debt of which the creditor might have enforced payment but for the law for the limitation of suits, is a valid contract. Moreover, in the instant case, the appellant has submitted before us that the respondent, in his balance sheet prepared for every year subsequent to the loan advanced by the appellant, had shown the amount as deposits from friends.