Delay in securing relevant documents from the concerned authorities could not absolve the plaintiff of his obligations under the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. Further, this aspect of the matter is to be appreciated in light of the fact that there is nothing on record which would demonstrate any step taken by the plaintiff to pursue C the agreement, until, 2nd November, 2006, on which date, the legal notice was served on the defendants calling upon them to execute the sale deed in respect of the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property. No explanation has been provided as to why the legal notice was not served earlier, particularly D when the six–month period stipulated under the agreement had expired on 7th February, 2006. Such conduct of the plaintiff is certainly not reflective of willingness, in terms of Section 16(c) of the Act. Further, the Court has to be mindful of circumstances which compelled the defendants to enter into the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights dated 7th February, 2006. E The time limit stipulated in the agreement is of significance in the instant case when this aspect is viewed in light of the fact that the defendants were debt-ridden and sought to sell their Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over suit property with the sole intention of clearing off such debts which were incurred to support the cardiac F treatment of defendant no. 1. It was therefore necessary that the plaintiff paid a significant portion of the consideration, if not the entire sale consideration, within the period of six months as stipulated in the agreement. But the plaintiff refused to do so even on being repeatedly requested by the defendants. [Para 29, 30][276-E-H; 277-A-C] G 1.8 The period of six months which was stipulated in the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights, in the present case, has to be accorded its due significance while deciding the suit for specific performance. Having regard to the urgency of the financial need of the defendants, which need had prompted H 250 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A them to sell their Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property, it must be held that time stipulated in the agreement was the essence of the contract. The plaintiff in the present case served a legal notice only on 02nd November, 2006 while the six month period stipulated in the agreement had elapsed on 07th February, 2006. There is no explanation as to what occasioned B the delay in serving the legal notice on the defendants and why such steps were not adopted soon after the expiry of the six month period stipulated in the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. Therefore, it is held that the plaintiff, having paid no more than 4% of the sale consideration, and having not done even as C much as getting the property measured within the period of six months stipulated under the agreement, cannot, at a belated date, claim specific performance of the agreement dated 7th August, 2005 to the disadvantage and hardship of the defendants.