Conditions of freedom and a vibrant assertion of civil and political rights promote a constant review of the justness of socio-economic H 6 (2017) 10 SCC 1 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 191 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] programmes and of their effectiveness in addressing deprivation A and want. Scrutiny of public affairs is founded upon the existence of freedom.” 25. Indian democracy will work only when the institutions which have the responsibility to preserve democracy work. Each institution in our Constitution has its demarcated role, which can only be fulfilled if B the people who are running these institutions are responsible. The people who run these institutions need to be accountable to the people, and therefore the process of selecting them has to ensure the independence of the institution. 26. Democracy is not an abstract phenomenon. It has been given C effect by a range of processes. The perception and trust in institutions are important parameters on which the working of democracy is assessed. The success of democracy, thus, depends on the working of institutions that support the pillars of the structure of democracy. 27. Accountability of institutions provides legitimacy not only to D the institutions themselves, but also to the very idea of democracy. That is to say, if the institutions are working in a fair and transparent manner, then the citizens would be assured that democracy is working. In that sense, democracy is a means to check on officeholders and administrators and to call them to account. Therefore, the norms and rules governing E these institutions cannot be arbitrary or lack transparency. 28. To strengthen the democratic processes, the institution of the Election Commission needs to be independent and demonstrate transparency and accountability. This reason is enough in itself to call this Court to examine the institutional structure of the Election Commission of India. F B. Right to Vote 29. The working of democracy depends on whether the people can decide the fate of the elected form of government. It depends on the choices which people make in different ways. This choice of people G cannot be compromised, as their mandate in elections changes the destinies of government. India is democratic because the people govern themselves. It is a republic because the government’s power is derived from its people. Through the electoral process and voting, citizens participate in democracy. By voting, citizens take part in the public affairs of the country. Thus, citizens by voting enjoy their right to choose the H 192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A composition of their government. It is their choice, and their ability to participate. A nine-judge bench in the case of K.S. Puttaswamy (Supra) held: “... it must be realised that it is the right to question, the right to scrutinize and the right to dissent which enables an informed citizenry to scrutinize the actions of government. Those who are B governed are entitled to question those who govern, about the discharge of their constitutional duties including in the provision of socio-economic welfare benefits.