10.4. Learned senior counsel for the petitioner has further referred to the amendment of the said policy by the Memo dated 03.05.2016, and H with particular emphasis on clause 5 thereof, has contended that theme- BHASIN INFOTECH AND INFRASTRUCTURE PRIVATE LTD. 1085 v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] based mall has also been included in the policy with relaxation as regards A minimum of 300 acres of area in case of theme-based malls. With further emphasis on clause 5 (d) which stipulates that ‘The working agency will provide freehold land to the S.P.V. after acquiring the land as per the rules, for which the freehold charge will be payable as per the rules’, it has been argued that in view of the aforesaid amendments, B the petitioner is entitled to the benefit of getting the subject land converted from leasehold to freehold. 10.5. It has been, thus, contended that in view of eligibility and entitlement of the petitioner for the benefits under the policy in question as amended, the approval/qualification letter dated 16.09.2016 was rightly C issued by the Director General Tourism of the State of Uttar Pradesh, pursuant to the recommendation of the Committee constituted under the amended policy, permitting the project situated at the plot in question to be recognized as a “theme-based mall” and also recognising that the petitioner would be entitled to the benefits ensuing from the Memo dated 03.05.2016. Learned senior counsel would submit that in terms of the D amended policy and also on account of the project in question having been recognised as a theme-based mall, the petitioner is entitled to get the subject land converted from leasehold to freehold and denial of this right of the petitioner under the impugned dated 24.01.2022 deserves to be disapproved. E 10.6. It has also been submitted on behalf of the petitioner that resolution of the aforesaid issue will not only add value to the investment of the buyers but will also generate employment opportunities; revenue for the State and Central Government; and entertainment/recreational opportunities for the people from all walks of life. Further to this, learned F senior counsel for the petitioner has submitted that non-grant of freehold would adversely impede investment in the mall since expected foreign investment would fall through and Indian investors would refuse to execute the lease deeds. 10.7. In the other limb of submissions and prayers, learned senior counsel for the petitioner has submitted that the petitioner should be G allowed to enter into bipartite agreements with the investors, since clause 9 of the lease deed dated 23.08.2006 provides for an absolute right of the allottee to sell the built-up portion of the land to any person of his choice; and if at all permission is required in terms of clause 3 of the aforesaid lease deed, the same is with respect to the transfer of a portion H 1086 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of land, which is not the case in the present scenario.