A for about a length of 30 feet separating the unbridged 11 feet wide open canal upto ground level, so as to close the way once and for all. At this juncture, it is to be pointed out that the Vasanth Apartments is divided by a compound wallfrom this area and it is It also not made clear by the Vasanth Apartments Owners Association that the said land, which was gifted to the CMDA, is B part of their lay out.” “18. It has also been alleged that under similar circumstances, the CMDA has permitted all the residents associations in Velachery to maintain the open spaces as recreational parks in the nearby area viz. K.G. Apartments, Sai Sarovar etc. Each case has to be C viewed and decided on its own merits and since in the case on hand, in the interest of thousands of general public residing in and around the area, the authorities have taken a wise decision to lay a road to have easy and immediate access to the 100 ft. road, the same cannot be found fault with.” D “19. Further more, it has been brought to our notice that with a view to form connecting road to 100 feet bye-pass road, the Chennai Corporation has already addressed the Commissioner, Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department to transfer and convey the land belonging to Arulmigu Dhandeeswarar E Temple, Velachery, Chennai in favour of the Corporation and also obtained the said land to form the connecting road from Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department.” “20. Thus, though belatedly, now the CMDA and the Corporation of Chennai are taking all efforts to lay a pucca road in the OSR area for the convenience of nearly one lakh people in the area F including the residents of Vasanth Apartments. In this city, ill- famous for its bumper to bumper traffic and the related hazards faced by the road users day in and day out, any such step taken by the civic authorities to ease such bottleneck traffic congestions should be appreciated and welcomed without allowing anybody G to put spokes in the wheel of development, as /3 has been attempted on the part of the Association of Vasanth Apartments Owners in the case on hand. For all the above reasons, since it has been found that the writ petitioner has no right or interest, whatsoever, in the OSR land, H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1035 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] and the prayer in the writ petition itself is misconceived, both these A writ appeals are allowed, thus setting aside the passed by the learned single Judge. No costs. Consequently, M.P.No.2 of 2007 in W.A.No.1026 of 2007 is closed.” 3. C.A. No. 7847-48 of 2013 arising out of SLP (C)No. 25709- 25710 of 2011 is again filed by the Association of Vasanth B Apartments’Owners i.e., the appellants in C.A. No. 1890-91 of 2010. This is a separate litigation though having a bearing on the issue.