5 of the Limitation Act – As far as ‘pre-existing dispute is concerned’, considering the nature of the dispute of the respondent as referred hereinbefore in respect of C the claim made by the appellant, there is no reason to disagree with the concurrent findings of the Tribunals that there existed a ‘pre- existing dispute’ between the parties before the receipt of demand notice u/s. 8, IBC – The dismissal of the application u/s. 9, IBC on the ground of ‘pre-existing dispute’ cannot be held to be patently D illegal or perverse. Dismissing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. With respect to Section 7, IBC will proprio vigore apply to Section 9, IBC. In short, as relates an application under Section 9, IBC the date of coming into force of IBC, viz, E 01.12.2016 would not form the trigger point of limitation and the period of limitation for an application for initiating of CIRP under Section 9, IBC would be three years from the date when the right to apply accrues as provided by Article 137 of the Limitation Act and further that the right to apply under the IBC would accrue on F the date when default occurs and it is extendable only by application of Section 5 of the Limitation Act. [Para 23][209-E-F] 2. When the limitation period for initiating CIRP under Section 9, IBC is to be reckoned from the date of default, as opposed to the date of commencement of IBC and the period prescribed therefor, is three years as provided by Section 137 of G the Limitation Act, 1963 and the same would commence from the date of default and is extendable only by application of Section 5 of the Limitation Act, 1963 it is incumbent on the Adjudicating Authority to consider the claim for condonation of the delay when H 190 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A once the proceeding concerned is found filed beyond the period of limitation. As relates Section 5 of the Limitation Act showing ‘sufficient cause’ is the only criterion for condoning delay. ‘Sufficient Cause’ is the cause for which a party could not be blamed. There is a legal bar for initiation of proceedings against an industrial company by virtue of Section 22 (1), SICA and B obviously, when a party was thus legally disabled from resorting to legal proceeding for recovering the outstanding dues without the permission of BIFR and even on application permission therefor was not given the period of suspension of excludable in legal proceedings is computing the period of limitation for the C enforcement of such right in terms of Section 22(5), SICA. In the absence of provisions for exclusion of such period in respect of an application under Section 9, IBC, despite the combined reading of Section 238A, IBC and the provisions under the Limitation Act what is legally available to such a party is to assign the same D as a sufficient cause for condoning the delay under Section 5 of the Limitation Act.