[2023] 15 S.C.R. 83 : 2023 INSC 1085 CASE DETAILS SANJIT SAHA & ANR. v. THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL (Special Leave Petition (Crl.) D. No. 46699 of 2018) OCTOBER 09, 2023 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Matter pertains to the steps/guidelines to be taken in cases where despite the convicts surrendering within the time granted by the Supreme Court but no communication forthcoming on or before the matter was listed in Chambers and due to lapse in the communication, peremptory dismissal of the Special Leave Petition. Supreme Court Rules, 2013 – Ord. XXII r. 5 – Special Leave Petitions in Criminal Proceedings – Surrendering by the accused – Lapse in the communication – Eff ect: Held: Convict has to surrender to the sentence before fi ling the Special Leave Petition unless an application for exemption from surrendering is fi led – Judge In-chambers has the power to exempt from surrendering or to refuse exemption – When a Judge In-Chamber grants time to surrender, at the next hearing, the Judge has to be informed as to whether the convict has surrendered or not – If exemption from surrendering is refused and the accused does not surrender, the matter should be placed before Chamber judge for non-prosecution – On facts, both the petitioners surrendered within the time granted by Supreme Court but however there was no communication forthcoming on or before the matter was listed in Chambers and due to lapse in the communication, Special Leave Petition were peremptory dismissed – Jail authorities were under obligation to communicate to the Court information about their surrender irrespective of whether the convict has engaged a counsel or not – This is a means of providing access to justice, a facet of Art. 21 – Petitioners, even though in custody, were not apprised by the jail authorities of the peremptory dismissal of the SLPs – Had they 83 84 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. been communicated, they would have taken remedial steps without loss of time – Petition of petitioner No.1 was restored, however petition of petitioner No.2 abated – Urgent steps to be taken so that these eventualities do not occur again – In view thereof, guidelines necessary as to the further course of action, in cases where after refusal of exemption from surrendering, the information is not forthcoming to the Court – Judge In-Chambers can appoint an amicus curiae in cases where counsel is absent – Registry in such cases could call for a report from the trial judge who may, with appropriate directions to the concerned police and the Jail Authorities report the actual state of aff airs – Guidelines. [Para 15-19, 21, 23, 24, 26, 29] Information and technology – Digitisation – Availability of upto date information for the court as regards surrender and custody particulars of the convicts – Need for: Held: Mechanism to be evolved whereby, the Jail authorities would upload on a customised web portal, the surrender and custody particulars of the convicts with the corresponding numbers of the Criminal Appeals/Special Leave Petitions, such that all up to date information would be available on a click of a button.