1124 SUPREME CO[U20R2T3 ]R 4E SP.OC.RRT. S1124 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A NAGARATHINAM v. STATE THROUGH THE INSPECTOR OF POLICE (Criminal Appeal No. 1389 of 2023) B MAY 04, 2023 [AJAY RASTOGI AND AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, JJ.] Premature Release – Appellant had an affair with ‘S’, who threatened her often – Appellant took decision to commit suicide C along with her children – Appellant survived – Children died – Trial Court convicted appellant u/ss. 302 and 309 IPC – High Court partly allowed appeal, acquitted appellant u/s. 309 and upheld the conviction u/s. 302 IPC – After undergoing imprisonment for 20 years, appellant applied for premature release – However, same was rejected by the State – Held: Appellant was in tremendous mental D stress when she administered poison to her children – Application for premature release was rejected by the State on the ground that the appellant had administered poison to murder her two sons to continue her illicit relationship without any hinderance, which act was cruel and brutal in nature – However, the Court would note E that the appellant never tried to murder her sons with a view to continue her illicit relationship – On the contrary, she had tried to commit suicide herself along with her children not with a view to continue her illicit relationship with her paramour but rather, in disappointment and frustration over the quarrel picked up by her paramour – Appellant herself was trying to end her life but was F prevented by her niece in the nick of time – There is no valid reason/ justifiable ground for the State not accepting the recommendation of the State Level Committee for premature release of the appellant – Thus, of the State set aside – Appellant entitled to the benefit of premature release – Appellant directed to be released – Penal G Code, 1860 – ss. 302 and 309. Disposing of the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. On the issue of premature release, it is not in dispute that the benefit of premature release to prisoners in case of life convicts is minimum completion of ten years of incarceration H 1124 NAGARATHINAM v. STATE THROUGH THE INSPECTOR OF 1125 POLICE as on 25.02.2018, and for such purpose in G.O. (Ms) No. 64 dated A 01.02.2018, there is a State Level Committee empowered to make such recommendations. In the present case, the positive recommendation of the State Level Committee for premature release of the Appellant, has been rejected by the State on the ground that the Appellant had administered poison to murder B her two sons to continue her illicit relationship without any hinderance, which act was cruel and brutal in nature. [Para 16][1135-A-B] 2. Pausing here, the Court would note that the Appellant never tried to murder her sons with a view to continue her illicit C relationship. On the contrary, she had tried to commit suicide herself along with her children not with a view to continue her illicit relationship with her paramour but rather, in disappointment and frustration over the quarrel picked up by her paramour.