79. It is presumed that the formal signatories to an arbitration agreement are parties who will be bound by it. However, in exceptional cases persons or entities who have not signed or formally assented to a written arbitration agreement or the underlying contract containing the arbitration agreement may be held to be bound by such agreement. As mentioned in the preceding paragraphs, the doctrine of privity limits the imposition of rights and liabilities on third parties to a contract. Generally, only the parties to an arbitration agreement can be subject to the full eff ects of the agreement in terms of the reliefs and remedies because they consented to be bound by the arbitration agreement. Therefore, the decisive question before the courts or tribunals is whether a non-signatory consented to be bound by the arbitration agreement. To determine whether a non-signatory is bound by an arbitration agreement, the courts and tribunals apply typical principles of contract law and corporate law. The legal doctrines provide a framework for evaluating the specifi c contractual language and the factual settings to determine the intentions of the parties to be bound by the arbitration agreement.67 80. Gary Born suggests that the legal theories and doctrines provide a basis for determining the real intent of parties to be bound by an arbitration agreement. Therefore, it is incorrect to use terminologies such as ‘extension’ of an arbitration agreement to non-signatories or ‘third parties’: 67 Gary Born (n 44) 1531. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 677 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “Judicial case law and commentary on international arbitration sometimes make reference to the “extension” of an arbitration agreement to non-signatories, or to “third parties” on the basis of one or more of the foregoing theories. These expression are inaccurate, in that they imply that an entity which is not a party to an arbitration agreement is nonetheless subject to that agreement’s eff ects, by virtue of something other than the parties’ consent. Contrary to the references to “extension” or “third parties”, most of the theories […] provide a basis for concluding that an entity is in reality a party to the arbitration agreement – which therefore does not need to be “extended” to a “third party” – because that party’s actions constitute consent to the agreement, or otherwise bind it to the agreement, notwithstanding the lack of its formal execution of the agreement. The arbitration agreement is therefore not ordinarily “extended”, but rather the true parties that have consented to the arbitration agreement are identifi ed.” 81. Courts and tribunals across the world have been applying traditional contractual and commercial doctrines to determine the consent of the non- signatory parties to be bound by the arbitration agreement. Generally, consent based theories such as agency, novation, assignment, operation of law, merger and succession, and third party benefi ciaries have been applied in diff erent jurisdictions. In exceptional circumstances, non-consensual theories such as piercing the corporate veil or alter ego and estoppel have also been applied to bind to bind a non-signatory party to an arbitration agreement.