To the charge framed by the trial court vide dated 21.02.2009, the appellants pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. 7. The prosecution led the following oral evidence: a. PW1 Virendra Singh (Father of the deceased) 824 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. b. PW2 Dr. Indra Singh Samant, Govt. Hospital (the Doctor who performed the post mortem) c. PW3 Harender Singh (Uncle of the deceased) d. PW4 Balbir Singh (Another uncle of the deceased) e. PW5 M.M.S. Bisht (Senior Sub Inspector) f. PW6 Baldev Singh (Panch witness to the inquest proceedings) h. PW7 Kabool Singh (Head Constable) 8. Prosecution also led documentary evidence as under: a. Post mortem report Exh.Ka-4 b. Inquest report Exh. Ka-5 c. Two letters written by the deceased to her father i.e., PW1 Exh. Ka-1 and Ka-2. 9. The appellants herein examined Shivam Rawat the son of the deceased as a defence witness (DW-1). The appellants also examined one Anoop Singh cousin brother of the deceased as a defence witness (DW-2). 10. Upon conclusion of the oral evidence, the further statement of both the appellants was recorded by the trial court. Two specifi c questions were put by the trial court to the convict Balvir Singh and the reply to the two questions were as under: “Question No. 14:- Do you have anything else to say? Answer:- I am innocent. Complainant has lodged a false case. Question No. 15 :- Poison has been found in the examination of viscera of the deceased. What do you have to say in this regard? Answer:- I do not have knowledge as to how the poison has been found, but the deceased was a heart patient and used to consume medicines.” 11. The mother-in-law of the deceased stated in her further statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC that she was innocent and had been falsely implicated. BALVIR SINGH v. STATE OF UTTARAKHAND 825 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 12. The trial court upon appreciation of the oral as well as documentary evidence on the record held the husband guilty of the off ence of murder punishable under Section 302 of the IPC and also for causing harassment punishable under Section 498A of the IPC. The trial court sentenced the husband to undergo rigorous imprisonment with fi ne of Rs. 10,000/- The mother-in-law, namely, Maheshwari Devi came to be acquitted by the trial court of the off ence of murder, however, she stood convicted by the trial court for the off ence punishable under Section 498A of the IPC and was sentenced to undergo 2½ years of imprisonment. 13. The trial court while holding the appellants guilty of the off ence enumerated above, recorded the following fi ndings: “21. Deceased died of poison. Although prosecution could not bring clear evidence that victim was administered poison by accused, but regarding harassment PW-1 and PW-2 have produced evidence. This is established by Exhibit A1 and Exhibit A2 too. Moreover, after her death poison was found in viscera report. However, nothing has been said by the defence about how it entered the body of the deceased.