B. PARDIWALA, J.] deemed to have intended to cause the death of the victim or A such bodily injury as is sufficient to cause death. The whole thing depends upon the intention to cause death, and the case may be covered by either clause Istly or clause 3rdly. The nature of intention must be gathered from the kind of weapon used, the part of the body hit, the amount of force employed B and the circumstances attendant upon the death.” The aforesaid decision of this Court in Jagrup Singh (supra) has been strongly relied upon by the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellant. 46. However, the learned senior counsel did not seek to rely on C the observations made in para 6 referred to above in the case of Jagrup Singh (supra). The learned senior counsel relied on the observations which we shall refer to hereinafter, but after giving some factual background in the case of Jagrup Singh (supra). On the fateful evening, the marriage of one Tej Kaur was performed. Shortly thereafter, the D appellant Jagrup Singh armed with a gandhala, his brothers Billaur Singh armed with a gandasa and Jarmail Singh and Waryam Singh armed with lathies emerged suddenly and made a joint assault on the deceased Chanan Singh and the three eyewitnesses, Gurdev Singh, PW 10, Sukhdev Singh, PW 11 and Makhan Singh, PW 12. The deceased along with the three eyewitnesses was rushed to the Rural Dispensary, Rori E where they were examined at 6 pm by Dr. Bishnoi, PW 3, who found that the deceased had a lacerated wound 9 cm × 11/2 cm bone deep on the right parietal region, 9 cm away from the tip of right pinna; margins of wound were red, irregular and were bleeding on touch; direction of wound was anterior-posterior. The deceased succumbed to the injuries. F The Doctor who performed an autopsy on the dead body of the deceased deposed before the Trial Court that the death of the deceased was due to cerebral compression as a result of the head injury which was sufficient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death. In the background of this case, this Court held:- “14. … In our , the High Court having held that it G was more probable that the appellant Jagrup Singh had also attended the marriage as the collateral, but something happened on the spur of the moment which resulted in the infliction of the injury by Jagrup Singh on the person of the deceased Chanan Singh which resulted in his death, manifestly H 1118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A erred in applying Clause Thirdly of Section 300 of the Code. On the finding that the appellant when he struck the deceased with the blunt side of the gandhala in the heat of the moment, without pre-meditation and in a sudden fight, the case was covered by Exception 4 to Section 300. It is not suggested that the appellant had taken undue advantage of the situation B or had acted in a cruel or unusual manner.