The period of separation should be sufficiently long, and anything above six years or more will be a relevant factor. But these facts have to be evaluated keeping in view the economic and social status of the C parties, including their educational qualifications, whether the parties have any children, their age, educational qualification, and whether the other spouse and children are dependent, in which event how and in what manner the party seeking divorce intends to take care and provide for the spouse or the children. Question of custody and welfare of minor children, provision for fair and D adequate alimony for the wife, and economic rights of the children and other pending matters, if any, are relevant considerations. This Court would not like to codify the factors so as to curtail exercise of jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, which is situation specific. Some of the factors mentioned E can be taken as illustrative, and worthy of consideration. [Para 33][207-C-G; 208-A] 9. This Court, in exercise of power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, has the discretion to dissolve the marriage on the ground of its irretrievable breakdown. This F discretionary power is to be exercised to do ‘complete justice’ to the parties, wherein this Court is satisfied that the facts established show that the marriage has completely failed and there is no possibility that the parties will cohabit together, and continuation of the formal legal relationship is unjustified. The Court, as a court of equity, is required to also balance the G circumstances and the background in which the party opposing the dissolution is placed. [Para 42][213-F-G] 10. This Court is of the opinion that the decisions of this Court in Manish Goel , Neelam Kumar , Darshan Gupta , Hitesh H SHILPA SAILESH v. VARUN SREENIVASAN 173 Bhatnagar, Savitri Pandey and others have to be read down in A the context of the power of this Court given by the Constitution of India to do ‘complete justice’ in exercise of the jurisdiction under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India. In consonance with our findings on the scope and ambit of the power under Article 142(1) of the Constitution of India, in the context of matrimonial B disputes arising out of the Hindu Marriage Act, this Court hold that the power to do ‘complete justice’ is not fettered by the doctrine of fault and blame, applicable to petitions for divorce under Section 13(1)(i-a) of the Hindu Marriage Act. As held above, this Court’s power to dissolve marriage on settlement by passing a decree of divorce by mutual consent, as well as quash and set C aside other proceedings, including criminal proceedings, remains and can be exercised. [Para 40][211-B-D] 11. Lastly, this Court must express its opinion on whether a party can directly canvass before this Court the ground of irretrievable breakdown by filing a writ petition under Article 32 D of the Constitution. In Poonam v. Sumit Tanwar, a two judges’ bench of this Court has rightly held that any such attempt must be spurned and not accepted, as the parties should not be permitted to file a writ petition under Article 32 of the Constitution of India, or for that matter under Article 226 of the Constitution E of India before the High Court, and seek divorce on the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage.