While the right to free speech and expression may be exercised in conjunction with the right to association and even the right to assemble and move, nevertheless the extent of the assertion of these rights, collectively, would depend on the circumstances of the case and the nature of the curbs imposed (by law). Thus, for instance, the right to protest in the form of a procession is subjected to the laws reasonably restricting movement in the larger interests of the public. It is questionable whether the imposition of valid restrictions and curbs in such circumstances can be successfully impugned only on the ground that their right to free speech and assembly are violated. In the case of both, if the restriction is valid for one fundamental right, it is equally valid for the others on an application of the test laid down in Maneka Gandhi (supra). Rather it is the test of reasonableness and the proximity to the disturbance of public , when such restriction is imposed, that becomes the focal point of debate. Therefore, in the abstract every right enumerated in Article 19, and other Article 25, can be exercised freely without hindrance by all. However, it is the assertion of the right, in the face of some threat by state action or despite state protection, which becomes the subject of court scrutiny. The extent of right to free speech is subject to reasonable restrictions, to further inter alia, “public ” or “decency” and “morality”. The right to association is hedged by reasonable restrictions inter alia, in furtherance of “public or morality”. The right to travel and settle in any part of the country, is subject to reasonable restrictions in the “interests of the general public” or “for the interests of any scheduled tribe”. Likewise, the freedom of conscience is both internal, and external. As long as an individual exercises it, from within, and in privacy, there can be ordinarily SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1465 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] no inroads into it; its external manifestation, may call for scrutiny, at given points in time. 66. The right to freedom of conscience is also subject to other provisions of Part III, and any measure, in the interests of public or morality. It is thus, open to all to exhibit and propagate their beliefs and ideas through overt “for the edifi cation of others”, regardless if the propagation is made by a person in his individual capacity or on behalf of any church or institution….exhibition of such “belief, is, as stated above, subject to State regulation imposed to secure , public health and morals…”64 This broad understanding and enunciation of the freedom of conscience has remained unchanged. The state on occasions has intervened to promote social welfare and reforms; this court has intervened when state action was based on a practise found inconsistent with the right to equality and dignity. 67. We do not therefore, agree with the learned Chief Justice who has underlined that the positive postulate of various rights, leads to the conclusion that all persons (including two consenting adult queer persons) have an entitlement to enter into a union, or an abiding cohabitational relationship which the state is under an obligation to recognize, “to give real meaning” to the right.