6. Being aggrieved by the said passed by the Appointing Authority, the respondent filed Departmental appeal before the Appellate Authority on 24.02.2014, which came to be dismissed on 09.08.2014. The respondent therefore again approached the High Court by way of filing CWJC No. 10192 of 2014. The Single Bench of the High Court H vide the dated 22.08.2016 allowed the said petition, and quashed STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. KAMAL KISHORE 897 PRASAD [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] and set aside the of dismissal passed by the Appellant-Bank and A directed the Appellant-Bank to pay all the consequential benefits i.e., arrears of salary and retiral benefits within 3 months thereof. The aggrieved appellant-bank filed LPA being no. 2035 of 2016 on 17.10.2016, which came to be dismissed by the Division Bench vide the impugned dated 01.02.2018. B 7. The learned ASG Mr. Balbir Singh for the Appellant-Bank vehemently submitted that the High Court had committed gross error in confirming the passed by the Single Bench, and in misinterpreting the Rule 19(1) and 19(3) of the SBIOSR, 1992. According to him, this Court in the first round of litigation had allowed the appeal filed by the Appellant-Bank and set aside the passed by the Division Bench, C and while observing that the person who hears the matter requires to pass an , had directed the Appointing Authority to take appropriate decision within 2 months, keeping all the contentions of the parties open. The appointing authority, therefore had issued a show-cause notice to the respondent and after giving him an opportunity of hearing had passed the of dismissal, which was wrongly set aside by the Single Bench D and by the Division Bench. 8. However, the learned counsel Mr. Kripa Shankar Prasad appearing for the respondent submitted that an affirmative action was expected to be taken by the Appellant-Bank in view of the passed by the Supreme Court on 25.11.2013, as the respondent had already attained the age of superannuation pending the proceeding before the E High Court. He further submitted in the said the Supreme Court had set aside the of Division Bench, however had agreed with the view expressed by the Single Bench that as per the settled legal principle, the person who hears the matter is required to pass an . According to him, the Supreme Court had granted the liberty only to the extent of directing the Appointing Authority to take appropriate action in accordance F with law as the respondent had attained the age of superannuation. Under the circumstances, the Appointing Authority was required to take steps either to extend the service of the respondent in terms of Rule 19(1), or to continue the disciplinary proceedings, even after the superannuation of the respondent under Rule 19(3) of the Rules, however the Appellant- Bank did not take recourse to any of the said rules. He further submitted G that the discretion to continue with the disciplinary proceedings had to be exercised as an affirmative action by taking a conscious decision, which the Appointing Authority of the Appellant-Bank had failed to take, and on the contrary passed the of dismissal with retrospective effect which was not legally permissible.