We deem it appropriate to leave it to the High Courts to evolve such method or apply such measure that they deem expedient for an eff ective monitoring of the subject cases. 20. Having considered the matter in detail, we direct that: (i) Learned Chief Justices of the High Courts shall register a suo- motu case with the title, “In Re: designated courts for MPs/ MLAs” to monitor early disposal of criminal cases pending against the members of Parliament and Legislative Assemblies. The suo-motu case may be heard by the Special Bench presided by the Learned Chief Justice or a bench assigned by them. (ii) The Special Bench hearing the suo-motu case may list the matter at regular intervals as is felt necessary. The High Court may issue such s and/or directions as are necessary for expeditious and eff ective disposal of the subject cases. The Special Bench may consider calling upon the Advocate General or the Public Prosecutor to assist the Court. 8 Though Constitution uses the expression ‘subordinate’ to describe the district judiciary, it is not to be understood in the literal sense. In fact, this Court in All India Judges Association v. Union of India & Ors., 2023 SCC OnLine SC 673, has held that district judiciary is a part of our basic structure. 282 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (iii) The High Court may require the Principal District and Sessions Judge to bear the responsibility of allocating the subject cases to such court or courts as is considered appropriate and eff ective. The High Court may call upon the Principal District and Sessions Judge to send reports at such intervals as it considers expedient. (iv) The designated courts shall give priority: (i) fi rst to criminal cases against MP’s & MLA’s punishable with death or life imprisonment then to (ii) cases punishable with imprisonment for 5 years or more, and then hear (iii) other cases. The Trial Courts shall not adjourn the cases except for rare and compelling reasons. (v) The learned Chief Justices may list cases in which s of stay of trial have been passed before the Special Bench to ensure that appropriate s, including vacation of stay s are passed to ensure commencement and conclusion of trial. (vi) The Principal District and Sessions Judge shall ensure suffi cient infrastructure facility for the designated courts and also enable it to adopt such technology as is expedient for eff ective and effi cient functioning. (vii) The High Courts shall create an independent tab on their website providing district-wise information about the details of the year of fi ling, number of subject cases pending and stage of proceedings. We make it clear that while monitoring the subject cases, the Special Bench may pass such s or give such additional directions as are necessary for early disposal of the subject cases. 21. With these directions, we dispose of this Writ Petition with respect to the fi rst prayer concerning the expeditious disposal of criminal cases against elected members of Parliament and Legislative Assemblies.