The Union was to deal with foreign aff airs, defence, and communications. The provinces would have power over all other subjects and residuary power.213 However, fresh IoAs were entered into by the States acceding competence to the Dominion of India over all matters specifi ed in the Federal and Concurrent Legislative Lists of the Draft Constitution, except those relating to taxation.214 The Raj Pramukh of Saurashtra executed a revised IoA on 22 May 1948. The Preamble to the IoA stated that a fresh IoA was being executed, replacing the IoA executed in August 1947 “accepting as matters with respect to which the Dominion Legislature may make laws for the United State all matters mentioned in List I and List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Government of India Act 1935, except matters relating to taxation.” Clause 3 of the IoA read as follows: “I accept all matters enumerated in List I and List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Act as matters in respect of which the Dominion Legislature may make laws for the United State. Provided that nothing contained in said Lists or in any other provision of the Act shall be deemed to empower the Dominion Legislature to impose any tax or duty in the territories of the United State or to prohibit the imposition of any duty or tax by the Legislature of the United State in the said territories.” 252. Similar IoAs were executed by the States of Madhya Bharat, Patiala and East Punjab States Union, Matsya Union, United State of Rajasthan, Tranvancore-Cochin, and Mysore. However, the State of Jammu and Kashmir had expressed its inability to expand the matters listed in the IoA until the Constituent Assembly of the State was formed.215 The State of Jammu and Kashmir only acceded to Dominion control over the subjects of defence, external aff airs, communication, and ancillary matters. The Schedule to the IoA executed by the State of Jammu and Kashmir is extracted below: 213 Shiva Rao, Pg. 211 214 White Paper on Indian States (July 5 1948) 77 215 Shiva Rao, pg. 991 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 159 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “A. Defence The naval, military and air forces of the Dominion and any other armed forces raised or maintained by the Dominion; any armed forces, including forces raised or maintained by an acceding State, which are attached to, or operating with, any of the armed forces of the Dominion. Naval, military and air force works, administration of cantonment areas. Arms, fi re-arms, ammunition. Explosives. B. External Aff airs External aff airs; the implementing of treaties and agreements with other countries; extradition, including the surrender of criminals and accused persons to parts of His Majesty’s Dominions outside India. Admission into, and emigration and expulsion from, India, including in relation thereto the regulation of the movements in India of persons who are not British subjects domiciled in India or subjects of any acceding State; pilgrimages to places beyond India. Naturalisation. C. Communications Posts and telegraphs, including telephones, wireless, broadcasting, and other like forms of communication.