Insertion of Section 3A provided for levy of special road tax. The special road tax as provided under sub-sections (1), (2) and (4) of Section 3A have been upheld by the High Court. It is only the levy of special road H THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 883 KULLU ETC. ETC. tax under sub-section (3) which has been struck down. Testing A the provisions of the offending section with regard to the settled principles of interpretation of taxing statutes, it is to be ascertained on the following three aspects: (1) Whether it is manifestly unjust or glaringly unconstitutional; (2) Whether it is regulatory or compensatory in nature; and (3) Whether there is any repugnancy B with the provisions in the Central enactment. [Para 41[914-A-C] Manifestly unjust or glaringly unconstitutional: 3.2. The Legislatures of the State have not only the power to make laws on the taxation to be imposed on motor vehicles as also the passengers and goods being transported by motor C vehicles but also the power to lay down principles on which taxes on vehicles are to be levied. In the absence of any principles having been laid down by the Parliament, no fault could be found in the law enacted by Legislature of the State of Himachal Pradesh. The offending provision is regulatory in nature and therefore within the competence of the Legislature of State of Himachal D Pradesh. There is nothing on record to indict the offending provision as being manifestly unjust or glaringly unconstitutional. [Para 42][914-D-F] Regulatory or Compensatory: E 3.3. The objects and reasons for bringing in the 1999 Amendment was clearly compensatory in nature. The object was to augment funds and finance for construction, maintenance, repair and upkeep of the roads in the State of Himachal Pradesh which has a totally hilly terrain. The offending section only provided that if any vehicle used without a valid permit or in any F manner not authorised by the permit, further special road tax would be levied, charged and paid to the state government in addition to the tax payable under sub-section (1) at such rates as may be specified by the state government by notification. However, the restriction was that the same would not exceed the rates specified in column 3 of Schedule 3 of the Act. [Para G 43][914-G-H; 915-A] 3.4. Imposition of such additional special road tax was only to keep a check or a discipline on the transport vehicle operators to use their vehicles in accordance with the statutory provisions. This could work as a deterrent for the transport operators to not H 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A commit any breach and to follow the mandate of the law. Such additional special road tax could be termed as regulatory in nature so as to regulate other statutory provisions being implemented and strictly followed. This Court in the case of Sukhpal Singh Bal relating to challenge to Section 10(3) of the U.P. Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1997 where a similar provision was incorporated B and even though termed as penalty, was held to be regulatory and compensatory in nature.