the consideration of the President, has received his assent Right A to Constitutional Remedies.” 42. The working of the MRTP Act was found to be inadequate particularly in the context of changes which happened not only in the country but also on a larger scale. B 43. A high-level Committee known as Raghavan Committee delved into the issues. It is, inter alia, stated in the Report as follows: “the object of competition policy is to promote efficiency and maximize welfare. In this context, the appropriate definition of welfare is the sum of consumer surplus and producer’s surplus and also includes any taxes collected by the Government.”(See paragraph-2.1.1) C We notice the following observations as well: “2.1.1 Competition policy is defined as “those Government measures that directly affect the behaviour of enterprises and the structure of industry” (Khemani, R.S. and Mark A. Dutz, 1996). The objective of competition policy is to promote efficiency and D maximize welfare. In this context the appropriate definition of welfare is the sum of consumers’ surplus and producers’ surplus and also includes any taxes collected by the Government.1[1] It is well known that in the presence of competition, welfare maximization is synonymous with allocative efficiency. Taxes are E generally welfare-reducing.” 44. After referring to the reforms initiated in 1991 and dealing with public sector, it is stated as follows: “2.6.4 Public sector F In 1991, Government abolished the monopoly of the public sector industries except those where security and strategic concerns still dominated. These include arms and ammunition and allied defence equipment, atomic energy and nuclear minerals and railway transport. Major industries including iron and steel, heavy electrical equipment, aircraft, air transport, shipbuilding, telecommunication G equipment and electric power are now open for private sector investments. A large number of loss-making public enterprises were referred to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR). Essentially two different types of reforms were envisaged: greater autonomy for public sector enterprises H and greater private sector ownership.” 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 45. We may next notice paragraph-2.8.5: “2.8.5 Public Sector To a large extent, the imperative for privatisation of the public sector has arisen from fiscal considerations. From the point of view of economic efficiency and competition policy, it is important that the public sector does B not enjoy monopoly power and is subject to market disciplines through competition. Most of the sectors where the public sector operates have in recent years been opened up to entry by private sector firms. However, as we have noted earlier, the public sector is given preferential treatment in Government procurement. We are of the view that the public sector should be exposed to C competition and not given any preferential treatment.” 46. State Monopolies Policy is seen dealt with under paragraphs- 3.4.5 and 3.4.6. They read as follows: “3.4.5 State Monopolies Policy State monopolies are not only a reality but are regarded by many countries as inevitable D instruments of public growth and public interest. While ideology may have played some role in spurring the growth of State monopolies, much of this increase can be attributed to the pragmatic response to the prevailing milieu, which is frequently an outcome of the historical past in different countries.