P. V. NIDHISH & ORS. v. KERALA STATE WAKF BOARD & 561 ANR. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] to their commencement: as statutes of oblivion or of pardon. A They are certainly retrospective, and literally both concerning and after the facts committed. But I do not consider any law ex post facto within the prohibition that mollifies the rigour of the criminal law, but only those that create or aggravate the crime, or increase the punishment or change the rules of B evidence for the purpose of conviction…. There is a great and apparent difference between making an unlawful act lawful and the making an innocent action criminal and punishing it as a crime.” (L Ed p. 650)’” 20. In Kanaiyalal Chandulal Monim v. Indumati T. Potdar and C Another,14 this court had to decide whether a landlord had denied amenities which were enjoyed by his tenant, calling for his prosecution under Section 24(1)(4) of the Bombay Rents Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control Act 57 of 1947. The provision read as follows: “24. (1) No landlord either himself or through any person D acting or purporting to act on his behalf shall without just or sufficient cause cut off or withhold any essential supply or service enjoyed by the tenant in respect of the premises let to him.” Section 25 (4) enacted a punishment of up to three months E imprisonment, or both. The landlord resisted the prosecution on the ground that the amenity, i.e., the water supply had been disconnected to the premises due to the default of the predecessor in title before he became the owner. This was negatived, and he was concurrently convicted. By an amendment in 1953, an explanation was added, which said that the withholding supplies could be through acts or omissions. This court F interpreted Section 24 as imposing an obligation (of providing the amenity) in presenti, after coming into force of the enactment: “Is it enough that this essential supply should have been “enjoyed” by the tenant at any past time, however remote, or that it should have been “enjoyed” at any time after the G coming into effect of the Act? We are assuming for the purposes of this decision that the first respondent was the tenant at all material times. In our opinion, the Section makes it essential that the particular essential supply should have been available 14[1958] 1 SCR 1394. H 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A for the use of the tenant at some time when the Act was in force. If, on the other hand, the Section were construed in the sense that the supply should have been “enjoyed” at some time in the remote past, that is, before the Act was enforced, the act of the landlord, when it was committed, may not have been penal; but the same act would become penal on the B coming into effect of the Act. In that sense, it would amount to ex-post facto legislation, and we cannot accede to the argument that such was the intention of the legislature — an intention which would come within the prohibition of Article 20(1) of the Constitution.” C 21.