E 30. The above s relate to an offence covered by either the Juvenile Justice Act, 198610 or the 2000 Act. We now proceed to briefly discuss the provisions under the 2015 Act. Section 9 of the 2015 Act is already reproduced in the earlier part of this . According to sub-section (3) of section 9 of the 2015 Act, the Court which finds F that the person who committed the offence was a child on the date of commission of such offence would forward the child to the JJB for passing appropriate s and sentence, if any, passed by the Court shall be deemed to have no effect. This does not specifically or even impliedly provide that the conviction recorded by any Court with respect G to a person who has subsequently after the disposal of the case found to be juvenile or a child, would also lose its effect rather it is only the sentence if any passed by the Court would be deemed to have no effect. 9 In 2019 (6) SCC 132 H 10 “the 1986 Act” KARAN @ FATIYA v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 609 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 31. There is another reason why a trial conducted and conviction A recorded by the Sessions Court would not be held to be vitiated in law even though subsequently the person tried has been held to be a child. 32. The intention of the legislature was to give benefit to a person who is declared to be a child on the date of the offence only with respect B to its sentence part. If the conviction was also to be made ineffective then either the jurisdiction of regular Sessions Court would have been completely excluded not only under section 9 of the 2015 Act but also under section 25 of the 2015 Act, provision would have been made that on a finding being recorded that the person being tried is a child, a pending C trial should also be relegated to the JJB and also that such trial would be held to be null and void. Instead, under section 25 of the 2015 Act, it is clearly provided that any proceeding pending before any Board or Court on the date of commencement of the 2015 Act shall be continued in that Board or Court as if this Act had not been enacted. Section 25 is reproduced hereunder: D “25. Special provision in respect of pending cases.- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all proceedings in respect of a child alleged or found to be in conflict with law pending before any Board or court on the date of commencement of this Act, shall be continued in that Board or court as if this Act had not E been enacted.” 33. Having considered the statutory provisions laid down in section 9 of the 2015 Act and also section 7A of the 2000 Act which is identical to section 9 of the 2015 Act, we are of the view that merits of the conviction could be tested and the conviction which was recorded cannot F be held to be vitiated in law merely because the inquiry was not conducted by JJB.