The respondent-teachers consciously made a choice to be assimilated into the PMC. Since this was a case involving F ‘voluntary transfer’ rather than an ‘administrative transfer’, they cannot claim the benefit of their past service towards fixation of seniority. (ii) Secondly, it was a case of expansion of the ‘larger urban area’ belonging to the PMC and, hence, conditions of service G of Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 shall remain protected only to the extent as provided under Section 3(3)(b) of the MMC Act. The said provision is conspicuously silent with respect to protection and consideration of past service. Section 493 of the MMC Act read with Clause 5(c) of Appendix (IV) H 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A relied upon by the High Court will be attracted only in a case of newly constituted Municipality. That being not the case here, the High Court gravely erred in relying upon the said provision. Shri Navare explained that the legislative intent can be discerned from the fact that a provision similar to the first proviso to Clause 5(c) of Appendix IV, has not B been added to Section 3(3)(b) of the MMC Act. Reliance was placed on Union of India v. Shiv Dayal Soin & Sons (P) Ltd.1,wherein the following was observed: “6. …… As a canon of statutory interpretation, expression unaus Est exclusion arteries, what is C expressly mentioned in one place but not in another must be taken to have been deliberately omitted. ……..” (iii) Thirdly, Shri Navare argued that the decision of PMC five- Member Committee, which unequivocally held that the date of joining the PMC would be the conclusive determinant D for the purpose of inter-se seniority, was a quasi-judicial which Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 did not assail before any forum. Their acquiescence and long silence on the matter estop them from questioning the subsequently published final seniority list which was a step taken to comply with the E decision of the Five Member Committee. 12. Learned counsel for Respondent No. 1, the PMC, also supported the cause of the Appellant and urged that in the event of granting the benefit of past service to Respondent Nos. 5 to 79, a cascading domino effect will be triggered which will lead to other employees of different departments who have been absorbed into PMC F raising similar claims, thus, spawning an unending seniority dispute between different cadres. 13. On the other hand, Mr. Abhay Anil Anurak, learned counsel for Respondent Nos. 5 to 79 strenuously opposed the Appellant’s claim and urged that: G (i) First proviso to Clause 5(c) of Appendix IV, which is to be read into Section 493 of MMC Act, categorically provides that the service rendered by Officers and Servants before their date of appointment shall be deemed to be service H 1 (2003) 4 SCC 695 MAHARASHTRA RAJYA PADVIDHAR PRATHAMIK SHIKSHAK VA 991 KENDRA PRAMUKH SABHA v. PUNE MUNICIPAL CORPORATION AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] rendered in the service of the Municipal Corporation itself.