The High Court thus allowed the writ petition by the impugned dated 21.02.2013. UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS v. JOGESHWAR SWAIN 123 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 10. After the writ petition was allowed by the High Court, the appellants herein fi led a review petition claiming therein that the view taken by the High Court that there was infraction of Rules 60 and 61 of the BSF Rules, 1969 is erroneous because those provisions get attracted only if the trial is by a “General” or a “Petty” Security Force Court, whereas the original petitioner was tried by a “Summary” Security Force Court in terms of section 70 of the BSF Act, 1968. 11. On consideration of the plea taken in the review petition, the High Court recalled its observations regarding infraction of Rules 60 and 61 of the BSF Rules, 1969 in conduct of the proceedings, but rejected the review petition as the writ petition was allowed on consideration of the merits of the prosecution evidence. 12. Aggrieved by the s of the High Court, the Union of India and BSF administration are in appeal before us. 13. We have heard Mr. R. Balasubramanian, learned senior counsel, for the appellants; and Mr. Yasobant Das, learned senior counsel, for the respondent (original petitioner). SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANTS 14. The learned counsel for the appellants submitted: (a) The High Court exceeded its jurisdiction by appreciating the evidence led while preparing the record of evidence when the SSFC decided the matter on acceptance of guilt by the original petitioner. (b) There was no procedural defect in the trial or in the investigation, which preceded it. (c) The record of evidence indicated that though initially the original petitioner denied the allegations but, ultimately, he admitted his guilt. Otherwise also, from the statement of PW-9, recorded during preparation of the record of evidence, it was proved that the original petitioner had kept that camera in her house. (d) Adverse inference against the department could not have been drawn for not developing the reel of that camera because the original petitioner had admitted his guilt. 124 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (e) Absence of signature of the accused on the minutes of the proceedings recording acceptance of guilt by him does not violate any of the Rules contained in the then operating BSF Rules, 1969, as such requirement was inserted in the Rule with eff ect from 25.11.2011. In a nutshell, the submissions on behalf of the appellants were that there was no infraction of the procedure prescribed; the principles of natural justice were duly observed; the decision was based on acceptance of guilt; and since the original petitioner is part of a disciplined force and was found guilty of clicking photographs of a lady doctor while she was taking a bath, and whom he was required to protect, the punishment of dismissal cannot be faulted. Consequently, the of the High Court deserves to be set aside. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT 15.