It is further submitted that the High Court has materially erred in observing E and holding that once the purchases are made by the purchasing dealer by account payee cheque, the purchasing dealer is deemed to have discharged his burden. It is submitted that the High Court has also materially erred in observing that if the seller of the goods from whom the dealer has purchased does not deposit such tax, the dealer (purchasing F dealer) cannot be held liable for that. It is submitted that as such the purchasing dealer is entitled to the Input Tax Credit on the tax paid by the seller and/or on the tax paid. It is submitted that therefore, for the purposes of Input Tax Credit, the purchasing dealer has to prove the actual payment of tax and actual transfer of goods and mere paper transaction is not sufficient. G 6.5 Making above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is prayed to allow the present appeals. 7. While opposing the present appeals, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective assessees/dealers, who claimed the Input H 654 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A Tax Credit have vehemently submitted that in the present case, as such, the purchasing dealers have discharged the burden of proof cast under Section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003 and proved the genuineness of the transactions by producing the genuine invoices and even the payment made through cheques. It is submitted that therefore once the dealer has discharged the burden cast under Section 70 of the KVAT Act,2003, B the purchasing dealer is entitled to the Input Tax Credit and if at all it is found that a tax is not paid by the seller, the same can be recovered from the seller. However, so far as the purchasing dealer is concerned, they are entitled to the ITC, once having discharged the burden under Section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003. C 7.1 It is further submitted by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective dealers that in fact they have discharged the burden of proof cast under Section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003 by producing the valid invoices and making the payment online to the supplier. It is submitted that registration of the dealer and online payments were never D disputed. It is further submitted that apart from Section 70 of the KVAT Act, 2003, the Karnataka Value Added Tax Rules, 2005, namely Rules 27 and 29 provide for the details and obligations upon the dealer to issue the tax invoice and also the particulars of the tax invoices. It is submitted that neither the KVAT Act nor the Rules provide for any other document or any other obligation, which are statutorily required for the purposes of E establishing the claim for seeking refund towards Input Tax Credit. 7.2 It is submitted that therefore the decision of the adjudicating authority was beyond the Act and Rules. It is further submitted by the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective assessees / dealers that the only requirement of law, as far as the purchasing dealers wanting F to avail the benefit of Input Tax Credit is concerned, is that he has to make sure that the selling dealer is a registered dealer and has issued the tax invoice in compliance with the requirement of the KVAT Act and the Rules made thereunder.