[Para 50][1066-B-D] G 7. The High Court has not quashed the summons issued by ED. The High Court had merely injuncted ED from proceeding further till the clog on the cases relating to the predicate offences is removed. Interestingly, none of the accused has come up with any appeal challenging the of the High Court dated H 1034 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 01.09.2022, on the ground that the High Court ought to have quashed the summons issued by the ED in total, on other grounds. Instead, the accused appeared through counsel only to defend the impugned dated 01.09.2022. Therefore, in law, (i) once the dismissal of the petition for discharge has attained finality with the dismissal of Criminal Revision Case No.224 of 2021; (ii) B once the for de novo investigation in Criminal O.P. No.15122 of 2021 is set aside; (iii) once the of the High Court dated 30.03.2022 relating to right of the ED to secure the copies of documents is dealt with; (iv) once the of the High Court dated 30.07.2021 quashing one of the criminal cases is set C aside; and (v) once the stay operating in two of the criminal cases for predicate offences is vacated, then the temporary reprieve that has been granted by the High Court to the accused in the impugned would automatically go. Realising this difficulty in law, the accused changed the theme of the song completely before us, despite the fact that they were ordained as respondents D in the appeals only to support the impugned of the High Court. In fact, all the learned senior counsel appearing for all the accused in the PMLA case, advanced arguments for the grant of larger reliefs than what they got under the impugned , without even filing any appeal against the same. It is possible in E law for a successful party (though in civil proceedings) to support the decree without supporting the . But what the accused sought to do before us was to support the and seek an enlargement of the decree, without independently filing appeals. Since they took a chance by adopting such a course, they may not even be able to challenge the impugned hereafter, once F the seal of approval on the same is affixed by this Court and the doctrine of merger comes into play. [Paras 67-70][1072-A-F] 8.1 If the main part of Section 3 is dissected with forensic precision, it will be clear that Section 3 addresses itself to three things (we may call them 3 ‘P’s) namely, (i) person; (ii) process G or activity; and (iii) product. Insofar as persons covered by Section 3 are concerned, they are, (i) those who directly or indirectly attempt to indulge; or (ii) those who knowingly assists; or (iii) those who are knowingly a party; or (iv) those who are actually involved. Insofar as process is concerned, the Section identifies H Y. BALAJI v. KARTHIK DESARI & ANR. ETC. 1035 six different activities, namely (i) concealment; (ii) possession; A (iii) acquisition; (iv) use; (v) projecting; or (vi) claiming as untainted property, any one of which is sufficient to constitute the offence.