H 1150 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 13. Vide the of the even date, we had stayed the impugned passed by the High Court for a period of one week therefrom. We had also directed the Registrar (Judicial) to obtain s from Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India and place the matter before an appropriate Bench for considering the Special Leave Petition. B 14. Thereafter, the matter was listed before us on 5th July 2023. On the said date, we had issued notice, returnable today and directed the parties to complete the pleadings before that. Accordingly, the matter is listed before us today. 15. We have heard Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel C appearing for the appellant and Shri S.V. Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, appearing for the respondent-State of Gujarat at length. 16. Shri Kapil Sibal, learned senior counsel for the appellant, submits that out of the offences registered against the appellant, only Sections 194 and 468 IPC are non-bailable. Shri Sibal submits that even if the allegations made in the FIR are taken on its face value, the case under D Section 194 and 468 IPC is not made out. 17. Shri Sibal submits that the allegations made against the appellant are that she influenced certain citizens to swear false affidavits, which were used as a part of investigation. He submits that Section 194 IPC only deals with the evidence recorded before the Court. Shri Sibal would E submit that since there is no material to show that the appellant has fabricated false evidence intending thereby to cause or knowing it to be likely that she will thereby cause any person to be convicted of an offence, which is capital, the case taken at its face value would not bring it under the purview of Section 194 IPC. He further submits that even the F ingredients of section 468 IPC are not made out in the present case. 18. Shri Sibal further submits that in the proceedings which led to the in the case of Zakia Ahsan Jafri (supra), though the appellant had filed an application to be joined as petitioner No.2, the said application was vehemently opposed by the State. It is submitted that on G the opposition of the State Government, the Court did not wish to dilate on the issue of locus of the appellant herein and kept the preliminary objection open to be decided in an appropriate case. It is, therefore, submitted that in the absence of the appellant being made party in the proceedings the observations made in paragraph 88 of Zakia Ahsan Jafri (supra) could not have been used against her. H TEESTA ATUL SETALVAD v. STATE OF GUJARAT 1151 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] 19. Shri S.V. Raju, learned Additional Solicitor General of India, A with usual vehemence at his command, strenuously opposes the appeal. He submits that the appellant is involved in a very heinous crime of trying to get conviction of totally unconnected persons by forging the evidence.