17.8. We may also refer with benefi t to the recent of this Court in S. Kasi v. State, (2021) 12 SCC 1, wherein it was observed that the indefeasible right to default bail under Section 167(2) is an integral part of the right to personal liberty under Article 21, and the said right to bail cannot be suspended even during a pandemic situation as is prevailing currently. It was emphasised that the right of the accused to be set at liberty takes precedence over the right of the State to carry on the investigation and submit a charge-sheet. V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 911 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] 17.9. Additionally, it is well-settled that in case of any ambiguity in the construction of a penal statute, the courts must favour the interpretation which leans towards protecting the rights of the accused, given the ubiquitous power disparity between the individual accused and the State machinery. This is applicable not only in the case of substantive penal statutes but also in the case of procedures providing for the curtailment of the liberty of the accused. 17.10. With respect to the CrPC particularly, the Statement of Objects and Reasons (supra) is an important aid of construction. Section 167(2) has to be interpreted keeping in mind the threefold objectives expressed by the legislature, namely, ensuring a fair trial, expeditious investigation and trial, and setting down a rationalised procedure that protects the interests of indigent sections of society. These objects are nothing but subsets of the overarching fundamental right guaranteed under Article 21. 17.11. Hence, it is from the perspective of upholding the fundamental right to life and personal liberty under Article 21 that we shall clarify and reconcile the various judicial interpretations of Section 167(2) for the purpose of resolving the dilemma that has arisen in the present case.” (emphasis in original and supplied) 41. As a consequence of the right fl owing from the said provision, courts will have to give due eff ect to it, and thus any detention beyond this period would certainly be illegal, being an aff ront to the liberty of the person concerned. Therefore, it is not only the duty of the investigating agency but also the courts to see to it that an accused gets the benefi t of Section 167(2).” (emphasis supplied) 66. Sub-section (3) of Section 167 of the CrPC, 1973 warrants a Magistrate to record reasons by speaking, reasoned while granting authorisation. As stated, this being a judicial , touching upon the rights of an accused, adequate reasons are expected to be recorded. Needless to 912 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. state that any such passed is amenable to challenge before the higher judicial forum, though not by way of a Habeas Corpus petition. INTERPLAY BETWEEN SECTION 19 OF THE PREVENTION OF MONEY LAUNDERING ACT, 2002 AND SECTION 167 OF THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE, 1973: 67. We have already touched upon the mandatory function that a Magistrate is to undertake while dealing with a case of remand.