502 SUPR[2E0M23E] 1C0O SU.RCT.R R. E5P0O2 R: T2S023 INSC 6[240223] 10 S.C.R. A ROHIT BISHNOI v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ANR. (Criminal Appeal No. 2078 of 2023) B JULY 24, 2023 [B.V. NAGARATHNA AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973: s 439 – Special powers of High Court or Court of Sessions C regarding bail – On facts, an honour killing matter, wherein victim in extra-marital-live in relationship with the sister-in-law of the respondents – Allegation that the respondents conspired to kill the victim and later shot him dead – FIR lodged by the brother of the victim against the respondents – Respondents charged u/s. 302 and D 120B IPC and ss. 3 r/w ss. 25 and 27 of the Arms Act – Bail application – Grant of bail by the High Court, by a casual and cryptic – Justification of – Held: While liberty of an individual is an invaluable right, at the same time while considering bail application, courts cannot lose sight of the serious nature of the accusations against an accused and the facts that have a bearing E on the case – On facts, it cannot be said that the accusations against the respondents are prima-facie wholly false, frivolous or vexatious in nature, so as to justify grant of bail – Prosecution has brought on record adequate material that would prima-facie point towards the guilt of the accused – High Court while passing the impugned F s did not take into account even a single material aspect of the case, instead, referred only to the testimony of one hostile witness in the trial and on the basis thereof, exercised its discretion to grant bail, by passing a cryptic and casual s, de hors cogent reasoning – Thus, not a fit case for the grant of bail to the respondents, given the seriousness of the allegations against them G – Impugned s passed by the High Court set aside – Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 120B and 302 – Arms Act, 1959 – ss. 3, 25 and 27. s 439 – Grant of bail – Factors to be considered – Discussed. H Maxims : “cessante ratione legis cessat ipsa lex” – Meaning of. 502 ROHIT BISHNOI v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ANR. 503 Allowing the appeals, the Court A HELD: 1.1 The primary considerations which must be placed at balance while deciding the grant of bail are: the seriousness of the offence; the likelihood of the accused fleeing from justice; the impact of release of the accused on the prosecution witnesses; likelihood of the accused tampering with B evidence. While such a list is not exhaustive, it may be stated that if a Court takes into account such factors in deciding a bail application, it could be concluded that the decision has resulted from a judicious exercise of its discretion. An granting bail in a mechanical manner, without recording reasons, would suffer C from the vice of non-application of mind, rendering it illegal.