Joshi v. State of Madhya Pradesh (1955) 1 SCR 1215, but it is only in Pradeep Jain where an elaborate discussion on this aspect was done and such reservation were G held to be valid. This departure from the Rule of selection based on merit was justified on two grounds. Firstly, what one may call as the State interest, which would mean the expenditure incurred by the State in creating the educational infrastructure and the cost of its maintenance and the second was the State’s claims to backwardness (Pradeep Jain Para 14). We must add that institutional and residential requirements H 112 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A were further held to be permissible in the case of Saurabh Chaudhari and Others. v. Union of India and Others reported in (2003) 11 SCC 146 which followed the ratio laid down in Pradeep Jain (supra). Further, this Court in Magan Mehrotra and Others v. Union of India and Others reported in (2003) 11 SCC 186 had upheld institutional preference given to those who completed their undergraduate studies in B the same institution and again in Rajdeep Ghosh v. The State of Assam reported in (2018) 17 SCC 524 followed the ratio of law laid down in Pradeep Jain (supra). All these cases though were in the field of medical education. 9. As far as “State interest” was concerned it was an admitted C fact that it was the State which contributed in the establishment and upkeep of the medical institutions, which required a considerable amount of financial support and if the State has to spend money on these institutions, it is not unreasonable that the State should ensure at least some of its benefits to flow exclusively for its residents. It was for this D reason that the different fee structure, one from the residents of Madhya Bharat, and other from the students who belong to other States was justified as a reasonable classification in D.P. Joshi1. In Pradeep Jain again this was reiterated. “The claim of State interest in providing adequate medical E service to the people of the State by imparting medical education to students who by reason of their residence in the State would be likely to settle down and serve the people of the State as doctors has thus been regarded by the Court as a legitimate ground for laying down residence requirement for admission to medical colleges in the State.”2 F The claim of backwardness of the State was another justifiable reason given in Pradeep Jain and as it was held: “…….There may be a case where a region is educationally backward or woefully deficient in medical services and in G such a case there would be serious educational and health service disparity for that backward region which must be redressed by an equality and service minded welfare State. 1 Para 15 of D.P. Joshi (supra). H 2 Para 16, Page 681 of Pradeep Jain (supra). VEENA VADINI TEACHERS TRAINING INSTITUTE v. STATE 113 OF MADHYA PRADESH [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.]