Sub-sections (2), (3) and (4) lay D down procedure of raising plea as to the jurisdiction of the Arbitral Tribunal and entertaining such plea. Sub-section (5) mandates that the Arbitral Tribunal “shall decide” such plea and, “where the Arbitral Tribunal takes a decision rejecting the plea, continue with the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award”. Sub-section (6) is equally important and expressly enacts that a party aggrieved E by an arbitral award may invoke Section 34 of the Act for setting aside such award. The provision appears to have been made to prevent dilatory tactics and abuse of immediate right to approach the court. If an aggrieved party has right to move the court, it would not have been possible to preclude the court from granting F stay or interim relief which would bring the arbitration proceedings to a grinding halt. The provisions of Section 16(6) read with Section 5 now make the legal position clear, unambiguous and free from doubt. 96. Section 16(1) incorporates the well-known doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz or competence de la competence. It G recognises and enshrines an important principle that initially and primarily, it is for the Arbitral Tribunal itself to determine whether it has jurisdiction in the matter, subject of course, to ultimate court- control. It is thus a rule of chronological priority. Kompetenz- Kompetenz is a widely accepted feature of modern international H 452 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A arbitration, and allows the Arbitral Tribunal to decide its own jurisdiction including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, subject to final review by a competent court of law i.e. subject to Section 34 of the Act.” B 48. The above line of reasoning in Justice Thakkar’s dissent resonates with the internationally recognized principle of Kompetenz Komptenz and the doctrine of separability. The majority opinion in SBP (supra) suggeststhat a Section 11 Court could conduct a mini-trial at the pre-referral stage. The jurisprudential correctness of SBP(supra) has been doubted and was considered as excessive judicial intervention by C the 246th LCI Report (supra). It has been legislatively overruled by subsequent amendments in the Arbitration Act, 1996 which will be discussed later in this . 49. Thereafter, a two-judge bench in Boghara Polyfab (supra) which followed SBP (supra), allowed the court to examine, inter alia, D the following issues: “22.2. (a) Whether the claim is a dead (long barred) claim or a live claim. (b) Whether the parties have concluded the contract/ transaction by recording satisfaction of their mutual rights E and obligation or by receiving the final payment without objection.” 50. The 246th LCI report (supra), discussing both SBP (supra) and Boghara (supra) significantly noted that the real issue is the “scope” and “nature” of judicial intervention: F “29. The Supreme Court has had occasion to deliberate upon the scope and nature of permissible pre-arbitral judicial intervention, especially in the context of section 11 of the Act. Unfortunately, however, the question before the Supreme Court was framed in terms of whether such a power is a “judicial” or an “administrative” G power – which obfuscates the real issue underlying such nomenclature/description as to: -the scope of such powers – i.e.