Though sub-sections (9), (11) and (12) of Section 38 make specific reference only to a few provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, the principle behind 1 Rule 1 enabling more than one person to join in a suit as plaintiff is not expressly excluded. F 41. Therefore, we are of the considered view that while the National Commission was wrong in this case, in the peculiar facts and circumstances in permitting an application under Section 35(1)(c) read with 1 Rule 8 CPC, it does not mean that the complaint filed by the respondents G itself is liable to be thrown out. The complaint filed by the respondents may have to be treated as a joint complaint and not a complaint in a representative capacity on behalf of 1134 purchasers. The purchasers of other flats, such as the intervenors herein may join as parties to the consumer complaint, if they so desire. As a matter of fact, it is stated by the intervenors H 872 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A that pursuant to the impugned [Anil Kumar Virmani v. Brigade Enterprises Ltd., 2021 SCC OnLine NCDRC 417], advertisements were issued and the intervenors have already filed impleadment application before the National Commission. They are entitled to be impleaded.” B (emphasis supplied) 19. Having considered the decision of this Court in Brigade Enterprises Ltd. (supra), the members of the appellant, who had filed affidavits, would fall under Section 12(1)(a) of the 1986 Act, and therefore, there is no need to go into the issue as to whether the case C would come under Section 12(1)(b) of the 1986 Act, for the good reason that the definition of ‘complainant’ under Section 2(b)(i) of the 1986 Act, will include multiple consumers. In such view of the matter, the law laid down by this Court in Brigade Enterprises Ltd. (supra) will apply on all fours to the case on hand. D 20. The National Commission in a subsequent decision in Akshay Kumar & Ors. v. Adani Brahma Synergy Pvt. Ltd in Consumer Complaint No. 48 of 2021 etc., dated 06.03.2023, took note of the aforesaid decision on both counts, namely, the right of several complainants having same and similar interest in filing a single complaint and computation of E pecuniary jurisdiction. The following paragraphs would be of relevance, “27. As has been laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Brigade Enterprises (supra), it can be concluded that for filing a Complaint under section 35(1)(c) of the Act in Representative Capacity the complaint should be filed by one or more consumers F on behalf of or for the benefit of numerous consumers having same interest. 28. As in all the aforementioned Consumer Complaints, there is no sameness of interest, relying upon the Principle laid down by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Brigade G Enterprises (supra), permission to file the Complaint in the representative capacity under section 35(1)(c) of the Act, cannot be granted. Therefore, the Applications seeking permission to file the Complaint in the representative capacity under section 35(1)(c) of the Act, are rejected.