1(3)(a) of the Civil Procedure Code? 3. Whether the observations Since we have held that a party made in the in cannot be equated with a witness in the cases of Purushottam the matter of applying the provisions s/o Shankar Ghodgaonkar of VII, Rule 14(4); VIII, Rule (supra) and Vinayak M. 1-A(4) and XIII, Rule 3 of Civil Dessai (supra), to the eff ect Procedure Code, the observations that permitting production made in Purushottam s/o Shankar of documents directly at the Ghodgaonkar (supra) and Vinayak M. stage of cross-examination Dessai (supra), are correct and would of a witness and/or a party not lead to whittling down the eff ect to a suit would amount to of cross-examination of a witness. springing a surprise and Even if the witness was a party hence, it is impermissible, to the suit, what has been held are correct in the light of the in Purushottam s/o Shankar plain reading of the aforesaid Ghodgaonkar (supra) and Vinayak provisions and if accepted it M. Dessai (supra) would equally would lead to whittling down hold good. the effectiveness of cross- examination of a witness and/ or a party? SNAPSHOT OF THE HIGH COURT’S REASONING 6. The High Court delivered a detailed running into more than sixty pages. To reach the above-stated conclusion, the reasoning adopted by the Court was:- 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 6.1. For Question 1- Diff erences between a party to a suit and a witness have been identifi ed, to hold that the Civil Procedure Code6 uses the expressions ‘party’ and ‘witnesses’ “in contradistinction to each other.” Further, it was observed that the role of a witness is separate and distinct to a party to a suit. It was observed that merely because XVI Rule 21 states that the Rules relating to witnesses would also apply to parties summoned does not equate the two. Referring to Section 137 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872, it is observed that the phrase ‘by the party who calls him’ clearly indicates that under this Section the person called is other than the party to the case. It is thereafter held that a plain reading of the statute certifi es that a party cannot be equated to a witness as their characters are diff erent. 6.2 For Question 2 – Specifi c use of the phrase ‘defendant’s witness’ and ‘plaintiff ’s witness’ means persons other than those party to the suit, and therefore, no specifi c leave would be required from the Court to confront such person with a document during cross-examination as this would result in the element of surprise being extinguished. Considering the legislative intent of VII Rule 14 Sub-Rule (4), VIII Rule 1-A(4)(a) and XIII Rule 1(3) of C.P.C. as well as others, it was observed that the legislature has created an exception towards the documents being produced for cross-examination of witnesses of the other party to allow confrontation of witnesses by catching such person “unawares” in to “bring out the truth on record”.