(emphasis supplied)” The distinction drawn was that where a law is not within the domain of the legislature, it is absolutely null and void. But where a law is declared to be unconstitutional, then it would be unenforceable and to that extent void, as per Article 13(2) of the Constitution. (v) The challenge in the case of Deep Chand (supra) was with respect to the validity of the Uttar Pradesh Transport Service (Development) Act, 1955. The Constitution Bench, after discussing merit of Article 13(2) of the Constitution, was of the fi rm view that a plain reading of the Clause indicates, without any reasonable doubt, that the prohibition goes to the root of the matter and limits the State’s power to make law; the law made in spite of the prohibition is a still born law. The relevant extract which is part of the paragraph 13 (from the AIR reference), is reproduced hereunder: “13. …A Legislature, therefore, has no power to make any law in derogation of the injunction contained in Art. 13. Article 13(1) deals with laws in force in the territory of India before the commencement of the Constitution and such laws in so far as they 46 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. are inconsistent with the provisions of Part III shall, to the extent of such inconsistency be void. The clause, therefore, recognizes the validity of, the pre-Constitution laws and only declares that the said laws would be void thereafter to the extent of their inconsistency with Part III; whereas cl. (2) of that article imposes a prohibition on the State making laws taking away or abridging the rights conferred by Part III and declares that laws made in contravention of this clause shall, to the extent of the contravention, be void. There is a clear distinction between the two clauses. Under cl. (1), a pre- Constitution law subsists except to the extent of its inconsistency with the provisions of Part III; whereas, no post-Constitution law can be made contravening the provisions of Part III, and therefore the law, to that extent, though made, is a nullity from its inception. If this clear distinction is borne in mind, much of the cloud raised is dispelled. When cl. (2) of Art. 13 says in clear and unambiguous terms that no State shall make any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part III, it will not avail the State to contend either that the clause does not embody a curtailment of the power to legislate or that it imposes only a check but not a prohibition. A constitutional prohibition against a State making certain laws cannot be whittled down by analogy or by drawing inspiration from decisions on the provisions of other Constitutions; nor can we appreciate the argument that the words “ any law “ in the second line of Art. 13(2) posits the survival of the law made in the teeth of such prohibition. It is said that a law can come into existence only when it is made and therefore any law made in contravention of that clause presupposes that the law made is not a nullity.