BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 471 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] interpret and apply the substituted explanations to (ii) to sub-clause (b) to 34(2) of the A & C Act in the present case. 38. The expression ‘public policy’ under Section 34 of the A&C Act is capable of both wide and narrow interpretation. Taking a broader interpretation, this Court in ONGC Limited. v. Saw Pipes Limited.,26 held that the legislative intent was not to uphold an award if it is in contravention of provisions of an enactment, since it would be contrary to the basic concept of justice. The concept of ‘public policy’ connotes a matter which concerns public good and public interest. An award which is patently in violation of statutory provisions cannot be held to be in public interest. Thus, expanding on the scope and expanse of the jurisdiction of the court under Section 34 of the A&C Act, it was held that an award can be set aside if it is contrary to: (a) fundamental policy of Indian law; or (b) the interest of India; or (c) justice or morality, or (d) in addition, if it is patently illegal. Nevertheless, the decision holds that mere error of fact or law in reaching the conclusion on the disputed question will not give jurisdiction to the court to interfere. However, this will depend on three aspects: (a) whether the reference was made in general terms for deciding the contractual dispute, in which case the award can be set aside if the award is based upon erroneous legal position; (b) this proposition will also hold good in case of a reasoned award, which on the face of it is erroneous on the legal proposition of law and/or its application; and (c) where a specifi c question of law is submitted to an arbitrator, erroneous decision on the point of law does not make the award bad, unless the court is satisfi ed that arbitrator had proceeded illegally. In the said case, the court set aside the award on the ground that the award had not taken into consideration the terms of the contract before arriving at the conclusion as to whether the party claiming the damages is entitled to the same. Reference was made to the provisions of Sections 73 and 74 of the Contract Act, which relate to liquidated damages, general damages and penalty stipulations. This view had held the fi eld for a long time and was 26 (2003) 5 SCC 705 (for short, Saw Pipes Limited). 472 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. applied in subsequent s of this Court in Hindustan Zinc Ltd. v. Friends Coal Carbonisation27, Centrotrade Minerals and Metals Inc. v. Hindustan Copper Limited28, Delhi Development Authority v. R.S. Sharma and Co29., J.G. Engineers (P) Ltd. v. Union of India and Another30, and Union of India v. L.S.N. Murthy.31 39. In 2006, this Court in McDermott International Inc. despite following the ratio of Saw Pipes Limited, made succinct observations regarding the restrictive role of courts in the post-award interference.