124. As a word of caution, the Commission, once constituted, should not turn into a criminal court and must instead follow a humanized and personalized process enabling people to share what they have been through uninhibitedly. It should be based on dialogue, allowing for different viewpoints and inputs from all sides. In the context of South Africa’s truth and reconciliation commission, Albie Sachs, J observed: 134 RG Tietel, Transitional Justice and Transformation of Constitutionalism in Gඅඈൻൺඅංඓංඇ඀ Tඋൺඇඌංඍංඈඇൺඅ Jඎඌඍංർൾ, (OUP, 2014). 135 Velasquez Rodriguez v Honduras, (Ser. C) No. 4 (IACHR) 1988. 136 (1997) 6 SCC 241 374 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “Judges do not cry. Archbishop Tutu cried. It was not a court of law in the sense of an austere institution making highly formalized findings. It was an intensely human and personalized body, there to hear in an appropriately dignified setting what people had been through. There were comforters sitting next to the witnesses—in a court of law no one is there to help the witness, to pat the shoulder, or provide water or tissues when the person weeps. Frequently the sessions would start with a song in beautiful African harmony intended to give a sense of encouragement and support to everybody present. Or it could begin with prayers. And thereafter people spoke and spoke in all the regions and in all the languages of the country. The testimony was televised, and thus the nation became witness to what had happened and heard the stories directly from the mouths of the persons concerned. Those who spoke were not complainants in a court denouncing accused persons in the dock. Nor were they litigants demanding damages for themselves, so that the greater the loss, the greater the sum they would receive.”137 125. Taking a leaf out of South Africa’s book, the principles of “ubuntu”, or the art of humanity, and inclusiveness should be central to the process. This will facilitate a reparative approach that enables forgiveness for the wounds of the past, and forms the basis of achieving a shared national identity. Needless to say, the Commission is only one of the many avenues towards the goal of systemic reform. It is my sincere hope that much will be achieved when Kashmiris open their hearts to embracing the past and facilitate the people who were compelled to migrate to come back with dignity. Whatever has been, has been but the future is ours to see.138 137 (supra) 138 With apologies to the song, “Que Sera, Sera”, a song by Jay Livingston and Ray Evans. IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 375 SANJIV KHANNA, J. A is a decision which gives reasons to arrive at and reach the conclusion. We have two s. 2. The of Hon’ble Dr. Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, the Chief Justice, is scholarly and it elaborately annotates the complex legal issues. The authored by Hon’ble Mr. Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul pragmatically demystifi es the factual and legal position. Both s are in seriatim and uniformly agree that Article 370 of the Constitution of India was a feature of asymmetric federalism and not sovereignty.