2. Exclusive domain of the Speaker to regulate the procedure of the House 38. Article 178 of the Constitution provides for the offi ce of the Speaker and Deputy Speaker of a Legislative Assembly. Article 212 of the Constitution precludes the courts from inquiring into the proceedings of the legislature of the State. A corresponding provision with regard to the Parliament is contained in Article 122. The decision In Ramdas Athawale (supra) is signifi cant in that it dwells on the role of the Speaker of the STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 799 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] House and interprets Article 122 of the Constitution. The Constitution Bench observed: “ 31. The Speaker is the guardian of the privileges of the House and its spokesman and representative upon all occasions. He is the interpreter of its rules and procedure, and is invested with the power to control and regulate the course of debate and to maintain . The powers to regulate the procedure and conduct of business of the House of the People vests in the Speaker of the House. By virtue of the powers vested in him, the Speaker, in purported exercise of his power under Rule 15 of the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in Lok Sabha got issued Notice dated 20-1-2004 through the Secretary General of the Lok Sabha directing resumption of sittings of the Lok Sabha which was adjourned sine die on 23-12-2003. Whether the resumed sitting on 29-1-2004 was to be treated as the second part of the fourteenth session as directed by the Speaker is essentially a matter relating purely to the procedure of Parliament. The validity of the proceedings and business transacted in the House after resumption of its sittings cannot be tested and gone into by this Court in a proceeding under Article 32 of the Constitution of India.” 39. The Court observed that under Article 122(2), the decision of the Speaker in whom powers are vested to regulate the procedure and conduct of business is fi nal and binding on every Member of the House. Hence, this Court held that the validity of the Speaker adjourning the House sine die and the later direction to resume sittings could not be inquired into on the ground of any irregularity of procedure. The Court reaffi rmed that the business transacted and the validity of proceedings after the resumption of sittings of the House pursuant to the direction of the Speaker cannot be inquired by the courts. This follows the fundamental principle that it is the right of each House of the legislature to be the sole Judge of the lawfulness of its own proceedings so as to be immune from challenge before a court of law. 40. As stated above, Rule 16 of the Rules of Procedure empowers the Vidhan Sabha to adjourn from time to time by its own . The fi rst proviso to Rule 16 acknowledges that adjournment of the Vidhan Sabha may be either to a particular day or sine die.