579 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] of more than two years. If the Government has the power to A appoint a person as Director of Enforcement for a period of more than two years, Section 25 of the CVC Act cannot be said to be inconsistent with Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. Following the dictum of this Court in State of Punjab v. Harnek Singh (supra) in which it was held that General Clauses Act has B to be read into all Central Acts unless specifically excluded, we are of the considered view that the rule of construction embodied in Section 21 of the General Clauses Act has reference to the context and subject matter of Section 25 of the CVC Act. The of the Constitution Bench of this Court in Kamla Prasad Khetan (supra) is applicable to the facts of this case and the C s relied upon by the Petitioner which are referred to above do not have any application to the facts of this case.” 102. It could thus clearly be seen that this Court rejected the contention that the Government does not have a power to extend the tenure of the Director of Enforcement beyond a period of one year. In D spite of holding this, this Court specifically observed thus in paragraph 23: “23. The justification given by the Union of India for extension of the tenure of second Respondent is that important investigations are at a crucial stage in trans-b crimes. The decision to extend E the tenure of the second Respondent is pursuant to the recommendation made by the high-powered committee. Though we have upheld the power of the Union of India to extend the tenure of Director of Enforcement beyond the period of two years, we should make it clear that extension of tenure granted to officers who have attained the age of superannuation should be done only F in rare and exceptional cases. Reasonable period of extension can be granted to facilitate the completion of ongoing investigations only after reasons are recorded by the Committee constituted under Section 25(a) of the CVC Act. Any extension of tenure granted to persons holding the post of Director of Enforcement G after attaining the age of superannuation should be for a short period. We do not intend to interfere with the extension of tenure of the second Respondent in the instant case for the reason that his tenure is coming to an end in November, 2021. We make it H 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A clear that no further extension shall be granted to the second Respondent.” [emphasis supplied] 103. As such, it is clear that this Court issued a specific mandamus that no further extension shall be granted to the second respondent. B Undisputedly, the Union of India as well as the respondent No.2- Sanjay Kumar Mishra in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 456 of 2022 herein were parties to the said proceedings. 104. A Constitution Bench of learned Seven Judges of this Court in the case of Madan Mohan Pathak and another v. Union of India C and others23 was considering the question of constitutional validity of the Life Insurance Corporation (Modification of Settlement) Act, 1976.