(2) This miscellaneous application is filed by the Union of India seeking the following clarification: “(a) That persons subject to Army Act, Navy Act and Air Force G Act, by virtue of Article 33 of the Constitution of India, being a distinct class, any promiscuous or adulterous acts by such persons should be allowed to be governed by the provisions of Sections 45 or 63 of the Army Act, Sections 45 or 65 of the Air Force Act and Sections 54(2) or 74 of the Navy Act being special legislation and H JOSEPH SHINE v. UNION OF INDIA 587 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] considering the requirements of discipline and proper discharge A of their duty.” (3) The applicant is seeking clarification of the of this Court reported in Joseph Shine v. Union of India (2019) 3 SCC 39. It must be noticed that the applicant was the sole respondent in the said case. B (4) The reasons which have driven the applicant to seek the clarification are as follows: It is the case of the applicant that this Court has undoubtedly proceeded to find Section 497 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter C referred to as ‘IPC’ for brevity) as unconstitutional as it offended Articles 14, 15 and 21 of the Constitution of India. However, it is the case of the applicant that officers of the Armed forces are subject to statutory provisions, viz., Army Act, 1950, Navy Act, 1957 and the Air Force Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred to as ‘Acts’). (5) Our attention is further drawn to Article 33 of the Constitution D which reads as follows: “33. Power of Parliament to modify the rights conferred by this Part in their application to Forces, etc.— Parliament may, by law, determine to what extent any of the rights conferred by this Part shall, in their application to,— E (a) the members of the Armed Forces; or (b)the members of the Forces charged with the maintenance of public ; or (c)persons employed in any bureau or other organisation F established by the State for purposes of intelligence or counter intelligence; or (d)person employed in, or in connection with, the telecommunication systems set up for the purposes of any Force, bureau or organisation referred to in clauses (a)to (c), G be restricted or abrogated so as to ensure the proper discharge of their duties and the maintenance of discipline among them.” (6) It is the case of the applicant that the impression has been generated and is sought to be perpetuated that in the light of the H 588 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A of which the clarification is sought, nothing more would survive even if a case is made otherwise under relevant provisions of the Acts in question. (7) Ms. Madhvi Divan, learned Additional Solicitor General, who appears on behalf of the applicant, drew our attention, as an illustration, to the following provisions of the Army Act, 1950 (hereinafter referred B to as ‘1950 Act’ for brevity). Chapter VI deals with offences thereunder.