The necessity of dealing with point No. (ii) will only arise if the answer to point No. (i) in the affi rmative. Hence, we shall take up point (i) for consideration. Applicable Legal Principles Scope of Article 136 vis a vis Concurrent Finding of Fact 24. At the threshold, we must note that the challenge in this appeal calls for an interference against concurrent fi ndings by two Courts. The scope of an appeal by special leave under Article 136 of the Constitution of India RAJESH JAIN v. AJAY SINGH 797 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] against the concurrent fi ndings is well settled. In Mst. Dalbir Kaur and Ors. vs. State of Punjab (1976) 4 SCC 158, this Court, on a consideration of multiple authorities, has distilled the principles governing interference by this Court in a criminal appeal by special leave, as follows: (1) that this Court would not interfere with the concurrent fi nding of fact based on pure appreciation of evidence even if it were to take a diff erent view on the evidence. (2) that the Court will not normally enter into a re- appraisement or review of the evidence, unless the assessment of the High Court is vitiated by an error of law or procedure or is based on error of record, misreading of evidence or is inconsistent with the evidence, for instance, where the ocular evidence is totally inconsistent with the medical evidence and so on. (3) that the Court would not enter into credibility of the evidence with a view to substitute its own opinion for that of the High Court (4) that the Court would interfere where the High Court has arrived at a fi nding of fact in disregard of a judicial process, principles of natural justice or a fair hearing or has acted in violation of a mandatory provision of law or procedure resulting in serious prejudice or injustice to the accused. (5) this Court might also interfere where on the proved facts wrong inferences of law have been drawn or where the conclusions of the High Court are manifestly perverse and based on no evidence: It is very diffi cult to lay down a rule of universal application, but the principles mentioned above and those adumbrated in the authorities of this Court cited supra provide suffi cient guidelines for this Court to decide criminal appeals by special leave. Thus, in a criminal appeal by special leave, this Court at the hearing examines the evidence and the of the High Court with the limited purpose of determining whether or not the High Court has followed the principles enunciated above. Where the Court fi nds that the High Court has committed no violation of the various principles laid down by this Court and has made a correct approach and has not ignored or overlooked striking features in the evidence which demolish the prosecution case, the fi ndings of 798 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. fact arrived at by the High Court on an appreciation of the evidence in the circumstances of the case would not be disturbed.