of the Madras High Court in Southern Switch Gear Ltd. as approved by this Court appear to be misplaced inasmuch as the said cases did not deal with a single source/purpose to which payments in diff erent forms had been made. On the contrary, in the said cases, the purpose of payments was traceable to diff erent subject matters and accordingly, this Court held that the payments could be apportioned. However, in the present case, the licence issued under Section 4 of the Telegraph Act is a single licence to establish, maintain and operate telecommunication services. Since it is not a licence for divisible rights that conceive of divisible payments, apportionment of payment of the licence fee as partly capital and partly revenue expenditure is without any legal basis. ii. Perhaps, the decision of the High Court could have been sustained if the facts were such that even if the respondents-operators did not pay the annual licence fee based on AGR, they would still be able to hold the right of establishing the network and running the telecom business. However, such a right is not preserved under the scheme of the Telegraph Act which we have detailed above. Hence, the apportionment made by the High Court is not sustainable. iii. The fact that failure to pay the annual variable licence fee leads to revocation or cancellation of the licence, vindicates the legal position that the annual variable licence fee is paid towards the right to operate telecom services. Though the licence fee is payable in a staggered or deferred manner, the nature of the payment, which fl ows plainly from the licensing conditions, cannot be recharacterized. A single transaction cannot be split up, in an artifi cial manner into a capital payment and revenue payments by simply considering the mode of payment. Such a characterisation would be contrary to the settled position of law and decisions of this Court, which suggest that payment of an amount in instalments alone does not convert or change a capital payment into a revenue payment. iv. It is trite that where a transaction consists of payments in two parts, i.e., lump-sum payment made at the outset, followed up 470 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. by periodic payments, the nature of the two payments would be distinct only when the periodic payments have no nexus with the original obligation of the assessee. However, in the present case, the successive instalments relate to the same obligation, i.e., payment of licence fee as consideration for the right to establish, maintain and operate telecommunication services as a composite whole. This is because in the absence of a right to establish, maintenance and operation of telecommunication services is not possible. Hence, the cumulative expenditure would have to be held to be capital in nature. v. Thus, the composite right conveyed to the respondents-assessees by way of grant of licences, is the right to establish, maintain and operate telecommunication services. The said composite right cannot be bifurcated in an artifi cial manner, into the right to establish telecommunication services on the one hand and the right to maintain and operate telecommunication services on the other.