This Court being bound by the decision rendered by the Supreme Court in M/s Icomm Tele Ltd. (supra) allowed the present petition fi led by the petitioner and declares the arbitration clause 25(viii) of the tender conditions, quoted above, as unconstitutional and passes the same s in similar terms as were passed by the Supreme Court in paragraph-28 of the decision rendered in M/s Icomm Tele Ltd. (supra).” (Emphasis supplied) 57. In the aforesaid decision of the Punjab and Haryana High Court, the decisions of this Court in the case of ICOMM Tele Limited (supra) as well as S.K. Jain (supra) were taken into consideration and ultimately, the Court followed the dictum as laid in ICOMM Tele Limited (supra), as the relevant arbitration clause in the said matter was almost identical to the one in ICOMM Tele Limited (supra). 58. Amazing India Contractors Pvt. Ltd. v. Airport Authority of India and Others reported in 2023 SCC OnLine Cal 1704, C.O. 66 of 2022 (Section 11 Petition) High Court of Calcutta (Single Judge) Nature of the Clause: “33(iii). All disputes and diff erences arising out of or in any way touching or concerning this Agreement (except those the decision whereof is otherwise herein before expressly provided for or to which the public premises [Eviction of Unauthorized Occupants] Act and LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 977 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] the rules framed there under which are now enforced or which may hereafter come into force are applicable), shall, in the fi rst instance, be referred to a Dispute Resolution Committee (DRC) setup at the airports, for which a written application should be obtained from the party and the points clearly spelt out. In case the dispute is not resolved within 45 days of reference, then the case shall be referred to sole arbitration of a person to be appointed by the Chairman/Member of the Authority. The award of the arbitrator so appointed shall be fi nal and binding on the parties. The Arbitration & Conciliation Act, 1996 shall be applicable. Once the arbitration clause has been invoked, the DRC process will cease to be operative. It will be no bar that the Arbitrator appointed as aforesaid is or has been an employee of the Authority and the appointment of the Arbitrator will not be challenged; or be open to Question in any Court of Law, on this account.” 59. The relevant observations from the are as under: “25. … That part of Clause 33 of the agreement between the parties providing for constitution of a Dispute Resolution Committee with a stipulation that before availing of dispute resolution, the disputed amount has to be deposited, is invalid and contrary to law for more than one reason. The fi rst and foremost is that it fetters the right of the petitioner, a party to the arbitration agreement to avail of arbitration which is a statutory right. [ICOMM Tele Ltd. v. Punjab State Water Supply and Sewerage Board reported in (2019) 4 SCC 401].