B 19. The APTEL framed the following issues for consideration: (1) “Whether MERC was justified in declaring the event of de-allocation of the Lohara Coal Blocks as a change in law event? C (2) Whether MERC was justified in considering the landed cost of linkage coal as the basis for computing change in law compensation to Adani when Lohara Coal Blocks were the bid-identified source of coal? (3) Whether MERC was justified in pegging the carrying cost to the rate specified in prevalent Multi Year Tariff (“MYT”) D Regulations? (4) Whether MERC was justified in restricting the change in law relief to the difference between 100% assurance in New Coal Distribution Policy (“NCDP”), 2007 and 75% assurance under the SHAKTI Policy based on the Fuel E Supply Agreement (“FSA”) dated 29.03.2018 being signed under the SHAKTI Policy? (5) Whether MERC was justified in linking NCDP 2007 with allotment of the Lohara Coal Blocks? F (6) Whether deallocation of the Lohara Coal Blocks was a foreseeable risk for Adani and whether the same has any implication on change in law relief allowed to Adani? (7) Whether MERC adopted the correct methodology regarding Station Heat Rate (“SHR”) and Gross Calorific Value G (“GCV’) in the Impugned while computing the change in law relief allowed to Adani? Whether such methodology adheres to the principle of restitution?” 20. The APTEL, vide the impugned and dated 5th October 2020, answered the issues as under: H 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “14.1 Issue No.1:- We hold that the Appellant was affected by change in law on account of the de-allocation of Lohara Coal Blocks. Accordingly, the impugned is upheld on this issue. 14.2 Issue No.2:- We hold that the Appellant is entitled to be B paid Lohara Coal cost including transportation cost as base while computing the compensations for the change in law events. The issue is decided in favour of the Appellant. 14.3 Issue No.3:- As the Appellant itself had sought the carrying cost at the rate prescribed in the MYT Tariff Regulations C in its petition before the State Commission, we see no reason to interfere with the impugned on this issue. Hence, the Appellant cannot raise its claim contrary to what has been sought before the State Commission. The issue is decided against the Appellant. 14.4 Issue No.4:- ln line with our dated 28.9.2020 in D A.No.116 of 2019 & batch, we hold that findings in the impugned relating to the issue of restricting the quantum of shortfall in domestic coal to a maximum of 25% are against the principles of restitution under the change in law provisions of the PPA. The issue is decided in favour E of the Appellant. 14.5 Issue No.5:- Since this issue was not pressed during the proceedings, we do not find it necessary to return a finding on this issue. No decision required. 14.6 Issue No.6:- We hold that the Appellant’s rights and F obligation in the PPA cannot be thwarted based on omissions on part of Government instrumentalities and hence, the de- allocation of the Lohara Coal Blocks was not a feaseable risk for the Appellant.