Any violation and/or breach of the rules of classifi cation society leads to withdrawal/ suspension of the class of the vessel. (b) It was further argued that there was a breach of warranty by the appellants. As per the terms of the insurance policy, the termination clause at 4.1 reads “Unless the Underwriters agree to the contrary in writing, this insurance shall terminate automatically at the time of change of the Classifi cation Society of the vessel, or change, suspension, discontinuance, withdrawal or expiry of her Class therein, provided that if the Vessel is at sea, such automatic termination shall be deferred until arrival at her next port. However, where such change, suspension, discontinuance or withdrawal of her Class has resulted from loss or damage covered by Clause 6 of this insurance, such automatic termination shall only operate, should the Vessel sail from her next port without the prior approval of the Classifi cation Society”. (c) Clause 6 covers perils and includes the perils of the sea. Rivers, lakes or other navigable waters. (d) Class warranty as per the policy warranted that the Assured Owner’s Manager and Superintendents shall comply with all requirements of the Classifi cation Society regarding the reporting HIND OFFSHORE PVT. LTD. v. IFFCO – TOKIO GENERAL 967 INSURANCE CO. LTD. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] to the society of accident to and defects in the vessel and for the purpose of any claim the Assured will provide certifi cation by the Classifi cation Society that the vessel's Class has been maintained. It is contended that the said warranty constitutes an express warranty in terms of Section 37 of the Marine Insurance Act, 1963 which was breached by the appellants by not disclosing the fi rst accident and damage to the vessel. The appellant’s failure to comply with the requirements of ABS Rules and warranties by not reporting the accidents and damages to the vessel discharge the respondent from any liability under the insurance policy as per Section 35(3) of the Marine Insurance Act, 1963. Reliance has been placed in this regard on Ranjan Kumar and Brothers v. Oriental Insurance Co., (2020) 4 SCC 364. (e) It is further submitted that it is a settled principle of Law that a contract of insurance is based on the principle of Ubberimae fi de, as stipulated under Section 19 of the Marine Insurance Act, 1963. The appellant after receiving an amount of Rs. 1,00,00,000/- from the respondent on 09.06.2006, never replaced the crank shaft and connecting rods. As per the Preliminary report of Surveyor the same was stated to be done in six months. The respondent issued the second Insurance Policy to the appellant on 09.11.2006. Emphasis is supplied on the fact that the appellant never informed the insurer that they had not carried out the replacement of the vital parts to the main engine. It is submitted by the respondent that this non-disclosure by the appellant would tantamount to misrepresentation and breach of good faith. Reliance in this regard is placed on Sea Lark Fisheries vs. United India Insurance Company and Anr., 2008 (4) SCC 131; Contship Container Lines Limited vs. D.K.