Furthermore, any contributions to the fund derived from sources other than the contributors’ payments, such as interest from the investment of part of the fund, or income from a business activity conducted by the members, cannot be taken into account in computing the surplus vide Carlisle and Silloth Golf Club vs. Smith (supra). Also, the cases establish that the principle cannot apply unless at any given point in time the contributors to the fund are identical with the benefi ciaries of the distribution of the surplus vide Styles (supra). 8.9.5 While applying the aforesaid dicta to the facts of the said case, it was held that the principle of mutuality cannot apply to deprive the dividend of the character of income. The dividend in question therein was the surplus of revenue over expenditure. The greater part of the revenue was drawn from two sources namely, interest on loans to members and interest on investments in associated credit societies. The contributors to the revenue are those members who had current loans and the societies in which money 1012 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. was invested. However, the benefi ciaries of the payment of the dividend were all the members. It was observed that the revenue earned was by virtue of the society’s business dealings with a number of its members and should be classed as income. 8.9.6 In Re: Commissioner of Taxation And: Australian Music Traders Association, (1990) FCA 261, the case pertained to the Australian Music Traders Association, a mutual association. The controversy was whether such a mutual association or organization which received income from an activity would fall within the mutuality principle. In the said case, reference was made to Walter Fletcher (supra) and the test enunciated therein by Lord Wilberforce with regard to the nature of an activity undertaken by a mutual association or a club namely, whether, the activity is a trade or an adventure in the nature of trade, producing a profi t, or is it, a mutual arrangement which, wholly gives rise to a surplus. In the said case, the activity in question was the holding of a music traders’ trade fair. In the years prior to the subject year of income, the Association itself had organised the trade fairs and let out stalls to music traders. Although the rental income received by the Association from such stall holders who were members of the Association was accepted to be mutual, nevertheless, as the individual traders displayed and sold their wares to members of the public, it was doubted whether the fairs had a mutual character. Traders, many of whom were not members of the Association, carried on their individual businesses. The rental paid was calculated according to the space occupied or leased by the stall holder for the purposes of his own business activity. In the year of income in question, the Association had arranged for a separate organisation, namely, Exhibition and Trade Fair Pvt. Ltd., to organise the fair. The fee which the Association received from the organiser was fi xed by their agreement, though referrable in part to the total space sublet by the organiser to members of the Association and non-members alike.