58. We have carefully considered the above submissions. 59. Before we proceed with our analysis, it is necessary to bring on record Sections 306 and 307 of the Code and Section 5 of the PC C Act. Section 306 and 307 of the Code reads as follows: “306.Tender of pardon to accomplice.-(1) With a view to obtaining the evidence of any person supposed to have been directly or indirectly concerned in or privy to an offence to which this section applies, the Chief Judicial Magistrate or a Metropolitan D Magistrate at any stage of the investigation or inquiry into, or the trial of, the offence, and the Magistrate of the first class inquiring into or trying the offence, at any stage of the inquiry or trial, may tender a pardon to such person on condition of his making a full and true disclosure of the whole of the circumstances within his E knowledge relative to the offence and to every other person concerned, whether as principal or abettor, in the commission thereof. (2) This section applies to— (a) any offence triable exclusively by the Court of Session F or by the Court of a Special Judge appointed under the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1952 (46 of 1952) (b) any offence punishable with imprisonment which may extend to seven years or with a more severe sentence. (3) Every Magistrate who tenders a pardon under sub-section G (1) shall record- (a) his reasons for so doing; (b) whether the tender was or was not accepted by the person to whom it was made, H 14 (2016) 11 SCC 733 A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 47 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] and shall, on application made by the accused, furnish him with a A copy of such record free of cost. (4) Every person accepting a tender of pardon made under sub-section (1)— (a) shall be examined as a witness in the Court of the Magistrate taking cognizance of the offence and in B the subsequent trial, if any, (b) shall, unless he is already on bail, be detained in custody until the termination of the trial. (5) Where a person has accepted a tender of pardon made C under sub-section (1) and has been examined under sub-section (4), the Magistrate taking cognizance of the offence shall, without making any further inquiry in the case, (a) commit it for trial- (i) to the Court of Session if the offence is triable D exclusively by that Court or if the Magistrate taking cognizance is the Chief Judicial Magistrate; (ii) to a Court of Special Judge appointed under the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1952 (46 of 1952), if the offence is triable exclusively E by that Court; (b) in any other case, make over the case to the Chief Judicial Magistrate who shall try the case himself. 307. Power to direct tender of pardon.—At any time after F commitment of a case but before is passed, the Court to which the commitment is made may, with a view to obtaining at the trial the evidence of any person supposed to have been directly or indirectly concerned in, or privy to, any such offence, tender a pardon on the same condition to such person.” 60.