In the M/S. ISNAR AQUA FARMS v. 83 UNITED INDIA INSURANCE CO. LTD. [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] light of the insurance company’s own direction and its tacit recognition of the value and importance to be attached to the death certifi cate from either of these independent bodies, it is not open to it to dismiss the Death Certifi cate dated 01.05.1995 issued by the offi cials of the Directorate of Fisheries, Visakhapatnam. Pertinent to note, under Clause 10 of the insurance policy, the claims procedure required the insured/claimant to furnish a fully completed claim form along with a death certifi cate with details, certifi ed by offi cials of the Directorate of Fisheries/MPEDA. 12. Be it noted, in General Assurance Society Limited Vs. Chandumull Jain and another[AIR 1966 SC 1644], a Constitution Bench had observed, in the context of the insured, that uberrima fi des, i.e., good faith, is the requirement in a contract of insurance. More recently, in Jacob Punnen and another Vs. United India Insurance Company Limited[(2022) 3 SCC 655], this Court affi rmed and reiterated the edict laid down earlier in Modern Insulators Limited Vs. Oriental Insurance Company Limited [(2000) 2 SCC 734], that it is the fundamental principle of insurance law that utmost good faith must be observed by the contracting parties; that good faith forbids either party from non-disclosure of the facts which the party knows; and that the insured has a duty to disclose and similarly it is the duty of the insurance company to disclose all material facts within their knowledge since the obligation of good faith applies to both equally. This obligation and duty would rest on both parties not only at the inception of the contract of insurance but throughout its existence and even thereafter. 13. Applying this standard presently, it may be noted that despite the second surveyors report dated 22.09.1995 quantifying the appellant’s loss at `17,64,097/-, the respondent insurance company chose to repudiate the appellant’s claim in its entirety, basing on the wholly unfounded assertion that the appellant had failed to maintain and provide proper records. This was also despite the clear fi nding of its earlier surveyors, M/s. Frank and Fair Investigators, that total loss was suff ered by the appellant. Further, having attached great importance to the death certifi cate given by the MPEDA/ State Fisheries Department in its policy and its prescribed claim procedure, the insurance company baldly brushed aside the Death Certifi cate dated 01.05.1995 furnished by the offi cials of the State Fisheries Department at Visakhapatnam. Merely because the contents thereof were not to its liking, 84 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. the insurance company could not have ignored the same and swept it under the carpet. More so, as such certifi cation was being made by impartial and independent bodies of signifi cant stature and that, perhaps, was precisely the reason why the insurance company had attached such importance to it in its norms. In any event, it is not open to an insurance company to ignore or fail to act upon a certifi cate or document that it had itself called for from independent and impartial authorities, subject to just exceptions, merely because it is averse to it or to its detriment.