The letter dated 21 June 2022 along with the resolution signed by thirty-four MLAs of the C SSLP reaffirming support to Mr. Shinde as the Leader of the SSLP; II. The letter dated 25 June 2022 addressed by thirty-eight MLAs of the SSLP claiming that the lives of the MLAs and their family D members were under threat, as was their property; and III. The letter dated 28 June 2022 by the Leader of Opposition requesting him to call upon the then-Chief Minister to prove his majority on E the floor of the Legislative Assembly. b. The Supreme Court in S R Bommai (supra) and Shivraj Singh Chouhan v. Union of India22 held that calling for an immediate floor test is the most appropriate measure in case any doubt arises as to whether the Chief Minister and the Council of Ministers enjoy the confidence of the House; F c. The issue of the propriety of the Governor’s action calling Mr. Thackeray to prove his majority on the floor of the House has become infructuous because the latter did not face the floor test and instead resigned from the post of Chief Minister; and G d. The decision of the Governor to administer the oath of office to Mr. Shinde cannot be called into question as it was based on the following objective facts: 22 (2020) 17 SCC 1 H 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A i. The letter dated 30 June 2022 by Mr. Devendra Fadnavis extending support to Mr. Eknath Shinde for the formation of the government by the latter; ii. The letter dated 30 June 2022 by Mr. Eknath Shinde informing the Governor that he enjoys the support of B a majority of the MLAs and requesting the Governor to invite him to take oath as Chief Minister; and iii. The letters dated 30 June 2022 by seventeen independent MLAs and MLAs from other parties supporting Mr. Eknath Shinde. C 45. Mr. Maninder Singh, learned senior counsel for the respondents made the following submissions: a. The disqualification petitions under the Tenth Schedule must be decided by the Speaker. Reliance by the petitioners on Rajendra Singh Rana (supra) is erroneous because in that case, the disqualification petitions were already decided by D the Speaker. It was only in appeal that this Court decided the issue of disqualification instead of remanding the matter back to the Speaker; b. The disqualification of a member by the Speaker under the Tenth Schedule has drastic consequences. There can never E be an automatic or deemed disqualification of an elected representative without affording any opportunity of hearing (relied on Kshetrimayum Biren Singh v. Hon’ble Speaker, Manipur Legislative Assembly23); c. The Tenth Schedule cannot be used to stifle intra-party F dissent amongst members of the same political party. Intra- party dissent cannot be termed as defection. Therefore, the respondents did not indulge in prohibitory conduct under Paragraph 2(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule. Any act of expression of dissent against the leadership of the party G does not constitute ‘voluntarily giving up membership of the party’ under Paragraph 2(1)(a).