The Constitution confers powers to Parliament to such an extent that it would have the effect of amending the Constitution. As discussed, the legislative powers of NCTD are limited. If we interpret the phrase “in so far as any such matter is applicable to Union Territories” B is interpreted in a manner to exclude a greater number of entries than what is already excluded by Article 239A(3), it will defeat the very purpose of granting a “special status” to NCTD. F. Inclusive interpretation of “insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union territories” C 47. The Union of India submitted that the phrase “insofar as any such matter is applicable to Union territories” is specifically a term of exclusion and not a term of inclusion. It argued that the phrase was introduced to limit the legislative and executive power over entries in List II over and beyond the entries which have been expressly excluded D by Article 239AA. We shall now refer to other provisions of the Constitution to analyse the above arguments. 48. The power of Parliament and legislatures of States to legislate upon entries in the Union List, State List and Concurrent List flows from Article 246 of the Constitution. Article 246(3) confers exclusive power E to the legislatures of States to make laws for that State with respect to the matters enumerated in the State List. Article 246(4) provides that Parliament has the power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List. 49. Article 366 provides meanings of various expressions used in F the Constitution, unless the context otherwise requires. The provision stipulates that unless the context otherwise requires, the expressions defined in an Article shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the provision. Article 366(26B) provides that ‘State’ with reference to Articles 246A, 268, 269, 269A and 279A includes a Union G Territory with a legislature. Articles 366(26B), incorporated in the Constitution by the Constitution (One Hundred and First Amendment) Act 2016, provides the meaning of ‘State’ only with reference to five other Articles in the Constitution, to enable the proper functioning of the goods and services tax regime. However, a universal definition of ‘State’ has not been provided under Article 366. H 532 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 50. Article 367(1) provides that unless the context otherwise requires, the General Clauses Act 189711, subject to any adaptations and modifications that may be made therein by any Presidential made under Article 372 to bring it in conformity with the provisions of the Constitution, is to apply for the interpretation of the Constitution: B “367(1):Unless the context otherwise requires, the General Clauses Act, 1897, shall, subject to any adaptations and modifications that may be made therein under Article 372, apply for the interpretation of this Constitution as it applies for the interpretation of an Act of the Legislature of the Dominion of India.” C 51.