The impugned notice under Section 271/238 of the Act, thus stood vitiated in law. (v) As per the trade licenses issued by the KMC in favour of the occupiers of the 1st to 5th Floor of the building in question, property F tax was being levied for use other than domestic and water charges were also levied for such use, as such also the impugned notice was liable to be discharged. The use of wholesome water for purposes other than domestic was permitted and justified. 14. On the other hand, learned counsel for the respondent-KMC G sought to justify the notice and submitted that as liberty had been given by the learned Single Judge to take appropriate proceedings for rectification of the lapses on the part of the appellant, this Court may not interfere with the same. The notice under Section 238/271 of the Act was valid and justified as admittedly the occupiers of 1st to 5th floor were H 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A using it for commercial/business/office purpose, which was other than residential. The learned Single Judge as also the Division Bench rightly did not interfere with the impugned notice. There is no illegality warranting interference, as such, the appeal deserves to be dismissed. 15. Having considered the submissions, we find that this appeal B deserves to be allowed not on one but on many counts. 16. We have perused the notice impugned in the writ petition before the learned Single Judge. The said notice is under Section 238/271 of the Act. Section 271 of the Act prohibits use of water supply for domestic purpose for any other purpose. Section 238(2) of the Act provides for C the purposes for which supply of water for domestic purposes cannot be used. Section 238(2) of the Act enlists nine categories for which supply of water for domestic purpose should not be used. It was, therefore, incumbent for the authorities to mention the specific violation in the notice under Section 238(2) of the Act and specify that supply of domestic water was being used for which purpose other than domestic. The D impugned notice does not mention any reason or specific violation committed by the appellant. It is a general and a vague notice to which apparently no answer/explanation could be given. 17. Law on the point is well settled that where a notice is vague and non-speaking, the same deserves to be quashed. Reference may be E had to the following cases: (i) Biecco Lawrie Ltd. Vs. State of West Bengal; (2009) 10 SCC 32. (ii) K.Vinu Vs. State of Tamil Nadu; 2019 SCC Online Mad 123. F (iii) Woolcombers of India Ltd. Vs. Workers Union; (1974) 3 SCC 318. (iv) Uma Nath Pandey Vs. State of U.P. ; (2009) 12 SCC 40. 18. Under the Scheme of the Act, it was the Corporation’s duty to G supply water. Section 234 of the Act clearly mandates that the KMC was duty bound to ensure and take necessary steps from time to time for ascertaining the sufficiency and wholesomeness of water supply within Kolkata.