… E “immoveable property” does not include standing timber, growing crops or grass; “instrument”, means a non-testamentary instrument; Section 8 of Transfer of Property Act, 1882 “8.Operation oftransfer.—Unless a different intention is expressed F or necessarily implied, a transfer of property passes forthwithto the transferee all the interest which the transferor is then capable of passing in the property, and in the legal incidents thereof. Such incidents include, where the property is land, the easements annexed thereto, the rents and profits thereof accruing after the G transfer, and all things attached to the earth; and, where the property is machinery attached to the earth, the moveable parts thereof; and, where the property is a house, the easements annexed thereto, the rent thereof accruing after the transfer, and the locks, keys, bars, doors, windows and all other things provided for permanent use therewith; and, where the property is a debt or H 1128 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A other actionable claim, the securities therefor (except where they are also for other debts or claims not transferred to the transferee), but not arrears of interest accured before the transfer; and, where the property is money or other property yielding income, the interest or income thereof accruing after the transfer takes effect.” B 29. In Member, Board of Revenue (supra), this Court had the occasion to expound the law by interpreting Sections 3, 4, and 5 of the Indian Stamp Act. In the said case, the Respondent therein had executed a power of attorney. The power of attorney countenanced power being conferred on the agent by the respondent in his individual capacity and also in other capacities such as trustee, etc. The question which inter C alia fell for decision was whether the word ‘matter’ in Section 5 was to be conflated with category. It is necessary to notice what the majority of this Court held: “4. We are unable to accept the contention that the word “matter” in Section 5 was intended to convey the same meaning as the D word “description” in Section 6. In its popular sense, the expression “distinct matters” would connote something different from distinct “categories”. Two transactions might be of the same description, but all the same, they might be distinct. If A sells Black-acre to X and mortgages White-acre to Y, the transactions fall under E different categories, and they are also distinct matters. But if A mortgages Black-acre to X and mortgages White-acre to Y, the two transactions fall under the same category, but they would certainly be distinct matters. If the intention of the legislature was that the expression ‘distinct matters’ in Section 5 should be understood not in its popular sense but narrowly as meaning F different categories in the Schedule, nothing would have been easier than to say so. When two words of different import are used in a statute in two consecutive provisions, it would be difficult to maintain that they are used in the same sense, and the conclusion must follow that the expression “distinct matters” in Section 5 G and “descriptions” in Section 6 have different connotations.