1 (2004) 4 SCC 794 2 (2005) 1 SCC 481 H 1144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 20. It would be apposite at this stage to peruse the relevant statutory provisions, viz., Section 13(1)(e) and Section 15(1) of the Act of 1947. They read as under: - ‘Section 13 (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, but subject to the provisions of Section 15, a landlord B shall be entitled to recover possession of any premises if the Court is satisfied- (a) - (d) …… (e) that the tenant has, since the coming into operation of this Act unlaw-fully sub-let the whole or part of the premises or C assigned or transferred in any other manner his interest therein; or (ee)……..’ ‘Section 15 (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law, but subject to any contract to the contrary, it shall not be D lawful after the coming into operation of this Act for any tenant to sub-let the whole or any part of the premises let to him or to assign or transfer in any other manner his interest therein and after the date of commencement of the Bombay Rents, Hotel and Lodging House Rates Control (Amendment) E Act, 1973, for any tenant to give on licence the whole or part of such premises Provided that the State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette permit in any area the transfer of interest in premises held under such leases or class of leases F or the giving on licence any premises or class of premises and to such extent as may be specified in the notification.’ The aforestated provisions make it crystal clear that, in the ordinary course and notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, unless the contract itself permits sub-letting, it shall not be lawful, after coming G into operation of the Act of 1947, for a tenant to sub-let the premises let out to him or to assign or transfer in any manner his interest therein. The proviso to Section 15(1), however, authorizes the State Government to permit, in any area, transfer of interest in premises held under leases or a class of leases, by issuing a notification in the Official Gazette, duly delineating the extent to which such transfer is permitted. Presently, it is H YUVRAJ @ MUNNA PRALHAD JAGDALE & ORS. v. 1145 JANARDAN SUBAJIRAO WIDE [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] nobody’s case that a notification was issued by the State Government A having application to the case on hand. Viewed thus, reliance placed by the High Court upon this provision was wholly misconceived. In the absence of such a notification by the State Government, the issue is whether the tenant could have assigned his leasehold interest in favour of Krishna B Shetty under the assignment agreement dated 15.01.1985 B (Exh.49), overriding the condition in the lease deed to the contrary. 21. It is in this context that the prohibitory condition in the lease deed dated 22.01.1975 (Exh.55) assumes importance. The Trial Court and the Appellate Court extracted the gist of the said lease condition in their s. The Lease Deed is stated to have recorded unequivocally C in page 4 that the business of Hotel Ambika is the independent business of the tenant and that he would not assign the business and would not allow third persons to conduct the said business in any way nor would he transfer the said business in any way in favour of a third person.