The Division Bench in the case of A. Nagaraja also does not lay down that animals have Fundamental Rights. The only tool available for testing this proposition is interpreting the three Amendment Acts on the G anvil of reasonableness in Article 14 of the Constitution of India. While the protection under Article 21 has been conferred on person as opposed to a citizen, which is the case in Article 19 of the Constitution, it will not be prudent to venture into a judicial adventurism to bring bulls within the said protected mechanism. H We have our doubt as to whether detaining a stray bull from the THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 429 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. street against its wish could give rise to the constitutional writ of A habeas corpus or not. In the of A. Nagaraja, the question of elevation of the statutory rights of animals to the realm of fundamental rights has been left at the advisory level or has been framed as a judicial suggestion. This Court does not want to venture beyond that and leave this exercise to be considered by B the appropriate legislative body. This Court does not think Article 14 of the Constitution can also be invoked by any animal as a person. While we can test the provisions of an animal welfare legislation, that would be at the instance of a human being or a juridical person who may espouse the cause of animal welfare. [Para 24][464-B-F] C 2. In to come to a definitive conclusion on this question, some kind of trial on evidence would have been necessary. It is also not Court’s jurisdiction to decide if a particular event or activity or ritual forms culture or tradition of a community or region. But if a long lasting tradition goes against the law, the D law Courts obviously would have to enforce the law. Learned counsel appearing for the parties, however, have cited different ancient texts and modern literature to justify their respective stands. In Public Interest Litigations, this Court has developed the practice of arriving at a conclusion on subjects of this nature E without insisting on proper trial to appreciate certain social or economic conditions going by available reliable literature. In paragraphs 53 and 73 in the case of Nagaraja, there is judicial determination about the practice being offensive to the provisions of the Central Statute. It would be trite to repeat that provisions of a Statute cannot be overridden by a traditional or cultural event. F Thus, this Court accepts the argument of the petitioners that at the relevant point of time when the decision in the case of A. Nagaraja was delivered, the manner in which Jallikattu was performed did breach the aforesaid provisions of the 1960 Act and hence conducting such sports was impermissible. [Para G 27][465-A-D] 3. The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act contains stipulation to the effect that conduct of Jallikattu subject to such Rules and regulations as may be framed by the State Government shall be permitted.