The primary inquiry is about the existence and the validity of an arbitration agreement, which also includes an inquiry as to the D parties to the agreement and the applicant’s privity to the said agreement. These are matters which require a thorough examination by the referral court. The secondary inquiry that may arise at the reference stage itself is with respect to the non arbitrability of the dispute. [Para 25][862-E-F] E 1.2 As a general rule and a principle, the arbitral tribunal is the preferred first authority to determine and decide all questions of non-arbitrability. As an exception to the rule, and rarely as a demurrer, the referral court may reject claims which are manifestly and ex-facie non-arbitrable. The standard of scrutiny F to examine the non-arbitrability of a claim is only prima facie. Referral courts must not undertake a full review of the contested facts; they must only be confined to a primary first review and let facts speak for themselves. This also requires the courts to examine whether the assertion on arbitrability is bona fide or not. The prima facie scrutiny of the facts must lead to a clear G conclusion that there is not even a vestige of doubt that the claim is non-arbitrable. On the other hand, even if there is the slightest doubt, the rule is to refer the dispute to arbitration. [Paras 26, 27][862-G; 863-C-E] H 848 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 1.3 The limited scrutiny, through the eye of the needle, is necessary and compelling. It is intertwined with the duty of the referral court to protect the parties from being forced to arbitrate when the matter is demonstrably non-arbitrable. It has been termed as a legitimate interference by courts to refuse reference in to prevent wastage of public and private resources. B Further, as noted in Vidya Drolia’s case, if this duty within the limited compass is not exercised, and the Court becomes too reluctant to intervene, it may undermine the effectiveness of both, arbitration and the Court. Therefore, this Court or a High Court, as the case may be, while exercising jurisdiction under Section C 11(6) of the Act, is not expected to act mechanically merely to deliver a purported dispute raised by an applicant at the doors of the chosen arbitrator. [Para 28][863-E-F; 864-A] 2.1 A simple narration of the bare fact leads to conclude that the allegations of coercion and economic duress are not bona D fide, and that there were no pending claims between the parties for submission to arbitration. The respondent’s claim fits in the description of an attempt to initiate “ex facie meritless, frivolous and dishonest litigation” [Para 44][867-D] 2.2 The whole dispute revolves around the solitary act of E the Appellant, NTPC, in not returning the Bank Guarantees despite the successful completion of work. This continued even after SPML issued the No-Demand Certificate and NTPC released the final payment. These undisputed facts led to the institution of the Writ Petition before the Delhi High Court.