Furthermore, Mr. Natraj vehemently contended that the right to represent or be represented is not a Fundamental Right and the Appellant’s case cannot be deemed to be an exceptional or extraordinary circumstance that warrants suspension of conviction. He also relied on multiple decisions of this Court including, Lily Thomas v. Union of India3 and Sanjay Dutt 1 Crl. Appeal No. 418 / 2016. 2 (2018) 18 SCC 114, para 16. 3 (2013) 7 SCC 653, para 35. 978 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. v. State of Maharashtra,4 to buttress his assertion that the suspension of conviction ought to be done only in rare and exceptional cases. 8. In our considered opinion, the questions that fall for deliberation, are set out as follows: i. What are the parameters to be considered for the suspension of conviction under Section 389(1) of the CrPC? ii. Whether the Appellant has made out a prima facie case for the suspension of conviction under Section 389(1) of the CrPC? iii. Whether conviction of an off ence involving ‘moral turpitude’ can be a valid ground to deny suspension of conviction under Section 389(1) of the CrPC? ANALYSIS 9. We have taken into consideration the Appellant’s extensive history of holding various positions of responsibility, along with the allegations that culminated in his conviction and subsequent disqualifi cation from his position as Member of the Parliament in the Lok Sabha. 10. At the outset, it is imperative to delineate the essential parameters that must be meticulously examined to determine whether a case can be made out for suspension of conviction under Section 389(1) of the CrPC. Section 389(1) enjoys upon the Appellate Court, the power to issue an for the suspension of a sentence or an of conviction during the pendency of an appeal. It may be thus of paramount importance to scrutinise the precise language of Section 389(1) of the CrPC, which is articulated as follows: “S. 389(1) – Pending any appeal by a convicted person, the Appellate Court may, for reasons to be recorded by it in writing, that the execution of the sentence or appealed against be suspended and, also, if he is in confi nement, that he be released on bail, or on his own bond.” 11. It becomes manifestly evident from the plain language of the provision, that the Appellate Court is unambiguously vested with the power 4 (2009) 5 SCC 787, para 12. AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 979 [SURYA KANT, J.] to suspend implementation of the sentence or the of conviction under appeal and grant bail to the incarcerated convict, for which it is imperative to assign the reasons in writing. This Court has undertaken a comprehensive examination of this issue on multiple occasions, laying down the broad parameters to be appraised for the suspension of a conviction under Section 389(1) of the CrPC. There is no gainsaying that in to suspend the conviction of an individual, the primary factors that are to be looked into, would be the peculiar facts and circumstances of that specifi c case, where the failure to stay such a conviction would lead to injustice or irreversible consequences.5 The very notion of irreversible consequences is centered on factors, including the individual’s criminal antecedents, the gravity of the off ence, and its wider social impact, while simultaneously considering the facts and circumstances of the case.