That such B creditor had not suffered financial loss cannot be the sole determinative factor in view of the special law that the SARFAESI Act is. Efforts made by recalcitrant borrowers to stall sale proceedings at any costs is not uncommon. Many a time, when a sale does not fructify because of an injunction, the time taken and efforts made together with costs incurred by the secured C creditor to put up the secured asset (immovable property) for sale once again and close the transaction by itself may result in prejudicial affectation of its interest in enforcement of the security interest. While dealing with a case covered by rule 9 of the Rules, an of forfeiture of sale price should not be lightly interfered. D The contesting respondent was not genuinely interested in proceeding with his part of his obligations and there is no arbitrariness in the action of the Authorized Officer in forfeiting Rs. 30,75,000/– being 25% of the sale price. [Para 28][1088-D- H; 1089-A-B] 1.9 The High Court committed an error of law in directing E refund on the ground that the Bank “should not be permitted to enrich by forfeiting the amount from the writ petitioner”. It is not a question of the Bank’s enrichment or deriving any undue advantage that the Court was really concerned with. It seems to have posed a wrong question for being answered. [Para 30][1089- F C] 1.10 The Bank has not been enriched, much less unjustly enriched, by reason of the impugned forfeiture. Receipt of 25% of the sale price by the Bank from the contesting respondent was not the outcome of any private negotiation or arrangement between them. It was pursuant to a public auction, involving a G process of offer and acceptance, and it was in terms of statutory provisions contained in the Rules, particularly rule 9(3), that money changed hands for a definite purpose. Receipt of 25% of the sale price does not constitute a benefit, a fortiori, retention thereof by forfeiture cannot be termed unjust or inequitable, so H as to attract the doctrine of unjust enrichment. The Bank, as a AUTHORISED OFFICER STATE BANK OF INDIA v. 1073 C. NATARAJAN & ANR. secured creditor, is entitled in law to enforce the security interest A and in the process to initiate all such steps and take all such measures for protection of public interest by recovering the public money, lent to a borrower and who has squandered it, in a manner authorized by law. The contesting respondent participated in the auction well and truly aware of the risk of having 25% of the sale B price forfeited in case of any default or failure on his part to make payment of the balance amount of the sale price. Question of the Bank being enriched by a forfeiture, which is in the nature of a statutory penalty, does not and cannot therefore arise in the circumstances. [Para 35][1090-B-F] C 1.11 The High Court failed to bear in mind that the power of judicial review of a writ court will not be permitted to be invoked to protect private interest at the cost of public interest, or to decide contractual disputes, unless a clear–cut case of arbitrariness or mala fides or bias or irrationality is made out.