Proviso to Section 14 thereof provides that a bill, cash memorandum or invoice in respect of the sale of any article of food given by a manufacturer or distributor of, or dealer in, such article to the vendor thereof shall be deemed to be a warranty given by such manufacturer, distributor or dealer. D 10. Form VIA, as referred to in 12A of the Rules provides text of the warranty to be furnished by the manufacturer, distributor or dealer selling the article of food. The same reads as under:- E F G H M/s SRI MAHAVIR AGENCY & ANR. v. THE STATE OF WEST 131 BENGAL & ANR. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 11. A conjoint reading of Section 14, Rule 12A and Form VIA A provides that no manufacturer or distributor or a dealer of any food article shall sell such article to any vendor unless he has given a warranty in writing in the prescribed form regarding nature and quality of such articles to the vendor. The procedure to give a warranty has been provided in Rule 12A of the Rules. Proviso to Section 14 provides that even a bill, B cash memo or invoice in respect of sale of any article given by the manufacturer or distributor or dealer shall be deemed to be a warranty given by such manufacturer, distributor or dealer. Form VIA provides the text of the warranty to be given. 12. Exhibit C/Annexure P-1, i.e. Invoice No. 1377 dated C 12.08.1999 vide which the appellant had purchased the ‘Pan Masala’ from M/s Kothari Pouches Ltd., is on record. It contains a certification “1. We hereby certify that the goods mentioned in this invoice are warranted to be of nature and quality which theses purport to be.” A perusal of the aforesaid certification given by the manufacturer of the ‘Pan Masala’ shows that it was in terms of the requirement of law. D 13. Section 19(2) of the Act provides for the defences which are available to a vendor from prosecution under the Act. Sub-clause (ii) of Section 19(2)(a) of the Act provides that a vendor shall not be deemed to have committed an offence pertaining to the sale of any adulterated or misbranded article of food if he proves that he purchased the article E of food from any manufacturer, distributor or dealer with a written warranty in prescribed form. Accordingly, the appellant was having a valid defence in terms of Section 19(2) of the Act as the packed item sold by him namely ‘Pan Parag’ was having a written warranty in prescribed form from the manufacturer. F 14. The term ‘Vendor’ as such has not been defined either in the Act or in the Rules. In Mangaldas Raghavji Ruparel’s case(supra), the word ‘Vendor’ is defined to mean a person who has sold the article of food, which is alleged to be adulterated. The Bench stated:- “The word “Vendor” though not defined in the Act, would obviously G mean the person who had sold the article of food which is alleged to be adulterated.” 15.