30. Learned Amicus relying on a series of s of this Court D including the ones in the case of ShriPrithvi Cotton Mills Ltd. and another v. Broach Borough Municipality and others11, Bhaktawar Trust and others v. M.D. Narayan and others12, Cauvery Water Disputes Tribunal, Re13 and Madras Bar Association v. Union of India and another14,submits that though it is permissible for the Legislature to change the basis on which a decision is given by the Court E and, thus, change the law in general, which will affect a class of persons and events at large, it is not permissible to set aside an individual decision inter partes and affect their rights and liabilities. It is submitted that insofar as the respondent No.2 is concerned, there is a specific mandamus issued by this Court that he shall not be granted further extension. Learned F Amicus submits that the impugned Amendments do not change the basis on which a decision was given by the Court, but, in effect, nullify the mandamus and, as such, would not be sustainable. 31. Learned Amicus submits that he is not concerned with what an individual case is. He submits that he is concerned with the misuse of G powers by any political party, which may be in power. It is submitted 9 (2020) 6 SCC 1 10 1995 SCC OnLine Mad 592 11 (1969) 2 SCC 283 12 (2003) 5 SCC 298 13 1993 Supp (1) SCC 96 H 14 2021 SCC OnLine SC 463 DR. JAYA THAKUR v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 545 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] that the impugned Amendments, if permitted to remain, would lead to a A tendency wherein incumbents/officers would succumb to the pressure of the Government in power and act as per their desire so that they get further extensions. Learned Amicus, therefore, submits that the impugned Amendments are liable to be quashed and set aside. It is submitted that, in any case, the amended provisions are manifestly arbitrary. B 32. Learned Amicus submits that the argument that the present incumbent needs to be continued on account of an on-going mutual evaluation of India by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is also self-contradictory. It is submitted that even after the Amendment, the respondent No.2 can continue only upto November 2023, whereas the C possible plenary discussions are likely to be held in the month of June 2024. It is, therefore, submitted that the contention that the continuation of the present incumbent is necessary so that India represents its case effectively in FATF review, is also without substance. 33. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General (“SG” for short), raised a preliminary objection to the maintainability of the present writ D petitions at the behest of the present petitioners. He submits that most of the writ petitioners are members of political parties. He submits that various members of these political parties are under investigation by the ED. It is, therefore, submitted that the present writ petitions are not bona fide public interest litigations, but are filed with an oblique motive.