If the Court thereafter asks the plaintiff to lead evidence and then passes a decree in his favour, it must be regarded as an ex parte decree. The defendant would then be at liberty to apply to set it aside under IX, Rule 13. …” C 46. In Gopi Kishan (supra) the Full Bench of the Rajasthan High Court gave an illustration as to when Rule 2 or Rule 3 of 17 would apply. We quote the relevant observations of the Full Bench as under:- “18. Rule 2 confers discretion in the Court, in the event of a party being absent, either to dispose of the suit in one of the modes D directed by 9 or to make such other as it thinks fit. Rule 3, however, envisages a situation where a party to whom time has been granted for the production of evidence or for the performance of any other act necessary to the further progress of the suit and such party fails to produce the evidence or to perform the act for which time had been allowed the Court may. E notwithstanding such default proceed to decide the suit forthwith. When a party to whom time has been granted for the production of evidence or for the performance of any other act also does not appear it is clearly a case of double default. Not only the party has failed to do that for which time was granted to it but has also F failed to appear. In our opinion this double default does not take away the case from the purview of XVII Rule 3. We are unable to agree with the interpretation given in the Full Bench Madras case that Rules 2 and 3 are mutually exclusive. There can be cases as the one before us, where time was granted to a party to produce evidence but the party not only failed to produce G evidence but also absented itself and it cannot be said that XVII Rule 3 cannot apply to such a case. 19. In a long series of decisions adopting the view of the Calcutta High Court for diverse reasons it has been held that the existence of material is necessary for deciding a suit under XVII H 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Rule 3. The language of the statute does not expressly indicate the existence of material as an essential condition for its application. This interpretation has been influenced apparently by the word ‘decide’ to mean decide on merits. In Ramkaran’s case, ILR (1953) 3 Raj 798 the learned Judges of this Court felt persuaded by the provisions of XX Rule 4 of the Code of B Civil Procedure to hold that the existence of material was necessary and because only pleadings and issues were on record they opined that the dismissal should be construed to be one under XVII Rule 2. On the other hand in Amarsingh’s case, 1953 Raj LW 365, the learned Judges were of the view that where the plaintiff C failed to discharge the burden placed on him in the suit, the logical conclusion was that the suit should be dismissed whether material existed or not.