[Para 109] Arbitration – Group of companies doctrine – Applicability – Threshold standard of evidence: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): In Discovery Enterprises case, the Supreme Court refi ned and clarifi ed the cumulative factors that the courts and tribunals should consider in deciding whether a company within a group of companies is bound by the arbitration agreement – All the cumulative factors laid down in Discovery Enterprises case must be considered while determining the applicability of the group of companies doctrine – However, the application of the above factors has to be fact-specifi c, and onecannot tie the hands of the courts or tribunals by laying down how much weightage they ought to give to the above factors – The principle of single economic unit cannot be the sole basis for invoking the group of companies doctrine. [Paras 110, 128 and 165] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – ss.8 and 45 – Phrase “claiming through or under” as appearing under ss.8 and 45 of the Arbitration Act – Party to arbitration agreement and Persons 626 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. “claiming through or under” a party to the arbitration agreement are diff erent: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): A person “claiming through or under” is asserting their legal demand or cause of action in an intermediate or derivative capacity – A person “claiming through or under” has inferior or subordinate rights in comparison to the party from which it is deriving its claim or right – Therefore, a person “claiming through or under” cannot be a “party” to an arbitration agreement on its own terms because it only stands in the shoes of the original signatory party – Under the Arbitration Act, the concept of a “party” is distinct and diff erent from the concept of “persons claiming through or under” a party to the arbitration agreement – The persons “claiming through or under” can only assert a right in a derivative capacity. [Paras 137, 165] Words and Phrases – “Claiming through or under”; “claim”; “through” and “claiming under”. [Para 137] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – s.9 – Power of the Courts to issue directions u/s.9: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ. ): The group of companies doctrine is based on determining the mutual intention to join the non-signatory as a “veritable” party to the arbitration agreement – Once a tribunal comes to the determination that a non-signatory is a party to the arbitration agreement, such non-signatory party can apply for interim measures under s.9 of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996. [Para 153] Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – ss.8 and 11 – Standard of determination at the referral stage – Stage of applicability of the group of companies doctrine under the Arbitration Act: Held (per Dr. Dhananjaya Y Chandrachud, CJI) (for himself, Hrishikesh Roy, J B Pardiwala and Manoj Misra, JJ.