The Amicus Curiae argued that if it is accepted by the Court that hazardous cleaning is violative of Article 23, then the question of persons engaged in sewage cleaning having practiced it on their own volition does not arise. 18. The Amicus urged that is important to note that two statutory riders empower the executive to statutorily carve out exceptions, even though they are couched as explanations: fi rst, the defi nition of “insanitary latrine” in Section 2(e) states that: “a water fl ush latrine in a railway passenger coach, when cleaned by an employee with the help of such devices and using such protective gear, as the Central Government may notify in this behalf, shall not be deemed to be an insanitary latrine.” 6 1983 (1) SCR 456 7 1983 (2) SCR 271 DR. BALRAM SINGH v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS. 1097 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Second, the explanation to the defi nition of “manual scavenger” in Section 2(1)(g) specifi es that “a person engaged or employed to clean excreta with the help of such devices and using such protective gear, as the Central Government may notify in this behalf, shall not be deemed to be a ‘manual scavenger’ 19. It was submitted that these riders should be given the narrowest possible interpretation, given that the statute punishes untouchability and inhuman labour. It was further urged that the protective gear and devices referred to must be of such nature that they achieve substantial or near total mechanization of the process so that the dignity of the labourer is maintained and no structural discrimination is perpetuated. 20. Regarding NCSK’s working, it was submitted that at present, it has only Chairperson, Vice-chairperson and one additional member with four member posts lying vacant. Furthermore, there was no commission in place during FY 2022-23. In terms of Section 32 of the 2013 Act, even state government are expected to notify a state commission with the same powers as that of NCSK at the state level. However, State commission for Safai Karamcharis exist in only few states. 21. The learned Amicus also pointed out that Section 29(3) of the Act, requires the Central Monitoring Committee8 (hereafter “CMC”) to meet in every six months. However, between 2013 to 2022, it met only seven times. After a gap of 3 years, CMC met for the eight time after the intervention of this court’s dated 02.05.2023. Similarly, the Amicus fi led data regarding non convening of State Monitoring Committee9 (hereafter “SMC”) for 8 According to Section 29, the Central Monitoring Committee (CMC), consisting of the Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment, Chairperson of the NCSC, Minister of State in the Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment, Chairperson of NCSK, Secretaries of various Ministries, etc., shall be constituted. The functions of CMC, as delineated under Section 30, are- monitoring and advising the Central Government and State Government for eff ective implementation of the Act, coordinating the functions of all concerned agencies, and looking into any other matter incidental to or connected with implementation of the Act.