20. It must be noted that forest communities do not only consist of people from recognized Adivasi and other backward communities, but also other groups residing in the said land. These other groups, who do G not get recognition under the law as a forest dwelling community due to several socio-political and economic reasons, are also an integral part of the said forest communities and are essential to their functioning. Further, 1 1986 4 SCC 753 H 2 1986 4 SCC 753 HARI PRAKASH SHUKLA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1007 PRADESH & ANR. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] there can also be several instances of people ancestrally being forest A dwellers, however, due to lack of documentation, are not able to prove the same. 21. While we are aware of the fact that the Appellants herein are not from a backward community and nor do they claim to be so, however, the abovementioned Banwasi (Supra), if interpreted in a B narrow manner only to benefit certain recognized forest communities, would cause a great deal of harm to multiple other communities. At the sake of repetition, it must be noted that the Banwasi (Supra), only grants a right to be heard by a competent authority, and if such authority rejects a claim, then the said claim cannot exist against the C situate land. 22. This right to be heard, in our opinion, must be granted to all claiming possession of the subject land, and the substantial right of possession can be granted or denied during the said hearing, by the competent authority, that is to say, the right to be heard must be enjoyed D by all, and the right to possess, must be enjoyed by those who have a legitimate claim. 23. Further, the right to enjoy possession of any land notified under Section 4 of the Forest Act is not only limited to Adivasi communities and other forest dwelling communities, but is also based on proof of E residence, date of original possession, etc. If the right to inhabit the said lands is not restricted only to certain communities, how can the right to be heard on such claims be restricted to the same. 24. Therefore, in light of the abovementioned discussions, we hold Issue No. I in favor of the Appellants. F ISSUE-II Whether the High Court, while exercising its jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution of India, could have re-appreciated evidence to come to its findings? 25. The Appellants herein, before the impugned passed by the High Court in Writ Jurisdiction, had two concurrent findings in their G favour by way of decisions rendered by the lower courts. The Appellants had proved their possession over the subject land by leading evidence, and the veracity of the same, by way of proper procedure, was tested by both the lower courts. The High Court, however, without evidence being led by the respondents, set aside the concurrent findings vide impugned and dated 04.02.2013. H 1008 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R.