The seller replied to the legal notice vide reply dated 03.12.2007 denying the execution of agreement B to sell. That thereafter, the appellant – buyer filed the suit for specific performance on 14.02.2008 vide O.S. No. 17/2008. The original defendants – sellers filed their written statement and opposed the suit. The defendants denied the execution of agreement to sell. It was also the case of the defendants in the written statement that the plaintiff was C not ready to perform his part of the contract. Therefore, the defendants denied readiness and willingness on the part of the plaintiff – buyer to perform his part of the contract. 2.2 Both the parties led evidence before the Trial Court. The plaintiff led evidence by examining witnesses, on his readiness and D willingness to perform his part of the contract. It was brought on record that plaintiff went with cash to the seller but the seller did not accept the same. That thereafter, on appreciation of evidence the learned Trial Court decreed the suit for specific performance vide and decree dated 30.09.2011. The learned Trial Court believed the case of the plaintiff – buyer as to the execution of agreement to sell. The learned Trial Court E also believed the plaintiff’s case as to the payment of earnest money of Rs. 3 lakhs to the seller. The learned Trial Court also held that the plaintiff – buyer was ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. That pursuant to the and decree passed by the learned Trial Court, the buyer – original plaintiff deposited an amount of Rs. 9,74,000/- before F the learned Trial Court which is still reported to be lying with the Trial Court. 2.3 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the and decree passed by the learned Trial Court, respondents herein – sellers preferred the appeal before the High Court. By the impugned and G the High Court has allowed the said appeal and has set aside the and decree passed by the learned Trial Court, mainly on the ground that the plaintiff was not ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. The impugned and passed by the High Court is the subject matter of present appeals. H 234 BASAVARAJ v. PADMAVATHI & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] 235 2.4 The appellant also filed a review petition which came to be A dismissed by the High Court, and the passed in the review petition is also the subject matter of one of the appeals. 3. Shri K. Parmeshwar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the Hon’ble High Court has materially erred in reversing B the findings of the Trial Court on readiness and willingness of the appellant. 3.1 It is submitted that on appreciation of entire evidence on record the learned Trial Court recorded findings as to readiness and willingness of the appellant, in favour of the appellant, and such findings were not required to be interfered with by the High Court.