371 of 2000 were closed on 12.05.2000 itself, long prior to issuance of the s of ‘reinstatement’ and ‘absorption’ in November, 2000. Having committed itself to this course of action on its own, albeit by making it subject to the B result of the pending writ petition, the question that arises is whether the management of FCI can be permitted a volte-face at this late stage. Pertinently, there is no evidence of the management at least seeking expeditious disposal of the writ petition after complying with the Award, making it subject to the result thereof. In fact, the management merrily C allowed the situation to continue for 18 long years, till the dismissal of the writ petition in November, 2018. 14. Given this factual scenario, we are of the opinion that the learned Judge of the Jharkhand High Court was perfectly justified in dismissing the writ petition on the grounds that he did, thereby upholding D the Award. In Union of India and others vs. N. Murugesan and others [(2022) 2 SCC 25], this Court pointed out that the phrases ‘approbate’ and ‘reprobate’ mean that no party can be allowed to accept and reject the same thing, as the principle behind the doctrine of election is inbuilt in E the concept of approbate and reprobate, that is, a person cannot be allowed to have the benefit of an instrument while questioning the same. It was noted that an element of fair play is inbuilt in this principle and it is a species of estoppel dealing with the conduct of a party. 15. In the case on hand, the management of FCI filed a writ petition challenging the Award passed by the Tribunal but having secured F conditional interim relief therein, the management chose to implement the impugned Award though it was under no compulsion to do so. As pointed out hereinbefore, the management did not stop short at just reinstating the workmen in service but went further and absorbed them in regular service. Such absorption in service was not at all required G under the interim dated 05.08.1999 and was, therefore, squarely attributable to the will and volition of the management of FCI itself. In effect, the management of FCI, be it for whatever reason, chose to acquiesce with and accept the Award in its entirety, though it made such compliance subject to the result of the writ petition. Its somnolence, thereafter, in taking timely measures for expeditious disposal of the writ H THEIR WORKMEN THROUGH THE JOINT SECRETARY (WELFARE), FCI 125 EXECUTIVE STAFF UNION. v. EMPLOYER IN RELATION TO THE MANAGEMENT OF THE FCI [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] petition compounded the matter further, leading to the passing of 18 long A years, which conclusively weighed with the learned Judge and, in our considered opinion, rightly so. A party to a proceeding cannot be permitted to challenge the same but thereafter abide by it out of its own free will; garner benefit from it; get the opposite party to effectively alter its position; and then press its challenge after the passage of a considerable B length of time.