The day on which the accused is brought on remand before the Magistrate, sub–section (2) of Section 167 empowers the Magistrate to authorize the detention with the police either by F continuing it or remanding him to Magisterial custody. There cannot be a pause/break between the two processes. No delimitation is conceptualized in Section 167 nor can it be fitted into a period of limitation ‘from’ and ‘to’ since there is no limitation for completion of investigation and filing of the chargesheet. The production before the Magistrate is a process in continuation of G arrest by the police and the Magistrate will authorize detention for not more than 15 days in the whole but if he is satisfied that sufficient grounds exist, he may authorize an accused’s detention beyond 15 days otherwise than in the custody of police. Pertinently, there is no fixed end point within which, the police H or investigation authorities are required to complete the ENFORCEMENT DIRECTORATE, GOVERNMENT OF INDIA v. 921 KAPIL WADHAWAN & ANR. ETC. investigation. However, if the investigation is not completed and A chargesheet is not filed within 60 or 90 days, a right of default bail accrues to the accused. The anterior period of custody with the police prior to the remand is not detention. It is only so, pursuant to an authorization issued from the Magistrate. [Para 34][939-H; 940-A-E] B 1.4 The period of detention by the Magistrate runs from the very day of remand . Sub–section (2) of Section 167 CrPC pertains to the power of the Magistrate to remand an accused and there is no reason why the date of the Magesterial Court’s gaze on the accused, should be excluded. In to avoid long incarceration of an accused only because the C investigation is being carried out in a leisurely manner, the legislature was prompted, to confer a right on the accused to be released on default bail if he is prepared to offer bail bond and the investigation may still continue. This is why the General Clauses Act cannot be made applicable to sub–section (2) of D Section 167. Moreover, excluding the date of the remand would also result in a break in the continuity of the custody of the accused which begins on his date of arrest under Section 56 and continues till the stipulated 60/90 day period, under Section 167. Additionally, it is to be noted that when the date of remand is included as the first day of the stipulated remand period– there E arises no fixed 60–day period for which the accused is remanded. Once the Magistrate authorises remand, irrespective of the time of the day, when he does so, the prosecution, in each case will have a varying period of custody which may range in a moving cursor manner from a spectrum of 59 days and 23 hours or so to F 59 days and 1 hour or so for offences covered under proviso (a)(ii) of Section 167(2). The exact period of remand for an accused is subject to the first gaze of the Magesterial court and the signing of the remand .