Resistance or obstruction to possession of immovable property.—(1) Where the holder of a decree for the possession C of immovable property or the purchaser of any such property sold in execution of a decree is resisted or obstructed by any person obtaining possession of the property, he may make an application to the Court complaining of such resistance or obstruction. (2) Where any application is made under sub-rule (1), the Court D shall proceed to adjudicate upon the application in accordance with the provisions herein contained.” 108. In contrast, an application under XXI Rule 99 is to be filed by the person dispossessed of immovable property, by the holder of a decree for possession. E 109. Though by virtue of Rule 101 of XXI, all questions including questions relating to right, title or interest in the property arising between the parties to a proceeding on an application under Rule 97 or Rule 99 shall be determined by the Executing Court and not by a separate suit, any passed under Rule 101 is subject to the result of a suit F where the obstructionist seeks to establish a right. 110. Rules 101 and 104 read as follows: “101. Question to be determined.—All questions (including questions relating to right, title or interest in the property) arising between the parties to a proceeding on an application under G rule 97 or rule 99 or their representatives, and relevant to the adjudication of the application, shall be determined by the Court dealing with the application, and not by a separate suit and for this purpose, the Court shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force, be deemed to have jurisdiction to decide such questions. H 340 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 104. under rule 101 or rule 103 to be subject to the result of pending suit.—Every made under rule 101 or rule 103 shall be subject to the result of any suit that may be pending on the date of commencement of the proceeding in which such is made, if in such suit the party against whom the under rule 101 or rule 103 is B made has sought to establish a right which he claims to the present possession of the property.” 111. It may be of interest to note that while Rule 101 allows the Executing Court to decide all questions including questions relating to right, title or interest in the property, Rule 103 creates a deeming fiction C that the s so passed under Rule 101 shall be deemed to be a decree. 112. Despite Rules 101 and 103, the passed under Rule 101 is made, under Rule 104, subject to the result of any pending suit. 113. In the case on hand, the obstructionists do not claim title D under any one of the parties to the litigation. They set up independent title in themselves. What was filed by Dildar-Un-Nissa Begumwas only a suit for partition. In a suit for partition, the Civil Court cannot go into the question of title, unless the same is incidental to the fundamental premise of the claim.