In that the rule of law permeates to fulfil constitutional objectives of establishing an egalitarian social , the respective sovereign functionaries need free play in their joints E so that the march of social progress and remains unimpeded. The smooth balance built with delicacy must always be maintained;” 84. Apart from the power to make subordinate legislation as a delegate of the Legislature, do the superior courts make law or is it entirely tabooed? In other words, when the court decides a lis, is the F function of the court merely to apply law to the facts as found or do courts also make law? The theory that the courts cannot or do not make laws is a myth which has been exploded a long while ago. We may only in this regard refer to what Justice S.B. Sinha opined on behalf of this Court in the decision reported in State of U.P. v. Jeet S. Bisht23: G “77. Separation of powers is a favourite topic for some of us. Each organ of the State in terms of the constitutional scheme performs one or the other functions which have been assigned to 22 (1996) 7 SCC 637 H 23 (2007) 6 SCC 586 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 91 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] the other organ. Although drafting of legislation and its A implementation by and large are functions of the legislature and the executive respectively, it is too late in the day to say that the constitutional court’s role in that behalf is non-existent. The judge- made law is now well recognised throughout the world. If one is to put the doctrine of separation of power to such a rigidity, it B would not have been possible for any superior court of any country, whether developed or developing, to create new rights through interpretative process. 78. Separation of powers in one sense is a limit on active jurisdiction of each organ. But it has another deeper and more C relevant purpose: to act as check and balance over the activities of other organs. Thereby the active jurisdiction of the organ is not challenged; nevertheless there are methods of prodding to communicate the institution of its excesses and shortfall in duty. Constitutional mandate sets the dynamics of this communication between the organs of polity. Therefore, it is suggested to not D understand separation of powers as operating in vacuum. Separation of powers doctrine has been reinvented in modern times. 83. If we notice the evolution of separation of powers doctrine, traditionally the checks and balances dimension was only E associated with governmental excesses and violations. But in today’s world of positive rights and justifiable socialand economic entitlements, hybrid administrative bodies, private functionaries discharging public functions, we have to perform the oversight function with more urgency and enlarge the field F of checks and balances to include governmental inaction. Otherwise we envisage the country getting transformed into a state of repose. Social engineering as well as institutional engineering therefore forms part of this obligation.” (Emphasis supplied) G 85.