2.1 It is submitted that initially, the accused Aryan Singh was not named in the fresh FIR. However, thereafter, after conclusion of the investigation, the chargesheet came to be filed against the said Aryan F Singh also and he has been included as one of the accused. 2.2 It is submitted that thereafter both the accused Aryan Singh and Gautam Cheema filed discharge applications before the learned Trial Court, which came to be dismissed on merits. It is submitted that thereafter by the impugned and , in exercise of the powers G under Section 482 Cr.P.C., the High Court has quashed the entire criminal proceedings, as if, the High Court was conducting a mini trial. 2.3 It is vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the High Court has exceeded in its jurisdiction while quashing the entire criminal proceedings against the accused Aryan Singh and H CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. ARYAN SINGH ETC. 821 [M. R. SHAH, J.] Gautam Cheema. It is vehemently submitted that while quashing the A criminal proceedings, the High Court has observed that the allegations / charges against the accused have not been proved and that the prosecution is malicious. It is submitted that at the stage of deciding the quashing petitions against the passed by the learned Trial Court, refusing to discharge the accused, the High Court ought not to have B considered and/or observed that the charges are not proved. It is submitted that the charges are required to be proved during the trial and on the basis of the evidence led. It is further submitted that even the High Court has materially erred in observing that the prosecution is malicious. It is submitted that the investigation was handed over to the CBI, pursuant to the directions issued by the High Court and, thereafter, C after conclusion of the investigation, the accused came to be chargesheeted and therefore, the initiation of the criminal proceedings / proceedings cannot be said to be malicious. It is submitted that whether any criminal proceedings is malicious, is also required to be considered at the conclusion of the trial and not at this stage, namely, at the stage of D exercise of powers under Section 482 Cr.P.C. 2.4 Number of submissions have been made on merits also by Shri Nataraj, learned ASG, however, for the reasons stated hereinabove, we are inclined to set aside the impugned common and passed by the High Court by relegating the accused to face the trial and E thereafter the trial is to proceed against the accused, we are not considering the submissions made on behalf of the CBI as well as on behalf of the accused on merits. 3. Present appeals are vehemently opposed by Shri R.P. Bhatt, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the accused Aryan Singh F and Shri Mahesh Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the accused Gautam Cheema. 3.1 Both the learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective accused have made submissions on merits of the allegations made against each accused.