36. The procedure envisioned, thus, takes a nuanced approach for the recovery of a secured creditor’s dues. In case they opt to relinquish the security, their priority is ranked high; in case, they seek to enforce such security, subject to intimation and verification by the liquidator, they E can proceed to do so. In the event of short fall, they rank lower in priority. This appears to be the reason, as is clear from the explanation provided in response to comments as a result of Parliamentary debates in 2018, that secured creditors opting not to relinquish their security interest are “presumed that such secured creditors have recovered most of their F dues by enforcement of their security outside the liquidation proceedings”.27 There is sound logic in this, because those opting to 21A. Presumption of security interest. (1) A secured creditor shall inform the liquidator of its decision to relinquish its security interest to the liquidation estate or realise its security interest, as the case may be, in Form C or Form D of Schedule II: G Provided that, where a secured creditor does not intimate its decision within thirty days from the liquidation commencement date, the assets covered under the security interest shall be presumed to be part of the liquidation estate. (2) Where a secured creditor proceeds to realise its security interest, it shall pay as much towards the amount payable under clause (a) and sub-clause (i) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 53, as it would have shared in case it had relinquished the security interest.” H 27Supra note 25. PASCHIMANCHAL VIDYUT VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. RAMAN 1251 ISPAT PRIVATE LIMITED & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] ‘stand out’ and enforce security interest, are permitted to do so; in the A event of excess recovery, they have to intimate and hand over such excess for distribution in liquidation proceeding; in case they are unable to recover their dues, for such of the dues as are outstanding, such secured creditors are ranked low. 37. The recent of this court, in Moser Baer Karamchari B Union thr. President Mahesh Chand Sharma v. Union of India & Ors28 had dealt with the waterfall provisions of the IBC at length, albeit in the context of priority of claims of workmen’s dues. This court observed as follows: “66. …Sub-section (1) to Section 52 of the Code gives two C options to a secured creditor. First, the secured creditor in a liquidation proceeding may relinquish its security interest and receive the proceeds from the sale of assets by the liquidator in the manner specified in Section 53 of the Code. The second option is to realise the security interest, but in the manner D specified in Section 52 of the Code. Sub-section (2) to Section 52 of the Code states that where the secured creditor realises the security interest, he shall inform the liquidator of such security interest and identify the asset subject to such security interest to be realised. The liquidator is to verify the security interest and shall permit the secured creditor to realise such E security interest, which is proved either by records of such security interest maintained by an information utility, or by such other means as may be specified by the Board.