Therefore, if at least the of Nazim Atiyat and the Muntakhab had come into existence before the preliminary decree and they had been produced as exhibits in the suit, the Trial Judge could have had an opportunity to apply his mind to B find out the effect of the 1955 Act on Inam-al-Tamgha. 159. Since everyone focused attention only on Hyderabad Jagir Abolition Regulations, 1948 and a contention was raised that the personal properties of the Jagirs were exempt under Section 18, no one ever examined the impact of 1955 Act. Even if the property in question escapes C the guillotine under the Jagir Abolition Regulations, it may meet its fate under the 1955 Act. 160. Therefore, we hold on Issue Nos. (ii) and (iii) that the Single Judge as well as the Division Bench (in the impugned ) were right in holding that the properties were not D established to be Mathruka properties. The effect of the of the Nazim Atiyat was not examined by the Trial Judge. In any case, such an examination had to be done independently and not in a partition suit, keeping in view, the1955 Act and various subsequent enactments relating to agricultural land reforms and urban land ceiling. E Issue No. (v): Whether the claims of the claim petitioners stood established? 161. It was contended by Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned F senior counsel for the appellants that the claim petitioners (obstructionists to the execution) could not produce a single scrap of paper to show how they derived the title to the portions of land in Survey No.172 of Hydernagar. 162. But the said contention does not appear to be wholly correct. G Paragraph 58 of the of the learned Single Judge dated 26.10.2004, a portion of which is extracted in the impugned of the Division Bench, states that these claim petitioners had filed originals or certified copies of the pattas granted in favour of their predecessors-in-title. From paragraph 59 up to paragraph 61, the learned Single Judge dealt with Issue No.4 as to whether patta was granted in favour of Boddu H 356 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Veeraswamy and others. He also dealt with additional Issue No.2 as to whether the claimants have otherwise perfected title by adverse possession. The learned Single Judge recorded that Boddu Veeraswamy and others were granted pattas in the year 1947 and that since these documents were more than 30 years old, no further proof of these documents was necessary in view of Section 90 of the Evidence Act, B 1872. The learned Single Judge also recorded that there was ample evidence in the form of sethwar, faisal patti, jamabandi, tax receipts and proceedings before various authorities. Eventually, the learned Single Judge concluded in paragraph 61 of his that even if the documents relied upon by the claimants are found to be defective, C the possession of the claimants have become adverse to the appellants herein. 163. Assailing the said finding, it was contended by Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned senior counsel for the appellants that the presumption under Section 90 will apply only when an original document D is produced and only after it is proved that it has come from proper custody.