The code has ample provisions to meet a situation like the one before us. From the statement of charge framed under Section 304B and in the alternative Section 306, it is clear that all the facts and ingredients for framing the charge for off ence under Section 306 existed. The mere omission on the part of the trial judge to mention Section 306 IPC with 498A would not preclude this Court from convicting the accused for the said off ence when found proved. In the charge framed under Section 304B of IPC, it has been clearly mentioned that the accused has subjected the deceased to such cruelty and harassment as to drive her to commit suicide by self-immolation and as such non-framing of the specifi c charge would not be fatal in the instant case as no injustice is being caused to the accused. 28. This court in K. Prema S. Rao & anr v. Yadla Srinivasa Rao and others (2003) 1 SCC 217 has held that mere omission or defect in framing of charge would not be fatal if from the statement of charge under Section 304B and in the alternative Section 498A, it is clear that all facts and ingredients for framing of charge under Section 306 existed in the case, same would suffi ce. It was further held that: PARANAGOUDA AND ANOTHER v. THE STATE OF 945 KARNATAKA AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] “22. Mere omission or defect in framing charge does not disable the criminal court from convicting the accused for the off ence which is found to have been proved on the evidence on record. The Code of Criminal Procedure has ample provisions to meet a situation like the one before us. From the statement of charge framed under Section 304-B and in the alternative Section 498-A IPC (as quoted above) it is clear that all facts and ingredients for framing charge for off ence under Section 306 IPC existed in the case. The mere omission on the part of the trial Judge to mention Section 306 IPC with Section 498-A IPC does not preclude the court from convicting the accused for the said off ence when found proved. In the alternate charge framed under Section 498-A IPC, it has been clearly mentioned that the accused subjected the deceased to such cruelty and harassment as to drive her to commit suicide. The provisions of Section 221 CrPC take care of such a situation and safeguard the powers of the criminal court to convict an accused for an off ence with which he is not charged although on facts found in evidence, he could have been charged for such off ence. Section 221 CrPC needs reproduction: “221. Where it is doubtful what off ence has been committed.—(1) If a single act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of several off ences the facts which can be proved will constitute, the accused may be charged with having committed all or any of such off ences, and any number of such charges may be tried at once; or he may be charged in the alternative with having committed some one of the said off ences.