The meeting was attended by all the members of the Selection Committee. H 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 14. The State Government took a decision to give effect to the special reservation despite it being a horizontal one. The aforesaid decision was made apparently for the reason that the percentage of candidates expected to fill the post meant for the aforesaid reservation, were found inadequate. The decision of the State Government was taken note of and incorporated in the Selection Committee meeting held on 26.12.2016. B “…In the meeting of the selection committee held on 05.10.2016, it was decided to reduce the aforesaid cut of marks up to 10% and later on also, when the posts for women and specially abled candidates were remained vacant thus in the meeting held on 17.10.2016 while cancelling the provision of giving aforesaid C relaxation, it was decided to make recruitment thereon for 1415 posts of supervisor instructors and publish final selection list thereof. In this regard, as per guidance availed from the Gujarat Government, it was decided to fix the cut of marks (minimum eligible standard) as 40% for the candidates of general category D and 35% for the candidates of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe, Socially and Educationally Backward Class and other reserved posts for filling total 1415 posts of Supervisor Instructor.” 15. The aforesaid decision is made by treating the special reservation which was otherwise horizontal, as a vertical reservation. E As a consequence, the clause contained in the advertisement, as decided by the resolution of the Selection Committee dated 03.09.2015, providing for the consequence of non-filling of a post meant for a special category to be filled up with the other eligible candidates, was overturned without even bringing an amendment, that too unilaterally, after the declaration of the result. F 16. Aggrieved by the aforesaid action, the appellants who would otherwise secure selection to the post, approached the High Court. Finding due merit, the learned Single Judge allowed the writ petitions filed. 17. The State and the official Respondents did not choose to G challenge the decision made which was actually done based upon an earlier decision made by the Division Bench, but rather decided to give effect to it. However, certain individuals who were affected by the of the learned Single Judge, having secured the benefit of the Selection Committee in a decision dated 26.12.2016, and accordingly got selected, filed the appeals before the Division Bench. The appeals were allowed H SURESHKUMAR LALITKUMAR PATEL v. STATE OF 551 GUJARAT [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] on the ground that the original petitioners do not have a vested right, A adequate power is available to the Selection Committee, and there is no change in the rule after the game has started. 18. In the present appeals, the private respondents alone are the contesting ones as even before the Division Bench, many others did not choose to contest the decision of the learned Single Judge for the reasons B best known to them.