We say so for the reason that G more than 90 witnesses, most of whom are Bengali speaking, are yet to be examined. The transfer of trial to any other neighbouring state will cause serious impediment in the deposition of those witnesses and some of them might be reluctant H AFJAL ALI SHA @ ABJAL SHAUKAT SHA v. STATE OF WEST 1093 BENGAL & ORS. to travel to a far away place and, thus, the case of the Prosecution A will be severely prejudiced. So long as the High Court and District Judiciary are ensuring the fairness in trial proceedings within their jurisdictional framework, we are not inclined to accept that the victim’s family will not get fair justice, if the trial is held in the State of West Bengal. [Para 35][1110-D-F] B 5. Considering all the facts and circumstances, this Court deems it appropriate to dispose of this transfer petition in following terms:- (i) Criminal Trial bearing ST No. 1 (03) of 2020 arising out of FIR No. 495/2019 registered at Police Station Panskura, District Purba Medinipur is ed to be transferred from the C Court of Additional Sessions Judge, 3rd Court, Tamluk, Purba Medinipur, West Bengal to the Court of Chief Judge, City Sessions Court at Calcutta; (ii) The trial shall be conducted by the Chief Judge, City Sessions Court and he shall not entrust the case to any other Additional Sessions Judge; (iii) The Chief Judge, City Sessions Court shall endeavour to take up the trial D on a weekly basis and shall make an effort to conclude the same within a period of six months; (iv) The State of West Bengal is directed to appoint a Special Public Prosecutor on the recommendations of the Chief Judge, City Sessions Court, Calcutta with the prior approval of the High Court. This exercise E shall be completed within two weeks; (v) The wife of the Deceased, the Petitioner and other crucial prosecution witnesses shall be provided adequate security. The State of West Bengal is directed to ensure that no harm is caused to the life and liberty of the witnesses and no direct or indirect attempt is made by Respondent No. 2 or his co-accused persons or anyone on their F behalf to influence, frighten or threaten the witnesses; (vi) The De-facto Complainant who is also stated to be the eyewitness and has allegedly resiled from his version recorded during the examination-in-chief, shall be subjected to cross-examination by the Special Public Prosecutor, for which the advocate engaged G by the Petitioner may provide assistance to the learned Special Public Prosecutor; (vii) Respondent No. 2 or any other accused who are in custody shall be transferred forthwith to the Central Jail at Calcutta; (viii) Respondent No. 2, having regard to his criminal antecedents, as well as other accused who are in custody, H 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A shall not be enlarged on bail till the conclusion of trial save and except by the High Court; (ix) The Learned Portfolio Judge of the Calcutta High Court is requested to regularly monitor and supervise the trial proceedings in terms of the directions issued hereinabove.