The said sub-Article reads as follows: “324(2) The Election Commission shall consist of the Chief Election Commissioner and such number of other Election C Commissioners, if any, as the President may from time to time fix and the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election Commissioners shall, subject to the provisions of any law made in that behalf by Parliament, be made by the President.” 2. A Bench of two learned Judges of this Court in Writ Petition (Civil) No. 104 of 2015, passed the following on 23.10.2018: D “I.A. No.2 for amendment of writ petition; raising additional facts, grounds and prayer is allowed. The matter relates to what the petitioner perceives to be a requirement of having a full-proof and better system of appointment of members of the Election Commission. E Having heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and the learned Attorney General for India we are of the view that the matter may require a close look and interpretation of the provisions of Article 324 of the Constitution of India. The issue has not been debated and answered by this Court earlier. Article 145 (3) of the Constitution of India would, therefore, require the Court to refer F the matter to a Constitution Bench. We, accordingly, refer the question arising in the present proceedings to a Constitution Bench for an authoritative pronouncement. Post the matter before the Hon’ble the Chief Justice of India on the Administrative Side for fixing a date of hearing.” G 3. We may notice the following prayers in the said Writ Petition (Civil) No. 104 of 2015: “ i)issue a writ of mandamus or an appropriate writ, or direction, commanding the Respondent: to make law for ensuring H 26 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A a fair, just and transparent process of selection by constituting a neutral and independent collegium/ selection committee to recommend the name for the appointment of the member to the Election Commission under Article 324(2) of the Constitution of India; ii) issue a writ of mandamus or an appropriate writ, or B direction constituting an interim neutral and independent collegium/ selection committee to recommend the names for the appointment on the vacant post of the member to the Election Commission; iii) issue a writ of mandamus or an appropriate writ, or direction commanding the Respondent to decide the petition of the petitioner dated 03.12.2014 for making a law for ensuring a C fair, just and transparent selection process by constituting an independent and neutral collegiums/ selection committee for recommending the names for members to the Election Commission;” 4. In Writ Petition (Civil) No. 1043 of 2017, filed by one Shri D Ashwani Kumar Upadhyay, which is also a Public Interest Litigation, the reliefs sought are as follows: “ a) directthe Central Government to take appropriate steps to provide same and similar protection to both the Election Commissioners so that they shall not be removed from their office E except in like manner and on the like grounds as the Chief Election Commissioner; b) direct the Central Government to take appropriate steps to provide independent secretariat to the Election Commission of India and declare its expenditure as charged on the consolidated.