A 17.19. Accused no.1 in the said offence Varavara Rao, Accused Rona Wilson and Surendra Gadling along with the Polit Bureau and Central Committee and other underground members of the banned terrorist organisation C.P.I. (Maoist) hatched a criminal conspiracy and obtained the participation of the accused no.02 Vernon Gonsalves, accused no.3 Arun B Ferreira and accused no.04 Sudha Bharadwaj in the said conspiracy and got them to participate as active members of the banned C.P.I. (Maoist) organisation banned by the Government of India for the continuation of Unlawful Activity, for exchange of messages, for the implementation of the goals C and policies of the said unlawful organisation by planning and convening sittings along with them as also to help their unlawful activities. In same manner it has emerged that hard disks, pendrives, memory cards, mobiles, etc. seized during the house search of accused no.1 Varavara Rao, Surendra Gadling and Rona Wilson contained correspondence, papers, D photographs, etc. related to the banned CPI(Maoist) organisation as also that they attempted in different ways to implement the goals, policies and objectives of the said organisation. It also emerged that they attempted in different ways to do acts against the country to overthrow the E democratic and lawful administrative system through the medium of frontal organisations established on behalf of the banned organisation in urban areas.” (quoted verbatim from paperbook) 13. In the first statement, the protected witness who appears to F have had been associated with Maoist movement claims to have met VG in the year 2002 as we have already indicated. He has spoken of a timeline between 2002 to 2007. According to him, at that time VG and AF were members of the Maharashtra State Committee, presumably of CPI (Maoist) organisation. This statement was recorded on 27th January G 2019 by an Assistant Commissioner of Pune Police. The protected witness has made another statement on 27th July 2020 before the police in which he has referred to participation of AF in a seminar of Revolutionary Democratic Front in Hyderabad in the year 2012 and VG in September 2017 by an organisation referred to as “Virasam”. These were also broadly repeated in his statement before a Magistrate recorded under H VERNON v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA & ANR. 899 [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] Section 164 of the 1973 Code on 28th July 2020. The prosecution has A also relied on statements made by one Kumarsai, who appears to have been associated with the same organisation. Such statements appear to have been made on 2nd November 2018 and 23rd December 2018. He has stated that he had personally never seen VG but according to him, VG was doing the work of uniting intellectuals. About AF, he is alleged B to have said that he was “intruding” in student organisations and creating cadre, who were being sent to forests. He also claims to have met AF in the 2003-2007 phase. The third witness, whose statements have also been relied upon by the prosecution agency is one Sudarshan Satyadeo Ramteke.