C 4.1 It is vehemently submitted by Shri Kaul, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original applicant that in the present case all the agreements, namely, SHA-1, SHA-2 and MOU-1 are required to be read along with MOU-2. It is submitted that the agreements other than MOU-2 do contain the arbitration clause, more particularly, clause 27.3 in SHA-1. It is submitted that the High Court in paragraph 22 has D specifically observed and opined that the four agreements are indisputably interconnected. It is submitted that once there is a specific finding given that all the agreements are interconnected, the agreement in which there is an arbitration clause has to be read along with MOU-2 and therefore, the High Court has rightly referred the disputes to the arbitration. E 4.2 Shri Kaul, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the original applicant has heavily relied upon the decision of this Court in the case of Chloro Controls India Private Limited Vs. Severn Trent Water Purification Inc. and Ors., (2013) 1 SCC 641 as well as the decision of this Court in the case of Olympus Superstructures (P) F Ltd. Vs. Meena Vijay Khetan, (1999) 5 SCC 651 in support of his submission that all the four agreements are interconnected and therefore, are required to be read altogether. 5. Heard. The short question which is posed for the consideration of this Court is, the jurisdiction of the referral court at pre-referral stage G when the issue with respect to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement is raised. 5.1 While considering the aforesaid issue Section 11(6A) of the Arbitration Act which has been added through Arbitration and Conciliation Amendment Act, 2015 is required to be read which reads as follows: - H MAGIC EYE DEVELOPERS PVT. LTD. v. M/S. GREEN EDGE 407 INFRASTRUCTURE PVT. LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.] “(6-A) The Supreme Court or, as the case may be, the High A Court, while considering any application under subsection (4) or sub-section (5) or sub-section (6), shall, notwithstanding any , decree or of any court, confine to the examination of the existence of an arbitration agreement.” 5.2 Thus, post-Arbitration and Conciliation Amendment Act, 2015, B the jurisdiction of the court under Section 11(6) of the Act is limited to examining whether an arbitration agreement exists between the parties – “nothing more, nothing less”. Thus, as per the Section 11(6A) of the Act, it is the duty cast upon the referral court to consider the dispute/ issue with respect to the existence of an arbitration agreement. C 5.3 At this stage, it is required to be noted that as per the settled position of law, pre-referral jurisdiction of the court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration Act is very narrow and inheres two inquiries. The primary inquiry is about the existence and the validity of an arbitration agreement, which also includes an inquiry as to the parties to the D agreement and the applicant’s privity to the said agreement. The said matter requires a thorough examination by the referral court.