9. Following the cancellation of the caste certificate, the appellant C commenced disciplinary proceedings against the first respondent on 26 August 2011 by issuing a memorandum of charges under the Orissa Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 1962. The first respondent was permitted to participate in the enquiry. 10. The enquiry officer submitted his report dated 13 January D 2012, a copy of which was served on the first respondent in to furnish an opportunity of submitting her representation on the findings. 11. The disciplinary authority proposed to dismiss the first respondent from service and to recover the salary which was paid to her upon the findings in the enquiry. A show cause notice was issued to E the first respondent. 12. The first respondent challenged the cancelling her caste certificate before the Collector, Khurda. 13. In the meantime, on 13 March 2012, the appellant passed an dismissing the first respondent from service. F 14. The first respondent challenged her dismissal before the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution of India. 15. By a dated 25 January 2018, a single Judge upheld the cancellation of the caste certificate of the first respondent but directed G the appellant to consider her continuance in the post, inter alia, by relying upon the decisions of this Court in Kavita Solunke Vs State of Maharashtra & Ors8 and Shalini Vs New English High School Assn 6 (1996) 3 SCC 545 7 (2006) 3 SCC 257 8 (2012) 8 SCC 430 H BHUBANESWAR DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY v. MADHUMITA 599 DAS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] & Ors9. However, the single Judge directed that if the first respondent A is reinstated, he would be disentitled to any future promotions and benefits. 16. A writ appeal was filed against the of the single Judge with a delay of 564 days. The Division Bench by its impugned dated 30 October 2019 declined to condone the delay and consequently dismissed the writ appeal. B 17. We have perused the reasons which were placed on the record of the Division Bench for condoning the delay. The State had explained in detail the steps which were taken to take necessary approvals for the purpose of processing the writ appeal. We are of the considered view that the Division Bench ought to have condoned the delay in the facts of C this case. 18. On the merits, it is evident that the first respondent obtained employment with the appellant against a post which was reserved for the Scheduled Castes. She did so on the strength of a caste certificate. The caste certificate has been invalidated correctly on the ground that D the first respondent did not belong to a Scheduled Caste by birth and her marriage to a person belonging to a Schedule Caste would not entitled her to the benefit of the reservation for persons belonging to the Schedule Castes. This aspect is settled by the decisions of this Court in Valsamma Paul (supra) and Anjan Kumar (supra).