The B courts are ever mindful that their constitutional role in this field is interpretative. They must abstain from any course which might have the appearance of judicial legislation. A statute is expressed in language approved and enacted by the legislature. So, the courts exercise considerable caution before adding or omitting or C substituting words. Before interpreting a statute in this way the court must be abundantly sure of three matters: (1) the intended purpose of the statute or provision in question; (2) that by inadvertence the draftsman and Parliament failed to give effect to that purpose in the provision in question; and (3) the substance of the provision Parliament would D have made, although not necessarily the precise words Parliament would have used, had the error in the Bill been noticed. The third of these conditions is of crucial importance. Otherwise any attempt to determine the meaning of the enactment would cross the boundary between construction E and legislation.” (emphasis added) 17.The principle laid down in the said decision was reiterated by this Court in the case of Surjit Singh Kalra v. Union of India & Anr5. In paragraph 19, this Court held thus: F “19. True it is not permissible to read words in a statute which are not there, but “where the alternative lies between either supplying by implication words which appear to have been accidentally omitted, or adopting a construction which deprives certain existing words of all meaning, it is permissible to supply G the words” (Craies Statute Law, 7th edn., p. 109). Similar are the observations in Hameedia Hardware Stores v. B. Mohan Lal Sowcar [(1988) 2 SCC 513, 524-25] where it was observed that the court construing a provision should not easily read into it words 5 (1991) 2 SCC 87 H 976 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A which have not been expressly enacted but having regard to the context in which a provision appears and the object of the statute in which the said provision is enacted the court should construe it in a harmonious way to make it meaningful. An attempt must always be made so to reconcile the relevant provisions as to advance the remedy intended by the statute. (See: Sirajul Haq B Khan v. Sunni Central Board of Waqf [1959 SCR 1287, 1299 : AIR 1959 SC 198]. )” 18.Coming back to the relevant provisions of XXI of CPC, on a conjoint reading of sub-rule (1) of Rule 92 and Rule 94 of XXI of CPC, it is apparent that the of confirmation of sale under C sub-rule (1) of Rule 92 of XXI culminates into a grant of a sale certificate under Rule 94 of XXI. The date of sale to be incorporated in the sale certificate is the date of passing of the of sale confirmation. The very fact that Rule 94 of XXI incorporates a requirement of issuing a sale certificate shows that the Legislature D was of the view that mere of confirmation of auction may not be sufficient.