[SURYA KANT, J.] (ix) Reliance has been placed on Surendra Pratap Singh v. A State of Uttar Pradesh1 to urge that in similar facts and circumstances, the trial was transferred from the State of Uttar Pradesh to the State of Madhya Pradesh, in to do fair justice to all the parties. The in K. Anbazhagan v. State of Karnataka2 has also been cited B to iterate that once a case stands transferred from one state to another, the transferee state has full control over the prosecution and becomes the prosecuting State. It is the Petitioner’s contention that once the prosecuting state changes, the trial can be completed in a fair and just manner. C 18. During the course of hearing, Mr. Patwalia clarified that it is not necessary to transfer the trial to the State of Assam and this Court may consider the desirability of transferring it to any other neighbouring States, like Orissa or Jharkhand. 19. Opposing the transfer, Mr. Kapil Sibal and Mr. Neeraj Kishan D Kaul, learned senior counsels on behalf of Respondent No. 1- State of West Bengal and Mr. V. Giri, learned senior counsel on behalf of Respondent No. 2, contended that the facts as revealed do not make out a case for transfer of the trial outside the State of West Bengal. At the outset, they have challenged the locus of the Petitioner to file this transfer petition, contending that the Petitioner is not the complainant and is only E a witness in the trial. They have made the following submissions: (i) The Deceased’s wife did not approach the state police about the alleged attack on her in the Trial Court premises on 02.03.2021 and the Petitioner’s security arrangement was never withdrawn by the State. The police took prompt action F in the matter of abduction of witness Imran Ali as the accused persons & the victims were swiftly located and chargesheet has been filed in the case; (ii) The veracity of the media reports relied upon by the Petitioner to show that Respondent No. 2 has access to G facilities, such as smartphone, headphones etc. are not based upon correct facts; 1 Surendra Pratap Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh (2010) 9 SCC 475. 2 K. Anbazhagan v. State of Karnataka (2015) 6 SCC 86. H 1104 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A (iii) The Public Prosecutor gave detailed reasons in his withdrawal application before the Trial Court in compliance with Section 321 of CrPC; (iv) The requirements under Section 406, CrPC are not met in this case as no reasonable apprehension that justice will B not be done, is made out. (v) There is no allegation or whisper of bias in the State Judiciary as is evident from the fact that the accused persons’ bail applications have constantly been rejected by the Trial Court and such rejection has been upheld in the High Court. The C High Court has acted as a robust supervisory mechanism to oversee the trial proceedings and check any lapses occurring therein; (vi) There are no allegations of unfair investigation and the only Trial Court found fault with was the passed by the Link Judge allowing the application for withdrawal of D prosecution; (vii) There are 107 Prosecution witnesses in the trial out of which 80 witnesses reside in Purba Medinipur district where the trial is going on.