L. CONCLUSIONS ABOUT HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVES INCLUDING THE LIGHT SHED BY THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY DEBATES D 30. The members of the Constituent Assembly were undoubtedly concerned over the need to ensure independence of the Election Commission. Under the Government of India Act, 1935, the earlier law, it was the Executive which was conferred the power to conduct the election. Initially, there was a consensus of opinion, in fact, that the right E to vote was to be made a fundamental right. In fact, in the draft Article by Shri K.M. Munshi, he contemplated providing for right to choose for every citizen and a free secret and periodic election.The Fundamental Rights Sub-Committee also approved that there must be universal adult franchise guaranteed by the Constitution.The election was to be free, F secret and periodic. Most importantly, the Fundamental Rights Sub- Committee in the meeting held on 29.03.1947 contemplated that an independent Commission must be set up under Union law. A recommendation providing for an Election Commission being appointed in all cases with the law of the Union was made. Further, it becomes clear from a perusal of the work ‘Framing of India’s Constitution’ by B. G Shiva Rao that some disputes arose relating to so much power being conferred on the Union in the matter of elections. The dispute essentially related to clothing the Commission with power to conduct elections in regard to the State Legislatures, besides the Union Legislature. The 11 (2021) 8 SCC 1 H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 53 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Minority Sub-Committee also made a report that the Election Commission A should be independent and quasi-judicial in character.The Advisory Committee on Fundamental Rights, Minority, Tribal and Excluded Area also accepted the principles formulated by the Fundamental Rights Sub- Committee. However, the view was expressed by Shri C. Rajagopalachari that the right to vote should not be a part of fundamental right. Dr. B Ambedkar, however, specifically opined that in that election may be free in the real sense of the word, they shall be taken out of the hands of the government of the day, and be conducted by the independent body called the Election Commission. Shri C. Rajagopalachari, however, persevered with the theme that the matter relating to franchise may not find itselfamong the provisions providing for Fundamental Rights. Shri C Govind Vallabh Pant suggested a compromise and the Advisory Committee thereby recommended that instead of being included in the Chapter on Fundamental Rights, the provisions relating to franchise and to an independent Election Commission should be located in another part of the Constitution. In his work, the Framing of India’sConstitution, D by B. Shivarao has not minced words by commenting that by leaving a great deal of power in the hands of the President, it gave room for exercising political influence in the appointment of the Election Commissioner and other election commissioners. The remedy, it was found, which was contemplated was, that the Parliament would make a law to regulate the matter.