F 24. In a decision of recent vintage, this Court in Kahkashan Kausar alias Sonam v State of Bihar, (2022) 6 SCC 599, after considering various precedents, held that the rejection of the prayer for quashing the criminal case against the in-laws of the complainant- wife therein was unjustified. The appeal was allowed by quashing the FIR G against those appellants in the said case. The Court, while granting relief, observed as under: “21. Therefore, upon consideration of the relevant circumstances and in the absence of any specific role attributed to the appellant- accused, it would be unjust if the H PRIYANKA MISHRA & ORS. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA 1159 PRADESH & ANR. [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] appellants are forced to go through the tribulations of a trial A i.e. general and omnibus allegations cannot manifest in a situation where the relatives of the complainant’s husband are forced to undergo trial. It has been highlighted by this Court in varied instances, that a criminal trial leading to an eventual acquittal also inflicts severe scars upon the accused, B and such an exercise must, therefore, be discouraged.” (emphasis supplied) 25. We are in agreement with the view aforesaid. In the present case, the facts are akin to the position that obtained in Kahkashan Kausar (supra). In light of the discussions made hereinabove, this Court C is of the firm opinion that the Appellants are to be protected against vexatious and unwarranted criminal prosecution, and from unnecessarily being put through the rigours of an eventual trial. 26. The appeal stands allowed. We nip this prosecution in the bud. Accordingly, the Impugned deserves to be, and hereby is, D set aside. FIR Crime No. 139 of 2018 registered at Police Station Mahila Thana, District Gwalior, stands quashed qua the Appellants. Any consequential proceedings thereto pertaining to the Appellants shall melt into oblivion in the eye of law. 27. Pending applications, ergo, do not subsist for consideration E and are consigned to records. Costs made easy. 28. Respondent No.2, by way of a subsequent affidavit, sought to bring to our notice the later developments in the Swedish proceedings. Without expressing any view thereupon, we clarify that this shall not preclude Respondent No.2 from pursuing other lawful remedies, F if so available, against the husband in India or Sweden, as the case may be. Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Shevali Monga, LCRA) G H