11. The Hon’ble Home Minister, after discussions with representatives of all communities had indicated that an inter-agency unifi ed command would be set up under the chairmanship of the security adviser Shri Kuldeep Singh (see PIB Notifi cation dt. 01.06.2023 – Annexure B). However, as per the updated status report, the meetings of the unifi ed command center are being chaired by the Chief Minister (see paragraph 6 of the Status Report – Annexure A) which is contrary to the stated position of the Central Government. This needs to be corrected to generate confi dence in the neutrality of measures being undertaken. DINGANGLUNG GANGMEI v. MUTUM CHURAMANI MEETEI 1093 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 12. A status report be called for on the number of arms looted from the police armories, the number of such arms recovered and the measures being undertaken for recovery of the remaining arms. 13. To make the task of this Hon’ble Court easier, a committee having representatives of both the aff ected communities and chaired by a retired judge of this Hon’ble Court be appointed to oversee rescue, relief and rehabilitation measures and to address grievances concerning the same. This will ensure neutrality and build confi dence in the impartiality of the relief and rehabilitation measures. At present the teams comprising ministers and MLAs appointed by the Government to oversee relief and rehabilitation measures comprise of 35 MLAs (from a legislative assembly comprising 60 MLAs) across seven teams in-charge of seven (7) districts pointedly do not include even a single MLA from the ZoKuki tribes which damages public confi dence in the neutrality of the measures being undertaken (see circular dated 5th July, 2023 – Annexure ‘F’).” 6. While issuing directions for implementing most of the above suggestions (save and except those at Serials 5, 6, 7 and 13 above), this Court directed positive action by 14 July 2023. As regards suggestion at Serial number 13, the court noted that a notifi cation was issued on 5 July 2023 by the Government of Manipur constituting Committees in seven districts for overseeing the supervision and management of relief camps set up for housing persons who have been displaced by the situation in Manipur. On the aspect of providing compensation to the victims of the sectarian strife, this Court observed: “4 In the suggestions which have been made before this Court in Manipur Tribal Forum Delhi vs The State of Manipur and Another, at this stage, we are of the view that following suggestion would merit consideration by the State administration, namely: “Direct the State to immediately begin and complete within 3 months (a) the interim payment of 10 lakhs for every tribal 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. killed as assured by the Home Minister, (See list of 118 killed tribals (Add Aff . 8.7.23), (b) the reconstruction by the State of the 141 tribal villages destroyed (pg.41 I.A. 115711), and the 227 churches destroyed (pg.26) and further to provide security so that the tribals can return.” 5 The State administration shall take a considered view for disbursal of compensation to the aff ected families and for reconstruction of villages and places of religious worship which have suff ered destruction in the recent incidents of violence in the State.” 7.