10.05.2022, there was already an extension of time by the learned A Trial Court which as such was in existence and the extension was up to 22.05.2022. At this stage, it is required to be noted that though informed on 23.04.2022 about the extension of time for completing the investigation, the accused did not disclose the same in the application for default bail/statutory bail submitted on B 10.05.2022. That thereafter, on 22.05.2022, IO again submitted the report for further extension of time for completing the investigation which came to be allowed/granted by the learned Trial Court which as such was in the presence of the accused and at that time, the accused remained present. Neither the first extension nor the second extension came to be challenged by the C accused.” 7. Therefore, in the aforesaid peculiar facts and circumstances of the case, when two extensions granted by the Court which are not challenged and at the time when the default bail application was made on 10.05.2022 there was already an extension and even thereafter, also D there was a second extension which was in presence of the accused and thereafter, when the chargesheet has been filed within the period of extension, the accused is not entitled to be released on statutory/default bail as prayed. Therefore, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we are in agreement with the ultimate conclusion reached by the High E Court denying the statutory/default bail to the accused. 8. In view of the above and for the reasons stated above and, in the facts, and circumstances of the case narrated hereinabove, the appellant is not entitled to the benefit of statutory/default bail. Under the circumstances, the present appeals deserve to be dismissed and are F accordingly dismissed. However, it will be open for the accused to prayer for regular bail which may be considered in accordance with law and on its own merits. Present appeals stand dismissed accordingly. Ankit Gyan Appeals dismissed. (Assisted by : Abhishek Agnihotri and Aarsh Choudhary, LCRAs) G H