Collins Dictionary of English Language defines the word “includes” as: (i) to have as contents or part of the contents; be made up of or contain; (ii) to add as part of something else; put in as part of a set, B group or a category; (iii) to contain as a secondary or minor ingredient or element. It is no doubt true that generally when the word “include” is used in a definition clause, it is used as a word of enlargement, that is to make the definition extensive and not restrictive. But the word “includes” is also used to connote a specific meaning, that is, as “means and includes” C or “comprises” or “consists of.” 48. The use of the term “includes” after talcum powder, followed by “medicated talcum powder” in this court’s opinion can lead to only one inference, which is that the clear legislative intent was that all kinds of talcum powders, which contained medications (irrespective of the D proportion, or at any rate, not containing predominant proportions) should necessarily be treated as cosmetics, falling under Entry 127. The pointed phraseology in fact concludes the issue, leaving no scope for the court to interpret the Entry as including any class of goods, other than such as Nycil prickly heat powder, which is a talcum powder that is also E medicated. A salutary rule for fiscal legislation interpretation is that words used in the statute must be given their plain meaning. The court’s function is not to give a strained and unnatural meaning to the provision. The intention of the legislature, manifested in plain words, must be accepted. In the decision of A.V. Fernandez v. State of Kerala29,the Constitution Bench stated the principle of strict interpretation in construing a taxing F statute, in the following manner: “[..] In construing fiscal statutes and in determining the liability of a subject to tax one must have regard to the strict letter of the law. If the revenue satisfies the court that the case falls strictly within the provisions of the law, the subject G can be taxed. If, on the other hand, the case of not covered within the four corners of the provisions of the taxing statue, no tax can be imposed by inference or by analogy or by trying 291957 (1) SCR 837 H 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A to probe into the intentions of the Legislature and by considering what was the substance of the matter.[.. ]” 49. In the present case, the clear legislative intent, of inserting a carefully worded entry, which was a “hybrid” one, i.e. describing an article that contained medicinal ingredients, as well as those used for B cosmetics, and yet placing such a creature (“neither beast nor fowl” so to say) in the category of cosmetics, ruled out altogether any interpretive scope of classifying it as a medicinal preparation, or drug or medicine. Therefore, this court cannot fault the High Court for drawing the conclusion that it did. C 50.