It has further been held that the compensation is only payable for increase/decrease in revenue or cost to the seller D if it is in excess of an amount equivalent to 1% of the Letter of Credit in aggregate for a contract year. It has been held that restitutionary principles apply in case a certain threshold limit is crossed. It has been held that an in-built restitutionary principle compensates the party affected by such ‘Change in Law’ and the E affected party must be restored through monthly tariff payment to the same economic position as if such ‘Change in Law’ had not occurred. In case the ‘Change in Law’ happens to be by way of adoption, promulgation, amendment, re-enactment or repeal of the law or ‘Change in Law’, it has to be effected from the date on which such change occurs. In Maharashtra State Electricity F Distribution Company Limited v. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission and Others, this Court has clearly held that the DISCOMS have a contractual obligation to make timely payment of the invoices raised by the power generating companies, subject to scrutiny and verification of the same. This Court has rejected G the contention that the funding cost was much lesser than the rate of LPS. This Court has reiterated the proposition that the courts cannot rewrite a contract which is executed between the parties. This Court has emphasized that it cannot substitute its own view of the presumed understanding of commercial terms by the parties, if the terms are explicitly expressed. It has been H GMR WARORA ENERGY LTD. v. CENTRAL ELECTRICITY 189 REGULATORY COMMISSION (CERC) held that the explicit terms of a contract are always the final word A with regard to the intention of the parties. Article 11.8 of the PPA entitles either party to raise a supplementary bill on the other party on account of ‘Change in Law’ as provided in Article 13 and such bills are required to be paid by the either party. Article 11.8.3 of the PPA specifically provides that in the event of delay in B payment of a supplementary bill by either party beyond one month from the date of billing, a late payment surcharge shall be payable at the same terms applicable to the monthly bill in Article 11.3.4. Article 11.3.4 of the PPA specifically provides a late payment surcharge to be paid by the procurer to the seller at the rate of 2% in excess of the applicable SBAR per annum on the amount C of outstanding payment calculated on day to day basis (and compounded with monthly rest), for each day of the delay. In Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited and Another v. Adani Power (Mundra) Limited and Another this Court has reiterated that once carrying cost has been granted, it cannot be urged that interest D on carrying cost should be calculated on simple interest basis instead of compound interest basis. It has been held that grant of compound interest on carrying cost and that too from the date of the occurrence of the ‘Change in Law’ event is based on sound logic.