2000/-, coupled with a default sentence of six months R.I., under Section 302/34 I.P.C. ; and (ii) Five years R.I. with fi ne of Rs. 1000/-, coupled with a default sentence of three months, under Section 307/34 I.P.C. Introductory Facts 2. This is a case where, on account of indiscriminate fi ring by Babu Ram @ Fauji (non-appellant) from his licensed single barrel gun, two persons, namely, Anil Kumar and Vijay, suff ered gun-shot injuries and 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. died; and 26 others received pellet injuries, some of them being grievous in nature. 3. Babu Ram, who fi red the gun shots from his licensed gun, handed over his gun to the police along with 16 used and 4 live cartridges while setting up a plea of self-defence. The appellants before us and Vijay (who has been acquitted by the High Court) were roped in with the aid of Section 34 of the I.P.C. as persons who exhorted Babu Ram to fi re gunshots. 4. According to the prosecution case, on 11.11.1998, there was tension in the locality as boys from the accused side had teased daughter of Lala Satpal. Giving vent to that tension, at about 3.00 pm, an altercation took place between Satpal and Shri Krishan whose son Sunil was present. Anil Kumar (one of the two deceased) i.e., brother of Mangat Ram (PW-2) took side of Satpal. Babu Ram (non-appellant) and his son Ravinder joined the altercation taking side of Shri Krishan. Thereafter, Shri Krishan, his son Sunil, Babu Ram and Babu Ram’s son Ravinder left the place while extending threats that they would teach Satpal and his supporters a lesson. Soon thereafter, Babu Ram, Shri Krishan, Ravinder and Sunil appeared on the roof of PW-2’s house and from there, on the instigation of Shri Krishan, Sunil and Ravinder, Babu Ram fi red shots at the supporters of Satpal resulting in death of two persons and injuries to as many as 26 persons. 5. As, according to the prosecution, genesis of the incident was a dispute between two families on account of young male members of one family (i.e., of Sri Krishan) teasing female members of the other (i.e., family of Satpal), the relationship of accused persons inter se assumes importance, which is as below: (i) Shri Krishan is the husband of Babu Ram’s sister; (ii) Sunil is son of Shri Krishan; (iii) Ravinder is son of Babu Ram; and (iv) Vijay (already acquitted) is a distant relative of Shri Krishan. 6. To prove its case, the prosecution examined 56 witnesses. On the other hand, the appellants including Babu Ram examined 15 defence witnesses. As Babu Ram took the plea of self-defence, the trial court as well as the High Court examined his defence plea in detail. The defence plea SUNIL v. STATE OF NCT OF DELHI 387 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] taken by Babu Ram was that a mob had surrounded his house and threatened to torch it. Therefore, to disburse the mob, shots were fi red.