15. The provision reads as under- “20. Saving of suits by persons aggrieved by proceedings under this Act- No suit against the Government shall be entertained in any civil Court in respect of any passed under this act except upon the ground and in respect of which such has been passed is not and which is the property of government whether a poramboke or not. Provided that civil courts shall not take cognizance of any such suit has it shall be instituted within one year from the date on which the cause of action arose.” 16. The Court of First Appeal records that the instant litigation is barred by the above stated provision of law as the suit for injunction had been fi led in a manner of retaliation against the notice issued by the Tehsildar. The Second Appellate Court, per contra, records that the suit was not a suit for injunction but a suit for declaration of title, same having come to rest upon the respondents herein by virtue of adverse possession and, therefore, the above provision would not impede the proceedings. 17. A reading of the provision barring the jurisdiction of civil suits in respect of proceedings initiated under the act, reveals the following ingredients for such a bar to apply : i) no suit in any Civil Court; ii) in respect of any under this Act; 274 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. iii) the only ground upon which such a suit would be entertained is if the notice issued is in regards of property that does not belong to the Government; iv) the entertainment of a suit under the exception described in point No. (iii) is also circumscribed by the time limit of one year from the date of cause of action. 18. Applying the above-identifi ed ingredients to the facts of the present case, for the bar to apply the civil suit instituted would have to be against an passed by the competent authority under this Act in respect of unauthorised occupation of Government land. A perusal of the record shows that the original notice dated 3rd August,1982 was appealed before the Collector, Idduki, who dismissed the same. No challenge to the said of dismissal was fi led by the legal representatives of Avira. The recourse to the law that was taken, was in fact a suit for declaration before the Civil Court fi led on 14th April, 1983 seeking a permanent injunction against any proceedings in respect of eviction and also possession and title of the land in question. The third ground i.e., the disputed property being a Government property, is the only ground that is met. The same is an undisputed fact. 19. However, the primary requirement of the civil suit being in connection with an action taken by the Government, remains unmet and therefore, on the basis of the third ground alone, the bar enshrined in this Section cannot be applied to the present case. Whether or not the respondents herein have any right over the above stated Government land is a question that is required to be considered independently.