Per Contra, on behalf of the respondent it was submitted that the passed by the High Court is just and proper based on appreciation of the materials on record. Moreover, taking into account that there was no eyewitness of photographs being clicked by the original petitioner and no incriminating object or article was recovered from the original petitioner’s possession, there was no reason for the original petitioner to accept his guilt. Further, as the whole case of the department is based on the confession, which is disputed by the original petitioner, and the minutes of the proceeding recording confession is not signed by the petitioner, the High Court rightly explored the evidence to fi nd out whether in the circumstances making of such a confession was probable or not. Otherwise also, before the SSFC, no evidence was led and the record of evidence did not satisfactorily establish the charge against the original petitioner and, therefore, a decision was taken to remand the original petitioner for a trial by an SSFC. In these circumstances, there was no occasion for the original petitioner to admit his guilt. Consequently, once the High Court on overall assessment of the materials placed on record has taken a sound view of the matter, it would not be a fi t case where the discretionary powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India be invoked to set aside an whereby substantial justice has been done. UNION OF INDIA & OTHERS v. JOGESHWAR SWAIN 125 [MANOJ MISRA, J.] 16. In addition to the above, the learned counsel for the respondent pointed out certain procedural infi rmities, which, according to him, vitiated the proceedings, namely,- (i) The fi rst confessional statement was recorded in violation of Rule 49 (3) of the BSF Rules, 1969, inasmuch as copy of the abstract of evidence was not made available to the accused and the accused was not cautioned in the manner laid down in sub-rule (3) of Rule 48 before recording his statement. Moreover, it was recorded on the same day when the deposition of the last witness was recorded, that is, without giving 24 hours’ time for refl ection, as is the mandate of the proviso to sub-rule (3) of Rule 49 of the BSF Rules, 1969; (ii) When the confession was recorded, the original petitioner was under open arrest, therefore such a confession would be hit by Section 26 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 which becomes applicable by virtue of Section 87 of the BSF Act, 1968; (iii) The SSFC comprised of the Commandant of the accused as such he was disqualifi ed from being a part of the Court by virtue of Rule 60 of the BSF Rules, 1969. That apart, the Commandant had ed for preparation of the record of evidence as well as for open arrest of the original petitioner therefore, conduct of trial by him amounted to gross violation of the principles of natural justice. In a nutshell, the submission of the learned counsel for the respondent is that the dismissal of the original petitioner (the respondent herein) is not only vitiated by infraction of prescribed procedure but is based on no evidence.