The reply to the aforesaid at the end of the learned ASG is that since the investigation was being carried out by the State Police, it proceeded to file the first report on 15.11.2019 before the SDJM, Ajnala where the appellants were first produced after their arrest. This according to the learned ASG has nothing to do with Section 167 of the CrPC. The C learned ASG further pointed out that eventually the case was committed to the Court of Sessions and finally transferred to the Special Court constituted for NIA/UAPA. According to the learned ASG, it is not in dispute that the cognizance was finally taken by the Special Court after looking into the sanctions accorded by the competent authorities. D 72. We do agree that the chargesheet could not have been filed in the Court of the SDJM and the same should have been filed in the Special Court. Section 16 of the NIA Act empowers the Special Court to take cognizance of any offence without the accused being committed to it for trial, upon receiving a complaint of facts that constitute such an offence or upon a police report of such facts. However, the pristine E question to consider is whether the unnecessary committal proceedings by itself vitiated all further proceedings and thereby creating an indefeasible right in favour of the appellants to seek statutory/default bail under Section 167 of the CrPC? We are of the view that the error on the part of the investigating agency in filing the chargesheet in the F Court of SDJM and thereafter, committing the case to the Court of Sessions has again nothing to do with Section 167 of the CrPC. This entire argument canvassed on behalf of the appellants can be put to rest solely on the ground that the application seeking default bail under Section 167(2) of the CrPC read with Section 43D of the UAPA was filed before the Special Judge, NIA, Mohali, on 14.12.2020 and by that time, the G chargesheet had already been filed and the proceedings were pending in the court of Special Judge, CBI, Punjab, SAS Nagar, Mohali. It is not in dispute that at the time when the Special Court took cognizance of the offence the sanctions under the UAPA and the 1908 Act had already been granted. H 52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 73. Thus, we answer Issue No.2 holding that the error on the part of the investigating agency in filing chargesheet first before the Court of Magistrate has nothing to do with the right of the accused to seek statutory/ default bail under Section 167(2) of the CrPC. The committal proceedings are not warranted, when it comes to prosecution under the UAPA by the NIA by virtue of Section 16 of the NIA Act. This is because the B Special Court acts, as one of the original jurisdictions. By virtue of Section 16 of the NIA Act, the Court need not follow the requirements of Section 193 of the CrPC.