63. Further, the High Court failed to appreciate that Article 367 of the Constitution of India incorporates the provision of the General Clauses Act, 1897 and makes them applicable to the Constitution. It is in this context, that the eff ect of the General Clauses Act, needs to be examined at two levels. One with reference to the101st Constitutional Amendment Act, 2016 and the other with reference to amendment to MVAT Act. As regards to 101st Constitutional Amendment, the power under the old Article 246 has been abridged by simultaneously a mending the fi elds of legislation in Entry-54 of List-II, which is referred to therein. In this case, there is no question of any power to legislate in respect of rest of the goods, other than the 6 presently covered by Entry-54, which survives post-amendment, even by applying the provisions of the General Clauses Act, 1897. THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 177 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 64. It is submitted that Section 19 of CAA does not confer unabridged or wide powers on the state legislatures/ Parliament to make any and every amendment in the laws existing in force at the time of enacting the Amendment Act. The power referred to in Section 19 is a limited power granted to the State Legislature for a limited period to make such amendments as may be necessary to remove inconsistencies, if any, and bring the existing laws in consonance with the GST legislations. Accordingly, it is submitted that only the power to enact the aligning act enacted in Maharashtra to align its existing laws with the GST provisions, will be saved interms of Section 19. Consequently,the State of Maharashtra lacked the power to make the impugned amendments which were enacted not for removing any inconsistency but as a regular amendment under the Maharashtra Act. 65. Counsel appearing in the Gujarat batch of appeals argued that the impugned Section 84A was introduced in the Gujarat Value Added Tax Act, 2003 (hereinafter referred to as “the Gujarat VAT Act”) by the Gujarat Value Added Tax (Amendment) Act, 2018 gazetted on 06.04.2018 but with retrospective eff ect from 1.4.2006 whereby it is inter-alia provided that if for a particular issue in “some other proceedings” a lower forum, has given a decision which is prejudicial to the interest of revenue and appeal against such decision is pending before higher forum then the period spent in such litigation will be excluded while computing period of limitation for revision. By giving such provision retrospective eff ect the State legislature thus sought to enable reopening of assessments which had already attained fi nality before such amendment was brought into force. 66. Section 19 cannot be applied to save the impugned Section 84A of the Gujarat VAT Act since Section 19 of the CAA had a limited shelf life for 1 year from 16.9.2016 or till the date of implementation or the GST regime i.e. 1.7.2017 whichever is earlier and the impugned Section 84A of the Gujarat Act was enacted on 06.04.2018 i.e.