Dua Associates, Chitranshul A. Sinha, Jaskaran Singh Bhatia, Ayush Sharma, Vaibhav Kumar, Aneesh Mittal, Ms. Jyoti Mendiratta, Advs. for the appearing parties. Respondent-in-person D Petitioner-in-person Applicant-in-person The of the Court was passed by M. R. SHAH, J. E 1. Present I.A. No. 88960 of 2020 has been preferred by the present management of Unitech Limited seeking following prayers/ directions: - (i) Direct M/s. Devas Global LLP to deposit the entire sale consideration of Rs. 206.50 crores for 26.475 acres of land F sought to be purchased by it in a time bound manner; (ii) Direct M/s. Devas Global LLP to either purchase the entire land, as committed, at the same rate or in the alternative provide suitable access to the balance land by taking only proportionate frontage of the land so that any other G subsequent purchaser is also able to get adequate access to the land without any interference and Unitech is able to maximise its revenues from realization of assets; (iii) Direct that M/s. Devas Global LLP shall not create any third party rights on the entire land and if any rights have H BHUPINDER SINGH v. UNITECH LIMITED 955 [M. R. SHAH, J.] been created surreptitiously, then the same shall be kept in A abeyance and no further action be taken in furtherance of the same; (iv) Direct M/s. Markwell Properties Pvt. Ltd. to pay an amount of Rs 29,24,87,837/-, which was given as advance for the purchase of 36 acres of land out of which only 26 acres 19 B guntas land was transferred, alongwith interest from March 2007 till its payment; (v) Direct Col. Mohinder Singh Khaira and Naresh to immediately return a sum of Rs. 83.40 crores and deposit the said amount in the Registry of this Hon’ble Court, which C they have received in respect of sale of 12 acres 21 guntas (1st sale transaction) and 10 acres 3.5 guntas (2nd sale transaction) to Devas alongwith interest; (vi) Direct Col. Mohinder Singh Khaira and Naresh to provide all the requisite documents, including the details of financial D transactions in respect of 26 acres 19 guntas of land as mentioned above; (vii) Direct legal action be taken against Col. Mohinder Singh Khaira for forgery, cheating, fraud and criminal conspiracy for submission of Board Resolutions of the Company after E its dissolution regarding his own authorization; and (viii) Pass any such further /s that this Hon’ble Court deems fit in the facts and circumstances of the present case.” 2. The dispute with respect to the sale consideration in respect of F 26 acres and 19 guntas of land (hereinafter referred to as “land in question”) owned by Unitech Limited in favour of M/s. Devas Global Services LLP located at Kadiganahalli Village, Bangalore, came to be confirmed in favour of M/s. Devas Global Services LLP pursuant to the earlier s passed by this Court. 3. As per the case on behalf of Unitech Limited, Unitech Limited G was the absolute owner of the land in question and therefore entitled to the entire sale consideration of Rs.