In cases of rape, it is permissible for the accused to take more than one defence. In such H 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A type of cases a suggestion thrown by the defence counsel to a prosecution witness would not amount to an admission on the part of the accused. At the same time, if the defence in the cross examination of the prosecutrix, with a view to support their alternative case of consent procure answers to the questions in the form of suggestions implicating the accused for the offence of rape then such suggestions would definitely lend assurance B to the prosecution case and the Court would be well justified in considering the same. We may give one more example of a case where the accused would plead right of a private defence. Such a defence is always available to the accused but although if such a defence is not taken specifically during the course of trial yet if the evidence on record suggests that the C accused had inflicted injuries on the deceased in exercise of his right of private defence then the Court can definitely take into consideration such defence in determining the guilt of the accused. However, if a specific question is put to a witness by way of a suggestion indicative of exercise of right of private defence then the Court would well be justified in taking into consideration such suggestion and if the presence of the D accused is established the same would definitely be admissible in evidence. PRINCIPLE OF RES GESTAE 46. We have also taken notice of one another aspect of the matter E emerging from the evidence on record. PW 3 Nasir Rajjak Khan in his oral testimony (Exh. 10) has deposed that at around 11.30 pm in the night, he saw 10-15 boys quarrelling with each other in front of a shop by name “Sai Car Auto Consultant”. He has further deposed that at that time PW 1 Asgar Shaikh came and conveyed to him that he had suffered injuries on his head and hands. Asgar Shaikh also informed Nasir that he F along with Firoz (PW 2) was going to the police station. Asgar further informed Nasir that Abbas Baig was seriously injured. PW 3 Nasir, on hearing the aforesaid from Asgar, reached the spot where Abbas Baig (deceased) was lying in an injured condition. It is pertinent to note that in the cross-examination of the PW 3 Nasir a suggestion was put to him G that he had inquired with PW 1 Asgar Shaikh as to what had happened and Asgar Shaikh in turn narrated the incident to Nasir. This suggestion put by the defence counsel to the PW 3 Nasir was answered in the affirmative. This part of the evidence of the PW 3 Nasir is corroborated by the evidence of the PW 1 Asgar Shaikh. H BALU SUDAM KHALDE & ANR. v. THE STATE OF 877 MAHARASHTRA [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 47. The reason for referring to the aforesaid a piece of evidence A is that the PW 3 Nasir Rajjak Khan (Exh.