8. It is the case on behalf of the Development Authority that in the present case since negotiations failed and the Development Authority failed to acquire the land by agreement, the Development Authority requested the State Government on 4.06.1987 to acquire the land, which D request was made within a period of three years from the date of finalization of the scheme. Therefore, it is the case on behalf of the Development Authority that the scheme shall not have lapsed under section 54 of the Adhiniyam. It is the case on behalf of the Development Authority that taking various steps between 8.06.1984 and 4.06.1987 E can be said to be in furtherance of, or commencing implementation of the scheme. However, on the other hand and as per the High Court, actual implementation of the scheme is a must and that there were no substantial steps to implement the scheme within three years. That to make the F request four days before the completion of three years would not be sufficient and therefore the scheme has lapsed under section 54 of the Adhiniyam. As observed hereinabove, the words used in Section 54 of the Adhiniyam are “fails to commence implementation”. That does not mean that there must be implementation of the scheme within the time stipulated under section 54 of the Adhiniyam. There is a clear distinction G between the words “implementation” of the scheme and “to commence implementation”. 9. An identical question came to be considered by the Madhya Pradesh High Court in the case of Sanjai Gandhi Grah Nirman Sahkari Sanstha Maryadit v. State of M.P. and others, reported in 1990 SCC H 110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A OnLine MP 115 : AIR 1991 MP 72. While interpreting the words “implementation of the scheme” and the word “implementation” occurring in section 54 of the Adhiniyam, it was observed and held that the word “implementation” occurring in section 54 of the Adhiniyam cannot be construed to mean that even after substantial steps have been taken by the authority towards the implementation of the scheme, the scheme B shall lapse after the expiry of three years because of its non-completion within that period. While observing and holding so, in paragraphs 16 to 20, it was observed as under: “16. It has next been contended by learned counsel for the petitioners that in accordance with the provisions contained in S. C 54 of the Adhiniyam the scheme has lapsed because the Indore Development Authority has failed to implement the scheme within a period of three years from the date of the publication of the scheme under S. 50 of the Adhiniyam. The learned counsel for all the petitioners have laid much emphasis on the fact that the word D ‘implementation’ would clearly mean fulfilment, performance, accomplish, complete, carry out and as such from the dictionary meanings in the Webster Dictionary, Chambers Dictionary, Oxford Dictionary or any other dictionary, there can only be one meaning to the word ‘implementation’ that the scheme has to be completed or carried out in all respects within the prescribed period of three E years and if the Indore Development Authority fails to implement the scheme within that period the scheme shall lapse in view of the statutory provision of S. 54.