PC, the conviction becomes inoperative starting from the date of stay/suspension without, however, having the eff ect of obliteration; and g. one cannot establish a fi xed rule that the of conviction should not be stayed or its execution suspended as a means to prevent an individual, who has committed an off ence, from entering Parliament or the Legislative Assembly. 31. The aforesaid principles, though indicative but not exhaustive, do provide a standard to guide the courts to reach an appropriate conclusion. Notwithstanding the necessity to judge each case based on its own peculiar facts, every court seized of a prayer for stay of a conviction or suspension of execution of a conviction made by a parliamentarian or a legislator, governed by the RoP Act, may do well to bear in mind certain other important aspects which I wish to dwell upon briefl y in course of the present deliberation. AFJAL ANSARI v. STATE OF UP 1005 [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] 32. The Constitution of India being the supreme law of the nation, it serves as the ultimate source from which all legislative enactments, whether central or state, derive their legitimacy. Amidst this vast legislative landscape, if any one enactment is to be bestowed with the pride of place just below the Constitution, it is undoubtedly the RoP Act because of the same being anchored in the concept of the social contract and the rule of law. The Constitution is a social contract between the government and its citizens, where the State derives its authority from the consent of the governed. In this context, the RoP Act stands as a pivotal instrument that translates the theoretical underpinnings of the social contract into practical reality. It establishes the legal framework for conducting elections, ensuring that every citizen has a fair and equal opportunity to exercise his right to vote and participate in the political process. By regulating the qualifi cations and disqualifi cations of candidates, delimiting constituencies, and overseeing the electoral machinery, the RoP Act – a complete code in itself – reinforces the rule of law and upholds the principles of justice, fairness and transparency. It symbolizes the nexus between the constitutional ideals of inclusive and participatory democracy and the constitutional concept of “We the People” by facilitating the active participation of citizens in the democratic process. The RoP Act, thus, has a pervasive impact on the lives of all citizens, transcends all political boundaries and intricately weaves itself into the very fabric of the nation’s democratic body polity. 33. This is more accentuated when considered in the light of the command of the Constitution, which delineates the criteria for disqualifi cation of the members of the Parliament and the Legislative Assemblies or the Legislative Councils of States having such a council. 34. Articles 102 and 191 of the Constitution speak of the circumstances under which a person will be treated as disqualifi ed from the membership of either House of Parliament and the Legislative Assemblies/Legislative Councils of the State, respectively.