While considering the same, the fact that the aforesaid Sriman Madhwa Sangha and Sri Vittal Rao filed a petition for eviction against the respondent herein as HRC No.10020 of 1991 wherein it was stated that the first respondent therein (the B respondent herein) is in occupation of a portion of the schedule property and he has illegally and unauthorizedly sub-let the other two portions of the property to the second and third respondents therein, namely Shri B. Ramachandra Rao and Sh. N. Murlidhara Rao on monthly rental of Rs.400/- and Rs.300/- respectively and has been collecting the rents from them, rightly taken into consideration by the High Court, requires C to be borne in mind. That apart, the fact that while being examined as DW-1 the deceased second appellant herein had deposed that no possession was taken after execution of Exhibit D-1 agreement for sale dated 01.03.1993 as Sriman Madhwa Sangha had assured to secure possession and hand over the possession to the first appellant herein/the D first defendant. When that be the position and when the subject suit is one based on prior possession the appellants herein are not justified in contending that the suit is bad for non-joinder of Sriman Madhwa Sangha and Sri Vittal Rao. 33.As noticed earlier, the appellants have also contended that the E suit ought to have been held as abated against all the defendants owing to non- substitution of all the legal representatives of the deceased defendant No. 3 upon his death. This contention is bereft of any basis and merits and was rightly repelled by the courts below. In that regard it is to be noted that the first appellant and deceased second appellant as also their father Hanumaiah were all arrayed in the suit as defendants F and they were jointly defending the suit. Upon the death of original third defendant viz., Hanumaiah the original defendants No.1 and 2, who are sons of the original defendant No.3 fully and substantially representing the joint interest contested the suit and, thereafter, after suffering an adverse and decree in the suit diligently preferred the appeal G before the High Court which ultimately culminated in the impugned and decree. Even thereafter, obviously they are diligently prosecuting the joint interest, even if the contention of joint interest is taken as correct, by filing the captioned appeal. 34.In the contextual situation the following decisions assumes relevance. The decision in Bhurey Khan v. Yaseen Khan (Dead) By H 388 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A LRs. And Ors.9 was referred to in the impugned by the High Court to reject the aforesaid contention of the appellants therein viz. original defendant Nos. 1 and 2. In paragraph 4 of the decision in Bhurey Khan’s case, this Court held thus:- “……the estate of the deceased was thus sufficiently B represented. If the appellant would not have filed any application to bring on record the daughters and the widow of the deceased the appeal would not have abated under 22 Rule 4 of the Code of Civil Procedure as held by this Court in Mahabir Prasad v. Jage Ram [(1971) 1 SCC 265 : AIR 1971 SC 742] .