On a perusal of the fresh demarcation, computerized sketch and the encroached site plan, it appears that the building of school is constructed E in 3K-0M being part of Khasra No.61/2(7-16) and the remaining area of 4K-16M and Khasra No. 62 (3K-19M) is also illegally possessed by the following people:- Name & Father's Name Land Jagjit Singh S/o Diwan Chand Approx.26 Marla F Satpal, Paramjit SS/o Sh. Approx.17 Marla Dayal Chand Surjit Singh S/o Joginder Singh, Approx.26 Marla. Balbir Kaur WD/o Baljit Singh & Davinder Kaur Wd/o Manjit Singh Kesar Singh S/o Sh. Sant Singh Approx.18 Marla G Jeet Kaur Wd/o SH. Gian Singh Approx.7 Marla Kanta Rani Wd/o Sujaan Singh Approx. 6 Marla Marinder Singh S/o Gian Singh Approx. 4 Marla Total Encroachment Area Approx. Approx. 5 Kanal 4 marla H 18 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 3.2 It is also found that there is no playground of the school in Khasra No. 62, nor is any panchayati land abutted nearby Khasra No. 62 and the land which is near the above khasra numbers, the same is owned by another person and the said persons are not ready to sell their land. It is found that the said land is at a distance of about 1 km away from Khasra Nos. 61/2 and 62. Thus, from the aforesaid facts, it is B established that the original writ petitioners have encroached upon approximately 5 kanal and 4 marla of the land belonging to the Gram Panchayat, which have been earmarked for the school. 3.3 From the fresh sketch/map, it can be seen that the petitioners have encroached upon more than 200 sq.yds. and the High Court has C directed to determine the market value of the land, which is under occupation of the original writ petitioners, namely, the land where houses are constructed. The High Court has also passed an that wherever the vacant area can be segregated from the residential house, it can be separated and utilized for earmarked purpose, i.e., school premises. D 3.4 From the map and sketch, we are of the opinion that the directions issued by the High Court are not capable of being implemented. 4. Having heard the learned counsel for the respective parties and considering the s passed by all the authorities below and the impugned and passed by the High Court and even as per E the fresh demarcation, it cannot be disputed that the original writ petitioners are in illegal and unauthorized occupation of the Gram Panchayat land to the extent of 5 kanal and 4 marla out of 11 kanals and 15 marla reserved for the purpose of the school. As observed hereinabove, there is no playground at all. The school is surrounded by the unauthorized construction made by the original writ petitioners. Therefore, the F unauthorized occupation and possession of the land, which is reserved for the school and the playground, cannot be directed to be legalized. There cannot be any school without playground. Even the students, who study in such a school are entitled to a good environment.