3.6 It is submitted that as observed and held in the said decision if deficiency in investigation or prosecution is visible or can be perceived by lifting the veil which try to hide the realities or covering the obvious E deficiency, Courts have to deal with the same with an iron hand appropriately within the framework of law. It is submitted that it is further observed that it is the duty of the Court to ensure that full and material facts are brought on record so that there might not be miscarriage of justice. He has relied upon the observations made by this Court in paragraph 41 of the said decision. F 3.7 It is further submitted by Shri Jethmalani, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant that even the State has now in the counter affidavit specifically admitted that some further investigation is necessary/required on certain relevant and material aspects, in the interest of justice under Section 173(8) Cr.P.C. It is G submitted that now the State has specifically admitted the lapse in the investigation on certain material aspects and according to the State now, further investigation is needed on the relevant aspects mentioned in paragraph 4 of the counter affidavit before this Court. It is submitted that therefore also now the State / investigating agency of the State may H be permitted to conduct the further investigation in exercise of the ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF 63 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] constitutional powers to do the complete justice to the victim in A furtherance of the administration of criminal justice. 4. Shri Tushar Mehta, learned Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the State has pointed out certain lapses / lacunae in the investigation earlier conducted by the State / investigating agency and highlighted the lacunae from paragraph 4 of the counter affidavit and B has fairly conceded and even so stated in the counter affidavit that a further investigation in exercise of powers under Section 173(8) Cr.P.C. is needed / required. 5. Shri Shekhar Naphade and Dr. Abhishek Manu Singhvi, learned Senior Advocates have appeared on behalf of the respondent Nos. 3 C and 5 and opposed the present appeal. 5.1 It is vehemently submitted by the learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respective contesting respondent Nos. 3 and 5 that as such no case is made out for transfer of the investigation to the CBI, more particularly, when, now, not only the investigation is concluded D and the chargesheets have been filed but even thereafter the charges have also been framed by the Trial Court. It is submitted that therefore on framing of the charges, it can be said that the trial has begun and therefore, the case may not be transferred to the CBI as prayed. 5.2 It is further submitted that even otherwise the allegation of E grievous injuries is raised for the first time. It is submitted that as such the allegation of grievous injuries alleged to have been caused to the appellant has not been supported by any record or document.