4. The appellant’s challenge to the above mentioned Policy dated 12.05.2022 (called “Admission Process and Guiding Principles 2022- 2023”) is mainly on clause 1.5(a) of the policy, which allocates the B.Ed seats in the institute in the following manner: C “1.5 Division of seat numbers available in institutions (a) The division of seats for admission in courses like the courses regulated by the National Council for Teacher Education to be conducted in Madhya Pradesh, B.Ed. M.Ed., B.Ed., M.P.Ed. (Two Years, B.Ed.-M.Ed. (Integrated Three D Years) B.A.B.Ed., B.Sc.B.Ed and B.L.Ed. (Integrated Four Years) and B.Ed. (Part Time), shall be as follows – 1. Original Resident of Madhya Pradesh State 2. Candidates from other outside states E The category and category-wise allotment of seats available in the institution will be as per the ‘Reservation related clause’ mentioned in these guidelines and its subparagraphs. Out of the total available seats in the institution, 75 percent seats will be reserved for the residents of Madhya Pradesh state F and maximum 25 percent seats will be available for the residents outside the state of Madhya Pradesh. 25 For the original residents of Madhya Pradesh state, as per the instructions of the General Administration Department’s letter number C-3-7-203-3-A, dated 25.09.20.4, self-attested testimonial for the local resident will have to be submitted as G per attached format 5.” As per the above provision, out of the total seats, 75% are reserved for “the residents of Madhya Pradesh” and the remaining 25% of the seats will only be available to the candidates who are from outside the State of Madhya Pradesh. H VEENA VADINI TEACHERS TRAINING INSTITUTE v. STATE 111 OF MADHYA PRADESH [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] 5. The appellant-institute, has given before this Court the figures A of last two years, where although the entire 25 percent seats allocated to the “outside” candidates have been filled, but almost all of the 75 percent of seats, reserved for the residents of Madhya Pradesh, have remained unfilled. These figures have not been denied by the State. The figures are as follows: B C 6. The Case of the appellant, therefore, is that 75% of the seats D which have been reserved for permanent residents of Madhya Pradesh, remain vacant due to the non-availability of residential candidates and as such the appellant may be permitted to fill these seats from outside candidates. This permission is, however, not given to the appellant. 7. There are two questions here; first is whether the State E Government can reserve seats for “residents” of Madhya Pradesh and, then, in case if it is permissible; the second question would be whether as large as 75% of the total seats, can be reserved for the residents. 8. As far as the first question is concerned, the same is no more res integra, as this Court in the case of Dr. Pradeep Jain and Others F v. Union of India and Others (1984) 3 SCC 654, had upheld such reservation. Even prior to Pradeep Jain, residence based reservation was justified by this Court in the case of D.P.