The very company of words, in which the words ‘other valuable article’ is found, viz., money, bullion and gold, should have persuaded the Court to find the addition illegal. It was also canvassed before us that the appellant cannot be treated as the owner, as appellant was a carrier. It fulfilled its obligations by lifting the goods in D question and delivered the same. In fact, it is the contention of the appellant that the goods had been delivered and there was no misappropriation. There was no complaint by the oil companies from whom, the bitumen had been lifted, about there being short delivery. There was even no complaint from the Consignee Department. The E right to cross-examination should have been offered. The burden shifted to the Department to prove its case. The learned Senior Counsel would draw support from the following case law: i. (1984) Vol 147 ITR 251; Addl. Commissioner of Income Tax v. S. Pichaimanickan Chettiar. F ii. (1993) Vol 199 ITR 370; Mohan B. Samtani v. Commissioner of Income-Tax. 20. The appellant would contend that the finding that the photocopies of the delivery challans were fabricated was a gross error. The appellant has a case that this is more so as the two Junior Engineers G had failed to appear for cross-examination. 21. The appellant also relied upon of this Court in Kotak Mahindra Bank Ltd. v. A. Balakrishnan and another3. He further drew our attention to the of this Court in Kishinchand H 3 (2022) 9 SCC 186 M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 549 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] Chellaram v. Commissioner of Income Tax, Bombay City II, A Bombay4. 22. Shri N. Venkatraman, learned Additional Solicitor General countered the submissions and submitted that no case was made out. He would rely upon Chuharmal (supra). The view taken by the High Court represents the correct position in law. B C. ANALYSIS 23. Section 69 deals with unexplained investments. It reads as follows: “69. Unexplained investments Where in the financial year C immediately preceding the assessment year the assessee has made investments which are not recorded in the books of account, if any, maintained by him for any source of income, and the assessee offers no explanation about the nature and source of the investments or the explanation offered by him is not, in the opinion D of the 2 Assessing] Officer, satisfactory, the value of the investments may be deemed to be the income of the assessee of such financial year.” 24. Section 69A came to be inserted by Finance Act, 1964 (Act 5 of 1964) w.e.f. 01.05.1964. It reads as follows: E “69A. Unexplained money, etc. Where in any financial year the assessee is found to be the owner of any money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable article and such money, bullion, jewellery or valuable article is not recorded in the books of account, if any, maintained by him for any source of income, and the assessee F offers no explanation about the nature and source of acquisition of the money, bullion, jewellery or other valuable article, or the explanation offered by him is not, in the opinion of the 4 Assessing] Officer, satisfactory, the money and the value of the bullion, jewellery or other valuable article may be deemed to be the income of the assessee for such financial year.” G 25.