More importantly, Note 2 opens with the expression “subject to Note 1”. This subordinates the entire subject matter in Note 2; it is only where the article is a “part” which acts as an accessory, that the enumerated portions of Chapter 85 come into play. Such an interpretation is plainly untenable. In Commissioner of Central G Excise, Delhi-III vs. UNI Products India Ltd.,10 this court had to consider whether “car matting” fell within Chapter 57 of the I Schedule to the CET Act per heading “Carpets and Other Textile Floor Coverings” or were to be classified under Chapter 87, as “vehicles other than railway H 10 [2020] 13 S.C.R. 295: 2020 (19) SCC 742 CCE, AURANGABAD v. M/S VIDEOCON INDUSTRIES LTD. 275 THR. ITS DIRECTOR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] or tramway rolling-stock and parts and accessories thereof”. The court A held that the item fell within the description “car matting”: “25. We do not find any error in such reasoning. Chapter 87 of the Central Excise Tariff of India does not contain car mats as an independent tariff entry. We have reproduced earlier the various parts and accessories listed against tariff B entry 8708. All of them are mechanical components, and revenue want car mats to be included under the residuary sub-head “other” in the same list. The HSN Explanatory Notes dealing with interpretation of the Rules specifically exclude “tufted textile carpets, identifiable for use in motor cars” from C 87.08 and place them under heading 57.03. Revenue’s argument is that the Explanatory Notes have persuasive value only. But the level or quality of such persuasive value is very strong, as observed in the s of this Court to which we have already referred. Moreover, the Commissioner himself has referred to the Explanatory Notes in the - in-original D while dealing with the Respondent’s stand. Thus, we see no reason as to why we should make a departure from the general trend of taking assistance of these Explanatory Notes to resolve entry related dispute. Now, on referring to these Explanatory Notes, we find that one category of carpets E [Textile carpets (Chapter 57)] has been excluded specifically from parts and accessories. In our opinion, the subject-item does not satisfy the third condition specified in Section XVII of the Explanatory Notes in relation to “III-Parts and Accessories”. A plain reading of Clause (C) thereof, which we have quoted above, excludes “textile carpets” (Chapter F 57). 26. The main argument of the Appellant is that because the car mats are made specifically for cars and are used also in cars, they should be identified as parts and accessories. But if we go by that logic, textile carpets could not have been G excluded from Parts and Accessories. We have referred to such exclusion in the preceding paragraph. It has also been urged on behalf of the revenue that these items are not commonly identified as carpets but are different products. The Tribunal on detailed analysis on various entries, Rules and Notes have H 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.