D Trial – Right to speedy trial – Additional evidence at appellate stage – Appellate court must be equally, if not more cautious, of the desire to delay the hearing of the appeal, or the attempt to lead additional evidence to explore a chance of contradictory evidence – The prayer for leading additional evidence should be permitted E to correct a bona fide error or otherwise, and a party may be entitled to further opportunity without any fault on the part of the opposite party, the request for recall should be bona fide and is to be balanced carefully with relevant considerations, including hardship to the witness and delay of the proceedings – Also, Right to speedy trial, including speedy disposal of an appeal, is not the exclusive right of F an accused, but an obligation of the court towards the society in general, and the victim in particular. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. The case of the prosecution, as held by the trial G court in paragraphs 298 to 303, as quoted above, is that the victim (PW-5) was not tutored and, therefore, her version as to the details of the ‘Kutiya’ were narrated by her to the police without being taken inside the room or the bathroom. This version and stand of the prosecution, as accepted by the trial court, is not on the ground and reason that the police team had not gone inside the H STATE OF RAJASTHAN v. ASHARAM @ ASHUMAL 3 room or the bathroom on 21.08.2013, but by rejecting the A argument that a police officer or the Investigating Officer had prompted or tutored the victim (PW-5) to give the description and details of the room and bathroom. This finding recorded by the trial court is based on the detailed examination of the evidence of the victim (PW-5), as well as the Investigating Officer (PW- B 43). Whether this finding is correct will be tested in the appeal, albeit the reasoning given in the impugned to summon and examine DCP as a court witness cannot be sustained on the ground that DCP had purportedly recorded a video on his mobile phone. The statement made by DCP in the Book, which statement C is heavily relied upon by the learned Senior Advocate for the respondent, nowhere mentions that the video, which he had purportedly recorded on his mobile phone, was handed over, given or transferred by him to the Investigating Officer (PW-43), or that it was shown by him to the victim (PW-5). When the prosecution states that on 21.08.2013 the police team had visited D the scene of the crime, that is, the ‘Kutiya’, the plea to examine DCP on the ground that he had purportedly recorded a video of the ‘Kutiya’ on his mobile phone is completely inconsequential and irrelevant to the factual matrix of the present case. [Para 11][13-A-G] E 2. The touchstone of when the additional evidence at the appellate stage may be taken on record is not the impossibility or inability to pronounce the in its absence, but whether there would be a failure of justice without such additional evidence.