H 276 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 27. In the present case, it is an admitted fact that the plaintiff had paid an amount, which constituted merely 4% of the consideration. The Trial Court itself recorded findings to the effect that neither party had initiated timely steps to perform their respective obligations under the contract. Although the defendants did not make available the title deeds of the schedule property to the plaintiff, it could not be said that the B conduct of the defendants had prevented the plaintiff from tendering the balance sale consideration, within the stipulated date, or at any time before filing the suit for specific performance as the whole object of the intended sale was to garner funds for discharging a debt which was ultimately done by the defendants by selling family jewellery. C 28. That paragraph 11 of the Trial Court’s records a finding to the effect that the defendants had applied for the purchase certificate in the year 2005 itself, i.e., soon after entering into the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. The same was obtained on 31stMay, 2007. This fact would suggest that there was no D delay on the part of the defendant in acting in pursuance of the agreement. The fact that the purchase certificate was granted by the concerned authority only on 31stMay, 2007, was beyond the control of the defendants and such delay could not be attributed to the defendants. The defendants had duly initiated the process of obtaining a purchase certificate soon after entering into the agreement. E 29. While learned counsel for the appellant-plaintiff has contended that since the transaction in question involved the transfer of rights in immovable property, a prudent purchaser would have to satisfy himself as to the genuineness and validity of the documents of title, and therefore, owing to the non- availability of documents of title, the plaintiff was F unable to proceed with his obligations, no explanation has been provided as to why ancillary steps such as measurement of the property was not proceeded with. Delay in securing relevant documents from the concerned authorities could not absolve the plaintiff of his obligations under the agreement of sale of Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights. Further, G this aspect of the matter is to be appreciated in light of the fact that there is nothing on record which would demonstrate any step taken by the plaintiff to pursue the agreement, until, 02ndNovember, 2006, on which date, the legal notice was served on the defendants calling upon them to execute the sale deed in respect of the Kanam and Kuzhikoor rights over the suit property. No explanation has been provided as to why the H C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 277 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] legal notice was not served earlier, particularly when the six-month period A stipulated under the agreement had expired on 7thFebruary, 2006. Such conduct of the plaintiff is certainly not reflective of willingness, in terms of Section 16(c) of the Act.