(iv-a) The sub-lessee of the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Limited may further sub-lease the sub-leased land or part thereof on such terms and conditions as may be mutually agreed between E such sub-lessee and subsequent sub-lessee. The terms and conditions applicable to sub-lessee shall also mutatis mutandis apply to such subsequent sub-lessee. (v) The Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. [or Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation] may levy and recover such lease rent and other F charges as may be determined by it, in respect of the lands sub-leased by it; (vi) The periods of the sub-leases by the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. [or Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation] shall be G determined by it, but shall not exceed 99 years, in all, in any case; (vii) The land shall revert to the Government free of all encumbrances and without payment of any compensation in case the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 253 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] Investment Corporation Ltd. [or Rajasthan Tourism A Development Corporation] or any of its sub-lessees, use it for any purpose other than industrial [including essential welfare and supporting services], or commit breach of any other condition of the lease or sub-leases; (viii) The sub-lessees of the Rajasthan State Industrial B Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. [or Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation shall continue to be governed by all other terms and conditions prescribed in these rules, and any other analogues rules that may be promulgated or s that may be issued, in this behalf by C the State Government. 12. Allotment of land by Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. [or Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation. The Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. Jaipur or Rajasthan Tourism Development D Corporation shall be empowered to make allotment in accordance with the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Disposal of Land Rules, 1979 [or any other rules framed by the RIICO and RTDC for the purpose] of vacant plots to entrepreneurs in the Industrial Areas notified by the State E Government and transferred to the said Corporation. The Corporation shall also be authorised to execute lease deeds, realize development charges, lease rent and other dues from the entrepreneurs to whom plots have already been allotted in accordance with the provision of these rules, and to take any consequential or residuary action in regard to the plots allotted the F entrepreneur. Provided that the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. or Rajasthan Tourism Development Corporation shall be empowered to grant written permission to the lessee for transfer of rights or interest in the land in respect of G the plots/land located in the Industrial Areas notified by the State Government and transferred to the said corporation: Provided further that any permission granted or action taken for transfer of rights or interest in the plots/land by the Rajasthan State Industrial Development and Investment Corporation Ltd. or H 254 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.