568, in which dates of admission of the respective students are F earlier than that of the applicant. But these entries, at best, would show some defect in maintaining the records and cannot lead to the conclusion that the entire admission register is fabricated. Reference has also been made to an entry of one Lekhram, that stood against serial no. 423, which reappeared in entry 562. The endorsement of the school in serial G no. 423 is that “his name was deleted” whereas against entry no. 562, recordal is “as per previous records”. This clearly appears to be the case of re-admission or re-entry in the school. His further stand is that there was interpolation of pages. He has again pointed out that one of the pages (page no. 33) of the register has been stitched in reverse. But these are nitpicking submissions and cannot lead to the conclusion that H 1106 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A admission register itself is fake. So far as Niranaram’s name is concerned, in the admission register there is no discrepancy. His serial number is 568 which falls in in which the register is maintained and is in sequence with the admission entries of other students barring few minor discrepancies as regards names in other entries. Even if the register has been freshly stitched and paginated to be sent to this Court, that would B not lead to a conclusion that the whole thing has been fabricated. Moreover, there is no clear evidence to demonstrate that at the time of initial inquiry, the register was unstitched or without pagination. We have ourselves seen the register and it is of sufficient vintage. Thus, we agree with the Inquiring Judge that the date of birth recorded therein was not a fabricated C entry. 35. Now there are four other dates reflecting different ages of the applicant. The first is the age in the chargesheet on the strength of which he has been tried, convicted and sentenced, that is 20 years in the year 1994. But the source of disclosure of this age has not been brought D to our notice by learned counsel for the parties, except that the applicant’s age was given by his counsel before the High Court at the stage of appeal hearing. Next is the age reflected in the electoral roll and if one goes by that, then his age at the time of commission of offence would be 19 years. The electoral roll was referred to in the police report dated 2nd March 2019 but does not appear to have been considered by the Inquiring E Judge. The third source of his age is the family card, in which it is mentioned that he was 12 years in 1989 or 1991/1992. That would have taken his year of birth to 1977-79, and that would make him 15 to 17 years of age at the time of commission of offence. For the reasons we have already explained, we have discarded the latter document.