It is only with express B authorization of the State Government that the usage can be changed. Rule 9 of the 1959 Rules mandates that permission of the government be taken when seeking subdivision of plots as well. Hence, this procedure had to be followed mandatorily by Respondent No. 1 if it desired the alteration of use of land and corresponding subdivision; C v) RIICO has never raised any demand for lease rent or service charges from Respondent No. 1. From the series of documents and communications, as already reproduced earlier, it is evident that RIICO had the same opinion regarding its own lack of authority and jurisdiction over the D land in question. The land remained with the State Government at all times; vi) Respondent No. 1 had abjectly failed to fulfil its obligation to revive the industrial units at LIA, Kota. The mandatory terms of the rehabilitation plan by AAIFR had not been E complied with and, as per SICA, the consequence of this default had to be the winding up of the company; vii) The permission for conversion of the land from industrial to commercial was meant to benefit Respondent No. 1 and frustrate the purpose for which the land had been allotted F in the first place. The prior government and Respondent No. 1 had acted in concert to hastily push through the process for changing the usage of the land, in defiance of the AAIFR scheme as well as the Model Code of Conduct, causing a loss to the public exchequer and stymying the industrial development of the Kota region; G viii) The new government was well within its rights to examine the decisions by the previous ruling class, as held by this Court in Krishna Ballav Sahay & Ors. v. Commission of Enquiry & Ors.4 Further, Article 138 of the AoA of RIICO H 4 [1969] 1 SCR 387. BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 269 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] explicitly gave power to the State of Rajasthan to issue A directions to it for carrying out certain measures. This included the cancellation of the supplementary lease deed with Respondent No. 1 and the setting aside of the permission to convert the land’s usage. A similar clause to Article 138 is contained in the Articles/Memorandum of B almost every government controlled entity, and has been upheld in Management of Fertilizer Corporation of India v. Their Workmen5and subsequently affirmed by a Constitution Bench in Sukhdev Singh & Ors. v. Bhagat Ram & Ors.6; C ix) As an arguendo, even if the land was deemed to be allocated to RIICO as per the dated 18.09.1979 and the Corporation was the competent authority to issue approvals and permissions vis-à-vis LIA, Kota, there was still no infirmity in the directions issued by the State of Rajasthan under Article 138 of the AoA. The State Government D retained complete discretion to RIICO to act according to its diktats in public interest; x) RIICO itself had subsequently taken a decision to not allow any conversion in terms of the usage of land.