Act. Hence, it follows that the provisions of section 446(1) of the Companies Act can have apparently and in essence no application to the proceedings under section 138 of Negotiable Instruments Act, as it is not a suit or proceeding having direct bearing on the proceedings for F winding-up or the assets of the Company. xxx xxx xxx 24. Thus, the sum and substance of all these judicial decisions is that the provisions of section 446(1) of the Companies Act G are to be invoked judiciously only when it has got any concern with either the winding-up proceedings or with the assets of the Company. The expression “suit or other proceedings”, therefore, as used in section 446(1) of the Companies Act, has to be construed accordingly and not to be interpreted so liberally and widely so as to include each and every H 1046 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A proceeding of whatsoever nature initiated against the Company, including even the criminal proceedings like for the offence under section 138 of N.I. Act, which has got no bearing on the winding-up proceedings of the Company and are not concerned with, directly with the assets of the Company, but are mainly dealing with the penal and personal B liability of the Directors of the Company. 25. The conflict involved in the case can also be looked into from another aspect ‘as to whether the provisions of section 138 of N.I. Act can override the provisions of Companies Act, as it is a very special provision incorporated in the Negotiable C Instruments Act, though the Companies Act contains certain special provisions in to safeguard the rights of the Company under liquidation?’ Xxx xxx xxx 28. If one considers the provisions of section 138 of the N.I. D Act, which are introduced subsequently by way of amendment in the said Act, in the year 1988, it being a subsequent Statute, it will necessarily override the provisions of General Statute, like, the Companies Act. Xxx xxx xxx E 30. Thus, there is a long line of decisions making the position clear that the expression ‘suit or legal proceedings’, used in section 446(1) of the Companies Act, can mean only those proceedings which can have a bearing on the assets of the companies in winding-up or have some relation with the issue F in winding-up. It does not mean each and every civil proceedings, which has no bearing on the winding-up proceedings, or criminal offences where the Director of the Company is presently liable for penal action.” (Emphasis supplied) G 82. In Manish Kumar (supra), this Court upheld Section 32A of the IBC and stated thus: “318. The first proviso in sub-section (1) declares that if there is approval of a resolution plan under Section 31 and a H prosecution has been instituted during the CIRP against the AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1047 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] corporate debtor, the corporate debtor will stand discharged. A This is, however, subject to the condition that the requirements in sub-section (1), which have been elaborated by us, have been fulfilled.