system. If either of the aforesaid payments is not made, or short paid, the licence would be revoked under Section 8 of the Telegraph Act. Further, Section 4 of the said Act authorises the Government to grant licence against a consideration. Therefore, both entry fee as well as annual licence fee are included within the ambit of ‘consideration’ chargeable under Section 4. Hence, any submission that licence fee should be split into two components, namely, entry fee for acquiring the licence and variable licence fee for operating the licence, has no legal basis. Such a fragmentation is neither statutorily permissible, nor prescribed in the licence agreement. iv. Referring to Section 35ABB of the Act, which allows amortisation of expenditure incurred for obtaining a licence to operate telecommunication services, it was contended that the said provision applies in relation to payments made for “acquiring any right to operate telecommunication services” whether such payment was made “before the commencement of the business to operate or thereafter at any time during the previous year.” In view of the aforesaid expression, the mode and manner of payment becomes irrelevant. As long as the payment is towards licence fee, the expenditure so incurred will be “in the nature of capital expenditure” as envisaged under Section 35ABB of the Act. 392 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. v. That the expression “either before the commencement of the business to operate or thereafter” is also found in Section 35ABA of the Act which pertains to the right to use Spectrum, similar to Section 35ABB which relates to licence to operate telecommunication services. The legislative intent is therefore clear that both these rights would flow from the Central Government on payment, and further, the payment would be partly lump-sum and partly in a deferred manner, considering the nature of rights acquired. vi. Reliance was placed on the decision of a Constitution-Bench of this Court in Aditya Minerals Pvt. Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Income Tax, (1999) 8 SCC 97 (“Aditya Minerals Pvt. Ltd.”) to assert that the law laid down therein is that as long as payment is towards a capital expenditure, it is immaterial whether it is paid in lump-sum or as periodical payments, or, as a combination of both. That the mode of payment will not be determinative in identifying the nature of the expenditure, i.e., as to whether it is capital or not. vii. That the decision of this Court in Assam Bengal Cement Co. Ltd. has clarifi ed that the aim and object of the expenditure would determine the character thereof, while the source and manner of payment would have no consequence. viii. Referring to the cases of Jonas Woodhead and Sons, Southern Switch Gear Ltd. and Best and Co., which have been referred to by the High Court of Delhi in the impugned judgement, it was submitted that reliance on the said cases is misplaced inasmuch as the said cases did not deal with a single source/purpose towards which payments in diff erent forms had been made.