G 36. After harmonizing the provisions of the Act, 1954 and Act 1957, we are of the considered view that once a notification has been published in exercise of power under Section 507(a) of the Act, 1957, the provisions of the Act, 1954 cease to apply. In sequel thereto, the proceedings pending under the Act, 1954 become non est and loses its H legal significance. MOHINDER SINGH(DEAD) THROUGH LRS AND ANOTHER 273 v. NARAIN SINGH AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] 37. We approve the view expressed by the Division Bench of the A High Court in Smt. Indu Khorana (supra) which was later followed in the impugned by the Division Bench of the High Court dated 22nd November, 2012. 38. So far as the of this Court in Om Prakash Agarwal & Others (supra) on which learned counsel for the appellants has placed B reliance is concerned, in the first instance, there was no such notification under the relevant laws which declared the land to be urbanized as published in the instant case under Section 507(a) of the Act, 1957 and the objection raised by the learned counsel was in reference to the scope and ambit of the Orissa Land Reforms Act, 1960 and the question was C whether the reforms Act has any application to the land which is a part of the master plan of the city under the provisions of the Orissa Land Reforms Act, 1960. In that reference, the observations were made by this Court as to what extent the provisions of the reforms Act will apply in reference to agricultural or other purposes. This Court was very conscious that no notification had been published in the case on hand D which reserved for urbanization within the scope and ambit of Section 73(c) of the Orrisa Land Reforms Act, 1960 which, in our view, may not be of any assistance to the appellants. 39. So far as the submission made in reference to the earlier of the Division Bench of the High Court of Delhi which has E not been looked into by the Division Bench under the impugned in the case of Umed Singh(supra) is concerned, on principle, we are not in agreement with the view expressed by the High Court in Umed Singh(supra), at the same time, we would like to observe that the case was in reference to consolidation notification issued on 8th September, F 1993, and what will be the effect of Consolidation and Prevention of Fragmentation Act, 1948, in that reference, the High Court examined the scope and ambit of the Act, 1957. 40. Before we conclude, we may like to observe that the respondents purchased the subject land from Maman Singh (recorded G Bhumidhar) by a registered sale deed dated 4th May, 1989 and mutation also, at one time, was opened in their names on 31st May, 1989. Later, they were compelled to file a civil suit in the year 1990 for taking over possession of the subject property in question.