would consider the cumulative eff ect of both these aspects and normally, it may not be very appropriate for the court to decide the most signifi cant aspect of sentencing policy with reference to one of the classes under any of the following heads while completely ignoring other classes under other heads. To balance the two is the primary duty of the court. It will be appropriate for the court to come to a fi nal conclusion upon balancing the exercise that would help to administer the criminal justice system better and provide an eff ective and meaningful reasoning by the court as contemplated under Section 354(3) CrPC. Aggravating circumstances (1) The off ences relating to the commission of heinous crimes like murder, rape, armed dacoity, kidnapping, etc. by the accused with a prior record of conviction for capital felony or off ences committed by the person having a substantial history of serious assaults and criminal convictions. (2) The off ence was committed while the off ender was engaged in the commission of another serious off ence. (3) The off ence was committed with the intention to create a fear psychosis in the public at large and was committed in a public place by a weapon or device which clearly could be hazardous to the life of more than one person. (4) The off ence of murder was committed for ransom or like off ences to receive money or monetary benefi ts. (5) Hired killings. (6) The off ence was committed outrageously for want only while involving inhumane treatment and torture to the victim. (7) The off ence was committed by a person while in lawful custody. (8) The murder or the off ence was committed to prevent a person lawfully carrying out his duty like arrest or custody in a place of lawful confi nement of himself or another. For instance, murder is of a person who had acted in lawful discharge of his duty under Section 43 CrPC. 800 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. (9) When the crime is enormous in proportion like making an attempt of murder of the entire family or members of a particular community. (10) When the victim is innocent, helpless or a person relies upon the trust of relationship and social norms, like a child, helpless woman, a daughter or a niece staying with a father/uncle and is infl icted with the crime by such a trusted person. (11) When murder is committed for a motive which evidences total depravity and meanness. (12) When there is a cold-blooded murder without provocation. (13) The crime is committed so brutally that it pricks or shocks not only the judicial conscience but even the conscience of the society. Mitigating circumstances (1) The manner and circumstances in and under which the off ence was committed, for example, extreme mental or emotional disturbance or extreme provocation in contradistinction to all these situations in normal course. (2) The age of the accused is a relevant consideration but not a determinative factor by itself.