From the aforesaid pronouncement of law, it is clear as noonday that it is not within the domain of the courts to embark upon an enquiry as to whether a particular public policy is wise and acceptable or whether a better policy could be evolved. The court can only interfere if the policy framed is absolutely capri-cious or not informed by reasons or totally arbitrary and founded ipse dixit of-fending the basic requirement of Article 14 of the Constitution. In certain mat-ters, as often said, there can be opinions and opinions 88 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. but the court is not ex-pected to sit as an appellate authority on an opinion.” 45.At this juncture, we think it apt to clearly state that the judicial restraint cannot and should not be such that it amounts to judicial abdication and judicial passivism. The Judiciary cannot abdicate the solemn duty which the Constitution has placed on its shoulders i.e. to protect the fundamental rights of the citizens guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution. The constitutional courts cannot sit in oblivion when fundamental rights of individuals are at stake. Our Constitu- tion has conceived the constitutional courts to act as defenders against illegal in-trusion of the fundamental rights of individuals. The Constitution, under its aegis, has armed the constitutional courts with wide powers which the courts should exercise, without an iota of hesitation or apprehension, when the fundamental rights of individuals are in jeopardy. Elucidating on the said aspect, this Court inVirendra Singh v. State of U.P. [Virendra Singhv. State of U.P., AIR 1954 SC 447] has observed : (AIR p. 454, para 34) “34. … We have upon us the whole armour of the Constitution and walk from henceforth in its enlightened ways, wearing the breastplate of its protecting pro-visions and fl ashing the fl aming sword of its inspiration.” 46. While interpreting fundamental rights, the constitutional courts should remember that whenever an occasion arises, the courts have to adopt a liberal approach with the object to infuse lively spirit and vigour so that the fundamental rights do not suff er. When we say so, it may not be understood that while interpreting fundamental rights, the constitutional courts should altogether depart from the doctrine of precedents but it is the obligation of the constitutional courts to act as sentinel on the qui vive to ardently guard the fundamental rights of individuals bestowed upon by the Constitution. The duty of this Court, in this con-text, has been aptly described in K.S. Srinivasan v. Union of India [K.S. Srinivasan v. Union of India, AIR 1958 SC 419] wherein it was stated : (AIR p. 433, para 50) “50. … All I can see is a man who has been wronged and I can see a plain way out. I would take it.” UNION TERRITORY OF LADAKH v. JAMMU AND KASHMIR 89 NATIONAL CONFERENCE [AHSANUDDIN AMANULLAH, J.] 47. Such an approach applies with more zeal in case of Article 32 of the Constitution which has been described by Dr B.R.