However, the other segment of consideration in this case, carrying the peculiarities of its own, relates to the settlement offer of the promoter and operation of the C provisions of Section 12-A of the Code. 56. A comprehensive look at the factual aspects and the s previously passed in the matter make it clear that right from the inception of CIRP in question, the promoter and erstwhile director had made several attempts to invoke the operation of Section 12-A of the Code. At the D very initial stage, while admitted the petition made by TFCI, the NCLT observed in its dated 05.05.2020 that the attempts on the part of corporate debtor by way OTS settlement proposal had only been to gain time. Yet again, when the process has gone several steps ahead and when the resolution plans were being put to vote, just a day before voting, E the promoter put forth yet another settlement proposal without any concrete plan and without disclosing the source of funds to complete the settlement. The CoC, after due deliberation, refused to consider the same and thereafter voted on the resolution plan in question. 57. The Adjudicating Authority (NCLT) dealt with the matter in sufficient detail (vide paragraph 15.2 and relevant extraction therein) F while noting that even the original applicant of CIRP, i.e., TFIC, was kept in dark about such a proposal. It was also noticed that even the term-sheet to support the proposal from Deutsche Bank came with a disclaimer. In the totality of facts and circumstances, the proposals as made by the promoter and erstwhile director were all of eyewash and of G dilatory tactics. However, the Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) proceeded to observe that in the ninth CoC meeting, no discussion about settlement proposal had occurred and that CoC never considered the settlement proposal submitted by the promoter and erstwhile director; and that after getting the settlement proposal, it was incumbent upon the resolution H M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 911 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] professional to call the CoC meeting for consideration of such proposal. A The observations of the Appellate Tribunal cannot be said to be in conformity with the record of proceedings. 57.1. As noticed, the proposal in question was forwarded for consideration only at the eleventh hour, i.e., a day before CoC was to vote on the resolution plan in its ninth meeting. The CoC, in the said B meeting, indeed, took into consideration the proposition of settlement and application for withdrawal request letter, which was circulated two hours before the meeting. The creditors with significant voting shares such as SBI and Bank of India were clear in their stand that they would stick to the agenda and would not deviate therefrom. The resolution C professional had to request the representatives of the corporate debtor to allow the agenda items to go through as per the wishes of the majority of CoC and no further discussions were to be made on the letter sent to CoC.