If such a person does not fulfil the requirement of sub-section (1) of Section 15, then he would not have a recognised medical qualification in modern scientific medicine, in which event he cannot be registered in the said Medical Register under the IMC Act, 1956. Even insofar as those medical practitioners holding degrees in G integrated courses are concerned, the State has to recognise their qualifications as sufficient for registration in the State Medical Register, otherwise, the prohibition under Section 15(2)(b) would apply, qua practice of modern scientific medicine. In such an event, they would not be empowered H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 1003 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] to prescribe allopathic drugs covered by the Indian Drugs A and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (Drugs Act) and they can only prescribe allopathic drugs sold across the counter for common ailments. (B) Subhasis Bakshi vs. W.B. Medical Council, (2003) 9 SCC 269, (“Subhasis Bakshi”): B (i) In this case the appellants therein, who had completed the diploma course of Community Medical Service from duly recognised institutions in the State of West Bengal and were posted in different parts of the State, had assailed the Notification dated 15.10.1980, issued by the Government C of West Bengal by which amendments were made to the statute of the State Medical Faculty by introducing Article 6-F under Part B. Thereafter, a Corrigendum was issued and the diploma course that was earlier known as “Diploma in Medicine for Community Physicians” was rechristened D as “Diploma in Community Medical Service”. The grievance of the appellants therein was that although they could treat certain common diseases but they had no right to issue certificates of sickness or death, prescriptions etc. as the same was taken away by a Notification dated E 21-11-1990. Subsequently, challenging the denial of “consequential right to treat” such as the right to issue prescription or certificates of sickness or death, the second- round of litigation began. A Writ Petition was filed before the Calcutta High Court which was allowed in favour of the appellants, subject to the condition that they would not F be allowed to pursue private practice and it was made clear that their only right was to prescribe medicines and issue certificates and this part of the became final. However, the Bengal Medical Council preferred an appeal before the Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court. G Relying on Dr. A.K. Sabhapathy vs. State of Kerala and others, AIR 1992 SC 1310, (“Dr. A.K. Sabhapathy”) whereinit was found that “a person can practise in allopathic system of medicine in a State or in the country only if he possesses a recognised medical qualification” and since the H 1004 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A appellants therein did not possess the required qualification, it was held that their names could not be included in the Medical Register. On this basis, the appellants approached this Court. This Court considered the question as to whether the B right to issue prescription or certificates could be treated as a part of right to treat.