No compensation was paid to the owners. The High Court upheld the provision. Section 192(1)(c), inter alia, provided for transfer, to the Committee, of land, either on payment of compensation or otherwise. The contention taken by the respondent was that it was only a transfer of land and not acquisition. This Court found that the provision did contain a restriction C on the maximum amount of land which could be transferred and also maximum amount of land which could be transferred without payment of compensation. This Court found that there was no guideline in the Act providing for as to when compensation was payable or could be denied. The Court also took note of the width of the expression ‘public D purpose’, for achieving which, the land could be transferred. It was further noticed that the said expression suggested that the purpose concerned cannot be of benefit only and exclusively to the transferor- landowner. It was to be a utility to members of the public in general. The fact that the transferor-landowner would also benefit, did not make any difference. The use of the word ‘transferred’ as against ‘acquired’ and E the contention that, ‘therefore, the rights of the land owner continued’, was rejected. Section 192(c) was contrasted with Section 169 and it was found that the latter provision was confined to use of the land for laying public streets, and what is more, the land could be acquired by paying compensation. Section 169 also contemplated restoration to the F original owner, if the land could not be used as a public street. We may bear in mind the following discussions in the context of the facts of the case before us: “18. The next contention is that the transfer of the land is also for the benefit of the transferor landowner and in fact the balance of G the land which remains with him appreciates in value to an extent which more than sufficiently compensates him for the loss of the land. Hence there is no need to pay him separate compensation for the extent of land up to 25 per cent transferred to the Municipal Committee. The contention suffers from several fallacies. In the 56 (1994) 5 SCC 709 H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1117 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] first instance, as the provisions of the section themselves point A out, the land is to be transferred for a public purpose including for use as public street. The purpose of the transfer itself suggests that the transferor landowner is not exclusively to be benefited by the public purpose. He enjoys the benefit, if any, along with the other members of the public. There is no reason why, therefore, B he should alone pay for the said benefit in terms of his land. Secondly, the public purpose which is served by the Municipal Committee, assuming it increases the value of the remaining land, also contributes to the increase in the value of the land of all other landowners, which lands are similarly benefited by the said public purpose.