1herein at the rate of Rs.2200/-per Gadi. B Respondent No. 1 paid an advance amount of Rs.4,00,000/- towards sale consideration. The agreement specifically stipulated that the land shall be demarcated within 3 months from the date of agreement, with the boundaries as indicated inthe agreement in respect of 90 cents land. However, the deceased G. Venugopala Rao did not carry out the demarcation of land as stipulated in the agreement. Moreover, on C 18.11.2002, i.e., immediately after completion of three months of the sale agreement on 14.11.2002, the deceased G. Venugopala Rao executed two simple mortgages covering 25 cents each in favour of his close relatives, who were Defendant No.s 4 and 5 in the suit. The deceased G. Venugopala Rao concealed this fact from Respondent No. 1 herein D and issued a legal notice dated 02.01.2003 seeking payment of the balance amount of Rs.7,88,000/-. Respondent No. 1 replied to the said notice and pointed out that the balance consideration amount was to be paid after the land is measured and boundaries are fixed in terms of the agreement. In her reply, Respondent No. 1 also mentioned that she came to know that the property in question was attached in a money recovery E suit filed against the deceased G. Venugopala Rao by one Ch. Subbayamma. Respondent No. 1 called upon the deceased G. Venugopala Rao to remove the attachment and perform his part of contract and stated that she is ever ready to perform her part of contract by paying the balance sale consideration. Meanwhile, Smt. Allvelu Magamma sold F the aforementioned 40 cents of land to some third party, and the deceased G. Venugopala Rao could sell only 50 cents of land to Respondent No. 1 herein. Under these circumstances, Respondent No. 1 filed a suit for specific performance of the sale agreement regarding 50 cents of land. The learned Senior Counsel further stated that during trial of the suit, the husband of Respondent No. 1 was examined as PW1 and he deposed G that he and his wife have sufficient means to pay the balance amount and they were ever ready to perform their part of the contract. It was further pointed out by the learned Senior Counsel that the Trial Court erroneously held “....... Admittedly no such documents were filed into court to show as on the date of agreement of sale or as on date of H expiry of three months time they were having Rs.11,88,000/-.”, 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A ANALYSIS: 22. We have carefully considered the rival contentions of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the parties and perused the entire records. The only issue involved in the instant appeal before us is:- Whether the High Court was justified in allowing Respondent B No. 1’s appeal and decreeing the suit for specific performance, by holding that the deceased G. Venugopala Rao and his legal heirs (including the Appellants herein) failed to perform their obligation with regard to getting the property measured and demarcated, while Respondent No.