GBTL as also DMC filed separate SLPs before this Court. In the SLP filed by DMC, this Court granted leave subject to condition that it deposits US $ 2.5 million. This Court vide dated B 10.08.2021 dismissed all the appeals. The present Review Petitions have been preferred only by Arun Dev Upadhyaya (Review Petitioner) to review the judgement dated 10.08.2021. 4. In the impugned judgement, it has been held that it would not be permissible to review the award on merits even on the ground of existence C and validity of the arbitration and the only ground on which the enforcement of foreign awards could be resisted or refused are contained in Section 48 of the Act. It also held that the canvas of Section 46 of the Act is wider than that of Section 35 of the Act and as such would apply to all the persons who are not even parties to the Arbitration Agreement. It also held that the tortious dispute can also be referred to arbitration D because it is in connection with the agreement. 5. Mr. Salve submitted that essential points in the submissions made on behalf of the Review Petitioner before this Court have not been considered nor any finding returned by this Court as such the impugned suffers from an error apparent on the face of record. E 6. The submissions of Mr. Salve briefly summarized are as under: A) The impugned overlooked the fundamental point made on behalf of the Review Petitioner that Section 44 read with Section 46 of Act makes only a foreign award enforceable and in to ascertain whether the award is F foreign award the Court is not constrained by Section 48 of the Act. B) Undisputedly, the Review Petitioner was not a party to the Representation Agreement however, the Arbitrator applying Delaware law and its principles made the review petitioner G a party to the arbitration proceedings initiated by Respondent No.1 against DMC. The said award was sought to be enforced in India and in the said enforcement proceedings, objections were raised by Review Petitioner which have not been dealt with in the impugned . H 732 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A C) The contention specifically raised at the time of argument before this Court were not considered and in fact misconstrued or misunderstood resulting into an error apparent on the face of record. Reference has been made to the written submissions submitted on behalf of the Review Petitioner at the time of arguments before this Court which B specifically included the following points: (i) Though under the Delaware law, a non-party to the agreement could have been included in the arbitration proceedings but when the same is being enforced in India, then, the award will have to be tested as to C whether it could be enforced against the non-party to the agreement as per the Indian law. The submission is that there was no foreign award as against the Review Petitioner which could be enforced in India.