In other words, it is submitted that though the respondent had specifi ed or elaborated the role of some of the accused in the complaint as relates the appellant averments elaborating/specifying his role in the day-to-day aff airs of the partnership fi rm much-less mandatorily required averments for his prosecution are conspicuously absent in the complaint. To drive home the contentions that the learned counsel for the appellant drew our attention to paragraphs 3 to 6 of the complaint. Learned counsel for the appellant relied on the decisions of this Court in Anita Malhotra v. Apparel Export Promotion Council & Anr.1 and a decision of Two-Judge Bench of this Court in Criminal Appeal No. 879 of 2023 titled Ashok Shewakramani & Ors. v. State of Andhra Pradesh & Anr.2 and connected cases dated 03.08.2023 to buttress the said contentions. 6. Per Contra, learned counsel appearing for the respondent would submit that paragraphs 3 and 4 of the complaint would reveal that the averments thereunder are suffi cient to satisfy the mandatory requirement in terms of Section 141 of the NI Act, qua the appellant as well. In to support his contention the learned counsel relied on the decision of a two- Judge Bench of this Court in S.P. Mani and Mohan Dairy v. Dr. Snehalatha Elangovan3. 7. In view of the rival contentions as above it is apposite to refer to the averments in paragraph 3 and 4 of the complaint, which is annexed to the SLP. They read thus: “3. That the accused No.1 is a partnership-fi rm with the name and style of M/s Tile Store, having its offi ce at 5-654/B, Jyothis Complex, By-pass Road, Eranhipalam, Calicut-673006 (Kerala), while accused 1 (2012) 1 SCC 520 2 2023 INSC 692 3 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1238 SIBY THOMAS v. M/S. SOMANY CERAMICS LTD. 825 [C.T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] No.2 to 6 are the partners of the accused No.1. The accused No.2 to 6 being the partners are responsible for the day to day conduct and business of the accused No. 1. 4.That the accused No.1 through its partners i.e. accused No.2 to 6, on the basis of the authority vested in them approached to the complainant for purchasing the ceramic tiles, sanitary wares and bath fi tting from the complainant on credit basis. The request of the accused No.1 was accepted by the complainant and the accused agreed to pay the amount of the goods purchased by them to the complainant within one month and it was also agreed that if the accused failed to make the payment within one month in that case they shall also be liable to pay interest @ 24% per annum on the balance sale consideration till its full realization.” (Underline supplied) 8. As noticed hereinbefore, the parties are at issue over the question as to whether the averments in the complaint satisfy the requirements under Section 141 (1) of the N.I. Act. True that in paragraph 3 it is stated that accused No.1 is a partnership fi rm and accused Nos.2 to 6 are the partners of accused No.1 and they, being the partners, are responsible for the day-to-day contact and business of accused No.1.