The theft of both categories can be of a very large amount running 106 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. into crores. The said two off ences become scheduled off ences by virtue of clause (3) of part C of the Schedule only if the off ences have cross-b implications; c. The offence punishable under Section 403 of dishonest misappropriation of property does not form part of the Schedule. The said off ence becomes a scheduled off ence by virtue of clause (3) of part C of the Schedule only if the off ence has cross-b implications; d. The off ence under Section 405 of criminal breach of trust, which is punishable under Section 406, is not a part of the Schedule The said off ence becomes a scheduled off ence by virtue of clause (3) of part C of the Schedule only if the off ence has cross-b implications; e. Though the off ence under Section 417 of cheating has been made a scheduled off ence, the more stringent crime of forgery for the purposes of cheating under Section 468 is not a part of the Schedule, and f. Though the off ences under Sections 489A to 489C regarding forging or counterfeiting currency notes are part of the Schedule, the offence under Section 489D of making or possessing instruments or materials for forging or counterfeiting currency notes is not a part of the Schedule. 21. Now, coming to Part B of the Schedule, it includes only one off ence under Section 132 of the Customs Act, 1962. The off ence under Section 132 of the Customs Act of making a false declaration, etc., becomes a scheduled off ence in view of sub-clause (ii) of Clause (y) of sub-section (1) of Section 2 of the PMLA only if the total value involved in the off ence is Rs.1 crore or more. Part C of the Schedule provides that any off ence specifi ed in Part A having cross-b implications becomes a part of Part C. More importantly, all the off ences against the property under Chapter XVII of IPC having cross-b implications become scheduled off ences. As pointed out earlier, the off ences punishable under Sections 379 (theft), 380 (theft in dwelling house), 403 (dishonest misappropriation of property) and 405 (criminal breach of trust) are part of Chapter XVII. Though the PAVANA DIBBUR v. THE DIRECTORATE OF 1067 ENFORCEMENT [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] said off ences are not included in Part A, they become scheduled off ences by virtue of Part C only if they have cross-b implications. Thus, it can be said that many off ences capable of generating proceeds of crime do not form a part of the schedule. 22. The learned Additional Solicitor General argued that as Section 120-B of IPC is included in Part A to the Schedule, even if the allegation is of making a criminal conspiracy to commit an off ence which is not a part of the Schedule, the off ence becomes a scheduled off ence.