The dealer then sends the defective part to the manufacturer of the automobile, who had given the warranty. The manufacturer, from whom the automobile has been purchased, then issues a credit note which may be equivalent to the value of the spare part used by the dealer. This credit note is in to recompense the dealer for his investment made on the spare part which was “not sold” by him to D the customer so as to earn any return but has been utilised to replace a defective part of the automobile as an obligation under a warranty given at the time of the sale of the automobile on behalf of the manufacturer. In such a situation, whether, the recompense made to the dealer can be termed to be a “sale” between manufacturer and the dealer within the E meaning of the definition of “sale” under the Sales Tax Acts is the question. In other words, can it be construed that when the dealer has utilised a spare part from his own stock to undertake an obligation pursuant to a warranty for the sale of an automobile on behalf of the manufacturer to the customer and by acting as an intermediary, there would be a “sale” between a dealer and manufacturer of the automibile of the spare F part and thus, a credit note being issued by the manufacturer to the dealer? 34. It has to be borne in mind that there is no transfer of property between the manufacturer and the dealer when the spare part from the stock of the dealer is used for the purpose of replacement of G defective part in the automobile. The spare part used from the stock of a dealer is the property of the dealer which could have been either sold to any other customer and seek a return on his investment, in which case, the customer would have paid the requisite taxes to the dealer. Alternatively, the spare part could also be used from the stock H maintained by the dealer to replace a defective part when an M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1329 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] automobile has been sold by him and the customer approaches the A dealer during the warranty period when there is a defect in any part of the automobile. In such a situation, the dealer is acting on behalf of the manufacturer or as an intermediary between the manufacturer and the customer of the automobile and discharging his obligation under a collateral contract. Hence, it is a warranty given by the manufacturer B through the dealer to the customer during the period of warranty. In such a situation, when a credit note is issued to the dealer on return of the defective part by the manufacturer is there a sale within the scope and meaning of definition of “sale” under the Sale Tax Legislation? The transaction that takes place when the dealer discharges his obligation under a warranty appended to the sale transaction of the C automobile is on behalf of the manufacturer but the manufacturer issuing a credit note to a dealer is a “valuable consideration” paid by the manufacturer to the dealer, when the dealer is acting under the warranty.