DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR. v. THE 403 CHANCELLOR KANNUR UNIVERSITY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] n. The s of this Court relating to the UGC Act in Gambhirdan K. Gadhvi (supra) and Anindya Sundar Das (supra) are sub silentio and would not have any binding precedent, as great violence is being done to the Constitution, far beyond the intention of the founding fathers of the Constitution. The reliance was placed on the decisions of this Court in Municipal Corpn. of Delhi v. Gurnam Kaur, (1989) 1 SCC 101, para 12 and State of U.P. v. Synthetics and Chemicals Ltd., (1991) 4 SCC 139, para 41. F. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT NO. 3 - KANNUR UNIVERSITY 17. Mr. Shailesh Madiyal, the learned counsel appearing for the Kannur University made the following submissions: a. The High Court has rightly observed that the age bar prescribed under Section 10(9) for appointment of the Vice-Chancellor would not be applicable at the time of reappointment as the Vice-Chancellor who was appointed before attaining the age of 60 years, is entitled to continue for a term of four years and shall be eligible for reappointment under Section 10(10) of the Act 1996. b. Section 10(9) of the Act 1996, clearly specifi es that no person who is more than sixty years of age shall be appointed as Vice- Chancellor. But, when it comes to Section 10(10) of the Act 1996, it states that the Vice-Chancellor shall hold offi ce for a term of four years from the date on which he enters upon his offi ce and shall be eligible for reappointment. However, the proviso makes it clear that a person shall not be appointed as Vice-Chancellor for more than 2 terms. Section 10(10) of the Act should be read conjunctively and not distinctively. The statute itself has provided for the procedure with respect to the reappointment and has made it clear that the Vice-Chancellor holding offi ce shall be eligible for reappointment. The other eligibility criteria prescribed do not, therefore apply to ‘reappointment’ under Section 10(10). Hence, the reappointment is not to be considered as a fresh appointment upon completion of the fi rst term. 404 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. c. The age limit has been fi xed even in the matter of reappointments in the Mahatma Gandhi University Act, 1985; Kerala Agricultural University Act, 1971; APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University Act, 2015; and the Thunchath Ezhuthachan Malayalam University Act, 2013. Therefore, the statute would explicitly specify the age limit in case of reappointments and when the statue does not provide for it, the age limit prescribed for appointment cannot be applied even in the case of reappointments. G. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT NO. 4 – VICE CHANCELLOR. 18. Mr. Basavaprabhu S. Patil, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the respondent No. 4 made the following submissions: a. The questions of law, as formulated by the appellants are procedural in nature. b. This Court in Anindya Sundar Das (supra) on similar facts concerning reappointment of Vice-Chancellor of Calcutta University, clarifi ed that reappointment does not entail the same procedural formalities as appointment and there is a clear distinction in law between the two.