6. If any perquisites, benefi ts, house rent allowance, travel allowance, dearness allowance or any other service benefi t is being provided by the employer during the course of current employment. 7. Whether assessed to income tax? If yes, submit copies of the Income Tax Returns for the periods given below: (i) One year prior to marriage 256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. (ii) One year prior to separation (iii) At the time when the application for maintenance is fi led 8. Income from other sources, such as rent, interest, shares, dividends, capital gains, FDRs, Post offi ce deposits, mutual funds, stocks, debentures, agriculture, or business, if any, along with TDS in respect of any such income. 9. Furnish copies of bank statement of all accounts for the last 3 years. G. Assets (movable and immovable) owned by the Deponent 1. Self-acquired property, if any: 2. Properties jointly owned by the parties after marriage: 3. Share in any ancestral property: 4. Other joint properties of the parties (accounts/investments/ FDR/mutual funds, stocks, debentures, etc. ), their value and status of possession: 5. Status of possession of immovable property and details of rent, if leased: 6. Details of loans taken or given by the Deponent: 7. Brief description of jewellery and ornaments of parties acquired during/after marriage: 8. Details of transfer deeds or transactions of alienation of properties previously owned by the applicant, executed during the subsistence of the marriage. Also provide brief reasons for such sale or transaction, if any. H. Details of Liabilities of the Deponent 1. Loans, liabilities, mortgage, or charge outstanding against the Deponent, if any. 2. Details of any EMIs being paid. ADITI ALIAS MITHI v. JITESH SHARMA 257 [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] 3. Date and purpose of taking loan or incurring any such liability: 4. Actual amount borrowed, if any, and the amount paid up to date of fi ling the Affi davit: 5. Any other information which would be relevant to describe current liabilities of the Deponent. I. Self-employed persons /Professionals /Business Persons/ Entrepreneur 1. Brief description of nature of business/profession/vocation/ self-employed/work activity. 2. Whether the business/profession/self-employment is carried on as an individual, sole proprietorship concern, partnership concern, LLP, company or association of persons, HUF, joint family business or any other form? Give particulars of Applicant’s share in the partnership/business/professional association/self-employment. In case of partnership, specify the share in the profi t/losses of the partnership. 3. Net Income from the business/profession/partnership/self- employment. 4. Business/partnership/self-employment liabilities, if any, in case of such activity. 5. In case of business of company, provide brief details of last audited balance sheet to indicate profi t and loss of the company in which such party is in business in the company. 6. In case of a partnership fi rm, provide details of the fi lings of the last Income Tax Return of partnership. 7. In case of self-employed individual, provide the fi lings of the last Income Tax Return from any such professional/ business/vocational activity. J. Information provided by the Deponent with respect to the income, assets and liabilities of the other Spouse 258 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R.