a resolution professional to the adjudicating authority for initiating an IRP. Sub-section (2) provides that in a situation where a creditor has applied under sub-section (1) in relation to a partnership debt, the application may be fi led against (a) any one or more partners of the fi rm; or (b) the fi rm. The provisions of sub-section (2), in other words, cannot control the ambit of sub-section (1) of Section 95. 84. The second incidental submission which was urged is that the provisions of Sections 95 to 100 are retroactive in nature since they would operate in respect of guarantees which may have been executed before the statutory provisions were brought into force. It is a well settled principle that a law is not retrospective in nature merely because some parts of the cause of action on which the law operates has arisen in the past. Prior to the commencement of the IBC, the fi eld was governed by the Presidency Towns Insolvency Act 1909 and the Provincial Insolvency Act 1920. With the enactment of the IBC, the insolvency resolution process in relation to individuals and partnership fi rms is governed by Part III of the IBC. The IBC cannot be held as operating in a retroactive manner so as to violate Article 14 of the Constitution. 85. For the above reasons, we have come to the conclusion that the impugned provisions of the IBC do not suff er from any manifest arbitrariness so as to offend Article 14 of the Constitution. This is subject to the clarifi cation on the interpretation of Section 99 in the text of this judgement. V. Conclusion 86. We summarise the conclusion of this below: (i) No judicial adjudication is involved at the stages envisaged in Sections 95 to Section 99 of the IBC; (ii) The resolution professional appointed under Section 97 serves a facilitative role of collating all the facts relevant to the examination of the application for the commencement of the insolvency resolution process which has been preferred under Section 94 or Section 95. The report to be submitted to the adjudicatory authority is recommendatory in nature on whether to accept or reject the application; DILIP B JIWRAJKA v. UNION OF INDIA & ORS 611 (iii) The submission that a hearing should be conducted by the adjudicatory authority for the purpose of determining ‘jurisdictional facts’ at the stage when it appoints a resolution professional under Section 97(5) of the IBC is rejected. No such adjudicatory function is contemplated at that stage. To read in such a requirement at that stage would be to rewrite the statute which is impermissible in the exercise of judicial review; (iv) The resolution professional may exercise the powers vested under Section 99(4) of the IBC for the purpose of examining the application for insolvency resolution and to seek information on matters relevant to the application in to facilitate the submission of the report recommending the acceptance or rejection of the application; (v) There is no violation of natural justice under Section 95 to Section 100 of the IBC as the debtor is not deprived of an opportunity to participate in the process of the examination of the application by the resolution professional; (vi) No judicial determination takes place until the adjudicating authority decides under Section 100 whether to accept or reject the application.