These visits took place even late at night. Several incidents have been cited in the complaint in this connection. a. That Shri Dilip Paul used to make unsolicited phone calls to her, frequently at night and insisted on speaking to her for long durations, sometime up to half and hour. The phone calls were usually made between 19:00 and 20:00 hours, but occasionally, she also received calls from Shri Dilip Paul as late as 4.30 a.m. The substance of these calls mostly consisted of unwelcome comments of sexual nature with the objective of making her submit to his unwelcome sexual advances. b. On one occasion, Shri Dilip Paul came to Smt. X’s home at around 4.45 a.m. and insisted that she came out for a morning walk with him. Fearful that if she refused, he would insist on coming into her house at that hour, she accompanied him for a short distance. c. That, on one uninvited visit to Smt. X’s home, Shri Dilip Paul came with a bottle of alcohol and sought to pressure her to join him in drinking. When she tried to get away from him by going to the kitchen, Shri D. Paul followed her and tried to force himself upon UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 491 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] her by embracing her. She somehow managed to extricate herself and ran out the house, and remained there until Shri D. Paul left the house. d. That on his uninvited visits to Smt. X’s home, Shri Dilip Paul showed an unnatural and unhealthy interest in her daughter. He would call the child and draw her to him, and would then attempt to hold her in a very ‘dirty’ manner. On the occasion that this happened, he only let go of the child when Smt. X called the child to her in Manipuri. e. That when Shri Dilip Paul visited her house one evening in April 2010, shortly after her return from the Study Tour to South India, he made unwelcome sexual advances to her by his statement that they would become one in a few days time and that she should stop resisting. He also tried to forcibly embrace her, but she extricated herself and ran into the room that her children were sleeping in. f. That Shri Dilip Paul, during an official trip to Nagrijuli in connection with the Civic Action Programme, made her sit next to him and tried to hold her hand and touch her, all of which behaviour was sexually determined, unwelcome and insulting. Smt. X also stated that there were no eyewitnesses to these acts, as only she ·and Shri Dilip Paul were seated in the middle seat of the car. Point 8: That Shri Dilip Paul began victimising her for her refusal to submit to his unwelcome sexual advances soon after he learnt that she had made a complaint about his misconduct to Shri S.C. Katoch, who happened to be DIG of another area. Smt. X had telephoned Shri S.C. Katoch after the incident reported in point 10, and told him all that had been taking place.