The appellants cannot, however, seek immunity from the operation of laws, which otherwise bind them. In fact, Shri K.K. Venugopal did state at the bar that the appellants are not impervious to the operation of laws, which would otherwise apply. H 868 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 78. Exception, however, is taken by the appellants to the applicability of the Act. This objection is founded upon the inconsistencies and consequent anomalous results, which would arise from the Act being applied to the appellants. We have already captured the various perceived inconsistencies in paragraphs-10-12. B 79. Before we proceed to deal with the grievances of the appellants, we must undertake a survey of the Act to ascertain, whether the Act, in any manner, advances the case of the appellants. The Act has been made in the year 2002 and it was not a pre-existing Statute. When the National Act was made,central to the scheme of the Act, is the expression ‘enterprise’, as defined in Section 2(h) of the Act. Let us decode it. An C ‘enterprise’ is defined as a person or a Department of the Government. Let us pause here for a moment. The word ‘person’ has been defined in Section 2(l) as including a company, a corporation established by or under any Central, State or Provincial or a Government Company, as defined in Section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956. We need not probe further. D The appellant is a Government Company within the meaning of Section 617 of the Companies Act, 1956. Therefore, the appellant is a person within the meaning of Section 2(h). The next limb of Section 2(h) contemplates that the person is one, ‘who’ or ‘which is’.Being an artificial person, the appropriate word is ‘which’. Therefore, the first appellant is a person, which is or has been engaged in any activity. The activity must E relate to the production, storage, supply, distribution, acquisition or control of articles or goods. There can be an enterprise under Section 2(h) equally, if the activity relates to the provision of services of any kind, inter alia. We need not deal with the wide width of the other part of Section 2(h). The word ‘goods’ has been defined in Section 2(i) to mean F goods, as defined in Sale of Goods Act, 1930 and includes products manufactured, processed or mined. There cannot be the slightest amount of doubt that the appellant is a person, which is engaged in activity relating to production, storage, supply, distribution and control of goods, as defined in the Act. It may also be within the ambit of Section 2(h) in regard to services it may provide, having regard to the wide words used in Section G 2(h). 80. It is noteworthy that the Law-Giver has taken care to expressly include even Departments of the Government separately within the ambit of the word ‘enterprise’. Things could not be more clear. The only activity of the Government, which has been excluded from the scope of Section H COAL INDIA LIMITED v. COMPETITION COMMISSION 869 OF INDIA [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]