42. The eff ect of Article 370(1) was to permit two organs under the Constitution of India, by way of an Executive , to create, amend or destroy, any part/provision of the Constitution of India [except Article 1] at their free will and apply such tailored constitutional provisions to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. The expansive width of this power shows it could not have been intended to be a permanent provision – either by effl ux of time or in any other manner.110 43. The impact of Article 370 was to be deprive the residents of Jammu, Kashmir and Ladakh from being treated at par with their fellow citizens in the rest of India. Article 370 deprived them of several fundamental and statutory rights without any legislative or parliamentary process. Such a consequence would obviously be known to the framers of the Constitution and therefore, the framers could have never intended for it to be a permanent provision.111 44. The abrogation of Article 370 brings the residents of Jammu and Kashmir at par with the citizens residing in the rest of the country, confers them with all rights fl owing from the entire Constitution as well as hundreds of benefi cial legislations. Therefore, applying the Constitution of India to the State can never be an “arbitrary act”.112 45. This is the only provision in the Constitution where the application of (i) the provisions of the Indian Constitution; and (ii) the application of benefi cial legislations to the residents of Jammu and Kashmir, is made dependent upon the Government of the day agreeing to the application. Such an arrangement could never have been conceived by the framers of the Constitution.113 46. Article 370 is the only provision which provides for a mechanism (by way of Article 370(3)) by which it would cease to be in existence. A provision intended to be permanent would not have such an “inbuilt extinguishing clause”.114 110 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 111 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 112 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 113 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India 114 Written Submissions of Mr. Tushar Mehta, Solicitor General of India IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 53 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 47. The proviso to Article 370(3) was to remain in operation only during subsistence of the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir because:115 a. When the Jammu and Kashmir Constituent Assembly was formed, Article 370 of the Constitution of India was already in existence. Being aware of Article 370(3) the Constituent Assembly of Jammu and Kashmir could have, at the time of its dissolution – i. Recommended to the President not to exercise his powers under Article 370(3); ii. Recommended some exceptions and modifi cation with which Article 370 could have remained in force; iii. Recommended the deletion of sub-clause (3) and consequently sub-clause (2), making Article 370(1) permanent; iv. It could have changed the marginal note substituting the word “temporary” with “permanent” and “Constituent Assembly” with “Legislative Assembly” in Article 370(3); v. Recommended the deletion of Article 370(1)(d), freezing the relationship between the State and the Union as it existed when the Constitution [Application to Jammu and Kashmir] , 1954 was passed by CO 48 by the President of India; and vi.