With a definitive endpoint to a case before a court or quasi-judicial authority, parties are free to seek judicial review or to prefer an appeal. Alternatively, their rights are determined with finality. Similar considerations E do not apply to decisions by the state which are based entirely on policy or expediency. [Para 94][792-E-F] 7.3 The appellants’ argument that the Union Government was rendered functus officio after establishing the OAT does not stand scrutiny. The decision to establish the OAT was F administrative and based on policy considerations. If the doctrine of functus officio were to be applied to the sphere of administrative decision-making by the state, its executive power would be crippled. The state would find itself unable to change or reverse any policy or policy-based decision and its functioning would grind G to a halt. All policies would attain finality and any change would be close to impossible to effectuate. [Para 95][792-G; 793-A] 7.4 This would impact not only major policy decisions but also minor ones. Major policy decisions such as those concerning subsidies, corporate governance, housing, education and social H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 743 UNION OF INDIA welfare would be frozen if the doctrine of functus officio were to A be applied to administrative decisions. This is not conceivable because it would defeat the purpose of having a government and the foundation of governance. By their very nature, policies are subject to change depending on the circumstances prevailing in society at any given time. The doctrine of functus officio cannot B ordinarily be applied in cases where the government is formulating and implementing a policy. [Para 96][793-B-D] 7.5 In the instant case, the State and Union Governments’ authority has not been exhausted after the establishment of an SAT. Similarly, the State and Union Governments cannot be said C to have fulfilled the purpose of their creation and to be of no further virtue or effect once they have established an SAT. The state may revisit its policy decisions in accordance with law. For these reasons, the Union Government was not rendered functus officio after establishing the OAT. [Para 97][793-D-E] D Hari Singh Mann v. Harbhajan Singh Bajwa (2001) 1 SCC 169 : [2000] 4 Suppl. SCR 313 – referred to. P Ramanatha Aiyer’s The Law Lexicon (1997 edition); Black’s Law Dictionary (5th edition) – referred to. The notification dated 2 August 2019 is valid despite not E being expressed in the name of the President of India 8.1 A notification which is not in compliance with clause (1) of Article 77 is not invalid, unconstitutional or non-est for that reason alone. Rather, the irrebuttable presumption that the notification was issued by the President of India (acting for the F Union Government) is no longer available to the Union Government. The notification continues to be valid and it is open to the Union Government to prove that the was indeed issued by the appropriate authority. [Para 101][795-F-G] 8.2 In the instant case, the notification dated 2 August 2019 G was not issued in the name of the President.