The NCLT can decide that an auditor has connived in fraud and is not a fit and proper person under Section 242 (4A) which provides as follows: “242. Powers of Tribunal. - (1) If, on any application made under section 241, the Tribunal is of the opinion- E ... (44) At the conclusion of the hearing of the case in respect of sub-section (3) of section 241, the Tribunal shall record its decision stating therein specifically as to whether or not the respondent is a fit and proper person to hold the office of director or any other office F connected with the conduct and management of any company.” v. The consequence of holding that a person is not fit and proper is provided in Section 243 (1A) viz. : G “243. Consequences of termination or modification of certain agreements – (1A) The person who is not a fit and proper person pursuant to sub-section (4A) of section 242 shall not hold the office of a director or any other office connected with the conduct and management of the affairs of any company for a period H 990 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A of five years from the date of the said decision: Provided that the Central Government may, with the leave of the Tribunal, permit such person to hold any such office before the expiry of the said period of five years....” If a person is found not to be a fit and proper person, B under Section 243 (1A), the NCLT can that such person “shall not hold any office connected with the conduct or management of any company for 5 years. vi. Section 245(1)(g)(ii) also provides for damages or compensation to be ed against auditors, including C an audit firm, by way of a class action suit for “Improper or misleading statement of particulars made in his audit report or for any fraudulent, unlawful or wrongful act or conduct. Section 245(2) permits the NCLT to impose “any suitable action” vii. Section 447 pertains to the criminal consequences of D fraud. Section 447 prescribes a punishment for the offence of ‘fraud, the offence itself is created by way of an explanation appended to the said section. Section 447 of the Act provides: “447, Without prejudice to any liability including E repayment of any debt under this Act or any other law for the time being in force, any person who is found to be guilty of fraud, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than six months but which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to F fine which shall not be less than the amount involved in the fraud, but which may extend to three times the amount involved in the fraud: Provided that where the fraud in question involves public interest, the term of imprisonment shall not be less than G three years. Explanation. For the purposes of this section- (i) “fraud” in relation to affairs of a company or any body corporate, includes any act, omission, concealment of any fact or abuse of position committed by any person H UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 991 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.]