61. In the matters of classifi cation of goods, the principles that have been followed by the courts—which we endorse—are that there may not be justifi cation for changing the classifi cation without a change COMMR. OF CEN. EXC. AHMEDABAD v. M/S URMIN 647 PRODUCTS P. LTD. AND OTHERS [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] in the nature or a change in the use of the product; something more is required for changing the classifi cation especially when the product remains the same. Earlier decision on an issue inter partes is a cogent factor in the determination of the same issue. The applicability of maxim res judicata pro veritate accipitur in the matters of classifi cation of goods has to be seen in that perspective.” 121. Even the report of the Chemical Examiner clearly refl ects that it is ‘chewing tobacco’. In fact, it is the Revenue that has been taking consistently inconsistent stand. In the fi rst instance when Form No.1 was fi led by the assessee declaring the product ‘Mahapasand zarda scented tobacco’, the Department drew samples from the factory premises, obtained the CRCL Report, and called upon the assessee to reclassify its product as ‘chewing tobacco’ under CET SH 2403 9910 and accordingly the Form No.1 was fi led by the assessee and duty paid in tune with the declaration fi led. It is only after Notifi cation No.25 of 2015 came to be issued revising the duty payable on ‘zarda scented tobacco’ that fresh samples were drawn, and the Revenue started singing a new tune, and thus called upon the assessee to declare the product manufactured by it as ‘zarda scented tobacco’. In the light of communication dated 27.04.2015 by the Revenue addressed to the assessee and calling upon the assessee to classify its product as ‘chewing tobacco’ and the same having been complied by the assessee it is too late in the day for the Department to take a contrary stand. 122. The of the tribunal has taken into account the aforestated aspects to arrive at a conclusion that the declaration fi led by the assessee is just and proper, which does not suff er from any infi rmity either on facts or on law calling for our interference. Hence, the appeal fi led by the Department deserves to be rejected. VI. COMMISSIONER OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX MEERUT II V. M/S SOM PAN PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [DIARY NO. 14581/19] 123. In the present group, the Revenue is in appeal challenging the correctness and legality of dated 25.09.2018 passed by CESTAT, Allahabad, whereby the passed by the authorities below treating the product manufactured by the respondent as ‘zarda/jarda scented tobacco’ 648 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. falling under CET SH 2403 9930 and allowing the appeal as a consequence of the demands raised has been set aside. BRIEF FACTS 124. The assessee after obtaining the registration under the CE Act declared the product manufactured by them as ‘Jarda’ falling under CET SH 2403 9930 and it was assessed to duty as ‘Jarda scented tobacco’.