Age determination inquiry contemplated under the JJ Act F and the 2007 Rules has nothing to do with an enquiry under other legislations, like entry in service, retirement, promotion, etc. There may be situations where the entry made in the matriculation or equivalent certificates, date of birth certificate from the school first attended and even the birth certificate given by a corporation or a municipal authority G or a panchayat may not be correct. But court, Juvenile Justice Board or a committee functioning under the JJ Act is not expected to conduct such a roving enquiry and to go behind those certificates to examine the correctness of those documents, kept during the normal course of business. Only H 1100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A in cases where those documents or certificates are found to be fabricated or manipulated, the court, the Juvenile Justice Board or the committee need to go for medical report for age determination.” 30. The case of Ashwani Kumar Saxena (supra) has been B referred to in several s of this Court and the ratio thereof still holds good. Though that was a delivered under the 2000 Act, the procedure for determining juvenility in the 2015 Act remains broadly the same and hence this authority shall remain valid for an inquiry under the 2015 Act. There is a decision of a Single Judge of the Allahabad High Court (Lucknow Bench) in the case of Sheo Mangal Singh and C Others -vs- State of U.P. [(1989) SCC OnLine All 605] in which, dealing with the 1986 Act, view has been taken that the word “inquiry” in Section 3 therein means an inquiry under the said Act and not an inquiry under the 1973 Code. In Section 2(t) of the 1986 Act, provisions similar to Section 103 of the 2015 Act had been engrafted. The expression D “inquiry”, in the manner in which it has been used in the 1973 Code cannot be transplanted in toto so far as the 2015 Act is concerned, to fit the meaning of inquiry therein. It has an element of search or investigation under the 2015 Act, not in the sense these words are used, inter-alia, in Chapters XXIII and XXIV of the 1973 Code, which the Court may require to undertake while determining a juvenility claim. The 1973 Code E also contemplates preliminary inquiry under Sections 148 and 174 of the Code and the said expression has not been employed in the 1973 Code to convey a uniform meaning or procedure. We are of the view that the meaning and scope attributed to the expression “inquiry” in the case of Ashwani Kumar Saxena (supra) to be the proper construction of this F word and may be followed in dealing with the question of determination of juvenility claim under the 2015 Act. Mr. Patil has argued that the ratio in the case of Ashwani Kumar Saxena (supra) may have gotten diluted in view of the of this Court in the case of Abuzar Hossain (supra), delivered by a three-Judge Bench.