Therefore, in any case, the hospital is in a better position to disclose what care was taken [..].” 73. At the same time, this court has cautioned that res ipsa loquitur cannot be the only basis to fasten liability. This view has been advocated (and applied) in Martin F. D’Souza (supra) and Bombay Hospital and Medical Research Centre v Asha Jaiswal (hereafter, “Asha Jaiswal”)61. In Asha Jaiswal (supra), this court outlined the caution needed to apply res ipsa loquitur: “an application of the general method of inferring one or more facts in issue from circumstances proved in evidence”. In this view, the maxim res ipsa loquitur does not require the raising of any presumption of law which must shift the onus on the defendant. It only, when applied appropriately, allows the drawing of a permissive inference of fact, as distinguished from a mandatory presumption properly so-called, having regard to the totality of the circumstances and probabilities 61 2021 (10) SCR 1118. 646 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. of the case. Res ipsa is only a means of estimating logical probability from the circumstances of the accident.” The above analysis leads this court to the conclusion that the condition in which the appellant found himself, was the direct consequence of the two hospital-establishments and their breach of the standards of care, resulting in the transfusion of the HIV positive infected blood into the appellant, which was the causative factor. The necessary foundational facts, to hold that the application of res ipsa loquitur was warranted, were proved in all detail. The respondents failed to discharge the onus which fell upon them, to establish that due care was in fact exercised and all necessary care standards, applicable at the time, were complied with. As a result, it is held that the respondents are liable to compensate the appellant for the injuries suff ered by him, that are to be reckoned in monetary terms. (iv) The relief of damages 74. Medical negligence, or negligence is tied to two concepts. At the one end is the duty of care - and establishing its breach, and thereby fault - and resultant injury. At the other end is remedial - usually restitution, in monetary terms, by payment of damages. The ingenuity of common law has been to adapt - and evolve, through refi nement, and reinvention, the idea of duty to care. In the case of medical professionals, or other professionals, for instance, their duty to care not only involves the professionals’ assessment of the suitability of treatment, or use of technology, but the concomitant duty to inform the patient (or consumer) of the likely results, or even the risk(s) because the service recipient, so to say, has to bear the consequent consequences. Damages, in theory, can have no limit. Yet, the duty of care is woven with the idea of causation or proximity. Thus, only one is liable in law to the extent of one’s actions, which cause the injury. Equally, damages are limited to consequences which are reasonably foreseeable.