My husband asked the margin accused keeping silent for all these years, now you have come here. Thereafter, the H 958 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A accused took the child and went to the house of my mother-in- law. I did not say the details of my sister-in-law Mumtaz, asking the accused after seeing the dead body of the child, during the police investigation. It is incorrect to state that the accused is not the cause for the death of Farhana and that as there is no contact between me and the accused for the past four years, I am adducing B false evidence against the accused. As the accused did not come to us, there is no contact between us.” 5.4. PW-4 Sharfunisha, the landlord of PW-1, deposed that when she came back to her house, she saw the child with the appellant. The witness also claimed that she heard the appellant admit that she had C killed the child. The relevant parts of her statement could also be reproduced as under: - “… P.W.1 Basheera is residing in a portion of our house. At the time of the incident, the margin accused came as a guest to Basheera’s house. Only then I came to know her. Before that, I D do not know the margin accused. The margin accused came with her child to the house of Basheera and stayed there. On 21.6.2007, the child of the accused was dead. I came to send my child to school by bus went near to Perambalur Farmers market and came back to my house, after sending my child. People were talking E there that the accused had killed her child. When I saw that child, the margin accused was there. She said the crowd that she had killed her child by straggling with her saree outer end of a saree (mundanai) around her neck. I was there at that time. When the police authorities examined me I deposed the above particulars. Cross Examination: Basheera is residing in our house as a tenant F with the monthly rent of Rs.350/- for the past two years. It is incorrect to state that I did not depose during the police investigation that I went to send my child to school and after sending my child, when I came back, I saw the crowd in my house. I did not tell the police authorities that the accused had said the crowd that she G straggled the child with her saree outer end of a saree (mundanai). It is incorrect to state that I do not know the accused and that I had not seen the accused on the date of the death of her child. It is incorrect to state that as Basheera is our tenant, I am adducing false evidence.” H VAHITHA v. STATE OF TAMIL NADU 959 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 5.5. PW-5 Thiru-Jothi, neighbour of PW-1, testified to have seen A the appellant for ten minutes, when the appellant was sitting near the body of the deceased child.