It is submitted that as observed and held by this Court in a catena of decisions classification of the different pay scales is H 1012 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A permissible based upon educational qualifications, experience and nature of duties. Reliance is placed on the decisions of this Court in the case of Punjab State Cooperative Milk Producers Federation Limited and Another versus Balbir Kumar Walia and others, (2021) 8 SCC 784; Director of Elementary Education, Odisha and Others versus Pramod Kumar Sahoo, (2019) 10 SCC 674 and Secretary B Department of Personnel Public Grievances & Pension & Anr. versus T.V.L.N. Mallikarjuna Rao, (2015) 3 SCC 653. 2.5 Making the above submissions and relying upon the above decisions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal. 3. While opposing the present appeal learned counsel appearing C on behalf of the respondents – original writ petitioners has vehemently submitted that while passing the the learned Single Judge had heavily relied upon the decisions of the Division Bench of the High Court taking the view that the educational qualification cannot be a ground for denial of Nursing Allowance to the Nursing Assistants. D 3.1 It is submitted that as such the Nursing Assistants are being integral part of the nursing service and therefore the learned Single Judge was right in observing and taking the view that both the Nursing Assistants as well as the Staff Nurses are integral part of the nursing service in general and therefore, like the Staff Nurse, the Nursing E Assistants are also entitled to get the nursing allowance. It is submitted that therefore, when both the Nursing Assistants as well as the Staff Nurses are integral part of the nursing service and would be performing the similar duties, the High court has not committed any error in directing to pay Nursing Allowance to the Nursing Assistants at par with the Staff Nurse. Therefore, it is prayed to dismiss the present appeal. F 4. Having heard learned counsel for the respective parties, a short question which is posed for consideration before this Court is whether in a case where the educational qualifications for the post of Nursing Assistant and Staff Nurse are different, still the Nursing Assistants shall be entitled to the Nursing Allowance at par with the Staff Nurses? G 4.1 The High Court has taken the view that the educational qualifications cannot be a ground for denial of Nursing Allowance at par with the Staff Nurse who can also be said to be an integral part of the nursing service in general. The view taken by the High Court is just contrary to the decisions of this Court in the case of Punjab State H THE UNION OF INDIA & ORS. V. RAJIB KHAN & ORS. 1013 [M. R. SHAH, J.] Cooperative Milk Producers Federation Limited (supra), Pramod A Kumar Sahoo (supra) and T.V.L.N. Mallikarjuna Rao (supra). 4.2 In the case of T.V.L.N. Mallikarjuna Rao (supra) it is observed by this Court that the classification of posts and determination of pay structure comes within the exclusive domain of the Executive and the Tribunal cannot sit in appeal over the wisdom of the Executive in B prescribing certain pay structure and grade in a particular service.