guarantee against sexual abuse, particularly against sexual harassment A at work places, the Court drew strength from several provisions of the Constitution of India including Article 1560, Article 4261 and Article 51(A)62 and with the aid of the relevant International Conventions and norms including the General Recommendations of the CEDAW63 that had passed a Resolution on 25th June, 1993, resolving that an effective B complaint mechanism be put in place to address sexual harassment in the work place, laid down a set of Guidelines and norms with a direction that they would be strictly adhered to at all work places and shall be binding and enforceable in law till the vacuum was filled and a legislation was enacted to occupy the field. The Guidelines directed creation of a complaints mechanism to ensure time bound treatment of complaints, C constitution of a Complaints Committee and recommended, disciplinary action where such conduct amounted to misconduct in employment ‘as defined by the relevant service rules’. The momentous in Vishaka’s case (supra) was delivered on 13th August,1997 and the Guidelines declared by the Court continued to hold the field till the Sexual D Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 201364 was enacted on 22nd April, 2013. (b) MEDHA KOTWAL LELE’S CASE : FOLLOW UP THROUGH CONTINUING MANDAMUS : 49. After Vishaka’s case (supra), came the case of Medha Kotwal E Lele and Others v. Union of India and Others65 (supra) where a grievance was raised by several petitioners that the Complaints Committees directed to be constituted in terms of the Guidelines laid down by this Court, had not been established to deal with cases of sexual harassment. Treating the said petition as a Public Interest Litigation, F notices were issued to several parties including the Union of India and the State Governments and the following directions were issued : 60 Article 15: The State shall not discriminate against any citizen on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex, place of birth of any of them. 61 Article 42: The State shall make provisions for securing just and humane G conditions of work and for maternity relief. 62 Article 51(A): (e) ……. It shall be the duty of every citizen of India to, amongst others, renounce practices derogatory to the dignity of women. 63 The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women 64 For short ‘PoSH Act’ 65 (2013) 1 SCC 311 H 810 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A “2……”Complaints Committee as envisaged by the Supreme Court in its in Vishakacase SCC at para 53, will be deemed to be an inquiry authority for the purposes of the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 1964 (hereinafter called the CCS Rules) and the report of the Complaints Committee shall be deemed to be an inquiry report under the CCS Rules. Thereafter the B disciplinary authority will act on the report in accordance with the Rules.” A similar amendment was also directed to be carried out in the Industrial Employment (Standing s) Rules.