In our view, the State is not right in contending that the interest could not have been awarded during the H RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 447 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] period of reference to the Arbitrator. In regard to this aspect, the A submissions to the effect that pre-reference period interest was not based on any compelling reasons and contractual provisions for interest were in terrorem are liable to be discarded, could only be rejected for being not even standing within the periphery of Section 34 of the Act of 1996. 33. However, insofar as post-award period is concerned, the High B Court has reduced the rate of interest from 15% to 10% by following the decision of this Court in the case of Vedanta Ltd. (supra). The High Court has relied on the principles of proportionality and has scaled down the rate of interest to 10% p.a. while observing as under:- “175. Mr. Bhat handed in a statement indicating the interest rates C (Benchmark Prime Lending Rates) of the State Bank of India. For the period 2017-18, the rates indicated range around 13 to 14% per annum. This is no doubt one of the factors to be taken into consideration for determining the prevailing economic conditions when the impugned Award was made. Again, reference D is also necessary to the principle of proportionality of the amount awarded as an interest to the principal sums awarded. Having cumulative regard to all the factors referred to above, we feel that in the facts and circumstances of the present case, the award of interest at the rate of 15% per annum is excessive and contrary to the principle of proportionality and reasonableness and the same E will have to be scaled down to 10% per annum. In Vedanta Ltd. (supra), the Award was dated 9/11/2017 and the Court awarded interest at the rate of 9% per annum for the INR component. The impugned Award, in our case, was made on 16/ 2/2018.” F 34. We are of the view that the aforesaid reduction of rate of interest by the High Court is also unjustified. We have noticed the provisions of Section 31(7)(b) that unless the award otherwise directs, the sum payable under the arbitral award shall carry interest at the rate of 2% higher than the current rate of interest prevalent on the date of G the award, from the date of the award to the date of payment. The expression “current rate of interest” has been explained in the Explanation to the said Section to have the same meaning as assigned under Section 2(b) of the Interest Act, 1978. The High Court has referred to the decision in Vedanta Ltd. (supra) to hold that a Court may reduce interest awarded by the Arbitrator when such interest does not reflect H 448 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A the prevailing economic condition or where it is not found reasonable or where it promotes interest of justice. We do not find any basis in the impugned of the High Court for reducing the rate of interest, as in the case of Vedanta Ltd., wherein this Court was dealing with an International Commercial Arbitration involving rupee as well as euro components.