A10 Will Deed, viz., Pydi Appala Suranna and B. A. Ramulu, was examined before the Trial Court, in compliance with Section 68 of the Evidence Act. Pydi Appala Suranna was stated to have expired by the time the trial commenced and the whereabouts of B. A. Ramulu were not known. Therefore, Section 69 of the Evidence Act could have been made use of to prove the Will but no witness was examined who was familiar with the signature of either of the attesting witnesses and who could vouch for the same or produce an admitted signature before the Trial Court. The mere marking of Exs. C1 & C 2 affi davits was not suffi cient to satisfy the requirement of Section 69 of the Evidence Act. More so, as Balaga Sivanarayana Rao (PW 6), the scribe of those affi davits, said that Pydi Appala Suranna did not sign Ex. A10 Will in his presence and he could not say whether the signature therein was that of Pydi Appala Suranna. Similarly, K. V. Ramanayya (PW 13), who attested Ex. C2 affi davit, supposedly of Pydi 12 2010 (2) Madras Weekly Notes (Civil) 704 MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 661 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] Appala Suranna, said that he did not even know Pydi Appala Suranna and, therefore, he could not vouch for his identity. No evidence was adduced to prove the signature of the other attesting witness, B. A. Ramulu. 31. The contention that Section 69 of the Evidence Act does not require actual proof of the handwriting of at least one attesting witness and proof of the signature of the executant being in that person’s handwriting cannot be accepted. Ashutosh Samanta (supra) and Ved Mitra Verma (supra) also did not hold so and, in any event, both are distinguishable on facts. In one, there was no contest to the Will and in the other, the Sub-Registrar himself adduced acceptable evidence in purported discharge of the mandate of Section 69 of the Evidence Act. Presently, no such clinching evidence has been produced to satisfy that mandate. It may be noted that PW 11, who was from the Registration Department, admitted that he did not know Venkubayamma personally and could not even recall her age. Therefore, his evidence that he witnessed the signing of Ex. A10 Will has no import in establishing its genuineness and validity. Ex. A19 Will Deed dated 26.05.1981 was marked in evidence by Nalini Kanth’s guardian, Pasupuleti Anasuya, but it was not proved as per Section 63 of the Evidence Act. Kaliprasad said that he had never seen it. Therefore, merely because Kaliprasad was shown as the sole legatee therein, it cannot be accepted as genuine. In consequence, the signatures and thumb marks therein and available with the Registration Department, in connection therewith, cannot be assumed to be those of Venkubayamma. We may also note that this document was not of any particular antiquity as it was executed on 26.05.1981, just about a year before Ex.