14. Under sub-clause (e) of Clause (1) of Article 19 of the G Constitution of India, every citizen has a right to reside and settle in any part of the territory of India. However, by making a law, reasonable restrictions can be put on the said Fundamental Right as provided in Clause (5) of Article 19. Therefore, we reject the argument that non- Tribals have no right to settle down in a Scheduled Area. H 386 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 15. The argument that the Fifth Schedule is a law made by the Parliament is misconceived. Even assuming that Fifth Schedule is a law, it does not put any constraints on the exercise of the Fundamental Rights under Article 19(1) of the Constitution of India. 16. Now, we come to the second question whether a non-Tribal has the right to vote in a Scheduled Area. As far as the right to vote is B concerned, the 1950 Act is applicable to the Scheduled Area and therefore, the appellant cannot contend that only a person belonging to Scheduled Tribe can cast a vote in elections of the constituencies in the Scheduled Area. The right to vote will be governed by Part III of the 1950 Act. Every eligible voter is entitled to be registered in the electoral roll of a C constituency, in which he is ordinarily residing. Therefore, any person eligible to vote who is ordinarily residing in the Scheduled Area has a right to vote, even if he is a non-Tribal. 17. As regards providing reservation for all the Lok Sabha and the State Legislative constituencies in a Scheduled Area, the appellant D cannot contend that all the constituencies in a Scheduled area should be reserved for the Scheduled Tribes. Reservation is required to be made in terms of Articles 330 and 332 of the Constitution of India. These provisions do not provide that all the constituencies in the Scheduled Areas shall be reserved for Scheduled Tribes. Moreover, the 2002 Act is applicable to the Scheduled Area. Therefore, even the said prayer to E issue a writ of mandamus, as regards the reservation for the Scheduled Tribes, deserves to be rejected. 18. The Land Acquisition Act, 1894 was made applicable to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir. In the absence of the exercise of power by the Hon’ble Governor under sub-clause (1) F of Clause 5 of the Fifth Schedule, the said law was applicable to the Scheduled Area. 19. We are, therefore, of the view that there is absolutely no merit in the appeal, and the High Court was right when it dismissed the writ petition filed by the appellant. Only in view of the claim that the appellant G is working for the welfare of the tribals that we refrain from saddling the appellant with costs. 20. Hence, the appeal is dismissed with no as to costs. Nidhi Jain Appeal dismissed. H (Assisted by : Tamana, LCRA)