West Regional Bench of the Tribunal decided the classification in favour of the assessee and held that DML was classifiable under Chapter Sub-Heading 3003.31. A similar view was taken by East Regional Bench of the Tribunal. However, H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 325 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the Larger Bench of the Tribunal, to which the issue of classification of A DML was referred, held that DML was classifiable under Chapter Sub- Heading 3306.10. 14.3. In the above backdrop, the second decision concerning the assessee Shree Baidyanath Ayurved Bhavan Ltd. was rendered by this Court, which has been referred to by the learned counsel for the B parties. Therein, this Court took note of the said previous decision rendered on 30.03.1995 [mentioned as the decision of Baidyanath I] and held that since the product in its composition, character and uses continued to be the same, even after insertion of new Sub-Heading 3301.30, change in classification was not justified. This Court elaborated on the twin test C for determination of classification of products (common parlance test being one of them) and also held that specific heading shall prevail over the general one. The relevant observations and expositions of this Court could be usefully reproduced as under: - “46.As a matter of fact, this Court has consistently applied D common parlance test as one of the well-recognised tests to find out whether the product falls under Chapter 30 or Chapter 33. In a recent decision in Puma Ayurvedic Herbal (P) Ltd. v. CCE [(2006) 3 SCC 266] this Court observed that in to determine whether a product is a cosmetic or medicament, a twin test (common parlance test being one of them) has found E favour with the courts. This is what this Court observed: (SCC pp. 269-70, para 2) “2. … In to determine whether a product is a cosmetic or a medicament a twin test has found favour with the courts. The test has approval of this Court also F vide CCE v. Richardson Hindustan Ltd. [(2004) 9 SCC 156] There is no dispute about this as even the Revenue accepts that the test is determinative for the issue involved. The tests are: I. Whether the item is commonly understood as a G medicament which is called the common parlance test. For this test it will have to be seen whether in common parlance the item is accepted as a medicament. If a product falls in the category of medicament it will not be an item of common use. A user will use it only for treating a particular ailment and will H 326 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A stop its use after the ailment is cured. The approach of the consumer towards the product is very material. One may buy any of the ordinary soaps available in the market. But if one has a skin problem, he may have to buy a medicated soap. Such a soap will not be an ordinary cosmetic.