The Federal Court observed at the outset that this question is substantially one of fact, to be determined with reference to the act complained of and the attendant circumstances. The Federal Court then referred by way E of analogy to a number of rulings under Section 197 of the Code and held as follows:- “The reported decisions on the application of sec. 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code are not by any means uniform. In most of them, the actual conclusion will probably be found to be F unexceptionable, in view of the facts of each ease; but, in some, the test has been laid down in terms which it is difficult to accept as exhaustive or correct. Much the same may be said even of decisions pronounced in England, on the language, of similar statutory provisions (see observations in Booth v. Clive . It does G not seem to me necessary to review in detail the decisions given under sec. 197 of the Criminal Procedure Code which may roughly be classified as falling into three groups, so far as they attempted to state something in the nature of a 3 1939 SCC OnLine FC 2 H 38 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A test. In one group of cases, it is insisted that there must be something in the nature of the act complained of that attaches it to the official character of the person doing it: cf. In re Sheik Abdul Khadir Saheb ; Kamisetty Raja Rao v. Ramaswamy, AmanatAli v. King-emperor, King- Emperor v. Maung Bo Maung and Gurushidayya B Shantivirayya Kulkarni v. King-Emperor. In another group, more stress has been laid on the circumstance that the official character or status of the accused gave him the opportunity to commit the offence. It seems to me that the first is the correct view. In the third group of cases, stress C is laid almost exclusively on the fact that it was at a time when the accused was engaged in his official duty that the alleged offence was said to have been committed [see Gangaraju v. Venki , quoting from Mitra’s Commentary on the (criminal Procedure Code). The use of the expression “while acting” etc., in sec. 197 of the Criminal D Procedure Code (particularly its introduction by way of amendment in 1923) has been held to lend some support to this view. While I do not wish to ignore the significance of the time factor, it does not seem to me right to make it the test. To take an illustration suggested in the course of E the argument, if a medical officer, while on duty in the hospital, is alleged to have committed rape on one of the patients or to have stolen a jewel from the patient’s person, it is difficult to believe that it was the intention of the Legislature that he could not be prosecuted for such offences except with the previous sanction of the Local F Government” 37. It is seen from the portion of the decision extracted above that the Federal Court categorised in Dr. Hori Ram Singh (supra), the decisions given under Section 197 of the Code into three groups namely (i)cases where it was held that there must be something G in the nature of the act complained of that attaches it to the official character of the person doing it;(ii) cases where more stress has been laid on the circumstance that the official character or status of the accused gave him the opportunity to commit the offence; and (iii) cases where stress is laid almost H exclusively on the fact that it was at a time when the accused A. SRINIVASULU v. THE STATE REP. BY THE INSPECTOR OF 39 POLICE [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.]