9. This court vide the dated 24.07.2009 had issued notice. Thereafter, the appeals were admitted on 10.12.2010. 10. Respondents have fi led counter affi davit through Mr. Yashpal Sharma. After narrating the facts, respondents have supported the and passed by the CESTAT while controverting all the contentions raised by the appellant. Respondents have, therefore, sought for dismissal of the appeals. 11. Mr. Rupesh Kumar, learned counsel for the appellant has assailed the and of CESTAT. He has asserted that the appellant was justifi ed in determining the value of the imported goods under Rule 8 of the Customs Valuation Rules on the basis of the declared value of the goods mentioned in the export declarations fi led by the supplier which were obtained from the Hong Kong customs authority. The invoices presented by the respondents before the customs authority did not represent genuine and actual transaction. 11.1. The price declared in the invoice was much lower than the value declared in the export declarations fi led in Hong Kong. Since it did not refl ect the correct transaction value, the value appearing in the import invoices did not fulfi l the criteria of Section 14(1) of the Customs Act and Rule 4 of the Customs Valuation Rules as per which the transaction value of the imported goods is the price actually paid or payable when sold for export to India. 186 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 11.2. He submits that the export declarations fi led by the foreign supplier before the Hong Kong customs authority was not the sole basis for increasing the value of the subject goods. There were suffi cient materials on record to prove under valuation. Both Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma, director of the supplier fi rm and Mr. Yashpal Sharma, proprietor of the importer, in their statements under Section 108 of the Customs Act had admitted under valuation. In his statement, Mr. Yashpal Sharma had stated that the supplier M/s Arise Enterprises, Hong Kong belonged to his co-brother Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma. Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma used to send the goods on his own and that he had never sent any written or oral for supply. As and when M/s Arise Enterprises would dispatch the goods, Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma would inform Mr. Yashpal Sharma over telephone to whom the goods were to be sold, in what quantity and at what price. Thereafter, he used to sell the goods at the settled price and receive the payments. He had stated that he was not aware of the actual price of the goods imported from Hong Kong. The amount of payment as per the import documents were sent by him to Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma through banking channel and the balance amount he used to handover to Mr. Suresh Chandra Sharma whenever he visited India. 11.3. Learned counsel has highlighted the fact that the supplier in Hong Kong and the importer in India were related parties. Therefore, the contention that the foreign supplier had fi led another set of export declarations wherein the price shown in the invoices matched with that shown in the import documents in India was an afterthought to frustrate the proceedings initiated by the customs authority.