While considering the apology and its acceptance, the court inter alia considers: (a) the conduct of the contemnor prior and subsequent to the tendering of apology. If the conduct is contemptuous, prejudicial and has harmed the system and other innocent persons as a whole, it would be a factor which would weigh against the contemnors; and (b) the stage and time when such apology is tendered. (Emphasis supplied) 109. In the case of Sevakram (supra), it was held that an apology neither purges nor washes away the act of contempt and at best it is a BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1131 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] mitigating circumstance while considering the consequential following fi nding of contempt having been committed. The relevant portion is produced hereunder: "46. The various decisions referred to by both parties need not detain us for long inasmuch as there is no distinction on principle in the decided cases. An apology is not a weapon of defence. Apology neither purges nor washes away an act of contempt. It is at best a mitigating circumstance while considering the consequential s to be made, once a person is found to have committed Contempt of Court, civil or criminal. It is a factor relevant to be considered while devising the fi nal to be made against the contemner. An apology can only be considered which is in real sense remorseful and to the satisfaction of the Court as a contrition by the respondents. Ordinarily, belated apologies are considered to be off ered more out of fear of punishment than with a sense of contrition. But merely because the apology has been tendered, not at the fi rst instance, but at a later stage, by itself cannot be a ground for not considering it. Had it been so, proviso to Sec. 12 which makes it possible even after sentence of punishment has been made, to remit the same on considering the apology given thereafter. In short, whether an apology tendered at any stage of the proceedings is to be considered as mitigating circumstances or not depends on facts and circumstances of that case and that principle is not inhibited by any precedent. The precedents serve as guidelines." (Emphasis supplied) 110. The Constitution Bench of this Court in M.Y. Shareef and another v. Hon'ble Judges of the Nagpur High Court and others reported in AIR 1955 SC 19 observed thus: “10. The proposition is well settled and self-evident that there cannot be both justifi cation and an apology. The two things are incompatible. Again an apology is not a weapon of defence to purge the guilty of their off ence; nor is it intended to operate as a universal panacea, but it is intended to be evidence of real contriteness. The appellants having tendered an unqualifi ed apology, no exception can be taken to the decision of the High Court that the application for transfer 1132 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. did constitute contempt because the judges were scandalized with a view to diverting the due course of justice, and that in signing this application the two advocates were guilty of contempt.