In this way, the State governs the conduct of society by regulating sexual conduct in a marital relationship. 135. Another manner in which the State intended to regulate social by regulating marriage is by placing marriage at the centre of property devolutions. Ownership and control over property was viewed as being important for the establishment of a just social . One of the reasons for the establishment of a social contract for the creation of a State by which individuals gave up their right to live as unregulated free individuals in exchange of protection of their rights and freedom is for safeguarding of property rights. 136. There must be rules for the devolution of property to avoid confl icts. These rules may vary in nature. Societies may establish rules for a common property system, or private property system, or a mixture of both. These legal rules have two primary components which concern how the title over the property is secured and how the title further devolves in case of intestate succession. Legal rules for the devolution of title are premised on marriage in modern societies. 137. Brian H Bix in the paper “State interest and Marriage” argues that there is suffi cient material to establish that the State regulates marriage to respond to the special interests of specifi c social groups.124 It has been argued that the propertied classes wanted to reduce any uncertainty about succession, which may have arisen because of a lack of clarity regarding the line of succession. It has also been argued that noble families desired 123 Section 27(1)(ii) of the SMA 124 Brian H Bix, State Interest and Marriage- The Theoretical perspective, (2003) 32 HOFSTRA L. REV. 93 132 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to prevent their children’s marriages with partners of lower social status. Irrespective of whether the State regulated marriage to further entrench the existing social or to transform the existing social based on constitutional values, it is clear that property also plays a prominent role in the regulation of marriage. 138. The second reason for the State to be involved in the regulation of personal relationships was to remodel society, premised on the constitutional value of equality. A constitutional premised on equality, dignity, and autonomy would be unworkable if personal relationships which are the building blocks of a just society are grounded on values that are antithetical to the Constitution. The Constitution declares that there shall be no discrimination on the grounds of religion, race, caste, and sex. How would it be a just society if on the one hand the Constitution declares that there shall be no discrimination, and on the other hand, inter-faith and inter- caste relationships bear the brunt of a brutal society through ostracization and “honour” killings or caste-based murders? How just would society really be if in spite of the constitutional guarantees of equality of women in public posts and educational institutions, they suff er patriarchal attitudes in the private sphere? 139. The State regulates marriage to create a space of equal living where neither caste, religion, and sex prevent any person from forming bonds for eternity nor do they contribute to the creation of an unequal relationship.