15. Going by the material collected during investigation, it is manifest that the incident had the undertones of a political rivalry. At this stage, we may note that though learned counsel for the appellants gave up the challenge to the charge framed against the accused appellants for the off ence punishable under Section 307 IPC but the fact remains that when the witness Rinku Thakur who alleged that he was shot upon by the accused Vinod Upadhyay, was medically examined, no corresponding gun shot injury was observed on his person. SHASHIKANT SHARMA & ORS. v. STATE OF UTTAR 1073 PRADESH & ANR. [SANDEEP MEHTA, J.] 16. Be that as it may, as per the highest case of prosecution, the only off ence under IPC punishable with imprisonment of 10 years or more being the off ence under Section 307 IPC has been applied on the basis of the gun shot allegedly fi red by the accused Vinod Upadhyay upon Rinku Thakur, which admittedly did not result into any corresponding injury. After perusal of the entire material on record,we have no hesitation in concluding that from the admitted case set up by the prosecution, there is no such allegation that the off ence under IPC punishable with imprisonment of 10 years or more was committed by an accused of upper caste upon a person belonging to the Scheduled Caste community with the knowledge that such person belonged to the said community. 17. Hence, there is merit in the contention of learned counsel representing the appellants that prima facie ingredients of the off ence punishable under Section 3(2)(v) of the SC/ST Act are not made out from the admitted allegations of prosecution and to this extent, the charge framed against the accused appellants is groundless. 18. Resultantly, the impugned s to the extent of charge framed against the accused appellants for the off ence punishable under Sections 3(2) (v) of the SC/ST Act and the rejecting the appeal cannot be sustained and are hereby quashed and set aside. However, the trial of the accused for the remaining off ences shall continue. The accused appellants already stand released on bonds as indicated in the dated 19th May, 2023 passed by this Court. The bonds so submitted shall enure till conclusion of the trial. The non-bailable warrants issued against the accused by the trial Court are hereby quashed. As a consequence of quashing of the charge for the off ence punishable under the SC/ST Act, and since the remaining charges are for the off ences punishable under IPC, the trial of the case shall stand transferred from the Special Court to the Court of Sessions having jurisdiction to try the case. 19. The appeal stands allowed as above. 20. Pending applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Ankit Gyan