45. Article 243 (k) is part of Part IX of the Constitution, which was inserted by the Constitution (Seventy Third) Amendment Act, 1992. Part IX deals with the panchayats. Article 243 (k) reads as follows: C “243K. Elections to the Panchayats The superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of electoral rolls for, and the conduct of, all elections to the Panchayats shall be vested in a State Election Commission consisting of a State Election Commissioner to be appointed by the Governor. D (2) Subject to the provisions of any law made by the Legislature of a State the conditions of service and tenure of office of the State Election Commissioner shall be such as the Governor may by rule determine: Provided that the State Election Commissioner shall not be removed from his office except in like manner and on E the like ground as a Judge of a High Court and the conditions of service of the State Election Commissioner shall not be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment. (3) The Governor of a State shall, when so requested by the State Election Commission, make available to the State Election F Commission such staff as may be necessary for the discharge of the functions conferred on the State Election Commission by clause (1). (4) Subject to the provisions of this Constitution, the Legislature G of a State may, by law, make provision with respect to all matters relating to, or in connection with, elections to the Panchayats.” 46. Article 243(k)(1) contemplates the appointment of the State Election Commissioner to be made by the Governor. Article 243(k)(2) contemplates that the conditions of service and the tenure of the State H Election Commissioner is to be such as may be made by the Governor ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 61 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] by Rule and this is, however, made subject to the provisions of any law A made by the Legislature of a State. It is, no doubt, again true that the Parliament, while inserting Article 243K, has partly insulated the State Election Commissioner by providing that he shall not be removed from Office except in like manner and on like ground as a Judge of the High Court. Similarly, in the proviso to Article 243K(2), the conditions of service B of the State Election Commissioner cannot be varied to his disadvantage after his appointment. It must be noticed that Parliament was aware of the mandate of Article 324(2) when it inserted Article 243. Parliament has carefully chosen not to provide for the making of any law as regards the appointment of the State Election Commissioner. In fact, this may leave no choice for a Court to step-in and provide for the matter of C appointment as regards the State Election Commissioner. However, we need not explore the matter further having regard to the stark contrast between Article 243K on the one hand and Article 324(2) on the other. As far as the conditions and tenure forming the subject matter of a law to be made by the Legislature of the State, we would think that in keeping D with the position and the subject matter of Article 243K(2), it may not be apposite to project Article 243K(2) as a premise to reject the request of the petitioners to place the interpretation on Article 324(2), if it is otherwise justified.