30. At the same time, under Section 28, for the purpose of F conducting any preliminary inquiry or investigation, it is open for the Lokayukta to utilize the services of any officer or organization or investigation agency of the Government and, in the circumstances, if the appellant in its judicious discretion and on the facts and circumstances of the case, conduct a preliminary inquiry through an agency of the G Government of which reference has been made under Section 28 through the Directorate of Vigilance, Cuttack, there appears no legal infirmity being committed by the appellant in the decision-making process in conducting a preliminary inquiry which, in our view, was within the scope and ambit of Section 20(1) of the Act, 2014 and a manifest error was committed by the Division Bench of the High Court while setting aside H 574 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A the of the appellant dated 11th December, 2020 to conduct an inquiry against respondent no.1. 31. It is not a case of the respondents that respondent no.1 is not a public servant or the Act, 2014 is not applicable to him or the Lokayukta in its jurisdiction was not competent to conduct a preliminary inquiry B under Section 20(1) of the Act, 2014. In the given facts and circumstances, the finding returned by the Division Bench of the High Court under the impugned, in our view, is not legally sustainable. 32. During the course of submissions made by the parties, it was informed that after the stay was granted by this Court of the C impugned dated 3rd February, 2021, the appellant has proceeded in conducting further inquiry and actions are being taken after the Directorate of Vigilance has submitted a preliminary inquiry report to the Lokayukta under Section 20(3)(a) to carry out investigation and steps are taken by the Directorate of Vigilance in summitting a report of investigation before the appellant on 7th June, 2022. D 33. Although we may not appreciate the action of the appellant in taking further steps when there was stay of the impugned passed by this Court, but at the same time, we granted an opportunity to the respondents as well to justify if the action taken by the appellant is not in conformity with the mandate of the Act, 2014, but from the written E submissions placed before us, we do not find any valid objection being raised by the respondents which may call upon this Court to interfere in furtherance of the action being taken by the appellant after the preliminary inquiry report was submitted pursuant to dated 11th December, 2020. Still we leave it open to respondent no.1, if further action taken by the appellant is not in conformity with law, he is at liberty to initiate F proceedings as admissible to him under the law. 34. So far as the objection raised by the respondents regarding the action of conducting preliminary inquiry being bias for the reason that the Deputy Superintendent of Police of the Directorate of Vigilance has submitted a complaint and the appellant directed the Directorate of G Vigilance to conduct a preliminary inquiry by an dated 11th December, 2020, which, in fact, was conducted by a senior officer of the Directorate of Vigliance i.e.