B Thus, the entries on levy of taxes are specifically mentioned. Therefore, per se, there cannot be a conflict of taxation power of Union and the State. Contentions on behalf of the Union of India: C 12. In this context, learned ASG appearing for Union of India Sri Natraj submitted that there is a two-fold restriction on the field in which the Assam State Legislature can enact a law as far as medical education is concerned: the first is that any State law dealing with medical education must be subject to Entry 66 of List I which deals with coordination and determination of standards. That any law to be made by the Assam D State Legislature or for that matter any State Legislature in the context of education, particularly, medical education would be subjected to Entry 66 of List I. The second restriction on a law to be made by a State Legislature is in exercise of its concurrent power with Parliament under Entry 25 of List III which must not be a law which is repugnant to a E Central Legislation and that the parameters of Article 254 would apply accordingly. He contended that even before testing the validity of a legislation made under Entry 25 of List III, it is necessary to, in the first instance, consider as to whether the State Legislation impinges upon any Central law which is in the realm of coordination and determination of standards as envisaged in Entry 66 of List I. According to him, if that F is so, then the law made by the Parliament is the Central law which in pith and substance is within the four corners of Entry 66 of List I and would supersede any law made by a State legislature as per Entry 25 of List III. But if an enactment does not trench upon the subject mentioned in Entry 66 of List I and a State Legislature enacts such a law within the G legislative competence of Entry 25 of List III in such a case the only test to be applied is whether such a State Legislation is repugnant to any Central Legislation which has also been made relatable to Entry 25 of List III. If that is so, then the State Legislation being repugnant to the Central law would be null and void unless it has received presidential assent as envisaged under sub-clause (2) of Article 254 of the Constitution. H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 951 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 13. Sri Natraj contended that, in the instant case, the IMC Act, A 1956 is an enactment, which in pith and substance is, within the four corners of Entry 66 of List I and is a Central Legislation in the mater of coordination and determination of standards in medical education applicable throughout the Country and hence, the State Law which is in direct conflict with the Central Law cannot muster constitutionality. B Hence, it must fail and be declared null and void.