…….What has to be proved against a person who is alleged to be a member of an unlawful assembly is that he was one of the persons constituting the assembly and he entertained along with the other members of the assembly the common object as defi ned by Section 141 IPC. Section 142 provides that whoever, being aware of facts which render any assembly an unlawful assembly, intentionally joins that assembly, or continues in it, is said to be a member of an unlawful assembly. In other words, an assembly of fi ve or more persons actuated by, and entertaining one or more of the common objects specifi ed by the fi ve clauses of Section 141, is an unlawful assembly. The crucial question to determine in such a case is whether the assembly consisted of fi ve or more persons and whether the said persons entertained one or more of the common objects as specifi ed by Section 141. While determining this question, it becomes relevant to consider whether the assembly consisted of some persons who were merely passive witnesses and had joined the assembly as a matter of idle curiosity without intending to entertain the common object of the assembly. It is in that context that the observations made by this Court in the case of Baladin [AIR 1956 SC 181] assume signifi cance; otherwise, in law, it would not be correct to say that before a person is held to be a member of an unlawful assembly, it must be shown that he had committed some illegal overt act or had been guilty of some illegal omission in pursuance of the common object of the assembly. In fact, Section 149 makes it clear that if an off ence is committed by any member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object of that assembly, or such as the members of that assembly knew to 2 [1964] 8 SCR 133 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. be likely to be committed in prosecution of that object, every person who, at the time of the committing of that off ence, is a member of the same assembly, is guilty of that off ence; and that emphatically brings out the principle that the punishment prescribed by Section 149 is in a sense vicarious and does not always proceed on the basis that the off ence has been actually committed by every member of the unlawful assembly……..” 14. It could thus clearly be seen that the Constitution Bench has held that it is not necessary that every person constituting an unlawful assembly must play an active role for convicting him with the aid of Section 149 of IPC. What has to be established by the prosecution is that a person has to be a member of an unlawful assembly, i.e. he has to be one of the persons constituting the assembly and that he had entertained the common object along with the other members of the assembly, as defi ned under Section 141 of IPC.