Therefore, signature is not a formal requirement under Section 7(4)(b) or 7(4)(c) or under Section 7(5) of the Act.” C 82. When it comes to Section 7(4)(c), what is constituted as an Arbitration Agreement as being in writing is an exchange of Statement of Claims and Defence, wherein the existence of an agreement is alleged by one party and not denied by another. There must however be ‘an agreement’, the allegation of the existence of which remains unrefuted. D Since, Section 7(1) defines an arbitration agreement to be one, under which, parties submit ‘all’ or ‘certain disputes’, which have arisen or will arise, such an agreement must be alleged to exist and the allegation must remain undenied. The formation of such an agreement must necessarily be tested with reference to the indispensable requirements, E such as, competency to contract and presence of sound mind. 83. All that we are holding is, an Arbitration Agreement must satisfy the requirements in Section 7(1) and, therefore, it must be an agreement. Sans an agreement, there cannot be a reference to arbitration. While Justice Hrishikesh Roy is right in holding that Section F 10 of the Contract Act recognises oral agreements and that a written agreement is a sine qua non for a valid Arbitration Agreement, Section 10 of the Contract Act, it must be noticed, in the second part, provides that nothing contained in the first part, would affect any law, which, inter alia, requires that any contract is required to be made in writing. Section 7(3) of the Act which insists that an arbitration agreement must be in G writing harmonises with Section 10 of the Contract Act. 84. We would think that whenever an Arbitration Agreement, as defined in Section 7 of the Act, also attracts stamp duty under the Stamp Act, then, the provisions of Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act would come into play. As held in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited(supra), if H 358 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A an Arbitration Clause constitutes the Arbitration Agreement and the instrument, viz., the instrument or contract, in which the Arbitration Clause is contained, is unstamped, when it is otherwise exigible to stamp duty, then, the provisions of Section 33 as also Section 35 of the Stamp Act would operate. The court acting under Section (11) of the Act is not free to disregard their mandate. B 85. An Arbitration Agreement, may be a Clause in an instrument, which attracts stamp duty. In such a case, the Court, acting under Section 11, is bound to act under Sections 33 and 35 of the Stamp Act, if the instrument is not stamped or insufficiently stamped. If an Arbitration Agreement is a standalone agreement and which attracts duty under the C Stamp Act, then also, the same position obtains. M. THE ALTERNATIVE PERSPECTIVE 86. In Garware (supra), the Court referred to paragraph-59 of Duro Felguera (supra) to find that, the Court in the said case, proceeded on the basis that the mischief that was sought to be remedied by the D insertion of Section 11(6A), was as contained in SBP (supra) and National Insurance (supra).