392. Article 366(21) as originally enacted and before its deletion by the Seventh Amendment contained a defi nition of the expression ‘Rajpramukh’: “(21) ‘Rajpramukh’ means— (a) in relation to the State of Hyderabad, the person who for the time being is recognised by the President as the Nizam of Hyderabad; (b) in relation to the State of Jammu and Kashmir or the State of Mysore, the person who for the time being is recognised by the President as the Maharaja of that State; and (c) in relation to any other State specifi ed in Part B of the First Schedule, the person who for the time being is recognised by the President as the Rajpramukh of that State, and includes in relation to any of the said States any person for the time being recognised by the President as competent to exercise the powers of the Rajpramukh in relation to that State,” 272 (1971) 1 SCC 85 IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 231 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 393. With the reorganization of the States in 1956 and the deletion of classifi cation of States to Part A, Part B, and Part C States, the defi nition became obsolete and was deleted. Clause (22) of Article 366 defi ned the expression ‘Ruler’ in relation to an Indian State to mean the Prince, Chief or other person by whom a covenant or agreement referred to in Article 291(1) was entered into and who, for the time being, was recognized as the Ruler of the State by the President. The defi nition extended to any person who was recognised by the President as being the successor of the Ruler. 394. Before Article 362 was repealed in 1971,273 it provided that in making laws or in exercise of their executive powers, Parliament and the Union and States shall have due regard to the guarantees or assurances given under any covenant under clause (1) of Article 291 with respect to the personal rights, privileges and dignities of the Ruler of an Indian State. The Privy Purses and the privileges of the Rulers of the Indian States were continued until 6 September 1970. The Twenty-fourth Amendment Bill for terminating the Privy Purses was moved in the Lok Sabha. While the Lok Sabha passed the Bill with a 2/3rd majority, the requisite majority was not attained in the Rajya Sabha. When the Bill to amend the Constitution to delete the Privy Purses failed to pass muster, the President issued an withdrawing recognition of all the Rulers of Indian States on 6 September 1970. This gave rise to the petitions under Article 32 of the Constitution. 395. Chief Justice M Hidayatullah, speaking for a eleven-Judge Bench, rejected the contention of the Union of India that the petitions ought to fail in view of the bar contained in Article 363 of the Constitution. This was because the petitions sought to enforce the provisions of the Constitution relating to the covenants and agreements entered into by the erstwhile Rulers.