The only exception to the rule of waiver is the existence of mala fides on the part of the Selection Board. In the instant case, no mala fide or arbitrariness is found in the selection F process and therefore the said exception cannot be invoked. [Para 13, 13.2][753-F-H; 754-A-B] 1.3 In the instant case, the entire selection of the appellants was set aside due to the non-availability of individual award rolls, despite, signed approval of the final Select List by the members G of the Board. Whether quashing the entire selection process was excessive or justified, would depend on the selection procedure adopted and whether the same is arbitrary or reveals any mala fides on the part of the selection board. [Para 14.4][755-F-G] H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 717 AND KASHMIR & ORS. 1.4. In light of the pertinent selection procedure that was A followed, it cannot be held that the same was mechanical or casual or suffered from irregularities which were so grave or arbitrary in nature so as to justify quashing the entire selection process. Further, the requirement of individual rolls being signed and verified by the members of the Selection Board cannot be traced B to any statute or rule. Therefore, the Court cannot sustain the finding of the High Court that the entire selection process was vitiated by such irregularity. The High Court was not justified in quashing and setting aside the entire selection process, more so when sixty–four candidates including the appellants had been serving on the said post for over a decade. [Para 14.6][759-H; C 760-A-B] 1.5. The expert in the Selection Board, Dr. Samina Farhat, Assistant Professor, Department of Pharmacology, was a doctor by profession with a Post Graduate degree (MD) and Ph.D. in Pharmacology to her credit. Rule 9A of the 1992 Rules provides D that the Chairman may if he feels necessary appoint a specialist in the discipline in which appointment is to be made, as a member of the selection board. In the instant case, it was submitted that a person with a qualification in the field of pharmacy would have been better suited on the panel. [Para 15][760-C-E] E 1.6. It cannot be held that a doctor by profession with a Post Graduate degree (MD) and Ph.D. in Pharmacology was in any way underqualified or unsuitable for her role on the Selection Board. In fact, a pharmacologist is more appropriate to interview the candidates for the post of drug inspector. Further, it is to be F noted that Rule 9 A provides that the Chairman may if he feels necessary appoint a specialist in the discipline in which appointment is to be made, as a member of the selection board. Similarly Rule 9 (iii) provides that the Chairman may, if he feels necessary associate with the Selection Committee expert/ specialist in the discipline in which recruitment is to be made. G The use of the word ‘may’ would indicate that the Chairman of the Board has discretion in this regard and there is no mandatory requirement to appoint on the selection panel a person having a qualification in pharmacy.