referred to in Section 94 (2)(i) is there, the inquiring body need not go to A the documents referred to in sub-clause (ii) thereof. The only caveat, implicit thereto, which has been sounded by several decisions of this Court, is that the document must inspire confidence. But lack of inspiration of the age-determining authority must come for some cogent reason and ought not to be sourced from such body’s own perception of age of the B juvenile-claimant. 38.A Constitution Bench in the case of Pratap Singh -vs- State of Jharkhand and Another [(2005) 3 SCC 551] dealing with the meaning of juvenile under the 1986 Act and the 2000 Act, held:- “12. Clause (l) of Section 2 of the 2000 Act defines “juvenile C in conflict with law” as meaning a juvenile who is alleged to have committed an offence. The notable distinction between the definitions of the 1986 Act and the 2000 Act is that in the 1986 Act “juvenile in conflict with law” is absent. The definition of delinquent juvenile in the 1986 Act as noticed D above is referable to an offence said to have been committed by him. It is the date of offence that he was in conflict with law. When a juvenile is produced before the competent authority and/or court he has not committed an offence on that date, but he was brought before the authority for the alleged offence which he has been found to have committed. E In our view, therefore, what was implicit in the 1986 Act has been made explicit in the 2000 Act.” 39. In a later decision, in the case of Jitendra Singh alias Babboo Singh and Another -vs- State of Uttar Pradesh [(2013) 11 SCC 193], this Court’s view was reflected in the following passage:- F “72. The upshot of the above discussion is that while the appellant was above 16 years of age on the date of the commission of the offence, he was certainly below 18 years and hence entitled to the benefit of the 2000 Act, no matter the later enactment was not on the statute book on the date of G the occurrence. The difficulty arises when we examine whether the trial and the resultant of conviction of the appellant would also deserve to be set aside as illegal and without jurisdiction. The conviction cannot however be set aside for more than one reason: H 1110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A 72.1. Firstly, because there was and is no challenge to the of conviction recorded by the courts below in this case either before the High Court or before us. As a matter of fact the plea of juvenility before this Court by way of an additional ground stopped short of challenging the conviction of the appellant on the ground that the court B concerned had no jurisdiction to try the appellant. 72.2. Secondly, because the fact situation in the case at hand is that on the date of the occurrence i.e.