Whether an accused had the required guilty intention or not, is a question of fact which has to be determined on the facts of each case. (11) Where the prosecution proves that the accused had the intention to cause death of any person or to cause bodily injury to him and the intended injury is suffi cient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, then, even if he infl icts a single injury which results in the death of the victim, the off ence squarely falls under Clause thirdly of Section 300 of the IPC unless one of the exceptions applies. N. RAMKUMAR v. THE STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR 859 OF POLICE [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] (12) In determining the question, whether an accused had guilty intention or guilty knowledge in a case where only a single injury is infl icted by him and that injury is suffi cient in the ordinary course of nature to cause death, the fact that the act is done without premeditation in a sudden fi ght or quarrel, or that the circumstances justify that the injury was accidental or unintentional, or that he only intended a simple injury, would lead to the inference of guilty knowledge, and the off ence would be one under Section 304 Part II of the IPC.” 20. Thus, it emerges from the case law analysed herein-above for converting the sentence imposed under Section 302 to Section 304 Part II the facts unravelled during trial will have to be seen. In the facts of the case on hand, it is discernible that there was no premeditation to cause death or the genesis of occurrence and the single assault by the accused and duration of entire episode, were factors to adjudge the intention. The off ence can be brought clearly within the ambit of Section 304 Part-II IPC. In the instant case it can be noticed that appellant and the deceased were in love with each other. The fact that deceased had stopped talking to the appellant and she was talking to her neighbour Mr. Sudhakar had ignited the mind of the appellant to be furious about the conduct of the deceased and he was upset about this change of attitude of the deceased. Even according to the testimony of PW-1, who is none other than mother of the deceased there was altercation between the appellant and the deceased and exchange of words between appellant and deceased with regard to their love aff air. On being confronted by the appellant as to why the accused had stopped talking to him and as to why she was trying to develop friendship with Sudhakar and the answer given by the deceased had resulted in appellant’s getting infuriated and in that spur of the moment he caught hold of her hair and banged her head to the wall which resulted in blood oozing out and on seeing this he ran away from the scene of the incident. Thus, the single assault by the appellant coupled with the duration of the entire period having occurred for about 2-3 minutes would not be suffi cient to infer that he had the intention to kill the deceased.