1098 SUPREME CO U [R20T2 3R]E 8P SO.RCT.RS. 1098 [2023] 8 S.C.R. A THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. (Civil Appeal No(s). 3134-3135 of 2023) B APRIL 26, 2023 [K. M. JOSEPH AND HRISHIKESH ROY, JJ.] Stamp Act, 1899 – s.27– Andhra Pradesh Act (8 of 1988) – Proviso to s.27 added – Andhra Pradesh (Amendment) Act, 1971 – s.47A – Transfer of Property Act, 1882 – s.8 – ‘immovable property’– C Exigibility of the plant and machinery to stamp duty under the Act – Second respondent auction purchased the property, at a bid of Rs.8.35 crores, consisting of land, building, civil works, plant & machinery and other assets – On the basis of direction given in C.A. No. 1203 of 2004 at the instance of the second respondent, D the Official Liquidator was accorded permission to execute the sale deed in favour of the first respondent (nominee of the second respondent) – Sale deed executed in favour of the first respondent – Respondents 1 & 2 applied for registration of the sale deed on the basis that the land and building had to be registered with the value thereof being shown as Rs.1,01,05,000/ – First appellant E informed the first respondent that due to some reasons registration was kept pending – Respondents 1 and 2 challenged the said communication – Second appellant-District Registrar directed the first respondent and the Official Liquidator to deposit stamp duty besides penalty – Writ petition filed by Respondents 1 & 2, Single F Judge of High Court remitted the matter to the second appellant – Division Bench inter alia directed the Sub-Registrar to consider the respondents’ request for registration of the lands and buildings purchased by them and determine its value on the date of presentation of the document for registration, collect the stamp duty G and registration fees thereupon – Held: From a reading of the Recital Clause in conjunction with s.8, Transfer of Property Act, the intention of the parties become self-evident that the vendor intended to convey, all things, which inter alia stood attached to the earth – Mere fact that there is no express reference to plant and machinery in the Recital Clause cannot mean that the interest in the plant and H 1098 THE SUB REGISTRAR, AMUDALAVALASA & ANR. v. M/S 1099 DANKUNI STEELS LTD. & ORS. machinery which stood attached to the land, which was scheduled, A was not conveyed to the first respondent – Sum of Rs.8.35 crores was unambiguously indicated as the total sale consideration for the asset sold to the first respondent, comprising of land, building, civil works, plant and machinery and current assets, etc – However, first respondent took out the value of the land, building and civil B works and shown it at Rs.10105000/-, indicating only the said amount as value – This was to tide over the liability to stamp duty for what was actually, in law, conveyed to the first respondent – Effort of respondents 1 & 2 was to avoid payment of the stamp duty as due in law – Division Bench erred in not noticing the true purport of the sale deed in conjunction with s.8, 1882 Act and definition of C the word ‘immovable property – The sale deed operated to convey the rights over the plant and machinery as well, which was comprised in the land scheduled in the sale deed – In the nature of the transaction, and what was actually sold by the Official Liquidator, plant and machinery, such as would answer the description of D immovable property, must also be found part of the property for the purpose of the stamp duty and other charges as per law – First respondent is liable in law as vendee to pay the stamp duty – Impugned set aside – of the Single Judge restored subject to the modification that the direction to the second E appellant to give the benefit of GoMS dtd.07.02.2001 is set aside – Second appellant will ascertain the value of plant and machinery – It will also go into the question, whether the first respondent would be entitled to the benefit of the exemption of stamp duty, etc., as claimed and make available the exemption, if entitled in law – Registration Act, 1908 – General Clauses Act, 1897.