[2023] 10 S.C.R. 1033 : 2023 INSC 614 1033 PRITINDER SINGH @ LOVELY A v. THE STATE OF PUNJAB (Criminal Appeal No. 1635 of 2010) JULY 05, 2023 B [B. R. GAVAI AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] Evidence – Circumstantial evidence – As per the prosecution, two days prior to the date of the incident, a dispute allegedly arose between the deceased-complainant’s brother and their step mother C wherein she allegedly threatened the deceased that he would not survive – Two days after, the appellants (the step mother along with the co-accused) came in a car and took the deceased on the pretext of purchasing shoes, when the complainant was also present in the house and allegedly noticed that the step mother was carrying her 12 bore double barrel licensed gun in the car – Later, dead body of D the deceased was found bearing two gunshot wounds – The car in which the appellants and the deceased were travelling was also found with the gun kept inside, along with the cartridges – Appellants were convicted u/s.302 r/w s.34, IPC and sentenced to life imprisonment – Correctness of – Held:The present is a case E based on circumstantial evidence – In view of the serious doubt with regard to the credibility of the witnesses on the issue of extra- judicial confession and last seen theory, the failure to examine Ballistic Expert would be a glaring defect in the prosecution case – Prosecution failed to prove thecase beyond reasonable doubt – Appellants entitled to benefit of doubt – of the High Court F and the Trial Court quashed and set aside – Penal Code, 1860 – s.302 r/w s.34. Criminal Law – Law with respect to conviction in the case of circumstantial evidence – Discussed. G Evidence – Circumstantial evidence – Law of extra-judicial confession – Discussed. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 The prosecution case mainly rests on the testimony of (PW-2), ex-Sarpanch of village Maluka insofar as H 1033 1034 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A extra-judicial confession is concerned. Insofar as the last seen theory is concerned, the prosecution relies on the evidence of complainant TS(PW-3), step-son of appellant MK and the statement of JS (PW9). The evidence of Dr. RKG (PW-5), Medical Expert who has conducted the autopsy and SI AS (PW-11) would also be relevant. From the evidence of PW-2, it cannot be said B that the extra-judicial confession is one which could be found to be credible. There appears to be no reason as to why the accused persons would go 100 kms. away and confess to him. Apart from that, his conduct also appears to be unnatural. Though IO AS (PW-11) was known to him and the telephone which was installed C in his house was in a working condition, he did not find it necessary to inform him through telephone. The courts below have erred in relying on the extra-judicial confession made to PW-2. [Paras 9 and 13][1040-G-H; 1044-E-G] 1.2 With respect to another circumstantial evidence, i.e.