Justice G.P. Singh in his treatise3 has observed E thus: 4. REGARD TO CONSEQUENCES If the language used is capable of hearing more than one construction, in selecting the true meaning, regard. Must be had to the consequences resulting from adopting the alternative F constructions. A construction that results in hardship, serious inconvenience, injustice, absurdity, or anomaly or which leads to inconsistency or uncertainty and friction in the system which the statute purports to regulate has to be rejected and preference should be given to that construction which avoids such results. G g. This observation was quoted with approval by the Supreme Court in paragraph 17 of its decision in D. Saibaba v Bar Council of India & Anr.4. 3 12th Edition of ‘Principles of Statutory Interpretation’ at page 131 4 (2003) 6 SCC 186 H 992 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A h. Therefore, the aforementioned observation would also lend support to the submission of the appellants in as much as it would be more convenient for litigants within the territory of the common High Court to approach the Gauhati High Court for seeking transfer. 7. Mr. Goswami also cited three other decisions. The first is a B decision of the larger bench of the Gauhati High Court in Megha Jain vs. Kartik Jain5. This decision has overruled Pomi Sengupta (supra), on which the impugned and is premised. The second is a decision of the (undivided) Andhra Pradesh High Court in Chalasani Deepthi vs. Chalasani Krishna Chaitanya6and the last a decision of the Bombay High Court in Irene Blanch Khera vs. Glenn John Vijay7. C 8. Based on his aforesaid submissions, Mr. Goswami urged us to set aside the under challenge and to remit the matter to the Gauhati High Court for fresh consideration of the application of the appellants under section 24 of the CPC. In the alternative, he submitted that the application under section 25 may be considered by us on its own merits. D CONTENTIONS OF THE RESPONDENTS 1 TO 3 9. Opposing the appeal, Mr. Balgopal, learned senior counsel for the State of Nagaland and its officers, contended as follows: a. A brief issue with regard to the scope and ambit of section 24 E vis-à-vis section 25 of the CPC has arisen before this Court in the instant case in view of the peculiar circumstances wherein two States share a common High Court as provided under Article 231 of the Constitution of India. b. Section 24(1)(b), CPC gives power to the High Court to F withdraw any suit, appeal or other proceeding pending in any court subordinate to it and to transfer the same for trial or disposal to any Court subordinate to it which is competent to try or dispose of the same. As the State of Nagaland does not have a separate High Court, consequently all courts functioning in the State of Nagaland are subordinate to the Gauhati High Court, being the common High Court G for the States of Assam, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh.