Issue Nos. (ii), (iii) and (iv) are answered in the above terms. Issue No. (v): 35. A plain reading of the 2014 Rules and the advertisement would indicate that possession of one year diploma in Computer Science/ Computer 28 (2019) 8 SCC 587 ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 853 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] Application/ Information Technology from a recognised University/ Institution is an essential qualifi cation which must be possessed by a candidate desirous of appointment on the post concerned. The High Court has also not treated the same as a non-essential qualifi cation. In this view of the matter, we reject the argument that requirement to hold one year diploma in the specifi ed courses was not an essential qualifi cation. Issue No. (v) is decided accordingly. Issue No. (vi): 36. The 2014 Rules as well as the advertisement in clear terms prescribed the essential qualifi cation as follows: “(i) 10 +2 from a recognised Board of School Education/ University. (ii) One year Diploma in Computer Science/ Computer Application/ Information Technology from a recognised University/ Institution. (iii) Computer typing speed of 30 words per minute in English or 25 words per minute in Hindi OR (i) 10 +2 from a recognised Board of School Education/ University. (ii) “O” or “A” level Diploma from National Institute of Electronics & Information Technology (NIELET) (iii) Computer typing speed of 30 words per minute in English or 25 words per minute in Hindi” 37. Neither the 2014 Rules nor the advertisement recognises any other, or higher qualifi cation, meeting the eligibility criteria specifi ed therein. In a somewhat similar situation, in Zahoor Ahmad Rather (supra), this Court held: “26. ………….. Absent such a rule, it would not be permissible to draw an inference that a higher qualifi cation necessarily presupposes the acquisition of another, albeit lower, qualifi cation. The prescription of 854 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. qualifi cations for a post is a matter of recruitment policy. The State as the employer is entitled to prescribe the qualifi cations as a condition of eligibility. It is no part of the role or function of judicial review to expand upon the ambit of the prescribed qualifi cations. Similarly, equivalence of a qualifi cation is not a matter which can be determined in exercise of the power of judicial review. Whether a particular qualifi cation should or should not be regarded as equivalent is a matter for the State, as the recruiting authority, to determine. The decision in Jyoti K.K. [Jyoti K.K. v. Kerala Public Service Commission, (2010) 15 SCC 596 : (2013) 3 SCC (L&S) 664] turned on a specifi c statutory rule under which the holding of a higher qualifi cation could presuppose the acquisition of a lower qualifi cation. The absence of such a rule in the present case makes a crucial diff erence to the ultimate outcome. ….. 27. While prescribing the qualifi cations for a post, the State, as employer, may legitimately bear in mind several features including the nature of the job, the aptitudes requisite for the effi cient discharge of duties, the functionality of a qualifi cation and the content of the course of studies which leads up to the acquisition of a qualifi cation.