On 8 May 2008, the Government of G India issued another memorandum on similar lines. On 9 August 2016, the Ministry of AYUSH issued a circular responding to the clarification sought by the States on the procurement of AYUSH medicines from IMPCL. The circular stipulates that the States ‘may’ procure Ayurvedic and Unani Medicines from IMPCL. On 7 December 2016, the Ministry of AYUSH issued a circular stating that the procurement guidelines under H 494 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A NAM also allow for the purchase of medicines from PSUs and pharmacies of the State Governments and co-operatives that have their own manufacturing units and are GMP compliant. It was thus stated that the States may also procure Essential Ayurvedic Medicines directly from Oushadhi (A Kerala Government owned Ayurvedic medicine manufacturing unit) subject to the condition that medicines have to be B provided within the rates of IMPCL. 24. On 2 January 2019, the Ministry of AYUSH issued a notification14 in supersession of the notification dated 7 December 2016. While stipulating that the procurement of medicines is the ‘prerogative’ of the State Government, the notification stated that the following C guidelines have to be observed: (i) Essential drugs have to be procured from the Essential Drugs List (EDL) published by the Ministry of AYUSH; (ii) At least 50 percent of the grant-in-aid has to be used to procure medicines from IMPCL or other Central/State D PSUs’ or pharmacies under the State-Governments and Co- operatives; (iii) The remaining grant-in-aid may be used for procuring the medicines from other units that have valid manufacturing licenses; and E (iv) The medicines have to be manufactured in their own manufacturing units and must be GMP compliant. 25. Thus, the letter which was issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare in 1994 stating that Ayurvedic medicines F must be procured only from IMPCL is superseded by the latest notification issued by the Ministry of AYUSH in 2019 which stipulates thatparagraph 4(vi)(b) of the Operational Guidelines does not differentiate between the units mentioned in the provision. Paragraph 4(vi)(b) does not stipulate that IMPCLwill have a higher standing as compared to other manufacturing units of the State Governments and cooperatives G mentioned in the paragraph. The position of the Ministry of AYUSH as evidenced by the 2019 notification is that 50 percent of the grant-in-aid shall be used to procure medicines from any of the establishments specified in the paragraph. This conclusion is substantiated by the use of H 14 “2019 Notification” M/S IMPCL v. KERALA AYURVEDIC CO OPERATIVE SOCIETY LTD. 495 & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] the phrase ‘or’ in paragraph 4(vi)(b) - IMPCL ‘or’ from PSUs’, A pharmacies under State Governments and co-operatives. Thus, on a plain reading of paragraph 4(vi)(b), it is evident that all the units mentioned in the paragraph are placed at an equal footing. The provision does not create a gradation amongst the manufacturing units mentioned in the paragraph. Nor does it evince an intent to create a monopoly.