C (iii) That there was no delegation of the power of the State Government under section 5A to the Commissioner and hence, the decision for acquisition of land under section 5A is not by a proper authority. Therefore, the acquisition is vitiated. D 4.3 It is contended that in the present case the date of publication of final scheme under section 50(7) is 08.06.1984. No steps were taken by the IDA to implement the scheme for approximately three years, except engaging in so called negotiations with the original land owners to acquire the land by mutual consent. The notification under Section 4 E of the Land Acquisition Act (LA Act) was issued on 24.07.1987 and the declaration under Section 6 of the LA Act was made on 03.10.1988. It is submitted that the award came to be declared under Section 11 of the LA Act on 06.03.1991. That therefore, when the final scheme No. 97 was published on 08.06.1984, the IDA was expected to “implement” the scheme within the period of three years from the said date. F 4.4 It is further contended that the word “implement” appearing in section 54 of the Adhiniyam must be understood narrowly and must therefore, mean full and complete implementation. It is submitted that in any case, the word “implement” ought to be understood to mean “substantial implementation.” G 4.5 It is submitted that in the present case, the learned Single Judge did not accept the narrow view and proceeded to test the actions of the IDA on the “substantial implementation” principle. It is submitted that the High Court has found that sending a request for acquisition of H 100 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A land, four days before the deadline did not satisfy the “substantial implementation” test. 4.6 It is next submitted that the word “implement” appearing in Section 54 ought to be interpreted purposively looking at the purpose of the said section along with the other provisions of the Adhiniyam. B 4.7 It is further contended with regard to Section 54 on non- implementation of the scheme as under: - (a) That Section 54 must be understood as the time-cap for the restriction provided in section 53. It is submitted that, section 53 places a restriction on land owners whose lands have been notified C to be part of a Town Development scheme to carry out development of this land. That such restriction cannot be for an unlimited duration and hence section 54 gives the maximum period of three years up to which such restrictions can continue. (b) While the restrictions under section 53 are in place, substantial D steps are required to be taken for “acquisition” of land either by agreement or under the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. (c) The manner of acquisition has been provided under Section 56 of the Act and Rule 19 of the then existing M.P. Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Niyam, 1975, prescribes the steps to be taken in the E process of acquisition. Section 56 provides two modes of acquisition: - (i) Proceed to acquire by agreement, and (ii) On failure to acquire by agreement, proceed to acquire under the Land Acquisition Act.