The D Court went on to hold, inter alia, as follows: “11. It is seen that the open lands, vested in the Municipality, were meant for the public amenity to the residents of the locality to maintain ecology, sanitation, recreation, playground and ventilation purposes. The buildings directed to be constructed necessarily E affect the health and the environment adversely, sanitation and other effects on the residents in the locality. Therefore, the passed by the Government and the action taken pursuant thereto by the Municipality would clearly defeat the purpose of the scheme. Shri D.V. Sehgal, learned Senior Counsel, again contended that two decades have passed by and that, therefore, F the Municipality is entitled to use the land for any purpose. We are unable to accept the self-destructive argument to put a premium on inaction. The land having been taken from the citizens for a public purpose, the Municipality is required to use the land for the protection or preservation of hygienic conditions of the local residents in particular and the people in general and not for any G other purpose. Equally acceptance of the argument of Shri V.C. Mahajan encourages pre-emptive action and conduct, deliberately chartered out to frustrate the proceedings and to make the result 57 (1995) 2 SCC 577 H ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1119 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] fait accompli. We are unable to accept the argument of fait A accompli on the touchstone of prospective operation of our .” 107. This Court also distinguished Yogendra Pal (supra) in this regard. 108. There is a contention of the appellants and the writ petitioners B that, at any rate, the law is an expropriatory legislation. This is for the reason that it operates to deprive a person of his land without his consent. [See in this regard Chairman, Indore Vikas Pradhikaran (supra), which has discussed this aspect elaborately.] For reasons already given and to follow, we are unable to agree. C 109. We agree that the law, undoubtedly, is that the planning law cannot be interpreted as justifying an inroad into the rights of a private person to construct a suitable building for the purpose of carrying on his business. 110. In Ravindra Ramchandra Waghmare v. Indore Municipal D Corporation and others58, after an elaborate reference to Chairman, Indore Vikas Pradhikaran (supra) and K.T. Plantations (supra), this Court, inter alia, held as follows: “76. …It is apparent from the aforesaid dictum that Article 300-A enables the State to put restrictions on the right by law but the E same should not be arbitrary or excessive or beyond what is required in public interest. The imposition of restriction must not be disproportionate to a situation or statute. Legislation providing for deprivation of property under Article 300-A must be just, fair and reasonable. Thus, it cannot be said that illusory compensation is provided under Section 306 read with Section 387. The decision F renders no help to the cause espoused on behalf of the appellants and on a closer scrutiny, rather counters it.