There may, however, be cases where the conduct complained of itself is bad enough and per se unlawful or illegal. Then the impact or the injurious eff ect on the other spouse need not be enquired into or considered. In such cases, the cruelty will be established if the conduct itself is proved or admitted. The absence of intention should not make any diff erence in the case, if by ordinary sense in human aff airs, the act complained of could otherwise be regarded as cruelty. Intention is not a necessary element in cruelty. The relief to the party cannot be denied on the ground that there has been no deliberate or wilful ill-treatment. 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 48. The cruelty alleged may largely depend upon the type of life the parties are accustomed to or their economic and social conditions and their culture and human values to which they attach importance. Each case has to be decided on its own merits. 49. …….. 50. ……. 51. ……. 52. This Court in Savitri Pandey v. Prem Chandra Pandey [(2002) 2 SCC 73] stated that mental cruelty is the conduct of other spouse which causes mental suff ering or fear to the matrimonial life of the other. “Cruelty”, therefore, postulates a treatment of the petitioner with such cruelty as to cause a reasonable apprehension in his or her mind that it would be harmful or injurious for the petitioner to live with the other party. Cruelty, however, has to be distinguished from the ordinary wear and tear of family life. It cannot be decided on the basis of the sensitivity of the petitioner and has to be adjudged on the basis of the course of conduct which would, in general, be dangerous for a spouse to live with the other.” 10. The crux of the various decisions of this Court on the interpretation of the word “cruelty” is that it has to be construed and interpreted considering the type of life the parties are accustomed to; or their economic and social conditions and their culture and human values to which they attach importance. Each case has to be decided on its own merits. 11. Similarly, the law is also well settled as to what could be said to be “Desertion” in the divorce proceedings fi led under Section 13 of the said Act. The expression “Desertion” had come up under the judicial scrutiny of this Court in BipinChandra JaiSinghBai Shah vs. Prabhavati3, which was again considered in case of Lachman UtamChand Kirpalani vs. Meena alias Mota4. This Court collating the observations made in the earlier decisions, stated its view as under: - 3 AIR 1957 SC 176 4 AIR 1964 SC 40 DR. NIRMAL SINGH PANESAR v. MRS. PARAMJIT KAUR PANESAR @ 839 AJINDER KAUR PANESAR [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] “Collating the aforesaid observations, the view of this Court may be stated thus: Heavy burden lies upon a petitioner who seeks divorce on the ground of desertion to prove four essential conditions, namely, (1) the factum of separation; (2) animus deserendi; (3) absence of his or her consent; and (4) absence of his or her conduct giving reasonable cause to the deserting spouse to leave the matrimonial home.” 12.