No award on this as this refers to future course of action when project work is resumed. INTEREST: The Claimants are also entitled to 18% interest per annum on all the claims awarded, eff ective from 16.05.1997, the date on which the notice invoking Arbitration clause was served on the Respondents (date on which cause of action arose) till the date of payment. BANK GUARANTEE: The Claimants have specifi cally prayed for reduction of the performance Bank Guarantee amount by 50%. In view of the fact that about 80% of the work has been completed, and BATLIBOI ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERS LTD v. 449 HINDUSTAN PETROLEUM CORP. LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] (in) view (of) (sic) the huge delay that has occurred the amount shall be reduced by 50%.” 6. The award dated 23.03.1999 dismisses the counter claim of HPCL for liquidated damages of Rs.57.40 lakhs, on the ground that the delay was caused by omissions and commissions of HPCL. Claims by HPCL for rectifi cation/rehabilitation cost of Rs.102.05 lakhs, costs of balance work of Rs.160 lakhs and de-watering cost of Rs.9 lakhs were denied on the ground that they relate to future works and therefore, would not fall within the ambit of arbitration in question. 7. We have intentionally quoted the entire fi ndings and reasoning accorded by the learned arbitrator, while allowing the Claim Nos. 1,2 and 4 of BEEL. The fi rst egregious and obvious fl aw in the award is, the omnibus fi nding and conclusion that HPCL (referred to as the owner and the respondent in the quoted portion of the award) was fully responsible for the inordinate delay that had occurred by not taking proper and timely action in removal of various impediments and obstacles that stood in the way of completing the project within the stipulated period of 18 months. This fi nding, in our opinion, is bereft of analysis and examination of facts and contentions. The relevant and material facts and the respective stances of the parties are neither decipherable nor evaluated and no reason has been given for arriving at the conclusion. A conclusion without any discussion and reasons, is non-compliant and violates the mandate of sub - section (3) of Section 31 of the A& C Act5, an aspect we would examine subsequently. 8. The second patent error relates to the computation and award of 10% of the contract value towards loss of overheads and another 10% towards loss of profi ts/profi tability. The two amounts have been quantifi ed at Rs.78,68,833/- each. Thus, Rs.1,57,37,666/- has been awarded and held as payable by HPCL to BEEL. The award is defi cient being completely silent as to the method and the manner in which the arbitral tribunal has computed the fi gures. Therefore, it leaves us and the parties to wonder the 5 Section 31 - Form and contents of arbitral award - (3) The arbitral award shall state the reasons upon which it is based, unless— (a) the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given, or (b) the award is an arbitral award on agreed terms under section 30.