Fletcher Moulton L.J. observed in that case as follows: “It is admitted by the appellant that if there was no evidence on which any tribunal could reasonably come to the conclusion to which the auditor has come the superior Courts have a jurisdiction to quash the surcharge, and in my opinion this is the case here.” 83. In the Deputy Industrial Injuries Commissioner (supra), two learned law Lords have made certain observations on the true content of the “no evidence” rule by treating the said rule as a principle of natural justice. Willmar L.J. observed as under: “Where so much is left to the discretion of the Commissioner, the only real limitation, as I see it, is that the procedure must be in accordance with natural justice. This involves that any information on which the Commissioner acts, whatever its source, must be at least of some probative value.” 84. Diplock L.J. made the following pertinent observations reproduced below: “Where, as in the present case, a personal bias or mala fi des on the part of the deputy commissioner is not in question, the rules of natural justice which he must observe can, in my view, be reduced to two. First, he must base decision on evidence, whether a hearing is requested or not. Secondly, if a hearing is requested, he must fairly listen to the contentions of all persons who are entitled to be represented at the hearing. 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “In the context of the fi rst rule, “evidence” is not restricted to evidence which would be admissible in a court of law…. “… The requirement that a person exercising quasi-judicial functions must base his decision on evidence means no more than it must be based upon material which tends logically to show the existence or none-existence of facts relevant to the issue to be determined, or to show the likelihood or unlikelihood of the occurrence of some future event the occurrence of which would be relevant. It means that he must not spin a coin or consult an astrologer, but he may take into account any material which, as a matter of reason, has some probative value in the sense mentioned above. If it is capable of having any probative value, the weight to be attached to it is a matter for the person to whom Parliament has entrusted the responsibility of deciding the issue. The supervisory jurisdiction of the High Court does not entitle it to usurp this responsibility and to substitute its own view for his.”” 85. In French Kier Developments Ltd. v. Secretary of State for the Environment reported in 1977 (1) All ELR 297, the jurisdiction of the court of Queen’s Bench Division was invoked for quashing the appellate decision of the Secretary of State confi rming the refusal of permission for development. The Secretary of State accepted the fi ndings of fact recorded by the Inspector at the conclusion of the public inquiry which followed the Borough Council’s refusal of permission but not his recommendation that the appeal should be allowed.