An entry was made regarding the same in Daily Diary Register. On receipt of said information, Head F Constable-Raj Mal accompanied by constable Chaman Lal and Tirath Singh reached the house of the accused- appellants, they found that Manjit Kumar and Jaswinder were seriously injured and were found lying unconscious in one of the rooms. They were moved to District Hospital, Kathua for providing them immediate medical aid. Sub- G Inspector Basant Singh reached the hospital and recorded the statement (Exh.PW-BS) of Jaswinder in presence of Dr Renu Jamwal, who declared him fit to give the statement. On the basis of statement of Jaswinder (EX.PW-BS) First Information Report (‘FIR’ for short) No. 213/90 was H 378 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A registered under section 307/382/342/148/149 of the Jammu and Kashmir State Ranbir Penal Code (‘RPC’ for short) at the Police Station. Later, Manjit Kumar and Jaswinder both succumbed to their injuries. Thereafter, Section 302 of RPC was added. B ii. In the statement (EX.PW-BS) of deceased Jaswinder it is stated that, he and Manjit Kumar had gone to village Jagatpur to get fodder. When they were walking in the street abutting the house of the accused party, accused Lal Chand, Bias, Sant Kumar, Roshan, Madan Lal along with C other sons of accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased) dragged them inside the house and assaulted them with iron rods (Sariya), sickle (drat) and sticks. They were provided water which was undrinkable/tasteless. Further, accused-Sant Kumar stole Rs 300 from the deceased’s D pocket. iii. The prosecution’s case, in a nutshell, is that accused No.2- Bias Raj had borrowed a sum of Rs 50 from the brother of the deceased-Jaswinder i.e. P.W.1-Praveen Kumar and P.W.1-Praveen Kumar had demanded the sum 3-4 days E prior to occurrence of the incident. On the day of the incident P.W.1-Praveen Kumar had gone to village to get labourers. When he was close to the house of the Appellants, he was dragged inside and assaulted. Thereafter, they confined him to fodder room and assaulted Manjit Kumar and Jaswinder. F P.W.1-Praveen Kumar managed to escape the place of occurrence. P.W.1-Praveen Kumar was also accompanied by P.W.2-Hardev Singh and the occurrence of the above incident was narrated to P.W.3-Chajju Ram and Krishan Chand Lambardar. G iv. The Investigating Officer (‘IO’ for short) submitted final report wherein it is stated that the above-mentioned incident was preceded by assault and wrongful confinement of P.W.1-Praveen Kumar by the Appellants when he had come in search of labourers. H MOHINDER PAL AND OTHERS v. STATE OF J & K 379 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] v. Accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased), Accused No.2- A Bias Raj, Accused No.3-Mohinder Pal alias Roshan, Accused No.4-Basant Kumar, Accused No.5-Om Prakash alias Doctor, Accused No.6-Kishan Chand and Accused No.7-Madan Lal were tried. Accused Nos. 2 to 6 are sons of Accused No.1-Lal Chand (since deceased). On 16th B August 1990, charges came to be framed by the Sessions Judge for offences punishable under section 302, 148 and 149 of the RPC.