Explanation: For the purposes of this sub-section, “the Leader of the Opposition in the House of the People” shall, when no such Leader has been so recognised, include the Leader of the single G largest group in opposition of the Government in the House of the People.” 75. In regard to the aspect about the permanent and independent Secretariat of the Election Commission of India, it was noticed that to give effect to the Goswami Committee recommendation, the Constitution Seventieth Amendment Bill, 1990 was introduced on 30.05.1990 and H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 85 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] that it was subsequently withdrawn in 1993 in view of the changed A composition of the Election Commission of India, on it becoming a multi- Member Body pursuant to the 1991 Act and on the ground that the Bill needed some amendments. The Bill, however, the Law Commission noticed, was never introduced. Thereafter, the Law Commission referred to the recommendations of the Election Commission itself for seeking B appointment of an independent Secretariat. The Law Commission, accordingly, recommended insertion of Article 324(2A), inter alia, providing for a separate, independent and permanent secretarial staff for the Election Commission. In regard to the need for equating the two Election Commissioners with the Chief Election Commissioner and noting that Election Commissioners were clearly superior to the Regional C Commissioners, the Law Commission recommended changes in Article 324(5) as well. The amended Article 324, as proposed by the Law Commission of India, in its Report, reads as follows: “324. Superintendence, direction and control of elections to be vested in an Election Commission. -(1) The superintendence, D direction and control of the preparation of the electoral rolls for, and the conduct of, all elections to Parliament and to the Legislature of every State and of elections to the offices of President and Vice-President held under this Constitution shall be vested in a Commission (referred to in this Constitution as the Election E Commission) (2) The Election Commission shall consist of the Chief Election Commissioner and such number of other Election Commissioners, if any, as the President may from time to time fix and the appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and other Election F Commissioners shall, subject to the provisions of any law made in that behalf by Parliament, be made by the President. (2A) (1): The Election Commission shall have a separate independent and permanent secretarial staff. (2) The Election Commission may, by rules prescribed by it, G regulate the recruitment, and the conditions of service of persons appointed, to its permanent secretarial staff. (3) When any other Election Commissioner is so appointed the Chief Election Commissioner shall act as the Chairman of the Election Commission. H 86 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A (4) Before each general election to the House of the People and to the Legislative Assembly of each State, and before the first general election and thereafter before each biennial election to the Legislative Council of each State having such Council, the President may also appoint after consultation with the Election Commission such Regional Commissioners as he may consider B necessary to assist the Election Commission in the performance of the functions conferred on the Commission by clause (1).