In the given circumstances, suspicion turned towards the appellant, for he was the person lastly in the company of the deceased children. It was alleged that during interrogation, the appellant F confessed to the crime while stating that he doubted the chastity of his wife and suspected that the children were not his sons. 4.3. After conducting investigation in the First Information Report4 registered in this matter bearing No. 253 of 2009, Police Station Prashant Vihar, charge-sheet was filed against the appellant for the offences G punishable under Sections 302 and 201 IPC. After the case was committed to the Court of Sessions and the necessary charges were framed, the appellant pleaded not guilty and claimed trial. 4‘FIR’, for short. H 812 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A Prosecution Evidence 5. In trial, the prosecution examined as many as 18 witnesses. The peculiar feature of the case had been that while two of the witnesses, PW-7 Mahender Kumar Yadav, uncle of the wife of the appellant,and PW-8 Rajender Yadav, another uncle of the wife of the appellant,attempted B to suggest that the appellant was a drunkard who used to give beating to his wife and suspected her character but, PW-5 Bishan Singh, brother of appellant,as also PW-9 Sunita Yadav, wife of the appellant, did not support this version. On the contrary, wife of the appellant specifically maintained that she had always been having good and cordial relations with her husband. Another set of evidence in this case had been in relation C to the addiction of the appellant to alcohol and his admission to, and discharge from, rehabilitation centre. In this regard, the testimonies of PW-2 Puran Singh, cousin of the appellant, and of PW-3 Jagbir, manager of rehabilitation centreassume relevance in view of emphasis laid in this appeal on mental disposition of the appellant. Yet another set of evidence D had been of three witnesses, PW-1 Naresh Kaushik, delivery boy at the Petrol Pump, PW-4 Mahesh Kumar Sharma and PW-6 Komal Ram, the personnel in-charge at the Water Treatment Plant,who testified to the facts about the appellant visiting them immediately after the incident while suggesting that his sons had accidentally fallen into the canal. PW- 14 Dr. V.K. Jha had been the medical officer who conducted post-mortem E over the dead bodies and maintained his opinion that the cause of death in relation to each of the children was asphyxia as a result of manual strangulation.The other witnesses had been the personnel who conducted the investigation or carried out the tasks related thereto. 6. Though elaboration on the entire prosecution evidence is not F necessary for the purpose of thepresent appeal but, having regard to the contentions urged, we may take note of the relevant depositions concerning material factors namely, the appellant’s addiction to alcohol and his admission to, and discharge from, the rehabilitation centre; the appellant’s conduct towards his wife; the appellant’s version immediately G after the event leading to the demise of his two sons; and the medical opinion after post-mortem of the dead bodies of the victim children.