Once, the AO issued summons to those who had allegedly paid the commission to the assessees and the G summons were issued under Section 131 which were not complied with and it was the assertion on behalf of the respective assessees that they earned the income of commission within Sikkim, the burden to prove the same was upon the assessees. Under the circumstances, the ITAT wrongly and erroneously shifted the burden upon the AO to prove the contrary. H Therefore, in absence of any material on record that the commission MANSAROVAR COMMERCIAL PVT. LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 493 OF INCOME TAX, DELHI [M. R. SHAH, J.] was earned only in Gangtok, the assessees cannot be permitted to say A that they were liable to pay the tax under the Sikkim Manual, 1948 and not under the Income Tax Act, 1961. It appears that the assessees with mala fide intention and to evade the payment of tax under the Income Tax Act, 1961 came out with a case that they earned the income within Sikkim, which has not been established and proved. It was a clear attempt B on the part of the respective assessees to wriggle out of the clutches of the Income Tax Act, 1961. 11. As regards the submission on behalf of the respective assessees that as there was no original assessment under the Income Tax Act, 1961, there could not have been the re-assessment under sections 147/ C 148 of the Act, 1961 is concerned, the same has no substance in view of the binding decision of this Court in the case of Sun Engineering Works P. Ltd. (supra). In paragraph 14 of the said decision, it is observed and held as under: “14…..Thus, under Section 147, the assessing officer has been D vested with the power to ‘assess or reassess’ the escaped income of an assessee. The use of the expression “assess or reassess such income or recompute the loss or depreciation allowance” in Section 147 after the conditions for reassessment are satisfied, is only relatable to the preceding expression in clauses (a) and (b) viz., “escaped assessment”. The term “escaped E assessment” includes both “non-assessment” as well as “under assessment”. Income is said to have “escaped assessment” within the meaning of this section when it has not been charged in the hands of an assessee in the relevant year of assessment. The expression “assess” refers to a situation where the assessment of F the assessee for a particular year is, for the first time, made by resorting to the provisions of Section 147 because the assessment had not been made in the regular manner under the Act. The expression “reassess” refers to a situation where an assessment has already been made but the Income Tax Officer has, on the basis of information in his possession, reason to believe that there G has been under assessment on account of the existence of any of the grounds contemplated by the provisions of Section 147(b) read with the Explanation (1) thereto.” 12.