Material facts would include positive statement of facts as also positive averment of a negative fact, if necessary. In V.S. Achuthanandan v. P.J. Francis [(1999) 3 SCC 737] this Court has held, on a conspectus of a series of decisions of this Court, that material facts are such preliminary facts which must be proved at the trial by a party to establish F existence of a cause of action. Failure to plead “material facts” is fatal to the election petition and no amendment of the pleadings is permissible to introduce such material facts after the time-limit prescribed for filing the election petition. 24. It is the duty of the court to examine the petition irrespective G of any written statement or denial and reject the petition if it does not disclose a cause of action. To enable a court to reject a plaint on the ground that it does not disclose a cause of action, it should look at the plaint and nothing else. Courts have always frowned upon vague pleadings which leave a wide scope to adduce any H 816 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A evidence. No amount of evidence can cure basic defect in the pleadings.” 25. In case of Mahadeorao Sukaji Shivankar vs. Ramaratan Bapu & Ors.10, a Three-Judge Bench of this Court again had an occasionto deal with the issues as to what would constitute “material facts” and what would be the consequences of not stating the “material B facts” in the Election petition, as contemplated in Section 83(1)(a) of the RP Act, and the Court observed as under: “6. Now, it is no doubt true that all material facts have to be set out in an election petition. If material facts are not stated in a plaint or a petition, the same is liable to be dismissed on that ground C alone as the case would be covered by clause (a) of Rule 11 of 7 of the Code. The question, however, is as to whether the petitioner had set out material facts in the election petition. The expression “material facts” has neither been defined in the Act nor in the Code. It may be stated that the material facts are those D facts upon which a party relies for his claim or defence. In other words, material facts are facts upon which the plaintiff’s cause of action or the defendant’s defence depends. What particulars could be said to be material facts would depend upon the facts of each case and no rule of universal application can be laid down. It is, however, absolutely essential that all basic and primary facts E which must be proved at the trial by the party to establish existence of cause of action or defence are material facts and must be stated in the pleading of the party. 7. But, it is equally well settled that there is distinction between “material facts” and “particulars”. Material facts are primary or F basic facts which must be pleaded by the petitioner in support of the case set up by him either to prove his cause of action or defence.