v. UNION 1375 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] The sex of a person is determined by their reproductive organs and structure, their gender identity depends on their internal experience of gender, and their sexual orientation is defi ned by the gender of the people that they are attracted to. The present batch of petitions seeks the recognition of the right of persons to marry regardless of their gender identity or sexual orientation. While previous segments of this dealt with the rights of all persons regardless of gender identity or sexual orientation, this segment deals exclusively with the rights of persons who are transgender or intersex. b. The of this Court in NALSA and the Transgender Persons Act 259. The of this Court in NALSA (supra) recognized the right of transgender persons to be identifi ed by the gender identity of their choice, as well as their right to full protection under the Constitution, on equal terms with any other citizen of the country. The government was enjoined to recognize what the Court termed the ‘third gender.’ The Court also noticed the absence of a suitable legislation dealing with the rights of the transgender community. It issued directions to the Union and State Governments to take steps to ensure that the transgender community was able to realize its rights to the fullest extent. The in NALSA (supra) was affi rmed by this Court in Justice KS Puttaswamy (supra) and again, in Navtej (supra). The judgement in NALSA (supra) was critiqued for generalizing the gender identities of hijras as belonging to the third gender alone.225 The directions at paragraphs 135.1 and 135.2 of NALSA (supra) must be read as recognizing the right of all transgender persons (including hijras and those who are socio-culturally known by other names) to be recognized by a gender of their choice. 260. In 2019, Parliament enacted the Transgender Persons Act to provide for the rights of transgender persons and their welfare. This statute proscribes discrimination against transgender persons,226 provides for a 225 H.R. Vasujith Ram, ‘Combatting Exclusions through Law: Rights of Transgender People in India’, in Zoya Hasan, and others (eds), The Empire of Disgust: Prejudice, Discrimination, and Policy in India and the US (Delhi, 2018; online edn., OUP 2019) 226 Chapter II, Section 9 137 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. system by which their identity may be recognized,227 prescribes that the appropriate government shall take welfare measures,228 recognizes the right of residence229 and provides for the obligations of various parties with respect to their right to education, social security, and health.230 It also creates a National Council for Transgender Persons.231 A challenge to the constitutional validity of the Transgender Persons Act is pending before a diff erent Bench of this Court. We leave the challenge to the validity of the statute to be decided in that or any other appropriate proceeding. 261. During the course of the hearings, the Solicitor General advanced the argument that the Transgender Persons Act prohibits discrimination against any member of the queer community and that consequently, the queer community in India no longer faces any stigma due to their gender identity or sexual orientation.