ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] that the holder of a permit of any articulated vehicle may use A the prime-mover of that articulated vehicle for any other semi- trailor. ]” 17. Chapter XIII of the 1988 Act lays down the provisions for Offences, Penalties and Procedure. Section 192A introduced in 1994 provides that any motor vehicle being driven in contravention of the B provisions of sub-section (1) of Section 66 or in contravention of any condition of permit relating to the road on which or the area in which or the purpose for which the vehicle may be used would be a punishable offence which will result into imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months and fine of Rs.10,000/- for the first C offence and for subsequent offences the imprisonment could extend to one year but would not be less than six months or with fine of Rs.10,000/- or with both. 18. Sub-section (2) thereof provides for an exception where a motor vehicle may be used in an emergency for carrying persons D suffering from sickness or injury or for supply of food or materials or medical supplies to relieve distress. Other offences and penalties prescribed under Chapter XIII are not relevant for the present controversy, as such the same are not being referred to. Section 192A reads as follows: E “(1) Whoever drives a motor vehicle or causes or allows a motor vehicle to be used in contravention of the provisions of sub-section (1) of section 66 or in contravention of any condition of a permit relating to the route on which or the area in which or the purpose for which the vehicle may be used, shall be punishable for the first offence with a fine which may extend F to five thousand rupees but shall not be less than two thousand rupees and for any subsequent offence with imprisonment which may extend to one year but shall not be less than three months or with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees but shall not be less than five thousand rupees or with both: Provided that the court may for reasons to be recorded, impose G a lesser punishment. (2) Nothing in this section shall apply to the use of a motor vehicle in an emergency for the conveyance of persons suffering from sickness or injury or for the transport of materials for repair or for the transport of food or materials to relieve H 900 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A distress or of medical supplies for a like purpose: Provided that the person using the vehicle reports about the same to the Regional Transport Authority within seven days from the date of such use. (3) The court to which an appeal lies from any conviction in respect of an offence of the nature specified in sub-section B (1), may set aside or vary any made by the court below, notwithstanding that no appeal lies against the conviction in connection with which such was made.