ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 561 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] (g) to practise any profession, or to carry on any occupation, trade A or business. (2) Nothing in sub-clause (a) of clause (1) shall affect the operation of any existing law, or prevent the State from making any law, in so far as such law imposes reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause in the interests of the B sovereignty and integrity of India,] the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public , decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence. (3) Nothing in sub-clause (b) of the said clause shall affect the C operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public , reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by the said sub-clause. D (4) Nothing in sub-clause (c) of the said clause shall affect the operation of any existing law in so far as it imposes, or prevent the State from making any law imposing, in the interests of the sovereignty and integrity of India or public or morality, reasonable restrictions on the exercise of the right conferred by E the said sub-clause…” 4. At the time of the enactment of the Indian Constitution, as submitted by the Union of India, Article 19 did not contain ‘reasonable restrictions’. The words ‘reasonable restrictions’ within Article 19(2) were introduced by the Constitution (First Amendment) Act, 1951, which stated in its object and reasons that within the first fifteen months F of the working of the Constitution certain difficulties were experienced, particularly, in regard to the chapter on Fundamental Rights and to address those issues the State was empowered to impose reasonable restrictions in the interest of general public. 5. This was followed by the Constitution (Sixteenth) G Amendment Act, 1963, wherein the State was empowered to impose reasonable restrictions on the freedoms conferred under Article 19, particularly on the ground of protection of interests of “sovereignty” and “integrity” of India. In its object and reasons, it was stated that this Amendment is upon the recommendation of the Committee on National H 562 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A Integration and Regionalism appointed by the National Integration Council for preservation and maintenance of the integrity and sovereignty of the Union of India. 6. The interpretation of Article 19 and application of reasonable restrictions therein has been summarized by this Court in Dharam Dutt B v. Union of India5 (two-Judge Bench)in the following terms: “35. The scheme of Article 19 shows that a group of rights are listed as clauses (a) to (g) and are recognized as fundamental rights conferred on citizens. All the rights do not stand on a common pedestal but have varying dimensions and underlying philosophies. C This is clear from the drafting of clauses (2) to (6) of Article 19.