appropriate for proper analysis of the controversy to reproduce the contents of one such Temporary Patta dated 21.10.1961 granted to an Assignee which is as follows:– “FORM-G (Under Rule 9 (g) Written permission to occupy land (to be given by the Tahsildar under Loani Rules) Temporary patta is granted to Shri Mylarapu Pedda Gandaiah S/o. Venkaiah, resident of Manchirevula village, Tahsil Hyderabad West, Hyderabad District, to occupy the following land and to cultivate the same, till the phodi work is completed. 1. Village Name : Manchirevula 2. Taluk : Hyderabad West 3. Sy. No. : 393 4. Total extent : 326.28 5. Extent given under patta : Ac. 7.06 gts. 6. Cess : Rs. 7.15 7. Nature of land : Kancha 8. Classifi cation : Dry Sri Mylarapu Pedda Gandaiah has to pay Rs. 7.15 per year from 1961-1962 for the land granted for occupation under this permit as assessment. After the podhi is completed, the area and assessment are both fi xed by the Dept. of Land Records (Survey and Settlement). The Pattadar is bound to pay the assessment so fi xed, but this change will take eff ect only form the year following in which such change has been made as a result of the compk1jon of phodi work by the Dept. of land Record. (In the case of land granted as not Transferable) 610 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. The Grantee is not empowered to transfer the occupancy without the sanction previously obtained from the Collector. This permission to occupy shall not confer the right to mine on the land or collect minerals therefrom. The right on the toddy trees will vest with the Government. Sd/-Tehsildar 24.10.1961 Hyderabad West” (sic) (Emphasis Applied) There are some other policy decisions also that have brought in restrictions regarding transfer of Subject Land which we would deal in the later part of this judgement. However, it is pertinent to note that afterwards, permanent pattas were granted to the Assignees within a few years of the issuance of Temporary Pattas. The Appellants are now claiming devolution of interest and ownership rights over diff erent parcels of the Subject Land through the original Assignees. 8. After the grant of these pattas, the situation remained dormant for almost three decades. Meanwhile, with the passage of time, the city of Hyderabad, like all other capital cities across the nation, fl ourished on account of rapid urbanisation and swift economic development, making land a scarce and valuable resource. Consequently, the Subject Land also rose in value. On 14.08.1991, all the Assignees are stated to have executed a general power of attorney [Hereinafter, ‘GPA’] in favour of one M.A. Baksh. The GPA gave M.A. Baksh the following amongst other powers in respect of the Subject Land:– “5. To negotiate, enter into agreements for and/or let lease or licence the said property or any portion thereof to such person(s) or body and for such consideration and upon such terms and conditions and for such purpose(s) as my said attorney may in his absolute discretion deem fi t. 6.