[2023] 13 S.C.R. 810 : 2023 INSC 895 CASE DETAILS KAMAL PRASAD & ORS. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH (NOW STATE OF CHHATTISGARH) (Criminal Appeal No. 1578 of 2012) OCTOBER 10, 2023 [ABHAY S. OKA AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Case of the prosecution rested primarily on the testimonies of three witnesses, conviction of the appellants for off ence punishable u/ss.148, 302 r/w 149, 307 r/w 149, IPC and ss.4/5 of the Explosive Substance Act, 1908 and the consequent sentence imposed, if justifi ed. Evidence – Testimonies of eyewitnesses – Reliance upon: Held: Death of the deceased ‘C’ and his son ‘K’ is undisputed – Deceased ‘C’ having sustained multiple injuries upon vital parts of the body as a result of the bombs being thrown at him also stands proved – Testimonies of three witnesses is coherent on material facts such as the presence of the accused on the spot of the crime; the death of the deceased; a blast having taken place; and the accused being the assailants – No force in the contention that the testimonies relied on by the prosecution are inherently contradictory – Further, on facts, delay in fi ling of the FIR cannot be said to be fatal – Present is not a case of prior consultation; discussion; deliberation or improvements – Furthermore, defence witnesses do not conclusively establish the plea of alibi, based on the principle of preponderance of probability as their statements stand unsupported by any other corroborative evidence – For the plea of alibi to be established, something other than a mere ocular statement ought to have been present – All 3 primary witnesses of the prosecution i.e., PW-3, PW-16, and PW-17 have categorically deposed the presence of the appellants at the spot of the crime and such a statement could 810 KAMAL PRASAD & ORS. v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 811 (NOW STATE OF CHHATTISGARH) not be shaken in cross-examination – Also, the plea of the appellants that the deceased ‘C’ was a history-sheeter and had scores of criminal cases pending against him and thus, probably someone other than the appellants would have wanted his elimination, is unsubstantiated as no details were provided in respect of such cases involving the deceased – Simply because the deceased had a chequered past constituting several run-ins with the law, Courts cannot give benefi t thereof to those accused of committing such a person’s murder, particularly when such claims are bald assertions – Charges levied against the accused and the sentence as awarded by the Courts below not interfered with – Bail granted to the appellants stands cancelled, to surrender – Indian Penal Code, 1860 – ss.149, 307 r/w 149 – Explosive Substance Act, 1908 – ss.4/5. [Paras 11, 14, 21-25, 27] Evidence – Plea of alibi – Principles regarding: Held: It is not part of the General Exceptions under the IPC and is instead a rule of evidence u/s.11, Evidence Act, 1872 – This plea being taken does not lessen the burden of the prosecution to prove that the accused was present at the scene of the crime and had participated therein – Such plea is only to be considered subsequent to the prosecution having discharged, satisfactorily, its burden – Burden to establish the plea is on the person taking such a plea by leading cogent and satisfactory evidence – A standard of ‘strict scrutiny’ is required when such a plea is taken – Evidence Act, 1872 – s.11.