Learned Single Judge has rightly observed that Regulation 4 of the Punjab National Bank Offi cer Employees’ (Discipline and Appeal) Regulations 1977 (for short “1977 Regulations”) makes it clear that a dismissal of an employee shall ordinarily be a disqualifi cation for future employment whereas removal from service shall not be a disqualifi cation for future employment. It is also stated that no aggravating circumstance of causing loss by appellant or fi nding as to loss being caused has been recorded in the enquiry. There was no quantifi cation of loss or damage. It is urged that on infl icting a penalty of compulsory retirement after enquiry, ipso facto would not result in forfeiture of the gratuity as directed by the impugned . Even otherwise the forfeiture of gratuity aff ects the civil right of an employee having adverse consequence which cannot be directed in violation of the principles of natural justice. 8. Per contra, Mr. Rajesh Kumar Gautam, learned counsel for the respondent Bank argued in support of the fi ndings recorded in the impugned passed by the Division Bench and contends that the normal retirement of an employee cannot be equated with compulsory retirement infl icted by way of penalty. Therefore, gratuity and Bank’s contribution towards provident fund have rightly been withheld by the impugned. In support of his contention, reliance has been placed on the Full Bench of the Punjab & Haryana High Court in LPA No. 566 of 2012 titled UCO Bank and others vs. Anju Mathur decided on 07.03.2013. It is urged that the said was cited and relied upon by the High Court of Delhi in B.R. Sharma vs. Syndicate Bank and others, 2015 SCC Online Del 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 13989. Learned counsel has also placed reliance on the of this Court in Canara Bank and another vs. Lalit Popli (Dead) through Legal Representatives (2018) 11 SCC 87. 9. We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length. The issue of payment of provident fund (Bank’s contribution) and payment of gratuity and its forfeiture are required to be analysed with reference to the relevant provisions of the Act, Rules, Regulations and the circulars issued by the Bank from time to time. They are being considered in the subsequent sub- headings and the paragraphs. GRANT OF PROVIDENT FUND AND WHEN IT CAN BE FORFEITED: 10. Chapter IX of 1979 Regulations deals with the terminal benefi ts. As per Regulation 45(1), every offi cer shall become a member of the Provident Fund constituted by the Bank and shall be bound by the Rules governing such fund. The Rules governing such fund are known as P.F. Trust Rules. As per Rule 2 of the Trust Rules, the contribution of the employee and employer shall be deposited in the provident fund trust account, which shall be a contributory provident fund. Rules 13 and 14 whereof are relevant for the purpose of this case and are reproduced as thus: “13. The Bank shall have fi rst lien on the contributions made by it to the individual account of any member together with interest thereon or accretions thereto, to recover any loss, damages and liabilities which the Bank may at any time sustain or incur by reasons of any dishonest act, deed or omission or gross misconduct of or by such member.