Drawing our attention towards various e-mails referred to by Mr. E Murthy, it has been argued on behalf of the appellant that none of them related to any illegal demand made by the appellant from Jagson or respondent no.5. Barring a statement of a telephonic conversation of one Mr. Graham Atkins, managing director of the respondent no.1, in which respondent no.5 was alleged to have mentioned that appellant had agreed to pay him certain sum of money to obtain the business, F there was no other material showing any illegality being committed by his client in obtaining the contract from Jagson. 7. Mr. Murthy on the other hand submitted that the scope and power of the investigation of IRDA is very wide and his client had obtained an investigation report by a private investigator which hinted G at ‘illegality’ being committed by the appellant. 8. Argument was also made as to whether the IRDA could enter into this controversy having regard to the scope of their intervention delineated in Section 14(2) of the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority Act, 1999. H 1304 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 9. In this , however, we are not getting into that controversy as regards jurisdiction of the IRDA to conduct investigation as such investigation was directed by an of the High Court, particulars of which we have given earlier. So far as jurisdiction or power of IRDA is concerned, we accept the submission of Mr. Murthy that it is of wide amplitude. B 10. But, on going through the materials made available before us at the time of hearing, we are of the opinion that there was no occasion for interfering with the of the IRDA by the Tribunal. It is a fact that the of the Tribunal is in the nature of a remand and this in effect has only directed a fresh inquiry. Mr. Murthy had argued that so far as his client’s complaint is concerned, C they had discharged their onus by raising sufficient suspicion as regards the deal between the respondent no.5 and the appellant. But, we find that barring the fact that the appellant had been given the brokerage contract, there is no other cogent material which would warrant a detailed investigation. The Tribunal has, ex-facie, gone wrong in observing that the first respondent had relied on documentary D evidence in support of the complaint. We have referred to the nature of the documents but we accept the argument of Mr. Datar that these cannot constitute materials to trigger off an inquiry on the aspect of bribery being indulged into by the appellant to obtain the business from Jagson. E 11. The fact finding body has already come to its conclusion on lack of evidence. In the given circumstances, we do not find any useful purpose that would be served in subjecting the appellant or their contract with Jagson to another round of inquiry. In the under appeal, the Tribunal has observed that the complaint showed that the first respondent had relied on documentary evidence in support F of the contention that Jagdish Gupta had sought bribe and was bribed by the officers of Marsh for diverting their re-insurance business.