12. In a somewhat comparable case on facts that arose in New Okhla Industrial Development Authority and Another vs. B.D. Singhal and Others12, the appellant - Authority (NOIDA) had resolved to recommend enhancement of the age of superannuation of its employees from 58 to 60 years. The said proposal, when sent to the State Government for prior approval, was turned down. This led to the aggrieved employees fi ling a writ petition before the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad which was allowed and NOIDA was directed to consider the matter afresh and forward its proposal to the State Government for its approval. It was left open to the State Government to consider giving eff ect to the increase in the age of retirement from the date when NOIDA had resolved to bear the fi nancial burden for the increase of age or from such date as it may consider expedient. This time, the State Government acceded to the proposal received from NOIDA for enhancing the age of retirement to 60 years, but made the said decision prospective. Aggrieved by the refusal of the State Government to make the decision retrospective, the respondents amended the pending writ petition which was allowed by the High Court that struck down the provision of making the decision prospective and directed that such of the respondents who had retired from service by then, would be deemed to have worked till the extended age of retirement, with all consequential benefi ts. Challenging the said decision, the State of Uttar Pradesh fi led a Petition for Special Leave to Appeal under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, which was allowed by this Court with the following observations : “22. Whether the age of superannuation should be enhanced is a matter of policy. If a decision has been taken to enhance the age of superannuation, the date with eff ect from which the enhancement 12 2021 SCC Online SC 466 DR. PRAKASAN M.P. AND OTHERS v. STATE OF KERALA 301 AND ANOTHER [HIMA KOHLI, J.] should be made falls within the realm of policy. The High Court in ing that the decision of the State government to accept the proposal to enhance the age of superannuation must date back to 29 June 2002 has evidently lost sight of the above factual background, more specifi cally (i) the rejection of the original proposal on 22 September 2009; and (ii) the of the Division Bench dated 17 January 2012 refusing to set aside the rejecting the proposal on 22 September 2009 which has attained fi nality. But there is a more fundamental objection to the basis of the decision of the High Court. The infi rmity in the lies in the fact that the High Court has trenched upon the realm of policy making and has assumed to itself, jurisdiction over a matter which lies in the domain of the executive. Whether the age of superannuation should be increased and if so, the date from which this should be eff ected is a matter of policy into which the High Court ought not to have entered.