While we are convinced that the case of the prosecution B based on the evidence adduced confirms the commission of offence by the appellant, however, we are of the considered opinion that still the case does not fall within the four corners of the “rarest of rare” cases. 26. In the said case, the accused had committed murder of his C wife and daughter. However, this Court found that the said could not be considered to be ‘rarest of rare’ case. 27. Recently, this Court, in the case of Sundar @ Sundarrajan v State by Inspector of Police5, held that ‘rarest of rare’ doctrine does not require that in such a case only death sentence has to be imposed. D This Court held that, while considering as to whether the death sentence is to be inflicted or not, the Court will have to consider not only the grave nature of crime but also as to whether there was a possibility of reformation of a criminal. 28. In the present case, both the appellants do not have any criminal E antecedents. The appellant-Digambar, who has been sentenced to capital punishment, was a young boy of about 25 years at the time of the incident. The medical evidence would further reveal that the appellants have not acted in a brutal manner, inasmuch as there is only single injury inflicted on both the deceased. As such, we find that the present case cannot be considered to be ‘rarest of rare’ case. In any case, the report of the F Probation Officer, Nanded as well as the Superintendent, Nashik Road Central Prison would show that the appellant-Digambar has been found to be well-behaved, helping and a person with leadership qualities. He is not a person with criminal mindset and criminal records. 29. The report of the Probation Officer, Nanded further states G thus: “The Sarpanch and the people in the village stated that, the inter- caste marriage of Deceased friend Govind and Deceased sister 5 Review Petition (Criminal) Nos. 159-160 of 2013 in Criminal Appeal Nos. 300-301 of H 2011 dated 21st March 2023 DIGAMBAR v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA 105 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Pooja was putting the social pressure and being angry about it, A the subjected incidence was happened in sudden provocation by Digambar. Overall, everyone who were present during the Home Inquiry gave the good opinion about the behavior of Digambar baburao Dasre.” 30. We are, therefore, of the considered view that the High Court B as well as the Trial Court erred in holding that the present case would fall under the ‘rarest of rare’ case to award capital punishment to appellant-Digambar. We are, therefore, inclined to partly allow the appeals of appellant-Digambar. However, insofar as the appellant-Mohan, who has been awarded a sentence of life imprisonment, is concerned, C we find that there is no reason to interfere. 31. In the result, we pass the following : (i) Criminal Appeal filed by appellant-Mohan is dismissed. (ii) Criminal Appeals filed by appellant-Digambar are partly allowed.