[Para 54(v), (vi)] Hindu Succession Act 1956 – s. 6 – Devolution of interest in coparcenary property – Ascertainment of share on basis of notional partition: Held: While providing for the devolution of the interest of a Hindu in the property of a Joint Hindu family governed by Mitakshara law, dying after the commencement of the Amending Act of 2005 by testamentary or intestate succession, s.6(3) lays down a legal fi ction namely that the coparcenary property shall be deemed to have been divided as if a partition had taken place – For ascertaining the interest of a deceased Hindu Mitakshara coparcener, the law mandates the assumption of a state of aff airs immediately prior to the death of the coparcener – Once the share of the deceased in property that would have been allotted to him if a partition had taken place immediately before his death is ascertained, his heirs including the children conferred with legitimacy u/s.16 of the HMA, would be entitled to their share in the property which would have been allotted to the deceased upon the notional partition, if it had taken place. [Para 54(viii), (ix)] 322 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. Hindu Succession Act 1956 – s. 6(3) – Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 – s. 16 – s. 16(3) of the HMA 1955 and s. 6(3) of the HSA 1956, if inconsistent: Held: There is no inconsistency between s. 16(3) of the HMA 1955 and s. 6(3) of the HSA 1956 – Provisions of the HSA 1956 have to be harmonized with the mandate in s. 16(3) of the HMA 1955 which indicates that a child who is conferred with legitimacy under sub-sections (1) and (2) of s. 16, will not be entitled to rights in or to the property of any person other than the parents – Property of the parent, where the parent had an interest in the property of a Joint Hindu family governed under the Mitakshara law has to be ascertained in terms of the Explanation to sub-section (3) [Para 54(x)] s/s – Two judge Bench of this Court in its referring Revanasiddappa v. Mallikarjun held that the illegitimate children will have right in the coparcenary property of their parents, self acquired or ancestral – Reconsideration: Held: There is a degree of contradiction in the referring which needs to be clarifi ed and set at rest – Thus, reference answered holding that the children born out of the void or voidable marriage entitled to share in the property of their deceased parents and not in the property of any other person. [Para 53] Mitakshara Law – Joint Hindu family – Description of: Held: It comprises of male members who are lineal descendants from a common male ancestor, together with their mothers, wives or widows and unmarried daughters – Joint Hindu family has been described as ‘a larger body’ consisting of a group of persons united by sapindaship or family relationship. [Para 21] Mitakshara Law – Hindu coparcenary – Composition of: Held: It comprises of a propositus and three lineal descendants – Hindu coparcenary is a body which is narrower than a Hindu Undivided Family – Before 2005, it included only sons, grandsons and great-grandsons who were holders of joint property – Hallmark of a coparcenary is that a lineal male descendent up to the third generation would acquire an independent REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR.