In the present case at hand, the appellant detenue herein has been supplied with illegible documents in a foreign language. It is also important to note that these B are the very same documents that the authorities have relied upon to detain the appellant herein. 43. Further, the principle of parity is squarely applicable in this case, since another co-detenue with identical circumstances, has already been granted the relief of quashing the detention against him. In C the case of Gian Chand v. Union Of India & Anr.8, this Court while deciding on a quashing of a detention , categorically held that in cases where a similarly placed co-detenue has already been granted the relief of a quashing of the detention , the principle of parity must apply, and the same relief should be extended to other similarly placed detenues. In light of the abovementioned discussion, we hold Issue III in D favour of the appellant. CONCLUSION 44. As has been mentioned above, preventive detention laws in India are a colonial legacy, and as such, are extremely powerful laws E that have the ability to confer arbitrary power to the state. In such a circumstance, where there is a possibility of an unfettered discretion of power by the Government, this Court must analyze cases arising from such laws with extreme caution and excruciating detail, to ensure that there are checks and balances on the power of the Government. Every procedural rigidity, must be followed in entirety by the F Government in cases of preventive detention, and every lapse in procedure must give rise to a benefit to the case of the detenue. The Courts, in circumstances of preventive detention, are conferred with the duty that has been given the utmost importance by the Constitution, which is the protection of individual and civil liberties. This act of G protecting civil liberties, is not just the saving of rights of individuals in person and the society at large, but is also an act of preserving our Constitutional ethos, which is a product of a series of struggles against the arbitrary power of the British state. 8 (Crl.) 39 of 2011 H 818 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 45. In light of the abovementioned discussion, while the appellant has already been released on grounds of expiry of the detention period, for the sake of clarity on the point of law, we hold that the impugned detention is liable to be set aside, and the present appeal is accordingly allowed. B Divya Pandey Appeal allowed. (Assisted by : Roopanshi Virang, LCRA) C D E F G H