Women eligible for termination of pregnancy up to twenty- four weeks.—The following categories of women shall be considered eligible for termination of pregnancy under clause (b) of sub-section (2) Section 3 of the Act, for a period of up to twenty-four weeks, namely— (a) survivors of sexual assault or rape or incest; (b) minors; X v. UNION OF INDIA AND ANR. 457 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] In X v. Principal Secretary, Department of Health and Family Welfare, GNCTD,13 this Court held that the benefi ts of Rule 3B(c) extend equally to both single and married women and that the benefi ts of Rule 3B extend to all women who undergo a change in their material circumstances. 15. Signifi cantly, if in the opinion of an RMP, the termination of a pregnancy is immediately necessary to save the life of a pregnant woman, the provisions of Section 3 which relate to the length of the pregnancy and the opinion of two RMPs shall not apply.14 Section 4 (which concerns the place at which a pregnancy may be terminated) shall not apply to such cases as well. The design of the statute makes it evident that saving the life of the pregnant woman is of paramount importance, notwithstanding the length of the pregnancy. 16. Further, the provisions of Section 3(2) relating to the length of the pregnancy shall not apply to the termination of a pregnancy by an RMP, where such termination is necessitated by the diagnosis of any of the substantial foetal abnormalities diagnosed by a Medical Board.15 The Medical Board has the power to allow or deny the termination of a pregnancy the length of which is beyond twenty-four weeks.16 It may do so only after ensuring that the procedure would be safe for the woman at (c) change of marital status during the ongoing pregnancy (widowhood and divorce); (d) women with physical disabilities [major disability as per criteria laid down under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 (49 of 2016)]; (e) mentally ill women including mental retardation; (f) the foetal malformation that has substantial risk of being incompatible with life or if the child is born it may suff er from such physical or mental abnormalities to be seriously handicapped; and (g) women with pregnancy in humanitarian settings or disaster or emergency situations as may be declared by the Government. 13 2022 SCC OnLine SC 1321 14 Section 5, MTP Act: 5. Sections 3 and 4 when not to apply.—(1) The provisions of Section 4, and so much of the provisions of sub-section (2) of Section 3 as relate to the length of the pregnancy and the opinion of not less than two registered medical practitioners, shall not apply to the termination of a pregnancy by a registered medical practitioner in a case where he is of opinion, formed in good faith, that the termination of such pregnancy is immediately necessary to save the life of the pregnant woman. … 15 Section 3(2B), MTP Act 16 Rule 3A(a)(i), MTP Rules 458 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R.