It is submitted that it is considered as an essential drug and hence its price was controlled under DPCO and the MRP of Dettol continues to be monitored under DPCO, 2013. B 4.9 It is submitted that Dettol falls under HSN 3004 90 specifically incorporated in Entry 36(8)(h)(vi) of Schedule III, therefore Dettol is classifiable as a drug/medicine under Entry 36(8)(h)(vi) of Schedule III. It is submitted that in Note 23 of the Rules of interpretation under Entry 36 of Schedule III, the only exclusion is dietary food, diabetic C food, food supplements, medicated soaps, blood albumin etc. are not excluded. 4.10 It is further submitted that most importantly HSN Code was not deleted from Entry 36(8)(h)(vi) of Schedule III, even though by virtue of notification K.G. Ext.NO.1670 dated 24.10.2006 (retrospectively D effective from 01.07.2006), HSN Code was deleted in Entry 44(5) of Schedule III under which the appellant has classified Mortein range, Mortein spray, Harpic & Lizol. It is submitted that therefore the Dettol continue to fall under Entry 36(8)(h)(vi). 4.11 It is further submitted that the active ingredients of Dettol E are Chloroxylenol IP, Terpineol BP, Alcohol Absolute IP (denatured) and it is an antiseptic having germicidal properties; it kills germs, bacteria and it prevents infection therefore it is applied on wounds, cuts, grazes, bites and stings and is used in hospitals for surgical use, medical use and midwifery, due to therapeutic & prophylactic properties. 4.12 It is submitted that this Court in the case of ICPA Health F Products (P) Ltd. vs. CCE, Vadodara (2004) 4 SCC 481 has held that the said products are used for disinfecting the skin prior to surgery. It is submitted that as per Concise Oxford Dictionary, 9th Edition the term “prophylactic” would mean, “intending to prevent diseases, a preventive medicine or course of action”. It is submitted that as the G aforesaid products are used as a cleanser for cleaning of wounds and abrasions and minor cuts and to disinfect the skin prior to surgery, they have therapeutic and prophylactic properties. It is submitted that applying the legal principles enunciated by this Court qua Dettol, the Dettol is a drug/medicine. H 72 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 4.13 It is further submitted that this Court in the case of Sujanil Chemo Industries vs. CCE & Customs, Pune (2005) 4 SCC 189 (para 6) in the context of Licel used for killing lice in human hair has held that any medicine which kills disease or is a palliative or curative is therapeutic. It is submitted that Licel cures the infection of lice in human hair and is thus therapeutic. It is submitted that applying the same the B Dettol is also a medicament. 4.14 It is submitted that in the case of Ponds India Ltd. (supra) in respect of the classification under the Trade Tax/VAT Laws this Court has taken into consideration the definition of ‘Drug’ as defined under the Drugs & Cosmetics Act, 1940 and the fact that the product is sold under C a drug licence since drug or medicine is not defined under the Trade Tax/VAT Laws.