A which commenced on 11.09.2018 when the NCLT admitted the application under Section 7 of the IBC. Thus, the moratorium under the IBC commenced on 11.09.2018. The CoC approved the Resolution Plan on 04.06.2019, and the same came to be approved by the NCLT by dated 24.07.2020. Therefore, the moratorium under the IBC continued upto 24.07.2020. Under the provisions of the IBC no payment could B have been made during the period of moratorium. Therefore, the appellant was statutorily restrained/debarred from making any payment. There was statutory disability on the part of the appellant in making the payment during the moratorium. If the appellant had made any payment during the period of moratorium, the appellant would have committed breach of C the provisions of the IBC. Therefore, it was impossible for the appellant to make any payment during the period of moratorium. Immediately on the moratorium coming to an end, the appellant – Resolution Professional / the successful Resolution applicant approached the authority requesting them to accept the settlement amount under the Scheme, 2019 as per the Form No.3. Such request has been rejected by the Commissioner on D the rejection has been confirmed by the High Court. 7. Therefore, the short question which is posed for consideration before this Court is, whether, when it was impossible for the appellant to deposit the settlement amount in view of the bar and/or the restrictions under the IBC, the appellant can be punished for no fault of the appellant? E In a given case can the appellant be made to suffer for no fault of its own, and be rendered remediless and denied the benefit/relief though it was impossible for the appellant to carry out certain acts, namely to deposit the settlement amount during the moratorium. 7.1 As per the settled position of law, no party shall be left remediless F and whatever the grievance the parties had raised before the court of law, has to be examined on its own merits [Sunil Vasudeva (supra) (para 31)]. 7.2 As observed and held by this Court in the case of Calcutta Iron Merchants’ Association (supra), no law would compel a person to G do the impossible. [Calcutta Iron Merchants’ Association (supra) (para 5)] 7.3 In the case of Gyanichand (supra) it was observed by this Court that it would not be fair on the part of the Court to give a direction to do something which is impossible and if a person has been directed to H M/S. SHEKHAR RESORTS LIMITED (UNIT HOTEL ORIENT 1121 TAJ) v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] do something which is impossible, and if he fails to do so, he cannot be A held guilty. 8. Applying the law laid down by this Court in the aforesaid decisions to the facts of the case on hand, the appellant cannot be punished for not doing something which was impossible for it to do. There was a legal impediment in the way of the appellant to make any B payment during the moratorium.