However, Annexure Y was neither a D condition precedent for being a responsive bidder nor a mandatory condition for awarding the contract. 45. EVEY rectified its mistake, explaining that the Annexure Y submitted by it was inadvertently placed after doing a cut-and-paste job from the previous tender. EVEY filed a revised/fresh Annexure Y strictly E in accordance with the Tender. 46. The learned SG vehemently submitted that to ask BEST to issue a fresh tender notice would be against public interest. In the contract given to EVEY in May 2022, BEST was to pay Rs. 46.81/KM to EVEY. BEST examined the possibility of re-tendering and found that in the F recent past, one similar tender was issued by the Convergency Energy Services Limited (CESL), a Government of India undertaking. As per the recent contract awarded by CESL, it ended up paying Rs. 1,200 Crore more than the present rate at which “BEST” awarded the instant contract. Therefore, it would be commercially imprudent to opt for re- tendering. G ANALYSIS 47. Having heard the learned counsel appearing for the parties and having gone through the materials on record, the only question that falls for our consideration is : Whether the High Court after upholding H 712 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the disqualification of TATA Motors from the Tender was justified in undertaking further exercise to ascertain whether EVEY also stood disqualified and that BEST in its discretion may undertake a fresh tender process? 48. This Court being the guardian of fundamental rights is duty- B bound to interfere when there is arbitrariness, irrationality, mala fides and bias. However, this Court has cautioned time and again that courts should exercise a lot of restraint while exercising their powers of judicial review in contractual or commercial matters. This Court is normally loathe to interfere in contractual matters unless a clear-cut case of arbitrariness or mala fides or bias or irrationality is made out. One must C remember that today many public sector undertakings compete with the private industry. The contracts entered into between private parties are not subject to scrutiny under writ jurisdiction. No doubt, the bodies which are State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution are bound to act fairly and are amenable to the writ jurisdiction of superior courts D but this discretionary power must be exercised with a great deal of restraint and caution. The courts must realise their limitations and the havoc which needless interference in commercial matters can cause. In contracts involving technical issues the courts should be even more reluctant because most of us in Judges’ robes do not have the necessary expertise to adjudicate upon technical issues beyond our domain. The courts should E not use a magnifying glass while scanning the tenders and make every small mistake appear like a big blunder. In fact, the courts must give “fair play in the joints” to the government and public sector undertakings in matters of contract. Courts must also not interfere where such interference will cause unnecessary loss to the public exchequer.