To wit to prove that Poonam and Devinder were in love and that in the evening of 25.06.1999 they actually met at the fodder room in Katvawala passage. 25. In this context, it is also relevant to note that PW-10 with whom Devinder claims to have shared his personal secrets, as above deposed that he did not participate in the funeral of Devinder. He would also depose that 7 (1982) 1 SCC 143 876 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. he is not related to Devinder. That apart, his evidence is to the fact that prior to 03.07.1999 he did not divulge about the aforesaid facts to anyone. It is also relevant to note at this juncture that it is not his specifi c case that he went to the police station or to the investigating offi cer or to any other police offi cer and on his own made a statement. In such circumstances the question is how the fact that he was having knowledge / information on such matters came to the knowledge of police. Thus, viewing from all angle, it can be seen that the evidence of PW-10 is not free from suspicion and at any rate, it cannot be taken as a positive evidence suffi cient to justify the application of the theory of ‘last seen’ or to presume the presence of Devinder in the company of the appellants in the evening of 25.06.1999, describing it as ‘last seen’ evidence. 26. PW-8 Azad is the father of PW-10 Mukesh. He would depose before the court that on 25.06.1999 at about 08.30 pm while he was returning from his fi eld, he saw the appellants taking out a gunny bag from their Kotha and putting it in an Ambassador and taking it towards Katlapur village. According to him though he had seen such an incident, he did not reveal the said facts to anyone till he made the statement to the police. He admitted the fact that Mukesh (PW-10) is his son and that PW-7 Dayanand is his brother. It is also worthy to note that he did not deny the suggestion that his grandfather Jug Lal and the grandfather of Sukhbir Singh, the father of the deceased, were real brothers and what he had deposed was that they might have been real brothers. 27. While testing the trustworthiness of the version of PW-8, certain aspects have to be taken into account. His version before the Court is that he had seen an old model white Ambassador car parked near the plot of Zile Singh and Balwan Singh at about 08.30 pm on 25.06.1999 and further that he had seen, at that time, the appellants taking out a gunny bag from their Kotha and putting it in the said Ambassador car and took it towards Katlapur village. On being confronted with Ext.PB the statement that the car was taken by the accused towards Katlapur village was not recorded by the police, was brought out. PW-10, his son, deposed that at about 08.30 pm when he was returning from the fi eld, he had seen the appellants, going through a short route.