30 of 2015 invited applications for selection / appointment on 1421 post (s) of JOA (Post Code 447) prescribing same qualifi cations as in Rule 7 of the 2014 Rules. The last date for submission of application was 18.03.2015. However, for residents of certain districts, it was 02.04.2015. But the date(s) were 7 Selection Board ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 819 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] extended up to 31.10.2015. Clause 4 of the general conditions in the advertisement specifi cally provided that, “the candidate must fulfi l / possess all the required essential educational and other qualifi cations mentioned against each code on or before the last date fi xed for the receipt of application forms, otherwise the candidature will be rejected at the time of Personal Interview.” (C) As large number of applicants had done their computer course from Private Institutes, the Principal Secretary (Education) to the Govt. was requested to inform: (i) whether a candidate could be considered eligible if he has certifi cate / diploma from any registered Institute, whether operating within or outside the State; (ii) the name(s) / list of registered / recognized institutes whose diplomas / certifi cates could be considered valid for determining eligibility for the post. (D) In response to the above, on December 2, 2015, the Additional Chief Secretary (Personnel) to the Govt. wrote a letter to the Selection Board stating: “It is informed that the provisions of the Rules regarding essential qualifi cations are crystal clear which provides that Diploma in Computer Science, Computer Application, Information Technology from a recognized University/ Institution/ITI OR “O” Or “A” level diploma from National Institute of Electronics and Information Technology (NIELIT) only are required and the question of registered/ unregistered institution does not arise. As regard the information on point-II, the clarifi cation can be obtained by you from the Education Department or IT Department.” (E) The above stand was reiterated in letter dated February 25, 2016. However, as list of registered / recognized institutes, whose diplomas / certifi cates were valid / recognized for determining eligibility to the post, was not available, the Commission wrote a letter to the Director of Higher Education, Himachal Pradesh, marking its copies to Additional Chief Secretary (Education), Govt., Director IT, Govt. and Secretary, 820 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. H.P. Board of School Education, Dharamshala, for a list of recognized institutions / institutes. (F) Pursuant to the correspondences above, the Directorate of Higher Education, Himachal Pradesh, Shimla, vide letter dated 27.05.2017, provided a list of institutions recognized by Himachal Pradesh Takniki Shiksha Board8, Dharamshala, District Kangra, Himachal Pradesh. (G) In between, candidature of several candidates was rejected for not possessing essential qualifi cations as prescribed by the 2014 Rules. Aggrieved by rejection of their candidature, some of these candidates preferred Original Applications9 (for short O.A.) before the Tribunal10, wherein an interim was passed on 30.06.2017. The operative portion of which is extracted below: “All the applicants are 10+2. However, the nomenclatures of the one-year diploma held by them in Computer is not in consonance with the nomenclature of the diploma mentioned in the aforesaid education qualifications.