PC and hence obtaining reports of inquiry or investigation, as the case may be, did not arise. Though not under any statutory requirement, the Trial Court has given brief reasons in its showing application of mind. At the stage, when the Trial Court made the summoning , two aspects were required to be satisfi ed: (1) whether the uncontroverted allegations as made in the petition of complaint read with the examination of the complainant, prima facie, tend to suggest an off ence having been committed, and (2) whether it is expedient and in the interest of justice to proceed. Keeping in view the allegations made in the petition of complaint and the evidence placed before the Trial Court by the complainant and on a plain reading of its dated 25th March, 2010 issuing summons to the accused, it does not appear to us that the fi nding of a prima facie case having been made out at that stage is so outrageously illogical or in defi ance of legal principles and acceptable standards that it would merit interference by this Court. If at all the benefi t of the Fourth Exception or any other pleaded exception is to be availed of, the appellant would be free to appear before the Trial Court and raise whatever defence is available to it in law, not necessarily confi ned to the Fourth Exception, for due consideration thereof by the Trial Court. 50. On facts of this case, we are satisfi ed that the Trial Court was not unjustifi ed in issuing summons to the accused based on the materials before it. 51. We also hold that the omission of the learned Judge in dealing with the other points raised in the petition by the appellant does not aff ord any ground for us to interfere, having noticed that by a detailed delivered on the same day on the petition of Aggarwal, the learned Judge had applied his mind and spurned a similar challenge. However, it is observed that the learned Judge would have been well advised to add a sentence in the impugned that no separate reason was being assigned to dispose of the other points raised by the appellant in view of the reasons already assigned for disposal of Aggarwal’s petition laying challenge to the summoning . 52. Question (a), thus, stands answered against the appellant. 256 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 53. Having regard to what we have held above, questions (b) and (c) need not detain us for long. We could have left them unanswered but since some argument was advanced touching the same, we propose to briefl y deal therewith. 54. Answer to question (b) must necessarily depend on the facts of each case, meaning thereby the quality of evidence that is led in course of the trial and the weight to be attached to it. At this stage it would not be inappropriate to consider the other line of argument advanced by Mr. Taneja that those documents/materials on which the appellant seeks to rely have not been admitted or accepted by the complainant and are yet to be proved; hence, the same cannot be looked into while considering a prayer for quashing.