Section 530 has G nothing to do with payment of taxes which might have mounted between the date of winding up and sale of its assets by the purchaser. Rule 154 also cannot have any manner of application since it provides the manner of estimation of value of debts and claims on the date of the of winding up of the company. H 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A It would be, in our opinion, thoroughly unreasonable to foist the liability on a purchaser without first letting him know prior to the sale about such liability. Enquiries at site must have been made by the ultimate purchaser before he offered his bid. The purchaser could have been informed there of the encumbrances. He could have also been told about it prior to his depositing the balance sale B consideration. The proceedings before the Company Court were decided without giving any opportunity to the Official Liquidator to file counter affidavits to the applications filed by the Nigam, as it appears from the stay petitions. We, however, find no averment in the stay petitions to the effect that after the respondent no.3 C had expressed interest to purchase the assets of the company in liquidation, the Official Liquidator had made him aware that purchase of such assets would carry with it the liability to pay arrear taxes recoverable by the Nigam. In the absence of such an averment, we find it difficult to hold that the respondent no.3 ought to bear the liability instead of the Official Liquidator. D At this stage, it would be worthwhile to consider the decision of the Apex Court in United Bank of India (supra) cited by Mr. Ghosh. The Official Liquidator, in that case, had sold the assets of the company in liquidation on the basis of Terms and Conditions of Sale to Triputi Jute Industries. Clause (2) of such terms and E conditions was as follows: “2. The sale will be as per inventory list on ‘as is where is basis’ and subject to the confirmation of the Hon’ble Supreme Court of India. The Official Liquidator shall not provide any guarantee and/or warranty in respect of the F immovable properties and as to the quality, quantity or specification of the movable assets. The intending purchaser must satisfy themselves in all respect as regards the movable and immovable assets, as to their title, encumbrances, area, boundary, description, quality, G quantity, and volume etc. and the purchaser will be deemed to offer with full knowledge as to the description, area etc. of the properties and defects thereof, if any. The purchaser shall not be entitled to claim any compensation or deduction in price on any account whatsoever and shall be deemed to have purchased the property subject to all H OFFICIAL LIQUIDATOR v. UJJAIN NAGAR PALIKA NIGAM 1095 & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] encumbrances, liens and claims including those under the A existing legislation affecting labour, staff etc. The Official Liquidator shall not entertain any complaint in this regard after the sale is over.