This is a reasonable and sufficient explanation. [Para 19][515-B-E] E 3.1 The relief claimed in this Writ Petition is similar to the prayer in the Writ Petition which was disposed of on 22.11.2012. Even in that proceeding, Respondent No.1 had raised similar arguments. They were countered by the State by contending that F there existed an agreement between the parties which stipulated a sum of Rs.1,00,000 as irrigation restoration charges, and pursuant to this agreement, Respondent No.1 had even issued an undertaking. [Para 20][515-F-G] 3.2 The High Court merely directed the concerned authority G to take a decision on the representations made by Respondent No.1 within a period of eight weeks, and if the same came to be decided in the favor of Respondent No.1, then Respondent No.1 could take such measures in law to seek a refund. The High Court refrained from granting a stay on the payment of the second H THE CHIEF ENGINEER, WRD v. RATTAN INDIA POWER LTD.THROUGH 509 ITS DIRECTOR instalment. In compliance with the direction of the High Court, A the Government considered the matter and it rejected the representation on 29.01.2013. In that view of the matter, the High Court committed an error in entertaining a fresh writ petition, which effectively claimed the same reliefs as of the previous one. The High Court committed a mistake in not only entertaining B the writ petition, but also in supplanting its view over that of the contract. [Para 20][517-A-C] CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal No. 8550 of 2022. C From the and dated 05.05.2016 of the High Court of Judicature at Bombay at Nagpur in WP No.4968 of 2015. Chander Uday Singh, Sr. Adv., Rajat Sehgal, Nitin Mishra, Ms. Mitali Gupta, Amjad Maqbool, Advs. for the Appellants. D Gopal Jain, Sr. Adv., Mahesh Agarwal, Rishi Agrawala, Ankur Saigal, Ms. Parul Shukla, Chirag Nayak, E. C. Agrawala, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Bharat Bagla, Ms. Kirti Dadheech, Advs. for the Respondents. The of the Court was delivered by E PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J. 1. The short question which arises for our consideration in the present case relates to whether a party to a contract is entitled to question the amount of consideration after signing the contract. By adverting to F the facts of the case, we have held that Respondent No.1 is estopped from doing so because the Appellant, in all its communications, had soughtfor an amount of Rs.1,00,000 as irrigation restoration charges i.e., consideration for diversion of water for industrial use, which was earlier reserved for irrigational purposes. Even the contract entered into between G the parties prescribed the same amount. In fact, Respondent No.1 agreed to the pay the considerationby issuing an undertaking on the date of signing of the contract. In any case, thiscontractual dispute concerning the reduction of irrigation restoration charges,was contested by the parties in an earlier Writ Petition before the High Court of Judicature at Bombay, H 510 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A and the High Courtby its dated 22.11.2012 had dismissed the challenge.