There is no such material made available indicating that the procurers have held out that they will be liable. It is not in dispute that the first unit from the power plant was B in fact commissioned in August, 2012. In fact, when we asked as to whether a notice was given in terms of Article 13.3.1, Shri Amit Kapur, learned counsel, could not point out to any such notice except the notice which was given on 15.12.2012. In this regard also, we may notice the contents of the said notice: C “5.2 Additional expenditure incurred due to change in Declared Price of Land, cost of implementation of resettlement and rehabilitation package of land, change in customs duty on mining equipment, water intake system etc. (a) the actual expenditure incurred by SPL towards land, D implementation of resettlement and rehabilitation package of land for the project, water intakes system, customs duty on mining equipment and excise duty on cement and steel.” (70) Therein all that is indicated is that for the water intake the original cost was put Rs.92 crores whereas the estimated cost has been E Rs.238 crores Contemporaneous with the change in law alleged and in keeping with Article 13.3.1, there is no notice brought to our notice. (71) No doubt, Shri Amit Kapur, learned counsel for the first respondent, did attempt to draw inspiration from the Minutes of the Meeting which took place on 20.03.2013 as per which the lead procurer appears to have agreed to the change. The case of Mr. Amit Kapur, F learned counsel, that the lead procurer can bind the other procurers is contested by Shri M. G. Ramachandran, learned senior counsel. (72) We have noticed that a notice in terms of Article 13.3.1 notifying the change in law as claimed today before the Court was not given at the relevant time. G (73) The argument that the procurers agreed to the acquisition of the land through which the new route had to travel also does not appeal to us as firmly founding the claim of the first respondent in law. The matter must be viewed from the prism of the specific provisions defining the change in law and the actual change in law which is as we have H 52 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A explained above. In short, being awarded a contract and having entered into the PPA and without any basis as such in facts, the first respondent ventured to commission a new study and acting on the same, a new pipeline corridor came on the scene. Necessarily the cost may go up. But the question we are to decide is as to whether it is change in law and we are of the view that it could not be a change in law as contemplated B in the agreement as it is not a change in initial consent which is the only case which has been argued in this regard. (74) The argument further is only that the estimated cost was Rs.92 crores and a further sum in excess of the same had to be spent.