36. For the reasons recorded above, it can be safely concluded that Article 20(1) of the Constitution has no applicability either to the validity or invalidity of Section 6A of the DSPE Act. Retrospective or Prospective application of the in the case of Subramanian Swamy (supra) (Question No.3). 37. The Constitution Bench in case of Subramanian Swamy (supra) declared Section 6A of the DSPE Act as unconstitutional on the ground that it violates Article 14 of the Constitution on account of the classifi cation of the Government servants, to which the said provision was to apply. The invalidity of Section 6A of the DSPE Act is not on the basis of legislative incompetence or for any other constitutional violation. In Vineet Narain (supra) this Court had held that Single Directive No.4.7(3) to be invalid and it was struck down on the ground that by an administrative instruction the powers of the CBI conferred under statute could not be interfered with. It was because of the said declaration that Section 6A was inserted in the DSPE Act in 2003. 38. The question for determination is whether declaration of any law as unconstitutional by a Constitutional Court would have retrospective eff ect or would apply prospectively. 39. Much emphasis has been laid on the interpretation of the word ‘void’ used in Article 13(2) of the Constitution. The same word ‘void’ is used in Article 13(1) of the Constitution also. The judgements relied upon by the parties which will be shortly discussed hereinafter relate to the interpretation of the said word ‘void’ by various Constitution Benches and a seven-judge Bench and other regular Benches. In the Oxford dictionary, the word ‘void’ is defi ned to mean something is not legally valid or binding, when used as an adjective and further when used as a verb, it means to declare that something is not valid or legally binding. CBI v. R.R. KISHORE 41 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 40. Article 13 of the Constitution has two sub-Articles (1) and (2). It reads as follows: “13(1). All laws in force in the territory of India immediately before the commencement of this Constitution, in so far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this Part, shall, to the extent of such inconsistency, be void 13(2). The State shall not make any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by this Part and any law made in contravention of this clause shall, to the extent of the contravention, be void.” 41. Under Article 13(1) all existing laws prior to the commencement of the Constitution, insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part-III, would be void to the extent of inconsistency. Further, according to Article 13(2), the State is prohibited from making any law which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by Part-III and further that any law made in contravention of this clause would be void to the extent of contravention. Article 13(2) prohibits making of any law so it would be relating to laws made post commencement of the Constitution, like the case at hand.