In India Thermal Power Ltd (supra), the issue before the two-judge Bench was whether the State Government can alter the terms of the Power Purchase Agreement entered into under Sections 43 and 43-A of the 1948 Act. Section 43 empowered the Board B to enter into an arrangement with any person for purchase or sale of electricity. Section 43-A provided that the tariff for the sale of electricity by a generating company shall be determined in accordance with the norms regarding the operation and plant-load factor as determined by the Central Government from time to time. It was in light of these provisions, that this Court observed that every provision of an agreement C entered into between a generating company and Electricity Board in exercise of the enabling power conferred under Sections 43 and 43-A does not render the entirety of the contract statutory. The relevant observations are extracted below: “11. [...] Merely because a contract is entered into in exercise of D an enabling power conferred by a statute that by itself cannot render the contract a statutory contract. If entering into a contract containing the prescribed terms and conditions is a must under the statute then that contract becomes a statutory contract. If a contract incorporates certain terms E and conditions in it which are statutory then the said contract to that extent is statutory. A contract may contain certain other terms and conditions which may not be of a statutory character and which have been incorporated therein as a result of mutual agreement between the parties. Therefore, the PPAs can be regarded as statutory only to the extent that they contain F provisions regarding determination of tariff and other statutory requirements of Section 43-A(2). Opening and maintaining of an escrow account or an escrow agreement are not the statutory requirements and, therefore, merely because PPAs contemplate maintaining escrow accounts that obligation G cannot be regarded as statutory.” (emphasis supplied) 74. We are of the opinion that the reasoning of this Court in India Thermal Power Ltd (supra) actually supports the arguments of the Electric Utilities. As evinced from Hyderabad Vanaspathi (supra), the H 686 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A conditions of supply enacted by the Boards have a statutory character. Therefore, any condition enacted under Section 49 of the 1948 Act, specifically one requiring the new owner to clear the arrears of the previous owner as a precondition to availing electricity supply, will have a statutory character. When such a condition is incorporated as part of a contract, such contract also attains a statutory character and the liability B contained therein becomes a statutory liability, which can be enforced by the utilities against third parties, including the new owners of the premises in question. 75. The next question that comes up for consideration is whether the Electric utilities can enact a condition providing for recoupment of C electricity arrears of a previous owner from the new owner. Under the 1948 Act, the Board could enact terms and conditions for the supply of electricity under Section 49 read with Section 79(j).