It will depend on circumstance of the case. If substance itself is suffi cient to prove culpability and there is no ambiguity about import of the statement made by the accused, 11 AIR 2009 SC 378; (2008) 14 SCC 667 12 1995 Supp (4) SCC 259 13 (2007) 12 SCC 341 882 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. evidence can be acted upon even though substance and not actual words have been stated. Human mind is not a tape rec which records what has been spoken word by word. The witness should be able to say as nearly as possible actual words spoken by the accused. That would rule out possibility of erroneous interpretation of any ambiguous statement. If word by word repetition of statement of the case is insisted upon, more often than not evidentiary value of extra- judicial confession has to be thrown out as unreliable and not useful. That cannot be a requirement in law. There can be some persons who have a good memory and may be able to repost exact words and there may be many who are possessed of normal memory and do so. It is for the court to judge credibility of the witness’ capacity and thereafter to decide whether his or her evidence has to be accepted or not. If court believes witnesses before whom confession is made and is satisfi ed confession was voluntary basing on such evidence, conviction can be founded. Such confession should be clear, specifi c and unambiguous.” 38. PW-7 Daya Nand is the witness to whom extra judicial confession was allegedly made by the appellants herein. True that both the Courts held it as admissible and accepted it as a strong link in the chain of circumstantial evidence. Going by the deposition of PW-7 Daya Nand, the appellants herein, (named by him as Joginder and Krishan), came to him while he was sitting in his Baithak and told him about the factum of commission of murder of Devinder s/o Sukhbir Singh, manner of murder and causing disappearance of evidence etc. He would depose during his chief examination thus:- “On 09.07.1999, I was sitting in my Baithak, in the meantime, Joginder and Krishan accused came to me and told me that they have committed the murder of Davinder son of Sukhbir and have thrown his body in a canal. The accused also told me that on 25-6-99 they went to fodder room of Zile Singh, where they found Davinder And Poonam in a compromise position. They gave beating to Poonam and sent her away but they snatched her chunni and strangulated Davinder for his acts and put his body in a gunny bag. The accused also told me that have put the body in their Ambassador Car and thrown it is the Delhi Canal. They also requested me that the C.I.A. staff is in their search. So, they wanted my help that they should be produced before KRISHAN KUMAR AND ANR. v. THE STATE OF 883 HARYANA [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.]