Thus, the of discharge simpliciter, prima facie, is not punitive, it being in terms of Punjab Police Rule 12.21, but the question still is whether the incident which led to the passing of that was motive or inducing factor or was the foundation of of discharge. 7. Thus the principle that in to determine whether the misconduct is motive or foundation of of termination, the test to be applied is to ask the question as to what was the “object of the enquiry”. If an enquiry or an assessment is done with the object of fi nding out any misconduct on the part of the employee and for that reason his services are terminated, then it would be punitive in nature. On the other hand, if such an enquiry or an assessment is aimed at determining the suitability of an employee for a particular job, such termination would be termination simpliciter and not punitive in nature. This principle was laid down by Shah, J. (as he then was) as early as 1961 in the case of State of Orissa v. Ram Narayan Das, (1961) 1 SCR 606 : AIR 1961 SC 177 : (1961) 1 LLJ 552. It was held that one should look into “object or purpose of the enquiry” and not merely hold the termination to be punitive merely because of an antecedent enquiry. Whether it ( of termination) amounts to an of dismissal depends upon the nature of the enquiry, if any, the proceedings taken therein and the substance of the fi nal passed on such enquiry. On the facts of that case, the termination of a probationer was upheld inasmuch as the purpose of the enquiry was held to be to fi nd out if the employee could be confi rmed. The purpose of the enquiry was not to fi nd out if he was guilty of any misconduct, negligence, ineffi ciency or other disqualifi cation. 11. In the light of the above legal position, we will now determine whether, in substance, the of discharge in the present case is punitive in nature. For this purpose it would be necessary to ascertain, fi rstly, the “nature of enquiry” i.e. whether the termination is preceded 830 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. by a full-scale formal enquiry into allegations involving misconduct on the part of the respondent, which culminated in the fi nding of guilt, and, secondly, the “purpose of the enquiry” i.e. whether the purpose of the enquiry is to fi nd out any misconduct on the part of the employee or it is aimed at fi nding out as to the respondent being unlikely to prove as an effi cient police offi cer.” 14. Similarly, this Court in the case of “Ravindra Kumar Misra Vs. U.P. State Handloom Corporation Ltd. and Another, 1987 (Supp) SCC 739”, while dealing the case of termination of a temporary employee, made a distinction between simpliciter termination and punitive termination applying the test of motive and foundation. This Court clarifi ed the said distinction and observed as under – “6.