H 608 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 35. This Court in Dolly Chhanda vs. Chairman, Jee & Others (2005) 9 SCC 779, has considered the situation where the incumbent has failed to furnish the certificate seeking benefit of reservation and after examining the Scheme, this Court in the given circumstances, held as under: B “7. The general rule is that while applying for any course of study or a post, a person must possess the eligibility qualification on the last date fixed for such purpose either in the admission brochure or in application form, as the case may be, unless there is an express provision to the contrary. There can be no relaxation in this regard i.e. in the matter of holding the requisite eligibility C qualification by the date fixed. This has to be established by producing the necessary certificates, degrees or marksheets. Similarly, in to avail of the benefit of reservation or weightage, etc. necessary certificates have to be produced. These are documents in the nature of proof of holding of particular D qualification or percentage of marks secured or entitlement to benefit of reservation. Depending upon the facts of a case, there can be some relaxation in the matter of submission of proof and it will not be proper to apply any rigid principle as it pertains in the domain of procedure. Every infraction of the rule relating to submission of proof need not necessarily result in rejection of E candidature.” 36. Later, in Ram Kumar Gijroya vs. Delhi Subordinate Services Selection Board and Another (2016) 4 SCC 754, this Court has examined the question as to whether a candidate who appears in an examination under the OBC category and submits the certificate after F the last date mentioned in the advertisement is eligible for selection to the post under OBC category and answered it in affirmative as under:- “18. In our considered view, the decision rendered in Pushpa [Pushpa v. Govt. (NCT of Delhi), 2009 SCC OnLine Del 281] is in conformity with the position of law laid down by this G Court, which have been referred to supra. The Division Bench of the High Court erred in reversing the and passed by the learned Single Judge, without noticing the binding precedent on the question laid down by the Constitution Benches of this Court in Indra Sawhney [Indra Sawhney v. Union of India, 1992 Supp (3) SCC 217 : 1992 SCC (L&S) Supp 1 : (1992) 22 H SAKSHI ARHA v. THE RAJASTHAN HIGH COURT AND 609 OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] ATC 385] and Valsamma Paul [Valsamma Paul v. Cochin A University, (1996) 3 SCC 545 : 1996 SCC (L&S) 772 : (1996) 33 ATC 713] wherein this Court after interpretation of Articles 14, 15, 16 and 39-A of the directive principles of State policy held that the object of providing reservation to the SCs/STs and educationally and socially backward classes of the society is to remove inequality B in public employment, as candidates belonging to these categories are unable to compete with the candidates belonging to the general category as a result of facing centuries of oppression and deprivation of opportunity.