Therefore, the exact land to be reserved under the impugned Rule, will vary from C case to case. It is not to be confused with the areas required, reserved or designated in the plan. In fact, in Annexure XX, which is the subject matter of the 2008 Regulations, the specific requirement in regard to the place where the OSR is to be located is indicated as the place where the property abuts a public road. D 59. From the Preamble to the DCR, it would appear that the first master plan was prepared in 1975 for the Chennai Metropolitan Area and the Government approved it on 04.12.1976. As found by V. Ramasubramanium, J. in the , which we have elaborately referred to, the DCR came to be issued along with the first master plan. Thereafter, as noticed by him, to deal with group development or flats, E the issue was taken up by the CMDA by letter dated 22.03.1981, Government issued GoMS dated 08.10.1982. The learned Judge has found that the Government exercised power under Section 32 of the Act. What we are indicating is that the reservation of the land for communal or recreational purposes in individual cases, on the basis of applications made by persons, is not to be conflated with the land which F is declared as required, reserved or designated in the master plan, inter alia, which latter categories alone are the subject matter of Sections 36 and 37 of the Act. IS THE IMPUGNED RULE/REGULATION BAD FOR THE REASON THAT IT IS CONTRARY TO THE G MANDATE OF SECTION 39 OF THE ACT? 60. Section 39 of the Act, reads as follows: “39. Right to compensation. - (1) Any person whose property is injuriously affected by virtue of any of the provisions contained in H any regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan or a ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1085 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] new town development plan made under this Act shall, if he prefers A a claim for the purpose to the Tribunal with such particulars and within such period as may be prescribed, be entitled to obtain compensation in respect thereof as determined by the Tribunal: Provided that property shall not be deemed to be injuriously affected by reason of any of the provisions inserted in any development B plan which impose any condition or restriction in regard to any of the matters specified in clause (f) of sub-section (2) of section 15, or in clauses (k) and (l) of sub-section (2) of section 17 or in clauses (m) and (n) of sub-section (1) of section 20, as the case may be. C (2) If, at any time after the day on which any regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan, or a new town development plan has come into force, such plan is varied, or revoked, any person who has incurred any expenditure for the purpose of complying with such plan, shall, if he prefers a claim for the purpose to the D Tribunal with such particulars and within such time as may be prescribed, be entitled to obtain compensation in respect thereof as determined by the Tribunal, if by reason only of the variation or revocation of such plan, such expenditure has ceased to be in any way beneficial to him.” E 61.