However, the principle of sovereign immunity of the state for the tortious acts of its servants, D has been held to be inapplicable in the case of violation of fundamental rights. Question No. 1 referred to this Constitution Bench reads as under: “Are the grounds specified in Article 19(2) in relation to which reasonable restrictions on the right to free speech can be E imposed by law, exhaustive, or can restrictions on the right to free speech be imposed on grounds not found in Article 19(2) by invoking fundamental rights?” Preface: 11. In my view, these casescall for an analysis of the content of F Article 19(1)(a) of the Constitution of India which grants to all citizens of India the right to freedom of speech and expression. Before proceeding to analyse the relevant constitutional provisions, it may be appropriate to preface the discussion with the thought that freedom of speechis not contingent only upon the laws of a nation. The compulsion of social G relations and the informal pressures of conformity, exerted in a pervasive manner, determine to a great extent, the content and limits of permissible speech in society. It is the laws, however, through their own unique methods, which reinforce social sanctions. Therefore, the Constitution, which is the fundamental law of the land, as well as the other laws which are measured on the touchstone of the Constitution, are to be H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 729 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] interpreted, having regard, inter-alia, to the content and permissible limits A of free speech in a peaceful society. It is necessary to observe that freedom of speech and expression has always been closely linked with certain socio-political ideals that constitute the foundation of democracy: respect for individual dignity and equality; fraternity; ideals of tolerance; cultural and religious B sensitivity. Many of these ideals are written into the text of our Constitution and permeate its structure through the very Preamble to the Constitution. These ideals form the philosophical foundations of the discourse on free speech and therefore, any analysis of the same should be compatible with these ideals. It is in that background that one must C set out to examine whether additional accountability and thus, a legal obligation can be cast upon public functionaries with respect to the permissible extent of free speech. Further, it is also necessary to examine the difference between restraints on the exercise of freedom of speech and expression, vis-à-vis restrictions thereon, and in that background examine the degree of self-restraint that needs to be exercised by every D citizen, whether a public functionary or not, in exercising his/her right to freedom of speech and expression in a Country like ours which is so unique because of its diversity and pluralism. Article 19(1)(a) and Article 19(2): An overview E 12. At this stage, it would be useful to dilate on Article 19(1)(a) and Article 19(2) as under: 12.1. Article 19(1)(a) to (f) of the Constitution guarantees certain fundamental rights to the citizens of India.