Therefore, the view expressed by the High Court is not sustainable and we say so.” (Emphasis supplied) 74. In Perkins Eastman (supra), this Court held as under: “This application under Section 11(6) read with Section 11(12)(a) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 (“the Act”) and under the Appointment of Arbitrators by the Chief Justice of India Scheme, 1996 (“the Scheme”) prays for the following principal relief: “(a) appoint a sole arbitrator, in accordance with Clause 24 of the contract dated 22-5-2017 executed between the parties and the sole arbitrator so appointed may adjudicate the disputes and diff erences between the parties arising from the said contract.” xxx xxx xxx 21. But, in our view that has to be the logical deduction from TRF Ltd. [TRF Ltd. v. Energo Engg. Projects Ltd., (2017) 8 SCC 377 : (2017) 4 SCC (Civ) 72] Para 50 of the decision shows that this Court was concerned with the issue, “whether the Managing Director, after becoming ineligible by operation of law, is he still eligible to nominate an arbitrator” The ineligibility referred to therein, was as a result of operation of law, in that a person having an interest in the dispute or in the outcome or decision thereof, must not only be ineligible to act as an arbitrator but must also not be eligible to appoint anyone else as an arbitrator and that such person cannot and should not have any role in charting out any course to the dispute resolution by having the power to appoint an arbitrator. The next sentences in the paragraph, further show that cases where both the parties could nominate respective arbitrators of their choice were found to be completely a diff erent situation. The reason is clear that whatever LOMBARDI ENGINEERING LTD. v. UTTARAKHAND JAL 987 VIDYUT NIGAM LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] advantage a party may derive by nominating an arbitrator of its choice would get counter-balanced by equal power with the other party. But, in a case where only one party has a right to appoint a sole arbitrator, its choice will always have an element of exclusivity in determining or charting the course for dispute resolution. Naturally, the person who has an interest in the outcome or decision of the dispute must not have the power to appoint a sole arbitrator. That has to be taken as the essence of the amendments brought in by the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 2015 (3 of 2016) and recognised by the decision of this Court in TRF Ltd. [TRF Ltd. v. Energo Engg. Projects Ltd., (2017) 8 SCC 377 : (2017) 4 SCC (Civ) 72]” (Emphasis supplied) 75. In Voestalpine Schienen GMBH v. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Limited reported in (2017) 4 SCC 665, this Court held as under: “28. Before we part with, we deem it necessary to make certain comments on the procedure contained in the arbitration agreement for constituting the Arbitral Tribunal. Even when there are a number of persons empanelled, discretion is with DMRC to pick fi ve persons therefrom and forward their names to the other side which is to select one of these fi ve persons as its nominee (though in this case, it is now done away with).