B. PARDIWALA, J.] to those decisions, Section 50 would be applicable. It could legitimately be argued that the interpretation of Section 50 restricting its scope only to the search of a person of the accused would frustrate the object as the apprehension of the person concerned may continue to subsist that he may still be implicated by the police or any other person for more stringent punishment of carrying commercial quantity by getting rid of the rigor of the mandatory provision of Section 50 by implanting the contraband in a vehicle, bag, etc. accompanying the person. What we are trying to convey has been explained in the case of State v. Klein [See : John C. Derrnbachet. al., A Practical Guide to Legal Writing and Legal Method (1994)]. In the said case, the issue before the U.S. Court was that whether a person can be held guilty for the off ence of burglary more particularly when such person did not enter the house per se but tried to steal the object with the help of tree snips. The statute clearly declared that for burglary to happen, the defendant should be physically present. In this case, although the defendant never entered the house, yet he did extend his tree snips through the window. The Court held that, “there is no meaningful diff erence between the snips and his arm because the penetration by the snips was merely an extension of Klein’s person.” Therefore, in the said case, the object which a person was carrying was held to be part of his body. A similar view could also have been adopted while interpreting the term “personal search”. However, in view of plain and unambiguous statutory provision, there is no scope of interpreting Section 50 in any other manner than the interpretation explained in Baldev Singh (supra) and Pawan Kumar (supra). 115. It is a well-settled principle in law that the Court should not read anything into a statutory provision which is plain and unambiguous. A statute is an edict of the legislature. The language employed in a statute is the determinative factor of the legislative intent. The fi rst and primary rule of construction is that the intention of the legislation must be found in the words used by the legislature itself. The question is not what may be supposed and has been intended but what has been said. Judge Learned Hand said, “Statutes should be construed, not as theorems of Euclid, but with some imagination of the purposes which lie behind them”. (See : Lehigh Valley Coal Co. v. Yensavage, 218 FR 547). The view was reiterated in Union of India v. Filip Tiago De Gama of Vedem Vasco De Gama, (1990) 1 SCC 277. 366 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 116. In D.R. Venkatchalam v. Dy. Transport Commissioner, (1977) 2 SCC 273, it was observed that the Courts must avoid the danger of an a priori determination of the meaning of a provision based on their own preconceived notions of ideological structure or scheme into which the provision to be interpreted is somewhat fi tted.