The provision does not merely protect the freedom to form an association to create spaces for political speech or for espousing the cause of labour rights. While that is a very crucial component of the freedom protected under Article 19(1)(c), the provision also protects the freedom to engage in other forms of association to realize all forms of expression protected under Article 19(1)(a). 221. In Roberts v. United States Jaycees,195 the US Supreme Court read ‘freedom of association’ widely to include the freedom to form intimate associations. The factual matrix before the Court was that regular membership to the respondent-corporation was restricted to men between the ages of fi fteen to thirty-fi ve. Associate membership was off ered to those to whom regular membership was not available. Complaints were fi led alleging that the exclusion of women from full membership violated the Minnesota Human Rights Act which made it discriminatory to deny to any person the full and equal enjoyment of the goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, and accommodations of a place of public accommodation because of race, color, creed, religion, disability, national origin or sex. The US Supreme Court had to decide if any interference with the organization’s membership policy would violate the respondent’s freedom of association guaranteed under the First Amendment. Justice Brennan, writing for the majority, observed that the freedom of association constitutes two facets. First, the freedom to enter into intimate human relationships secure from undue state interference (“the intrinsic element”); and second, the freedom to 195 468 U.S 609 (1984) SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1357 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] form associations to engage in activities protected by the First Amendment such as speech, assembly, and the exercise of religion (“the instrumental element”). The Court observed that individuals have the freedom to form intimate associations because individual liberty can be secured only when the State does not unjustifi ably interfere with the formation and preservation of certain kinds of highly personal relationships. The Constitution protects such relationships because individuals draw emotional enrichment from close ties such as those created by marriage, children, and cohabitation, which contribute towards identity building and self-development. Justice Brenan qualifi ed the freedom by observing that only personal relationships (which are characterized by their attributes such as relative smallness, a high degree of selectivity in decisions to begin and maintain the affi liation, the seclusion from others in critical aspects of the relationship) are protected.196 222. Kenneth L. Karst, who developed the idea of the freedom of intimate association197 argues that the Courts have traditionally not permitted the State to interfere or regulate in certain kinds of personal relationships, thereby elevating it to a distinct freedom. Intimate association is characterized by a sense of collectivity which exists beyond two individuals. One of the prominent ideas embraced by the freedom of intimate association is the opportunity it aff ords to enjoy the society of the other person who is a part of the relationship and the ability to choose to form and maintain such a relationship.198 The opportunity to enjoy the society of one’s partner may be denied either directly or indirectly.