the party must be given the benefit of restitution as understood in civil law. ………….” F 136. Undisputedly, the claim of APML stands on the basis of the Change in Law. The DISCOMS, which are instrumentalities of the State, cannot be expected to argue contrary to the stand of the Government, which clearly provides that the generators would be entitled to pass- through for the coal required to be imported or purchased from the open market on the ground of Change in Law. G 137. Shri M.G. Ramachandran, learned Senior Counsel has also made a submission that though the Change in Law event is dated 31st July 2013, the learned APTEL has erred in giving effect to the same from 1st April 2013. In this respect, it is to be noted that the Change in Law has been made applicable to the remaining four years of the 12th H MAHARASHTRA STATE ELECTRICITY DISTRIBUTION CO. LTD. v. 145 ADANI POWER MAHARASHTRA LTD. [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Plan for power plants. The MERC, in the case of APML, as well as the A CERC, in the case of GMR, has given effect to the Change in Law for the last four financial years beginning from the Financial Year 2013- 2014. The financial year begins from 1st of April of every year. Apart from that, from the perusal of the s passed by the learned APTEL in both the matters, it is clear that no such challenge was made before B the learned APTEL, and, even in the present appeals, there is ground to this effect in the Memo of Appeals. Only oral submissions have been sought to be made in that regard. 138. In view of the concurrent s of the authorities with regard to the date on which the Change in Law compensation is to be given, we C see no reason to entertain such a plea, which does not have a foundation in the pleadings. 139. Another contention raised on behalf of the DISCOMS is that if the generators are permitted to claim compensation on the basis of actual SHR or the SHR as per the Regulations, whichever is lower, it D will permit them to take advantage of their inefficiency. It is submitted that lesser the SHR, greater the efficiency of the machine and, therefore, higher the generation of electricity. Per contra, when the machine is inefficient, the SHR is higher and the electricity generation is lower. The SHR is not only dependent on the efficiency of the machine but on various other factors. One of the other factors is the PLF. In this respect, E it will be relevant to refer to the statutory advice issued by the CERC on 20th May 2013, the relevant part of which has already been reproduced hereinabove. It clearly states that for want of adequate coal supply by CIL/Coal Companies, the PLF of the generating stations across the country has been severely affected. As such, the contention in that regard, F in our considered view, is without substance.