Rule 86. Procedure in default of payment.—In default of payment within the period mentioned in the last preceding rule, the deposit may, if the Court thinks fit, after defraying the expenses of the sale, be forfeited to the Government, and the property shall be re-sold, and the defaulting purchaser shall forfeit all claim to D the property or to any part of the sum for which it may subsequently be sold.” 7.4 As per 21 Rule 84, on every sale of immovable property the person declared to be the purchaser shall pay immediately after such declaration deposit of twenty-five per cent on the amount of his E purchase-money and in default of such deposit, the property shall forthwith be re- sold. 7.5 As per 21 Rule 85, the full amount of purchase- money payable shall be paid by the purchaser into Court before the Court closes on the fifteenth day from the sale of the property. Thus, as per the aforesaid provisions, the purchaser has to deposit 25% of the sale amount F immediately on declaring to be the purchaser and the full amount of the purchase-money shall have to be paid by the purchaser into the Court before the Court closes on fifteenth day from the sale of the property. 7.6 In the present case admittedly the purchaser – respondent No. 1 deposited 25% of the amount on 03.11.2011 and did not deposit G 25% of the amount as required under 21 Rule 84 immediately. The auction purchaser was required to deposit 25% of the amount the day on which he was declared purchaser i.e., 18.10.2011. Even the balance 75% of the amount has not been deposited as required under 21 Rule 85. The full amount of the purchase-money in the present case has been deposited on 04.11.2011 i.e., after the period prescribed/ H 440 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A provided under 21 Rule 85. Therefore, there is non-compliance of 21 Rule 84 and Rule 85 of CPC. 8. In light of the aforesaid facts, few decisions of this Court on 21 Rules 84 and 85 are required to be referred to and considered. 8.1 In the case of Manilal Mohanlal Shah (supra), it is observed and held that the provision regarding the deposit of 25% of the amount B by the purchaser other than the decree-holder is mandatory and the full amount of the purchase money must be paid within fifteen days from the date of the sale. It is further observed and held that if the payment is not made within the period of fifteen days, the Court has the discretion to forfeit the deposit, and there the discretion ends but the obligation of C the Court to resell the property is imperative. In paragraph 8 of the decision, it is observed and held as under: - “8. The provision regarding the deposit of 25 per cent by the purchaser other than the decree-holder is mandatory as the language of the Rule suggests. The full amount of the purchase money must be paid within fifteen days from the date of the sale D but the decree-holder is entitled to the advantage of a set-off.