The same has been done by way of second proviso to Section 140(5) of the Act, 2013. Therefore, the second proviso to Section 140(5) which, as observed hereinabove, is a substantive provision, is introduced after a detailed analysis and after taking into D consideration the recommendations of the Standing Committee and with a view to make the provision more stringent and to provide for consequences for an auditor when such auditor is found to have been perpetrating a fraud and is removed by the NCLT for such fraud. It is required to be noted that on passing of the final by the NCLT E under first part of section 140(5) and if an auditor is found to have been indulged into fraudulent activities or abetting or colluding in a fraud with the management of the company, consequences provided under the second proviso to section 140(5) shall follow. Therefore, before second proviso of section 140(5) is attracted, there must be a detailed enquiry against an auditor of a company as per first part of section 140(5) and F there must be a finding arrived at by the NCLT that the auditor of a company has, directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted or colluded in any fraud by, or in relation to, the company or its directors or officers. 6. By the impugned and , though the High Court G has upheld the vires of Section 140(5) of the Act, 2013, however, the High Court has held that once the auditor resigns as an auditor or is no more an auditor on his resignation, thereafter Section 140(5) proceedings are no longer maintainable as the petition filed by the Union of India under section 140(5) has been satisfied by the subsequent resignation of H the auditor. The view taken by the High Court is absolutely erroneous UNION OF INDIA AND ANOTHER V. DELOITTE HASKINS 1007 AND SELLS LLP [M. R. SHAH, J.] and is unsustainable. Subsequent resignation of an auditor after the A application is filed under section 140(5) by itself shall not terminate the proceedings under section 140(5). Resignation and/or removal of an auditor cannot be said to be an end of the proceedings under section 140(5). There are further consequences also on culmination of the enquiry under section 140(5) proceedings and passing a final by the Tribunal B on the conduct of an auditor, whether such a auditor has, directly or indirectly, acted in a fraudulent manner or abetted or colluded in any fraud by, or in relation to, the company or its directors or officers, as provided under the second proviso to section 140(5) of the Act, 2013. Therefore, the enquiry/proceedings initiated under the first part of section 140(5) has to go to its logical end and subsequent resignation and/or C discontinuance of an auditor shall not terminate the enquiry/proceedings under section 140(5). If the interpretation given by the High Court that once an auditor resigns, the proceedings under section 140(5) stand terminated and are no longer further required to be proceeded, in that case, an auditor to avoid the final and the consequence of final D as provided under the second proviso to section 140(5) may resign and avoid any final by the Tribunal.