(5) If the suit referred to in sub-rule (4) is decreed, the Court shall direct the decree holder to refund the money to the auction- C purchaser, and where such an is passed the execution proceeding in which the sale had been held shall, unless the Court otherwise directs, be revived at the stage at which the sale was ed.” … … … … … … … … D “94. Certificate to purchaser.- Where a sale of immoveable property has become absolute, the Court shall grant a certificate specifying the property sold and the name of the person who at the time of sale is declared to be the purchaser. Such certificate shall bear date the day on which the sale E became absolute. 95. Delivery of property in occupancy of -debtor.- Where the immoveable property sold is in the occupancy of the --debtor or of some person on his behalf or of some person claiming under a title created by the debtor F subsequently to the attachment of such property and a certificate in respect thereof has been granted under rule 94, the Court shall, on the application of the purchaser, delivery to be made by putting such purchaser or any person whom he may appoint to receive delivery on his behalf in possession of the property, and, if need be, by removing any person who refuses to G vacate the same.” (emphasis added) 7.Article 134 of the Limitation Act, 1963 is also material, which reads thus: H BHASKER & ANR. v. AYODHYA JEWELLERS 969 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] A B 8. Article 134 provides that the starting point of limitation for making an application under Rule 95 of XXI is the date on which C the sale is confirmed. Under Rule 92 of XXI, the Executing Court is required to pass an making an of confirmation of sale. Upon passing the said , the sale becomes absolute. Rule 94 of XXI requires a sale certificate to be issued to the purchaser. However, the date of the certificate shall be the date on which the sale became absolute. Rule 95 of XXI of CPC, on its plain reading, D incorporates two conditions, which are as under: i. The immovable property sold must be in occupancy of the -debtor or of some person on his behalf or of some person claiming under title created by the -debtor, subsequent to the attachment of the property; and E ii. A certificate in respect of the sale has been granted under Rule 94 of XXI of CPC. Only if both conditions are fulfilled, the Executing Court, on the application of the purchaser, is empowered to pass an of delivery of possession of putting the purchaser in possession of the auctioned F property. Thus, on the one hand, Rule 95 of XXI mandates that an application for possession of the auctioned property can be made by the auction-purchaser only after a sale certificate in accordance with Rule 94 of XXI is issued. But on the other hand, the starting point for making an application under Rule 95 of XXI, in accordance with G Article 134 of the Limitation Act, is the date on which the sale is made absolute in accordance with Rule 92 of XXI.