Therefore, he had a propensity towards committing such crimes. The High Court opined that merely because Balwinder Singh3 had escaped from the car just before the point where the naka had been laid and could not be apprehended, would not be a ground to acquit him or exonerate him of the charge of conscious possession of heroin. 3.2. The High Court went on to reject the defence version sought to be projected by Satnam Singh5 that Sonu8 [PW-1] was the real culprit and it was from him that the contraband was recovered but he got away by bribing the NCB team who cleverly planted the contraband in the car driven by Satnam Singh5. The plea taken that the other independent witness, Mukesh Kumar though arrayed as a prosecution witness and not produced, was a stock witness of the NCB, was also found to be meritless. The High Court observed that Mukesh Kumar was not examined during the trial since he had been won over by the appellants. As a result of the aforesaid discussion, both, Balwinder Singh3 and Satnam Singh5 were found to be in conscious possession of commercial quantity of heroin on the relevant date and the fi ndings returned by the trial Court holding them guilty of the commission of off ences punishable under Section 21(c) read with Section 8 of the NDPS Act, were upheld. The of sentence imposed on Satnam Singh5 of rigorous imprisonment for a period of 12 years was affi rmed by the High Court. However, the death penalty awarded to the appellant – Balwinder Singh3 for being a repeat off ender under Section 31A of the NDPS Act, was held to be too harsh a punishment. Resultantly, the death sentence awarded to Balwinder Singh3 was set aside and the High Court sentenced him to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 14 years along with fi ne of 110 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. ₹1,50,000/- [Rupees one lakh fi fty thousand only] and in default of payment of fi ne, suff er imprisonment for one year. Dissatisfi ed by the aforesaid decision, the appellants have preferred the present appeals. II ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY LEARNED COUNSEL FOR THE PARTIES (a) SUBMISSIONS MADE BY COUNSEL FOR BALWINDER SINGH 3 AND SATNAM SINGH 5 4. Mr. Mayank Dahiya, learned counsel for the appellant – Balwinder Singh3, argued that his client had been convicted solely on the basis of the purported statement of confession made by the co-accused, Satnam Singh5 before the NCB offi cials which is no longer admissible in law, in the light of the decision of this Court in the case of Tofan Singh v. State of Tamil Nadu36. It was stated that the High Court was swayed by the fact that at that time, Balwinder Singh3 was facing three other cases for off ences under the NDPS Act but subsequently, he has been acquitted in all the said cases on being extended benefi t of doubt. However, in the instant case, he has already undergone the sentence awarded by the High Court during the pendency of the present appeal.