846 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 2E PSO.CR.RT.S 846 [2023] 2 S.C.R. A NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. (Civil Appeal No. 4778 of 2022) B APRIL 10, 2023 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI AND PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 : s. 11(6) – Constitution of arbitral tribunal – Arbitiability of the dispute – Contract between C the parties – Successful completion of work by SPML and issuance of completion certificate by NTPC – NTPC released the final payment – However, NTPC withheld SPML’s Bank Guarantees with respect to other projects – In turn, SPML raised a claim against NTPC, and thereafter, filed writ petition seeking release the Bank Guarantees D – During pendency, the parties arrived at a Settlement Agreement and in compliance thereof, NTPC released the Bank Guarantees and SPML withdrew the writ petition – After one month, SPML filed the arbitration petition u/s. 11(6) alleging coercion and economic duress in the execution of the Settlement Agreement – High Court allowed the same – On appeal held: No allegations of coercion or E economic duress compelling SPML to withdraw any pending claims under the subject contract as a condition for the return of the Bank Guarantees – Only allegation by SPML was with respect to NTPC’s illegal action of interlinking the release of the Bank Guarantees with some other contracts –Allegations of coercion and economic F duress not bona fide, and that there were no pending claims between the parties for submission to arbitration – Claim of SPML was an attempt to initiate ex facie meritless, frivolous and dishonest litigation – High Court should have exercised the prima facie test to screen and strike down the ex-facie meritless and dishonest litigation – It should have exercised the restricted and limited review to check G and protect parties from being forced to arbitrate – High Court erred in allowing the application u/s. 11(6), thus, the decision of the High Court set aside. s. 11(6) – Pre-referral jurisdiction of the courts u/s. 11(6) – Scope of – Held: Is very narrow and inheres two inquiries – Primary H 846 NTPC LTD. v. M/S SPML INFRA LTD. 847 inquiry is about the existence and the validity of an arbitration A agreement and the secondary inquiry is with respect to the non- arbitrability of the dispute at the reference stage – Standard of scrutiny to examine the non-arbitrability of a claim is only prima facie – Limited scrutiny, through the eye of the needle, is necessary and compelling – If this duty within the limited extent is not exercised, B and the Court becomes too reluctant to intervene, it may undermine the effectiveness of both, arbitration and the Court – Thus, this Court or a High Court, while exercising jurisdiction u/s. 11(6) not expected to act mechanically merely to refer a purported dispute raised by an applicant to the chosen arbitrator. C Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 The pre-referral jurisdiction of the courts under Section 11(6) of the Act is very narrow and inheres two inquiries.