[2023] 4 S.C.R. 547 547 P. V. NIDHISH & ORS. A v. KERALA STATE WAKF BOARD & ANR. (Criminal Appeal No. 309 of 2023) APRIL 28, 2023 B [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Wakf Act, 1995 – s.52A added by 2013 amendment – Penal provision – Operation of, if retrospective – Held: No – Giving effect to a penal statute so as to cover past acts is a proscribed action in C law – Therefore, s.52A cannot cover cases where leases of wakf properties had expired in the past and where the tenant or lessee was in physical possession and facing civil proceedings for eviction at the time the amendment of 2013 came into force – Interpretation of Statutes. D Wakf Act, 1995 – s.3(ee) added by 2013 amendment – “Encroacher” – Interpretation – Appellants were holding the premises and civil proceedings for their eviction were pending when the amendment came into force – In view of the dispute over the termination of their tenancy, appellants if became “encroachers” after the amendment became effective – Held: No – The expiry of E leases, or other arrangements, by efflux of time or their valid terminations, in the past, cannot be construed to mean that such lessees become “encroachers” – Nor would past tenants whose possession is disputed, and eviction proceedings pending against them before a court, fit that description u/s.3(ee) – The consequences F of such an interpretation would be too startling; even before an adjudication of the validity of termination (of leases, for instance), tenants holding over would be exposed to prosecution – There is no allusion to “continuing offence” or any expression suggesting that such a term (mentioned in s.472, CrPC) would be attracted to actions which commenced in the past, i.e., before the amendment of 2013 G came into force – To hold otherwise, would be depriving the appellants of their rights u/Article 20(1) which cannot be countenanced – Impugned set aside – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – ss.472, 482 – Constitution of India – Article 21. H 547 548 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Words & Phrases – “Whoever alienates or purchases or takes possession of” in s.52A, Wakf Act – Discussed – Wakf Act, 1995 – s.52A. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1.1 In the present case, it is undeniable that the B appellant came into possession even before the wakf was created; before even the Wakf Act, 1954 was enacted (although the precise date is unclear and could be a matter of dispute). It is, however, sufficient to notice that in an interpleader suit, the appellants were permitted to pay rents to the third defendant in the suit. C They were holding the premises when the amendment came into force; indeed, a proceeding purporting to evict them was unsuccessfully initiated before the amendment. Another one was commenced and was pending after it came into force. In these circumstances, could it be said that the dispute over the termination of their tenancy, resulted in their becoming D “encroachers” after the amendment became effective?