The 2000 Act contains a very elaborate mechanism for regulating the issue and verification of caste certificates to persons belonging to various E categories of backward classes. A two-level mechanism was provided. The first level is of the Competent Authority issuing a caste certificate which is valid only subject to verification and grant of validity certificate by the Scrutiny Committee constituted under the 2000 Act. Power is vested in the Scrutiny Committee constituted under Section 6 to verify F the correctness of the caste certificates issued by the Competent Authority. Section 9 confers powers on the Competent Authority and the Scrutiny Committee of a civil court of summoning and enforcing the attendance of witnesses, requiring the discovery and inspection of documents, receiving evidence on affidavits, requisitioning any public record or a copy thereof from any Court or office and issuing Commissions G for the examination of witnesses or production of documents. Rule- making power under the 2000 Act was exercised by framing the Maharashtra Scheduled Tribes (Regulation of Issuance and verification of) Certificate Rules, 2003 (for short “the ST Rules”). Similarly, the Maharashtra Scheduled Castes, De-notified Tribes, (Vimukta Jatis), H Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Classes and Special Backward MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1113 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] Category (Regulation of Issuance and Verification of) Caste Certificate A Rules, 2012 (for short ‘the SC Rules’) were framed. Elaborate provisions for the constitution of the Scrutiny Committee as well as the procedure to be followed by the Competent Authority, and the Scrutiny Committee have been laid down by the Rules applicable to both categories. Rule 10 and Rule 12 of the ST Rules provide for the constitution of Vigilance B Cells to assist the Scrutiny Committees for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes respectively for conducting an enquiry. The Vigilance Cell established under ST Rules consists of a Senior Deputy Superintendent of Police, Police Inspectors, Police Constables to assist the Police Inspector and a Research Officer. The SC Rules specifically provide for the Vigilance Cell to conduct affinity test. There is some C controversy about whether the vigilance cell constituted under the ST Rules has a power to conduct affinity test. We are dealing with the said issue. The Vigilance Cell is required to enquire about anthropological and ethnological traits, deities, rituals, customs, mode of marriage, death ceremonies, method of disposal of dead bodies etc. by the castes or D tribes or tribal communities concerned. As a part of the affinity test, a candidate who has obtained a caste certificate from Competent Authority is tested to ascertain whether he has knowledge about the aforesaid factors pertaining to the particular caste/tribe. CONTROVERSY E 4. By the dated 24th March 2022, the present group of cases was referred to a larger Bench. The challenge in the lead case (Civil Appeal No. 2502 of 2022) is to a decision of a Full Bench of the Bombay High Court in the case of Shilpa Vishnu Thakurv. State of Maharashtra2. The Full Bench of the Bombay High Court has interpreted F the provisions of the 2000 Act as well as ST Rules.