A reading of this principle would also mean that for law to be supreme, it must be applicable to all, it cannot be arbitrary, and nor can it take away anything conferred by it in an arbitrary manner. In simpler terms, for law to be supreme, it must be clear, and it must stay true to C itself, without falling prey to other powers inside or outside of it. 13. This principle of rule of law, in the context of our nation, has found refuge within the basic structure of our constitution. In the case of Sub-Committee on Judicial Accountability vs. Union Of India and Ors.1, while expounding on the importance of the independence of the D judiciary, a Constitution Bench of this Court held that rule of law is a part of the basic structure of the constitution of India, the relevant observations made in this regard are as under: “Before we discuss the merits of the arguments it is necessary to take a conspectus of the constitutional provisions E concerning the judiciary and its independence. In interpreting the constitutional provisions in this area the Court should adopt a construction which strengthens the foundational features and the basic structure of the Constitution. Rule of law is a basic feature of the Constitution which permeates the whole of the constitutional fabric and is an integral part of F the constitutional structure.” 14. It is from this principle of rule of law, does the doctrine of legitimate expectation flow. The doctrine of legitimate expectation, as described in detail below, is closely linked with, and is essential for the functioning of the rule of law. This is because both, the rule of law and G legitimate expectation form the bedrock for fairness and predictability of the legal system. The doctrine of rule of law ensures that laws are applied equally and consistently, while the doctrine of legitimate expectation ensures that public authorities act reasonably and consistently 1 (1991) 4 SCC 699 H 842 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A in their decision-making processes. Together, these principles promote transparency and accountability in government actions, and they help to maintain the trust of the people in the legal system. DOCTRINE OF LEGITIMATE EXPECTATION 15. The doctrine of legitimate expectation, in simple terms, is a B legal principle that arises when a public authority makes a promise or acts in a manner that leads an individual or a group to expect a particular outcome. This doctrine , which flows from the doctrine of rule of law, is based on the idea of fairness and consistency in the decision-making processes of public authorities. C 16. When a legitimate expectation of a specific outcome is created by a public authority, the said public authority is required to take into account such expectation created by it when making a decision that affects the interests of the individual or group concerned. If the public authority fails to do so, the individual or group has a right to challenge the decision and seek a remedy, such as an to enforce the legitimate D expectation, as is the situation in the case at hand.