If the Government wants that the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police should also exercise the powers during the future period, it must be satisfi ed with the circumstances that are likely to prevail during that period. This seems to be the mandate of sub-section (3). 8. Subjective satisfaction for the exercise of power undersub-section (3) of Section 3 must be based on circumstances prevailing at the date of the or likely to prevail at a future date. The period during which the District Magistrate or the Commissioner of Police, as thecase may be, is to exercise the power provided by subsection (2) of Section 3 is to be specifi ed in the which would depend on the existence of circumstances inpraesenti or at a future date. If the subjective satisfaction is based on circumstances prevailing at the date of the , the choice of period, which must not exceed PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 563 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] three months, would have to be determined from the date of the . If the conferment of power is, considered necessary because of circumstances likely to prevail during the future period, the duration for the exercise of power must be relatable to the apprehended circumstances. Therefore, the specifi cation of the period during which the District Magistrate or Commissioner of Police is to exercise power under sub-section (2) of Section 3 would depend on the subjective satisfaction as to the existence of the circumstances in praesenti or future. Since very drastic powers of detention without trial are to be conferred on subordinate offi cers, the State Government is expected to apply its mind and make a careful choice regarding the period during which such power shall be exercised by the subordinate offi cers, which would solely depend on the circumstances prevailing or likely to prevail. The subjective satisfaction cannot be lightly recorded by reproducing both the alternative clauses of the statute. The subjective satisfaction on the prevailing Circumstances, or circumstances that are likely to prevail at a future date is the sine qua non for the exercise of power. The use of the word ‘or’ signifi es either of the two situations for diff erent periods. That, however, is not to say that the power cannot be exercised for a future period by taking into consideration circumstances prevailing on the date of the as well as circumstances likely to prevail ,in future. The latter may stem from the former. For example, there may be disturbances on the date of the and the same situation may be visualised at a future date also in which case the power may be conferred on the subordinate offi cers keeping both the factors in mind; but in that case the two circumstances would have to be joined by the conjunctive word ‘and’ not the disjunctive word ‘or’. The use of the disjunctive word ‘or’ in the impugned Government only indicates nonapplication of mind and obscurityin thought. The obscurity in thought inexorably leads to obscurity in language.