It was then held that the classic requirement of adverse possession is that possession should be open, assertive, hostile and continuous. These requirements were absent in the case. Lastly it was held that just because it appears that the of the AssistantCollector appears to have been passed as if Avira (son of Joseph, respondent herein) was alive, even though the legal representatives applied to be impleaded, it could not be expected of quasi-judicial authorities to follow the procedure for amendment of cause title with the same rigidness as observed by the Civil Court and that those seeking to be impleaded owed a duty to satisfy the Court as to what became of their application for impleadment. Just because the has been presumedly passed against a person no longer in the world of living, does not give the representatives of the plaintiff s (respondents herein) to treat the same as nullity. 5.5 In such terms, the and decree passed by the Trial Court dated 21stJuly, 1990 was set asidevide and dated 3rd April, 1995. Second Appeal-The Impugned Judgement 6. The learned Court below in its judgement dated 5th August, 2009 examined the decisions that led to the appeal before it and held that the 270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. lower Appellate Court’s approach stating that the suit was barred by virtue of the Act was not a good law, as the suit fi led by the respondents herein was a suit for declaration of perfected title by virtue of adverse possession and not, a challenge against the notice issued by the Tahsildar. The second aspect on which the High Court diff ers with the lowerAppellate Court was on the point that the testimony of PWs1 to 6 stood unshaken. 6.1 It was observed that the Tahsildar, shorn of any basis had estimated the period of encroachment as 16 years as against the claim of 40 years. It was then held that on perusalof evidence as also other facts regarding the improvements in the property showed that the encroachment was done long before the L.C. proceedings in the suit. 6.2 It was concluded that the fi nding of there being no scope of adverse possession being given to the respondents herein is fallacious and is based on erroneous consideration of evidence. In that event, they would be entitled to the relief of adverse possession upon land which, as it stands recorded in the impugned judgement, they have been in possession for over 50 years. 6.3 In that view of the matter, the judgement of the Munsiff Court was upheld, granting the claimants adverse possession over the land in question and, overturning the judgement rendered by the Court of First Appeal. Consideration By This Court 7. In deciding the present dispute, this Court must examine the same from two angles. One, whether the Judgement impugned, arising out of Second Appeal meets the established criteria for Second Appeal or not? ; andtwo, whether the respondents herein are entitled to the relief of adverse possession or is the claim so made, barred by the Kerala Land Conservancy Act,1957?