Therefore, the transactions by the commercial enterprises per se cannot be considered as an exclusion F altogether under the Act, 1986. 19. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and with their assistance perused the material available on record. 20. Before we proceed to examine the issue raised for our G consideration, it will be apposite to take a bird’s eye-view of the Act, 1986. 21. The Act, 1986 is a social benefit-oriented legislation and, therefore, the Court has to adopt a constructive liberal approach while construing the provisions of the Act. To begin with the Preamble of the 2 (2009) 9 SCC 79 H 458 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A Act, 1986 which can afford useful assistance to ascertain the legislative intention, it was enacted to provide for the protection of the interests of consumers. Use of the word “protection” furnishes key to the minds of makers of the Act. Various definitions and provisions which elaborately attempt to achieve this objective have to be construed in this light without departing from the settled law that a Preamble cannot control otherwise B plain meaning of a provision. 22. In fact, the law meets long felt necessity of protecting the common man from such wrong for which the remedy under ordinary law for various reasons has become illusory. Various legislations and regulations permitting the State to intervene and protect interests of the C consumers have become a haven for unscrupulous ones as the enforcement machinery either does not move or it moves ineffectively and inefficiently for reasons which are not necessary to be stated. 23. The importance of the Act lies in promoting welfare of the society by enabling the consumer to participate directly in the market D economy. A scrutiny of various definitions such as “consumer”, “service”, “trader”, “unfair trade practice” indicates that legislature has attempted to widen the ambit and reach of the Act. Each of these definitions are in two parts, one explanatory and the other inclusive. The explanatory or the main part itself uses expressions of amplitude indicating clearly its E wide sweep within its ambit to widen such things which otherwise would have been beyond its natural import. 24. The provisions of the Act, 1986 thus have to be construed in favour of the consumer to achieve the purpose of enactment as it is a social benefit-oriented legislation. The primary duty of the Court/ Commission while construing the provisions of such an Act is to adopt a F constructive approach subject to that it should not do violence to the language of the provisions and is not contrary to attempted objective of the enactment. 25. Section 2(1)(d) defines “consumer”, Section 2(1)(m) defines “a person” and Section 2(1)(o) defines “service”, which are relevant to G examine the moot question raised for our consideration are reproduced hereunder: “2. Definitions. - In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- H …….. NATIONAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. HARSOLIA MOTORS 459 AND OTHERS [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] (d) “consumer” means any person who- A (i) buys any goods for a consideration which has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any user of such goods other than the person who buys such goods for consideration paid or promised or partly paid or partly B promised, or under any system of deferred payment when such use is made with the approval of such person, but does not include a person who obtains such goods for resale or for any commercial purpose; or (ii) hires or avails of any services for a consideration which C has been paid or promised or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of deferred payment and includes any beneficiary of such services other than the person who hires or avails of the services for consideration paid or promised, or partly paid and partly promised, or under any system of D deferred payments, when such services are availed of with the approval of the first-mentioned person; Explanation: For the purposes of sub-clause (i), “commercial purpose” does not include use by a consumer of goods bought and used by him exclusively for the purpose of E earning his livelihood, by means of self-employment; …… (m) “person” includes- (i) a firm whether registered or not; F (ii) a Hindu undivided family; (iii) a co-operative society; (iv) every other association of persons whether registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (22 of 1860) or not; G …….