The Court is to exercise such discretion having regard to the facts of each independent case. F 9.2. For the purpose of reaching one conclusion, the Court can rely on a factual presumption unless the presumption is disproved or dispelled or rebutted. However, Illustration (h) to Section 114 has given enough discretionary power to the Court to draw certain inferences from the facts. The presumption under the section is discretionary and not G mandatory. The use of the phrase “may presume” in the said provision indicated that that the Courts of Justice are to use their own sense and experience in judging the effect of particular facts, and in determining whether a presumption is to be drawn therefrom. H 708 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 10. At this juncture, it may be useful to refer to the decision of this Court in Dipanwita Roy wherein the interplay between Sections 112 and 114 of the Evidence Act has been discussed. The said case arose out of divorce proceedings initiated by the respondent-husband on the ground of adultery and infidelity. The respondent’s case was that at the time when the child, whose paternity was in question, was conceived, B the parties were not living in co-habitation and on no occasion shared a bed. The respondent sought to establish by way of a DNA test that the son conceived during the said period was born outside wedlock and as a result of the appellant-wife’s adulterous relationship with another person and consequently demonstrated infidelity on the part of the appellant- C wife. This Court took note of the plea of the respondent-husband as to non-access at the relevant time, and accordingly opined that it would be a fit case for directing that a DNA test be conducted. Further, in the facts and circumstances of the said case, this Court accepted that a DNA test would be the only way in which the respondent-husband could establish his plea of infidelity on the part of the appellant-wife. While D upholding the direction of the High Court to conduct DNA test of the minor child, this Court cautioned that if the direction to hold such a test can be avoided, it should be so avoided, and legitimacy of the child should not be put to peril. The relevant portions of the decision in the said case have been usefully extracted hereinunder: E “10. It is borne from the decisions rendered by this Court in Bhabani Prasad Jena (supra), and Nandlal Wasudeo Badwaik (supra), that depending on the facts and circumstances of the case, it would be permissible for a Court to direct the holding of a DNA examination, to determine the veracity of the allegation(s), F which constitute one of the grounds, on which the concerned party would either succeed or lose. There can be no dispute, that if the direction to hold such a test can be avoided, it should be so avoided. The reason, as already recorded in various s by this Court, is that the legitimacy of a child should not be put to peril.