Being a manufacturer, being in the activity of “tea blending”, the appellants were availing the sales D tax exemption. However, thereafter, the definition of “manufacture” as contained in Section 2(17) of the Act, 1994 came to be amended w.e.f. 01.08.2001 vide West Bengal Finance Act, 2001 and the activity of “tea blending” came to be excluded from the definition of “manufacture”. Consequently, the appellants ceased to be the manufacturers. Once the E appellants ceased to be the manufacturers, the appellants shall not be entitled to the exemption from the payment of sales tax, which was available to the appellants as a manufacturer being in the activity of “tea blending”. Therefore, on and from 01.08.2001, “tea blending” activity ceased to be the manufacturing activity and the appellants ceased to be the manufacturers and therefore, on and from 01.08.2001, the appellants F shall not be entitled to the exemption from payment of sales tax. Thus, the withdrawal of exemption from payment of sales tax would be prospective and not retrospective. So long as the appellants continue to be the manufacturers as per Section 2(17) of the Act, 1994 prevailing prior to 01.08.2001, the appellants can be said to be entitled to the benefit G of exemption from payment of sales tax as manufacturers being in the activity of “tea blending”. The moment, “tea blending” activity ceases to be the manufacturing activity, on and from that day, the appellants shall not be entitled to the exemption from payment of sales tax. 8.3 Now, so far as the submission on behalf of the appellants on H legitimate expectation and/or promissory estoppel and the submission on 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A behalf of the appellants that the “vested right” cannot be taken away is concerned, the aforesaid has no substance. There cannot be any promissory estoppel against the statute as per the settled position of law. As rightly observed and held by the High Court, this is not a case of “vested right” but a case of “existing right”, which can be varied or modified and/or withdrawn. In the present case, as per amendment in B the definition contained in Section 2(17) of the Act, 1994 w.e.f. 01.08.2001 by which “tea blending” activity is excluded from the definition of “manufacture” and therefore, on and from that day itself, the appellants ceased to be the manufacturers and shall not be entitled to the benefit of exemption from payment of sales tax as was available to them as C manufacturers. 8.4 At this stage, it is also required to be noted that as per Section 39 of the Act, 1994, under which the appellants are claiming the exemption from payment of sales tax, no tax shall be payable by a dealer for such period as may be prescribed in respect of his sales – goods manufactured D by him. Therefore, the word “manufacture” is very relevant and is a condition sine qua non to be satisfied. Therefore, the definition of “manufacture” is really relevant.