What Section 39 contemplates is the following: A person must be injuriously affected on account of any of the provisions contained in a regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan or a new town development plan, under the Act. Should this occur, the affected party becomes entitled to move the Tribunal and seek compensation, which is to be determined by the Tribunal. The proviso F to Section 39(1), however, declares that property shall not be deemed to be injuriously affected on account of any development plan, which may impose certain conditions, which are specified in Section 15(2)(f), Section 17(2)(k) and (l) or in Section 20(1)(m) and (n). 62. ‘Development plan’ is defined in Section 2(15) as follows: G “(15) “development plan” means a plan for the development or re-development or improvement of the area within the jurisdiction of a planning authority and includes a regional plan, master plan, detailed development plan and a new town development plan prepared under the Act.” H 1086 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 63. Therefore, a development plan would embrace a master plan. The effect of the proviso is that, in respect of the matters contained in the proviso, the law declares that there would not be a claim for compensation on the basis that the property of a person is injuriously affected as a result of the contents of the development plan in relation to matters specified in the proviso. The word ‘injuriously affected’ would B apparently mean that a person has land, which is adversely affected as a result of the coming into operation of the development plan. Section 15(2)(f) deals with demarcation of objects and buildings of archaeological or historical interests or of natural beauty or actually used for religious purposes or as regarded by the public with veneration. Similarly, Section C 17(2)(k) deals with control of architectural features, elevation and frontage of buildings and structures. Section 17(2)(l), which is also referred to in the proviso, deals with matters relating to zonal regulations, location, the height, the number of storeys, size of buildings and other structures, the size of the yards and other open spaces and the use of buildings, structures and land. If anyone is otherwise injuriously affected as a result D of any of these aspects provided for in a master plan under Section 17, he cannot make a complaint of it under Section 39 and claim compensation for it. The master plan provides for zones, nine in number. One of the zones is open space zone. Open space requirements are separately stipulated in respect of other zones. Similarly, Section 20, which deals E with the contents of the detailed development plan, in sub-Section (1)(m), deals essentially with buildings of archaeological and historical interests, inter alia. Section 20(1)(n) of the Act reads as follows: “20(1)(n) the imposition of conditions and restrictions in regard to the character, density, architectural features and height of buildings, the building or control lines for roads, railway lines and power F supply lines and the purposes to which buildings or specified areas may or may not be appropriated and the provision and maintenance of sufficient open spaces about buildings;” 64.