The expression used in Section 6 is that she becomes H 58 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A coparcener in the same manner as a son. By adoption also, the status of coparcener can be conferred. The concept of uncodified Hindu law of unobstructed heritage has been given a concrete shape under the provisions of Sections 6(1)(a) and 6(1) (b). Coparcener right is by birth. Thus, it is not at all necessary that the father of the daughter should be living as B on the date of the amendment, as she has not been conferred the rights of a coparcener by obstructed heritage. According to the Mitakshara coparcenary Hindu law, as administered which is recognised in Section 6(1), it is not necessary that there should be a living, coparcener or father as on the date C of the amendment to whom the daughter would succeed. The daughter would step into the coparcenary as that of a son by taking birth before or after the Act. However, daughter born before can claim these rights only with effect from the date of the amendment, i.e., 9-9-2005 with saving of past transactions as provided in the proviso to Section 6(1) read with Section D 6(5).” (Emphasis supplied) 69. The Court has further observed in para 69 as under: “69. … Section 6(1) recognises a joint Hindu family governed by Mitakshara law. The coparcenary must exist on 9-9-2005 E to enable the daughter of a coparcener to enjoy rights conferred on her. As the right is by birth and not by dint of inheritance, it is irrelevant that a coparcener whose daughter is conferred with the rights is alive or not. Conferral is not based on the death of a father or other coparcener. In case living coparcener dies after 9-9-2005, inheritance is not by F survivorship but by intestate or testamentary succession as provided in substituted Section 6(3).” (Emphasis supplied) 70. Explaining sub-section (3) of substituted Section 6, the Court observed in paragraph 66 as under: “66. With respect to a Hindu who dies after the commencement G of the Amendment Act, as provided in section 6(3) his interest shall pass by testamentary or intestate succession and not by survivorship, and there is a deemed partition of the coparcenary property in to ascertain the shares which would have been allotted to his heirs had there been a H PRASANTA KUMAR SAHOO & ORS. v. CHARULATA SAHU 59 & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] partition. The daughter is to be allotted the same share as a A son; even surviving child of predeceased daughter or son are given a share in case the child has also died then the surviving child of such predeceased child of a predeceased son or predeceased daughter would be allotted the same share, had they been alive at the time of deemed partition. Thus, B there is a sea-change in substituted Section 6. In case of death of coparcener after 9-9-2005, succession is not by survivorship but in accordance with Section 6(3).