In furtherance to the said recommendation, the S.S.P. passed the dated 28.03.1991, discharging the respondent-plaintiff . The said is relevant and for ready reference is being reproduced as under: “ Constable Jaswant Singh No. 1669/ASR S/o Shri Hazara Singh, caste Jat, R/o Village Thoba, PS Ramdass, Police District Majitha is hereby discharged from service under P.P.R. 12.21 as he is not likely to become an effi cient Police Offi cer. His absent period from 24.11.1990 to date is treated as non-duty non pay. Issue s in OB. Sd/-xxxxxxxxxxx Sr. Superintendent of Police, Amritsar No. 11369 – 76/B Dated 28.03.1991” 5. The respondent-plaintiff being aggrieved by the of discharge, fi led ‘Civil Suit No. 306 of 1994’ seeking declaration that the said is illegal, unconstitutional, null and void. He also prayed for a relief of mandatory injunction against appellants-defendants to take him back in service and grant arrears of salary and other benefi ts accrued to him for the said period. It was stated by him that he had worked with utmost diligence and effi ciency. When he was sent as security guard to Amritsar on special duty, he fell sick and had to take medical treatment due to which he could not join the duty on time. After recovery, when he made an attempt to re-join his duty along with medical and fi tness certifi cates, he was not allowed to join the duty and was discharged from service without any show-cause notice and aff ording an opportunity of hearing. The said action was challenged by him alleging gross violation of the principles of natural justice. 826 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 6. The appellants-defendants contested the suit raising preliminary objection regarding its maintainability and being barred by time. Due to not joining S.P., Training Centre as defendant, the objection regarding non- joinder of necessary party was also taken. On merits, it was pleaded that the of discharge has rightly been passed by the competent authority in exercise of power under Rule 12.21 of PPR, and therefore, the suit be dismissed. 7. The Civil Judge (Jr. Division), Amritsar, vide dated 12.01.2000, partly decreed the suit recording a fi nding that of discharge was passed without aff ording an opportunity of hearing to the respondent- plaintiff . It was held that, the of discharge passed by the appellants- defendants is in violation of the principles of natural justice. The Trial Court further directed the appellants-defendants to remove the said procedural irregularity within two months and decide the case of respondent-plaintiff after aff ording due opportunity of hearing. 8. The said was challenged by the appellants on the ground that the respondent-plaintiff was a probationer constable and hence, the power under Rule 12.21 of PPR has rightly been exercised to discharge him from duty. The Trial Court has not duly considered the said provisions in the right perspective. Simultaneously, due to non-grant of mandatory injunction, the respondent-plaintiff also preferred appeal contending that since the of discharge was not found legally sustainable, therefore, he should be allowed to join the duties granting all consequential benefi ts.