[2023] 1 S.C.R. 823 823 PRAKASH NAYI @ SEN A v. STATE OF GOA (Criminal Appeal No. 2010 of 2010) JANUARY 12, 2023 B [B. R. GAVAI AND M. M. SUNDRESH, JJ.] Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 302 and s.84 – Plea of Insanity – “Schizophrenia” – Accused-appellant was convicted and sentenced u/s. 302 IPC for having caused the death of the victim-deceased by attacking him at a store in which the deceased was working, with C an iron locking plate without any provocation and premeditation – In the course of trial, the defence pleaded insanity – At one of the hospitals where the accused was undergoing the treatment before the date of incident, it was recorded that the accused was suffering from anxiety neurosis with reactive depression and has symptoms of acid peptic disease and mild hypertension and the treatment was D akin to one meant for schizophrenia – Two doctors were examined before the Sessions Court wherein they deposed positively pointing towards schizophrenia – On trial, the Trial Court convicted the accused of the said offence, and the Conviction was upheld by the High Court – Aggrieved by the decision, the accused approached Supreme Court – Held: The courts below erred in not accepting the E reports of the doctors, more so when one of them withstood cross- examination and hence the conviction could not be said to be well founded – Further, the mere fact that the accused subsequently became fit to face the trial is sufficient enough to render an of acquittal as it is indicative of his prior insanity – Also that both the Trial Court and the High Court were influenced by the nature of F the act while ignoring the condition of the appellant and the fact that the burden on the accused is one of preponderance of probability. Penal Code, 1860 – s. 84 – Plea of Insanity – S.84 of the Code recognized only the ‘acts’ which could not be termed as an offence – For the said section to apply such an act must emanate G from an unsound mind – Existence of an unsound mind is a sine qua non to the applicability of the provision – A mere medical insanity cannot be said to mean unsoundness of mind – There may be a case where a person suffering from medical insanity would have committed an act, however, the test is one of legal insanity to attract the mandate of Section 84 of the IPC – There must be an H 823 824 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A inability of a person in knowing the nature of the act or to understand it to be either wrong or contrary to the law. Maxims – Actus non reum facit nisi mens sit rea – Unsound mind – A person of an unsound mind, who is incapable of knowing the consequence of an act, does not know that such an act is right or wrong. He may not even know that he has committed that act – B When such is the position, he cannot be made to suffer punishment.