80. The statement of objects and reasons of the SMA read as follows: “Statement of Objects and Reasons: 1. This Bill revises and seeks to replace the Special Marriage Act of 1872 so as to provide a special form of marriage which can be taken advantage of by any person in India and all Indian nationals in foreign countries irrespective of the faith which either party to 73 969 (3) SCR 827 74 1984 (3) SCR 252 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. 1473 UNION OF INDIA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] the marriage may profess. The parties may observe any ceremonies for the solemnisation of their marriage, but certain formalities are prescribed before the marriage can be registered by the marriage offi cers. For the benefi t of Indian citizens abroad, the Bill provides for the appointment of Diplomatic and Consular Offi cers as Marriage Offi cers for solemnising and registering marriages between citizens of India in a foreign country. Provision is also sought to be made for permitting persons who are already married under other forms of marriage to register their marriages under this Act and thereby avail themselves of these provisions. The Bill is drafted generally on the lines of the existing Special Marriage Act of 1872 and the notes on clauses attached thereto explain some of the changes made in the Bill in greater detail.” 81. The Statement of Objects and Reasons of SMA clearly suggests that the sole reason for the enactment of the Act was to replace the earlier colonial era law and provide for certain new provisions; it does not refer to any specifi c object sought to be achieved or the reasons that necessitated the enactment of the new Act other than that it was meant to facilitate marriage between persons professing diff erent faiths. 82. If one looks at the enacted provisions, especially Sections 19-21 and 21A, Sections 24, 25, 27, 31, 37 and 38, of SMA, there can be no doubt that the sole intention was to enable marriage (as it was understood then, i.e., for heterosexual couples) of persons professing or belonging to diff erent faiths, an option hitherto available, subject to various limitations. There was no idea to exclude non-heterosexual couples, because at that time, even consensual physical intimacy of such persons, was outlawed by Section 377 IPC. So, while the Act sought to provide an avenue for those marriages that did not enjoy support in society, or did not have the benefi t of custom to solemnise, it would be quite a stretch to say that this included same sex marriages. Therefore, the challenge to the constitutionality of the statute, must fail. It is settled by decisions of the court that as long as an objective is clearly discernible, it cannot be attacked merely because it does not make a better classifi cation. The need for a law or a legal regime that provides or facilitates matrimony of queer couples is similar, to the need to facilitate inter-faith marriages which is what drove the Parliament to enact the SMA.