Have the courts recognised the right to marry? 172. The petitioners submit that this Court has held that the Constitution guarantees the right to marry in Shafi n Jahan (supra) and Shakti Vahini (supra). In Shafi n Jahan (supra), Ashokan, the father of Akhila alias Hadiya moved a habeas corpus petition before the High Court of Kerala with the apprehension that his daughter was likely to be transported out of the country. During the course of the hearing, the High Court was informed that she had married the petitioner. However, the High Court allowed the petition and directed that (i) Hadiya shall be escorted from the hostel in which she was residing to the house of the father; and (ii) the marriage between Hadiya and Shafi n Jahan was void. The High Court observed that twenty-four year old Hadiya was capable of being exploited and that the Court is concerned with her welfare in exercising parens patriae jurisdiction. On appeal, this Court set aside the of the High Court. Dipak Misra, C.J. writing for the majority 164 See Deepak Gulati v. State of Haryana, (2013) 7 SCC 675 133 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. observed that Hadiya was entitled to choose a partner of her choice and curtailing the expression of choice would amount to clipping a person’s identity. One of us (D.Y. Chandrachud, J. as he then was) authoring the concurring observed that the High Court’s exercise of jurisdiction to declare the marriage null and void amounted to judicial overreach. This Court observed that the choice of a partner, whether within or outside of marriage lies in the exclusive domain of the individual, and that the State cannot dictate or limit the freedom to choose a partner. In this context, this Court observed that the right to marry a person of one’s choice is integral to Article 21 of the Constitution. The relevant observations are extracted below: “84. […] The absolute faith of an individual to choose a life partner is not in the least aff ected by matters of faith. The Constitution guarantees to each individual the right freely to practise, profess and propogate religion. Choices of faith and belief as indeed choices in matters of marriage lie within an areas where individual autonomy is supreme. The law prescribes conditions for a valid marriage. It provides remedies when relationships run aground. Neither the State not the law can dictate a choice of partners or limit the free ability of every person to decide on these matters. 86. The right to marry a person of one’s choice is integral to Article 21 of the Constitution. The Constitution guarantees the right to life. This right cannot be taken away except through a law which is substantively and procedurally fair, just and reasonable. Intrinsic to the liberty which the Constitution guarantees as a fundamental right is the ability of each individual to take decisions on matters central to the pursuit of happiness. Matters of belief and faith, including whether to believe are at the core of constitutional liberty.