The facts, which the courts deal with, in a given case, cannot be the foundation for reaching such a conclusion, which, as already stated, calls for additional materials. We, therefore, direct that the criminal courts, while dealing with the offences like Section 302 IPC, after E conviction, may, in appropriate cases, call for a report to determine, whether the accused could be reformed or rehabilitated, which depends upon the facts and circumstances of each case.” We hereby fully endorse and direct that this should be F implemented uniformly, as further elaborated above, for conviction of offences that carry the possibility of death sentence.” 20. The imperative to conduct evaluation of mitigating circumstances at the trial stage, “to avoid slipping into a retributive G response to the brutality of the crime” which this court noticed was frequently occurring in several cases, was underlined, and it was categorically held that the court had to elicit information from the state and the accused. The prosecution also is mandated to produce before the Sessions Court, material disclosing psychiatric and psychological evaluation of the accused, which is to preferably be collected beforehand. H 768 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A At the stage when the trial court is informed that the prosecution intends to press for imposition of capital sentence, the evaluation should be insisted upon; the state is under a duty to present all objective materials, as mentioned in Manoj (supra), having regard to the decision in Bachan Singh (supra) and importantly, the fact that it is in a position to actually gather the materials. Its task is to present the facts- relating to the accused, B which are favourable and unfavourable, for the court to impose a just sentence. 21. Since the in Sriharan (supra) reserves the power to impose special or fixed term sentences (which may be longer than the minimum specified in Section 433A CrPC – i.e., may extend to C considerably long periods, such as 30 years), with only the high courts and this court, it is imperative that this exercise is carried out even in cases where the accused might eventually not be imposed the death sentence. To put it simply - although the trial courts are not empowered to impose such special sentences, yet at the stage when they arrive at D findings of guilt in the case of a heinous offence, what would be the nature of the sentence imposed eventually, is unknown; therefore, the prosecution would have to inform the court, and present relevant materials (as elaborated in Manoj), in case the death sentence is proposed. In that event, if ultimately death sentence is not imposed, it is open to the state (or the aggrieved party, under Section 372 CrPC) to appeal against E the trial court on the point of sentence; at that stage the evaluation before the High Court would be nuanced, and informed with full materials, about the convict, which otherwise it would not have the benefit of. Further, if considerable time has elapsed since the trial stage at which this exercise was undertaken, the appellate court should direct F that a fresh attempt be made, to take into account the contemporaneous progress, if any, made by the convict30.