The auditor concerned shall, after obtaining written permission of the Registrar, fi le a First Information Report of the off ence. The auditor, who fails to fi le First Information Report, shall be liable for disqualifi cation and his name shall be liable to be removed from the panel of auditors and he shall also be liable to any other action as the Registrar may think fi t: Provided further that, when it is brought to the notice of the Registrar that, the auditor has failed to initiate action as specifi ed above, the Registrar shall cause a First Information Report to be fi led by a person authorised by him in that behalf: DHANRAJ N ASAWANI v. AMARJEETSINGH MOHINDERSINGH 303 BASI AND OTHERS [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Provided also that, on conclusion of his audit, if the auditor fi nds that there are apparent instances of fi nancial irregularities resulting into losses to the society caused by any member of the committee or offi cers of the society or by any other person, then he shall prepare a Special Report and submit the same to the Registrar alongwith his audit report. Failure to fi le such Special Report, would amount to negligence in the duties of the auditor and he shall be liable for disqualifi cation for appointment as an auditor or any other action, as the Registrar may think fi t.” (emphasis supplied) 11. Under Section 81(5B), the auditor is under an obligation to submit an audit memorandum duly signed by them to the society and to the Registrar on the accounts examined by them and on the balance sheet and profi t and loss account as on the date and for the period up to which the accounts have been audited. The auditor has to state whether in their opinion the accounts give all the information by or under the 1960 Act and present a true and fair view of the fi nancial transactions of the society. In terms of the fi rst proviso to Section 81(5B), when the auditor has come to the conclusion in the audit report that any person is guilty of any off ence relating to the accounts or any other off ences, they are obligated to fi le a specifi c report to the Registrar. The auditor is then required, after obtaining the written permission of the Registrar, to fi le an FIR. The second proviso stipulates that when it is brought to the notice of the Registrar that the auditor has failed to initiate action as specifi ed in the fi rst proviso, the Registrar shall cause an FIR to be fi led by a person authorized by them in that behalf. In terms of the third proviso, if the Registrar fi nds apparent instances of fi nancial irregularities resulting into losses to the society at the behest of a member of the committee or offi cers or by any other person, he has to prepare a special report and submit it to the Registrar together with his audit report.