H 76 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 9.4 Even the High Court has also considered the use of the aforesaid two products. The aforesaid two products are used for cleaning the floor and toilet. As noted by the High Court and even from the product description and the nature of use statedin the products, the said two items are essentially used as stain removers and deodorants. Merely because they kill germs as well, the same cannot be said to be insecticides B classifiable under Entry 44(5). What is required to be considered is the dominant use which is cleaning and removal of stains of floor and the toilet. Thereafter, the same shall not fall under Entry 44(5) – HSN Code No.3808 as insecticides or disinfectant. Entry 27(4) of SRO No. 82 of 2006 is with respect to stain busters, stain removers, abir, blue and all C kinds of cleaning powder and liquids including floor and toilet cleaning. In that view of the matter Entry 27(4) being a specific entry the same shall be applicable and the aforesaid two products namely Harpic and Lizol shall not be classifiable under general Entry 44(5) and in any case the same cannot be classifiable under Entry 44(5) as insecticides. We D are in complete agreement with the view taken by the High Court that the product Harpic and Lizol shall not be classifiable under Entry 44(5) and shall be classifiable under Entry 27(4) of SRO 82/2006 chargeable to tax at 12.5%. 9.5 However, so far as the product Dettol is concerned, it is the E case on behalf of the appellant that Dettol is an Antiseptic Liquid and therefore is classifiable as a drug/medicine under Entry 36(8)(h)(vi). The active ingredients of Dettol are Chloroxylenol IP, Terpineol BP, Alcohol Absolute IP (denatured) and it is an antiseptic having germicidal properties and it kills germs, bacteria and it prevents infection therefore it is applied on wounds, cuts, grazes, bites and stings. It is also used in F hospitals for surgical use and medical use. 9.6 Thus the Dettol is used as an antiseptic liquid and is used in hospitals for surgical use, medical use and midwifery, due to therapeutic & prophylactic properties. Therefore, the same can be said to be an item of medicament to be treated as a drug and medicine. Here also the G dominant use is a relevant consideration. 9.7 In the case of Ponds India Ltd. (supra) this Court has held that while deciding the issue whether any particular item would be covered under relevant entry or classification, different tests viz. the dictionary meaning, technical meaning, user’s point of view, popular meaning etc. H M/S RECKITT BENCKISER (INDIA) LTD. v. COMMISSIONER 77 COMMERCIAL TAXES & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] are to be applied. In paragraphs 35 & 38 it is observed and held as A under: “35…..while interpreting an entry in a taxing statute, the court’s role would be to consider the effect thereof upon considering the same from different angles.