F 31.2.1. It has also been submitted that the resolution applicant’s plan to convert Coimbatore property into Hospital would directly result in a conflict of interest and breach of fiduciary duties owed by him as managing director of the company MGM Healthcare Private Limited. This, according to the learned counsel would be in direct violation of Section 166(4) of the Companies Act which prohibits a director of the G company from involving himself in a situation in which he may have direct or indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict, with the interest of the company. For this reason too, the resolution plan in question is contrary to law and cannot pass muster under Section 30(2)(e) of the Code. H 852 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 31.2.2. Another argument by the learned senior counsel on behalf of promoter has been that the appellant is not eligible to submit a resolution plan under Section 29A(e) of the Code. It has been argued that the resolution applicant has been the director of a company named ‘International Aviation Academy Private Limited’; and as per the audited financial statements of the said company for 2010-2011 to 2017-2018, B there was evidence that Rs. 12,03,000 had been collected as “share application money pending allotment” and had not been refunded. This would result in the same being treated as an “unrefunded deposit” within the meaning of the proviso to Explanation (A) of Rule 2(1)(c)(viii) of the Companies (Acceptance of Deposits) Rules, 2014 and result in C disqualification of the appellant-resolution applicant, from being a director under Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act and, consequently, from being a resolution applicant in the CIRP in question. 31.3. It has also been submitted that the assets of the corporate debtor were grossly undervalued in the final resolution plan whereby, D the assets worth more than Rs. 1600 crore were sought to be transferred only for a sum of about Rs. 423 crore. In to support this line of argument, reliance has been placed on Regulation 35(1) and 35(2) of the CIRP Regulations. Regulation 35(1) provides that two registered valuers must submit an estimate of the ‘fair value’ and ‘liquidation value’ of the corporate debtor after physical verification to the resolution professional, E and Regulation 35(2) requires the resolution professional to provide the aforesaid valuation to every member of the CoC. 31.3.1. It has been argued that in the present case, there was no physical verification because the appointed registered valuers were based in Delhi and sought to delegate the process of physical verification to F their associates in Tamil Nadu. Concerns regarding this were also highlighted in the second CoC meeting dated 06.08.2020. Further, it has been submitted that the valuation of the non-core assets was carried out irregularly and not in accordance with Regulation 35 of the CIRP Regulations. In addition, only bare valuation figures were shared and the G valuation reports were not furnished to the erstwhile directors and the members of CoC. Thus, according to the learned senior counsel, it was rightly noticed by NCLAT that mere production of the naked value of assets without detailed adjoining report would handicap the commercial wisdom of the CoC.