When discrimination is alleged against officials in carrying out the law, a question of intention may be material in ascertaining whether the officer acted mala fide or not [Sunday Lake Iron Co. v. Wakefield, 62 L Ed 1154 E : 247 US 350 (1918) : 1918 SCC OnLine US SC 148] ; but no question of intention can arise when discrimination follows or arises on the express terms of the law itself .” 35. In the case of Rustom Cavasjee Cooper (Banks Nationalisation) v. Union of India8, R.C.Cooper, who was the director F of Central Bank of India filed a petition against the Union of India challenging the provisions of The Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Ordinance, 1969. The Court while deciding this case held that it cannot overlook the violation of fundamental rights of the citizens on mere technicalities. It then further went on to state G that the Courts won’t look into the objects of the impugned act and rather they will look into the effect of the impugned act. The Court found the said Act in clear violation of Article 14 since only 14 banks were restrained from conducting banking business in the future while 8 (1970) 1 SCC 248 H 454 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A other banks including foreign banks were allowed to continue Banking in India. It has been observed in the said case as under :- “By article 14 of the Constitution the State is enjoined not to deny to any person equality before the law or the equal protection of the laws within the territory of India. The Article B forbids class legislation, but not reasonable classification in making laws. The test of permissible classification under an Act lies in two cumulative conditions: (1) classification under the Act must be founded on an intelligible differentia distinguishing persons, transactions or things grouped together from others left out of the group; (ii) the differential C has a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the Act: there must be a nexus between the basis of classification and the object of the Act. The legislative policy as to the necessity is a matter of legislative and the Court will not examine the D propriety of it. The legislation need not be all embracing and it is for the Legislature to determine what categories will be embraced. In Dalmia case (Ram Krishna Dalmia v. S.R. Tendolkar, 1959 SCR 279) it was said that the two tests of classification were first that there should be an intelligible E differentia which distinguished persons or things grouped from others left out and secondly the differentia must have a rational relation to the object sought to be achieved by the statute” 36. Most recently, a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Navtej Singh Johar & Ors. Vs. Union of India Thr. Secretary, F Ministry of Law and Justice9, while considering the question of scrapping Section 377, IPC as violative of Article 14 has detailed out the test of reasonable classification under Article 14 as under :- “We, first, must test the validity of Section 377 IPC on the anvil of Article 14 of the Constitution.