However, by the impugned and , the High Court has set aside the levy of penalty and interest, mainly on the grounds that the tax imposed had already been paid and that the assessee was under a bonafide opinion as G to its tax liability and was following expert advice and therefore, paid the tax at the rate of 2%. Therefore, according to the High Court, though not specifically mentioned/opined, there was no mens rea on the part of the respondent – assessee in not paying the tax at the rate of 2% and in making the payment of the tax at 2%. Therefore, the short question H 492 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A which is posed for consideration of this Court is whether while imposing/ levying penalty and interest leviable under Section 45(6) and Section 47(4A) of the Act, 1969, mens rea on the part of the assessee is required to be considered. 6.1 While appreciating the submissions made on behalf of the B respective parties on the levy of the penalty and interest under Section 45(6) and Section 47(4A) of the Act, the relevant sections i.e., Section 45 and Section 47(4A) of the Act, 1969 are required to be referred to, which are as under: - “45. Imposition of penalty in certain cases and bar to prosecution. C (1) Where any dealer or Commission agent becomes liable to pay purchase tax under the provisions of sub-section (1) or (2) of section 16, then, the Commissioner may impose on him, in addition to any tax payable – (a) if he has included the purchase price of the goods in his D turnover of purchase as required by sub-section (1) of section 16, a sum by way of penalty not exceeding half the amount of tax, and (b) if he has not so included the purchase price as aforesaid, a sum by way of penalty not exceeding twice the amount of E tax. (2) If it appears to the Commissioner that such dealer - (a) has failed to apply for registration as required by section 29, or F (b) has without reasonable cause, failed to comply with the notice under section [41, 44 or 67] or (c) has concealed the particulars of any transaction or deliberately furnished inaccurate particulars of any transaction liable to tax, the Commissioner may impose upon G the dealer by way of penalty, in addition to any tax assessed under section 41 or reassessed under section 44 or revised under section 67 a sum not exceeding one and one-half times the amount of the tax. (3) If a dealer fails to present his licence, recognition or as the case may be, permit for cancellation as required by section H STATE OF GUJARAT AND ANR. v. M/s. SAW PIPES LTD. 493 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 35 or 36, the Commissioner may impose upon the dealer by A way of penalty, a sum not exceeding two thousand rupees. (3A) If a dealer fails to furnish any declaration or any return by the prescribed date as required under sub-section (1) of section 40, the commissioner shall impose upon such dealer by way of penalty for each declaration or return, a sum of B two hundred rupees for every month or part of a month comprised in the period commencing from the day immediately after the expiry of prescribed date and ending on the date on which a declaration or return is furnished.