On this aspect, at the outset we note that the affi davit fi led on behalf of the respondents would indicate the detailed procedure that is followed for certifi cation of the drug. It is only after such certifi cation the drug is available in the market. Nothing has 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. been placed on record to indicate that this is a drug which was available ‘of the shelf’, without prescription. In the instant facts, the very affi davit fi led on behalf of the complainant by Dr. Satyajit Pathak, the family doctor refers to the purchase of the vaccine and the same being administered by him. The said family doctor also owed a duty to his patient and if he has prescribed the said drug it was incumbent on him to know more details about the vaccination before prescribing or administering the same. Further, if the same drug was administered to all the family members and after the third dose was administered to the appellant he had suff ered the present discomfort complained of, it would also raise a question as to whether it had been administered in the manner and at this spot where it ought to be administered. If these aspects of the matter are kept in view, in fact the allegations as made by the appellant would also make the said family doctor responsible and ideally he ought to have been a party-respondent to the proceedings rather than fi ling his affi davit. 16. In that view of the matter, the relied on by the learned senior counsel for the appellant in Jacob Punnen and Another vs. United India Insurance Company Limited (2022) 3 SCC 655 with reference to para 43 to contend that there was a defi ciency on the part of the respondent would not be of any assistance. Further, in a circumstance as in the instant case, it is not just the manufacturer and the consumer are involved but the medical professional who ought to have knowledge of the product and before administering had an opportunity to advice the appellant on these aspects had not made any eff orts. He cannot claim to become wise in hindsight. In any event, from the very details furnished by the respondents, the instance of ‘myositis’ being minimal to the extent of 0.02 in a million, to contend that there was negligence on the part of the respondent is also not acceptable. Hence the decision relied on by the learned senior counsel for the appellant in the case of Chanda Rani Akhouri and Ors. vs. M.A. Methusethupathi and Ors. (2022) SCC Online SC 481 with specifi c para 24 is also not of any assistance. 17. Therefore in the facts on hand, if the matter is looked at from its correct perspective it is seen that except for the appellant assuming that he has suff ered ‘myositis’ and the cause for the same was the Engerix-B vaccine being administered, the same has not been established with the minimal PRAKASH BANG v. GLAXO SMITHKLINE 577 PHARMACEUTICALS LTD. & ANR.