If the applicant does not disclose all the material facts D fairly and truly but states them in a distorted manner and misleads the court, the court has inherent power in to protect itself and to prevent an abuse of its process to discharge the rule nisi and refuse to proceed further with the examination of the case on merits. If the court does not reject the petition on that ground, the court would be failing in its duty. In fact, such an applicant requires E to be dealt with for contempt of court for abusing the process of the court.” 49. In Dhananjay Sharma vs. State of Haryana and others (1995) 3 SCC 757, the filing of a false affidavit was the basis for initiation of action in contempt jurisdiction and the concerned persons F were punished for the same. 50. If the case of the respondents is considered on factual material, in view of the settled position of law, as has been referred in previous paras, it is evident that the respondents waived off their right to challenge the record of rights which stood finalised way back in the year 1962 and G till date there has been no challenge made to the same. Indirectly relief was sought by filing appeal before the Settlement Officer, which was not maintainable; civil suit which was ultimately withdrawn and then filed the writ petition and thereafter writ appeal which is the subject- matter of the present proceedings. H 1078 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 3. WHETHER A PARTY CAN RELY ON NOTINGS IN THE GOVERNMENT FILE WITHOUT HAVING COMMUNICATION OF ANY ON THE BASIS THEREOF ? 51. The aforesaid legal issue was considered by this Court in B Mahadeo and others v. Sovan Devi and others, (2022) SCC OnLine SC 1118. It was pointed out therein, that an inter-departmental communications are merely in the process of consideration for an appropriate decision. These cannot be relied upon as a basis to claim any right. Mere notings in the file do not amount to an unless an is communicated to a party, thus, no right accrues. Relevant paras C 14 to 16 are extracted herein below: “14. It is well settled that inter-departmental communications are in the process of consideration for appropriate decision and cannot be relied upon as a basis to claim any right. This Court examined the said question in a reported as Omkar D Sinha v. Sahadat Khan, (2022) 12 SCC 228. Reliance was placed on Bachhittar Singh v. State of Punjab, AIR 1963 SC 395 to hold that merely writing something on the file does not amount to an . Before something amounts to an of the State Government, two things are necessary. First, the has to be E expressed in the name of the Governor as required by clause (1) of Article 166 and second, it has to be communicated. As already indicated, no formal modifying the decision of the Revenue Secretary was ever made. Until such an is drawn up, the State Government cannot, in our opinion, be regarded as bound by what was stated in the file.