The Division Bench of the High Court has also set aside that part of the of H THE STATE OF TRIPURA & ANR. v. CHANDAN DEB & ORS. 1139 [M. R. SHAH, J.] the learned Single Judge where it was held that the supplier – original A writ petitioners are liable under Section 3AA of the TST Act. 2.9 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned common and passed by the Division Bench of the High Court, the State of Tripura has preferred the present appeals. 2.10 While granting the leave this Court has framed the following B question of law: “Whether Sub-rule (2) of the Rule 3A of the TST Rules can be declared ultra vires being contrary to the provisions of the ‘TST Act’, though there is express proviso in Section 3(1) for levy of 4% Sales Tax on any transfer of the right to use any goods for C any purpose?” 3. Ms. Madhavi Diwan, learned ASG and Shri Shuvodeep Roy, learned counsel have appeared on behalf of the State of Tripura, Shri Ahanthem Henry, learned counsel has appeared for respondent no.1 in all the matters, Shri Somiram Sharma, learned counsel has appeared on D behalf of the ONGC and Shri Abhay Kumar, learned counsel has appeared on behalf of the FCI. 4. Ms. Madhavi Diwan, learned ASG appearing on behalf of the State has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case and taking into consideration the relevant provisions of the TST E Act, the High Court has committed a very serious error in declaring Rule 3A(2) of the TST Rules as ultra vires to TST Act. 4.1 It is submitted that as such Rule 3A, which provides for the tax deduction at source, is a machinery provision with respect to tax leviable under the TST Act. Rule 3A(2) provides for the manner of F depositing tax in a sale transaction and does not change the person liable to be taxed, i.e. the dealer under the TST Act or the tax liability in any manner. 4.2 It is further submitted that the transaction of hiring of vehicles by ONGC, GAIL and FCI falls within the definition of Sale under Section 2(g) of the TST Act and is subject to tax. It is submitted that TST Act G provides for a deemed sale where there is ‘transfer of right to use any goods for any purpose”. It is submitted that in the subject transaction, the right to use of car/vehicles is being transferred and therefore, the transaction is a sale for the purposes of TST Act. Reliance is placed on Section 2(g) of the TST Act. H 1140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 4.3 It is submitted that the supplier being the person making the delivery or transfer within the meaning of Section 2(g)(ii) falls within the definition of the term ‘Dealer’ as provided under Section 2(b) of the TST Act. It is submitted that therefore, the supplier – original writ petitioner would fall within the definition of ‘Dealer’ as he is a person ‘selling’ taxable goods in terms of the TST Act by transferring the right to use B the goods in question.