The statutory presumption that the legislature inserted every part thereof for a purpose and the legislative intention should be given effect to, would be applicable to the impugned directions.” F 29. The Tamil Nadu Amendment Act contains stipulation to the effect that conduct of Jallikattu subject to such Rules and regulations as may be framed by the State Government shall be permitted. Section 38- B of the Maharashtra Act provides Rule making power of the State consistent with the Rules made by the Central Government. Both these G Statutes have become part of the 1960 Act in their respective States and specifically confer Rule making power to the States and Rules have been framed. In such circumstances, as held by this Court in the case of Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. (supra), our opinion is that these Rules have to be read along with the Amendment Acts for their proper interpretation. So far as the Karnataka Amendment H THE ANIMAL WELFARE BOARD OF INDIA AND ORS. v. 467 UNION OF INDIA & ANR. [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] Act is concerned, two fresh restrictions have been imposed in conducting A Kambala by virtue of introduction of Section 3(2) in the main Act after Amendment. These conditions ban unnecessary pain or suffering that would be caused to the animals by the person in charge of the animals conducting Kambala and make such practice subject to the conditions as may be specified by the State Government by notification. Following B the same analogy which we have expressed earlier while reading the Amendment Acts of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, in our opinion the Notification issued by the State of Karnataka ought to be accorded same status as Rule and has also to be read as integral part of the Statute, as amended. These Rules and the Notification ought not to be segregated from the Amendment Acts for appreciating their true scope while C examining the petitioners’ claim that the Amendment Acts, analysed in isolation from the said Rules and the Notification would be contrary to the findings of this Court in the case of A. Nagaraja (supra). 30.In our opinion, the expressions Jallikattu, Kambala and Bull Cart Race as introduced by the Amendment Acts of the three States D have undergone substantial change in the manner they were used to be practiced or performed and the factual conditions that prevailed at the time the A. Nagaraja (supra) was delivered cannot be equated with the present situation. We cannot come to the conclusion that in the changed circumstances, absolutely no pain or suffering would be inflicted E upon the bulls while holding these sports. But we are satisfied that the large part of pain inflicting practices, as they prevailed in the manner these three sports were performed in the pre-amendment period have been substantially diluted by the introduction of these statutory instruments. Argument was advanced that in reality these welfare measures may not be practiced and the system as it prevailed could continue. We, however, F cannot proceed in exercise of our judicial power on the assumption that a law ought to be struck down on apprehension of its abuse or disobedience.