[Para 12][924-B- C] 1.4. The High Court was not justified in merely relying on the circular fixing the floor rates when other evidence was F available on the record pursuant to the remand made, it is necessary for the Court to take note as to whether the Reference Court had committed an error in not relying on the sale exemplars produced by the respondents without analysing the comparability. When large extent of lands are acquired and if the sale exemplar, G also for the large extent is available on record it would be safer to rely on the same if they are comparable transactions. The sale instances of smaller extents cannot be ignored. The sale exemplars for smaller extent can be relied upon subject to appropriate deduction being provided towards development charges. [Para 13][924-D-F] H RAVINDER KUMAR GOEL v. THE STATE OF HARYANA 915 1.5 The extent to which each of the appellants is claiming A compensation is a smaller extent. In that background, if the documents relied on by the respondents are noted, the largest extent sold is under Ex.R16 being 32 Kanals and 16 Marlas, while the least being under Ex.R8 measuring 3 Kanals and 8 Marlas. While approving the procedure for placing reliance on B the sale deeds of earlier sale transactions as exemplars, this Court has emphasized that the basis for the same is that the value under such exemplars would represent the sale consideration agreed upon between a willing seller and a willing purchaser and therefore would represent the true market value. If the said concept is kept in perspective, one cannot loose sight of the fact that when C large extent of agricultural land is sold under a document and if the land is to be used for agricultural purpose, the price agreed thereto would be based on the nature of the land and the purpose for which it is put to use. In cases, where the large extent of agricultural land belonging to a single owner is acquired, it would D no doubt be safe to rely on such sale exemplars of large extents, more particularly, in circumstances where the land which is classified as agricultural land is also used for agricultural purposes. In such circumstances, to arrive at the market value depending on the nature of the cultivation, the capitalisation method by applying the multiplier to the crop pattern and price derived can E be adopted and the market value be determined or determine the market value based on such sale deeds which are comparable exemplars. [Paras 14, 15][924-G-H; 925-A-E] 1.6. The difficulty arises when a person holds a smaller extent of land which is classified as agricultural land but would F have lost its character due to non-cultivation and urbanization when such land is more eminent and fit to be used for non- agricultural purposes. It is in that circumstance, such land though classified as agricultural will have to be treated as a land having non-agricultural potential more particularly for urban use.