Normally, the Court is reluctant to interfere with an of acquittal. But when it appears that the High Court has on an absolutely wrong process of reasoning and a legally erroneous and perverse E approach to the facts of the case and ignoring some of the most vital facts, acquitted the respondent and the of acquittal passed by the High Court has resulted in a grave and substantial miscarriage of justice, extraordinary jurisdiction under Article 136 of the Constitution of India may rightfully be exercised (See: State of U.P. v. Sahai & Others1). F 21. In State of M.P. & Others v. Paltan Mallah & Others2, reiterating the same view it was observed: “8. … This being an appeal against acquittal, this Court would be slow in interfering with the findings of the High Court, unless there is perverse appreciation of the evidence which resulted in G serious miscarriage of justice and if the High Court has taken a plausible view this Court would not be justified in interfering with the acquittal passed in favour of the accused and if two views are possible and the High Court had chosen one view which is just 1 (1982) 1 SCC 352 2 (2005) 3 SCC 169 H 618 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A and reasonable, then also this Court would be reluctant to interfere with the of the High Court.” 22. In a recent decision rendered by this Court in Basheera Begam v. Mohd. Ibrahim & Others3, it was observed: “190. … Reversal of a and of conviction and B acquittal of the accused should not ordinarily be interfered with unless such reversal/acquittal is vitiated by perversity. In other words, the court might reverse an of acquittal if the court finds that no person properly instructed in law could have upon analysis of the evidence on record found the accused to be “not guilty”. …” C 23. Seen in light of the decisions above, we would examine whether there is any perversity in the view taken by the High Court while converting conviction into an acquittal. Admittedly, this is a case based on circumstantial evidence. There is no direct eye witness account of the murder. The body of the deceased was not found within the confines of D her house but in the open on a railway track. In such circumstances to sustain a conviction the court would have to consider — (i) whether the circumstances relied by the prosecution have been proved beyond reasonable doubt; (ii) whether those circumstances are of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused; (iii) whether E those circumstances taken cumulatively form a chain so far complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused; (iv) whether they are consistent only with the hypothesis of the accused being guilty; and (v) whether they exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved. 24. We shall now examine as to what were the circumstances F relied by the prosecution and as to how they were sought to be proved.