This apparently is the underlying philosophy of the law made by Parliament, assuring, a term of six years. The term of six years is separately assured to both the Election Commissioner and the Chief Election Commissioner. In other words, the object of the law and its command would stand E defeated and the practice lends strength to the complaint of the petitioners. This Court must make it clear that the observations are not meant to be an individualised assessment of the appointee, who has excellent academic qualifications. But as this Court has noted academic excellence which members of the civil service may possess cannot be a substitute for values such as F independence and freedom from bias from political affiliation. Parliament enshrined a term of six years separately for the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioner. This is the Rule, it is found in Section 4(1). A proviso cannot arrogate itself to the status of the main provision. The exception cannot G become the Rule. Yet, this what the appointments have been reduced to. It undermines the independence of the Election Commission. The policy of the law is defeated. [Para 195][156- G-H; 157-A-F] 9. The vacuum in the case of Article 324 (2) is the absence of the law which Parliament was contemplated to enact. Political H ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 9 parties undoubtedly would appear to betray a special interest in A not being forthcoming with the law. The reasons are not far to seek. There is a crucially vital link between the independence of the Election Commission and the pursuit of power, its consolidation and perpetuation. In the unique nature of the provision, this Court is concerned with and the devastating effect B of continuing to leave appointments in sole hands of the Executive on fundamental values, as also the Fundamental Rights, the time is ripe for the Court to lay down norms. In other words, the vacuum exists on the basis that unlike other appointments, it was intended all throughout that appointment exclusively by the Executive was to be a mere transient or stop gap arrangement and it was to be C replaced by a law made by the Parliament taking away the exclusive power of the Executive. This conclusion is clear and inevitable and the absence of law even after seven decades points to the vacuum. [Paras 220,221 and 227][173-H; 174-A-B; 175- D-E] D 10. The appointment of the Chief Election Commissioner and the Election Commissioners, shall be made by the President on the advice of a Committee consisting of the Prime Minister, the Leader of the Opposition of the Lok Sabha, and in case no leader of Opposition is available, the leader of the largest E opposition Party in the Lok Sabha in terms of numerical strength, and the Chief Justice of India. This will be subject to any law to be made by Parliament. [Paras 230 and 231][177-H; 178-A-B] 11. The conditions of service and tenure of the Election Commissioners and the Regional Commissioners was to be such as made by the Rule provided.