It is in the name of the people that he carries on the administration. He must see that the administration is carried on a level which may be regarded as good, efficient, honest G administration. Therefore, having regard to these two duties which the Governor has namely, to see that the administration is kept pure, without corruption, impartial, and that the proposals enunciated 1 Dr BR Ambedkar in response to Biswanath Das, Constituent Assembly of India H Debates (Proceedings)- Volume VIII (2 June 1949) STATE OF PUNJAB v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO THE GOVERNOR OF 541 PUNJAB AND ANOTHER [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] by the Ministry are not contrary to the wishes of the people, and A therefore to advise them, warn them and ask them to reconsider- I ask the House, how is the Governor in a position to carry out his duties unless he has before him certain information? I submit that he cannot discharge the constitutional functions of a Governor which I have just referred to unless he is in a position to obtain the B information.” 20. The power to summon, prorogue and dissolve the legislative assembly is enshrined in Article 174 of the Constitution which is extracted below: “174. Sessions of the State Legislature, prorogation and C dissolution.– (1) The Governor shall form time to time summon the House or each House of the Legislature of the State to meet at such time and place as he thinks fit, but six months shall not intervene between its last sitting in one session and the date appointed for its first D sitting in the next session. (2) The Governor may from time to time– (a) prorogue the House or either House; (b) dissolve the Legislative Assembly.” E 21. The decision of a seven-Judge Constitution Bench in Shamsher Singh vs State of Punjab2 has laid down that the Governor is a constitutional or formal Head of the State and exercises powers and functions on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers. The relevant extracts from the decision make the position of law clear: F “28. Under the Cabinet system of Government as embodied in our Constitution the Governor is the constitutional or formal head of the State and he exercises all his powers and functions conferred on him by or under the Constitution on the aid and advice of his Council of Ministers save in spheres where G the Governor is required by or under the Constitution to exercise his functions in his discretion. 32. It is a fundamental principle of English Constitutional law that Ministers must accept responsibility for every executive act. In 2 (1974) 2 SCC 831 H 542 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A England the Sovereign never acts on his own responsibility. The power of the Sovereign is conditioned by the practical rule that the Crown must find advisers to bear responsibility for his action. Those advisers must have the confidence of the House of Commons. This rule of English Constitutional law is incorporated in our Constitution.