It has also been held that there can be supervening circumstances which may develop post the grant of bail and are non-conducive to the fair trial, making it necessary to cancel the bail and this principle has been reiterated time and again and more recently in the of Ms. X v. State of Telangana (supra). 15. This Court in Vipin Kumar Dhir v. State of Punjab 2021 SCC Online SC 854 has added caveat to the above principles and has further held that bail can also be revoked where the Court has considered irrelevant factors or has ignored relevant material available on record which renders the granting bail legally untenable. The gravity of the off ence, conduct of the accused and societal impact of an undue indulgence by Court when the investigation is at the threshold, are also amongst a few situations, where a Superior Court can interfere in an of bail to prevent the miscarriage of justice and to bolster the administration of criminal justice system. 16. No doubt each case would have unique facts peculiar to its own and the same would hold key for adjudication of bail matters including cancellation thereof. There may be circumstances where interference to or attempt to interfere with the course of administration of justice or evasion or attempt to evade to due course of justice are abuse of concession granted to the accused in any manner. 17. The off ence alleged in the instant case is heinous and would be a onslaught on the dignity of the womanhood and the age old principle of ;= uk;ZLrq iwT;Urs jeUrs r= nsork% (where women are respected Gods live there) would recede to the background and the guilty not being punished by process of law or accused persons are allowed to move around freely in the society or in spite of there being prima facie material being present they are allowed to move around freely in the society before guilt is proved and are likely to indulge in either threatening the prosecution witnesses or inducing them in any manner to jettison the criminal justice system, then the superior court will have to necessarily step in to undo the damage occasioned due to erroneous s being passed by courts below. 18. This Court in Ram Govind Upadhyay v. Sudarshan Singh, (2002) 3 SCC 598 has held as under: BHAGWAN SINGH v. DILIP KUMAR @ DEEPU @ DEPAK 479 AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] “9. Undoubtedly, considerations applicable to the grant of bail and considerations for cancellation of such an of bail are independent and do not overlap each other, but in the event of non-consideration of considerations relevant for the purpose of grant of bail and in the event an earlier of rejection available on the records, it is a duty incumbent on the High Court to explicitly state the reasons as to why the sudden departure in the of grant as against the rejection just about a month ago. The subsequent FIR is on record and incorporated therein are the charges under Sections 323 and 504 IPC in which the charge-sheet have already been issued — the court ought to take note of the facts on record rather than ignoring them.