Section 32 of the Income Tax Act confers a benefit on the assessee. The provision should be so interpreted and the words used therein should be assigned such meaning as would enable C the assessee to secure the benefit intended to be given by the legislature to the assessee. It is also well settled that where there are two possible interpretations of a taxing provision the one which is favourable to the assessee should be preferred. 5. What is ownership? The terms “own”, “ownership”, D “owned” are generic and relative terms. They have a wide and also a narrow connotation. The meaning would depend on the context in which the terms are used. Black’s Law Dictionary (6th Edn.) defines “owner” as under: “Owner.—The person in whom is vested the ownership, E dominion, or title of property; proprietor. He who has dominion of a thing, real or personal, corporeal or incorporeal, which he has a right to enjoy and do with as he pleases, even to spoil or destroy it, as far as the law permits, unless he be prevented by some agreement or covenant which restrains his right. The term is, however, a nomen generalissimum, and its F meaning is to be gathered from the connection in which it is used, and from the subject-matter to which it is applied. The primary meaning of the word as applied to land is one who owns the fee and who has the right to dispose of the property, but the term also includes one having a possessory right to land or the person G occupying or cultivating it. The term ‘owner’ is used to indicate a person in whom one or more interests are vested for his own benefit.” 16 (1999) 7 SCC 106 H 576 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 6. In the same dictionary, the term “ownership” has been defined to mean, inter alia, as— “Collection of rights to use and enjoy property, including right to transmit it to others. … The right of one or more persons to possess or use a thing to the exclusion of others. The right by B which a thing belongs to someone in particular, to the exclusion of all other persons. The exclusive right of possession, enjoyment, and disposal; involving as an essential attribute the right to control, handle, and dispose.” 7.Dias on Jurisprudence (4th Edn., at p. 400) states: C “The position, therefore, seems to be that the idea of ownership of land is essentially one of the ‘better right’ to be in possession and to obtain it, whereas with chattels the concept is a more absolute one. Actual possession implies a right to retain it until the contrary is proved, and to that extent a possessor is presumed to be owner.” D 8.Stroud’s Judicial Dictionary gives several definitions and illustrations of ownership. One such definition is that the “owner” or “proprietor” of a property is the person in whom (with his or her assent) it is for the time being beneficially vested, and who has the occupation, or control, or usufruct, of it; e.g., a lessee is, E during the term, the owner of the property demised.