course of NIOS through ODL mode. It further requested that they may be given an opportunity to apply for fresh recruitment at par with other D.El.Ed. candidates subject to adherence to all other criteria and qualifi cation requirements. 4.13 In pursuance of the said letter of NCTE, the Secretary, Government of Uttarakhand issued a letter dated 15th January 2021 to the Director, Elementary Education, Uttarakhand to permit such candidates, who passed 18 months D.El.Ed. Diploma of NIOS through ODL mode, to apply for the post of Assistant Teacher (Primary) against vacancies issued through District-Wise Advertisements. However, shortly thereafter, realizing that, in the 2012 Service Rules (as amended from time to time), the 18 months D.El.Ed. Diploma through ODL mode from NIOS was not recognized as a minimum qualifi cation for eligibility, it issued a communication dated 10th February 2021 withdrawing its earlier letter dated 15th January 2021. 4.14 The aforesaid letter dated 10th February 2021 came to be challenged in a bunch of writ petitions before the High Court. Vide dated 3rd March 2021, the High Court directed that the impugned letter dated 10th February 2021 be kept in abeyance till next date of hearing. The said was modifi ed by the High Court on 1st September 2021 allowing the selection process to continue subject to fi nal outcome of writ petitions. 4.15 Vide the impugned and , the High Court held that 18 months D.El.Ed. Training Diploma conducted through the ODL mode in elementary education by NIOS cannot be said to be a lower or inferior qualifi cation as compared with the 2 years D.El.Ed. programme. It held that, in respect of the in-service teachers, who have undergone the 18 months D.El.Ed. programme conducted by NIOS through ODL mode, the State Government cannot discriminate by debarring them from off ering their 604 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. candidatures for the post of Assistant Teachers (Primary) in the State of Uttarakhand. As such, it quashed and set aside the letter dated 10th February 2021 issued by the Government of Uttarakhand. Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeals. 5. We have heard Mr. Jatinder Kumar Sethi, Deputy Advocate General appearing on behalf of the State of Uttarakhand, Mr. U.K. Uniyal, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellants in appeals arising out of SLP(C) Nos. 23583-84 of 2022, and Ms. Meenakshi Arora, Mr. V.K. Shukla and Mr. Salman Khurshid, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the candidates who have completed 18 months diploma in elementary education. We have also heard Mr. Sumeer Sodhi, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the interveners supporting the of the High Court and Ms. Manisha T. Karia, learned counsel appearing on behalf of NCTE. 6. Mr. Uniyal, on behalf of the appellants, has submitted that the 2014 Regulations clearly provide that the 2 years Diploma in Elementary Education was an essential qualifi cation for appointment of teachers for Class I to VIII. It is further submitted that under Clause 4 of the 2014 Regulations, power is granted to NCTE to relax some of the provisions of the Regulations for such time period and subject to such conditions and limitations as it may consider necessary.