But an observation was made that if the General Secretary refused to convene a meeting, it is always open to any member of the party’s general council to convene a meeting and take any decision after they establish their majority. In our view the governs the facts of that case in the given circumstances. Even otherwise we do not agree that B the requisitioning members may convene a meeting in case the general secretary fails to convene a meeting in terms of Rule 19(viii). 71. Rule 20 (v) specifically states that the general secretary of the party shall have the powers and responsibilities to convene C the executive and general council meeting. Rule 19(viii) also obliges the General Secretary to convene special meeting of the general council on requisition within 30 days of the receipt of such requisition. Rule 19(viii) has made a specific provision to preside over the general council meeting, that in the absence of Chairman, D one of the members of the general council elected by the body shall preside over the meeting. Again Rule 23(ii) states that in the absence of the chairman, one of the members present will preside over and conduct the meeting of the central executive committee and general council. In the very party rules, when provisions are made for presiding over meetings in the absence of chairman, a E similar provision could have been made in case of Rule 19(viii) in the matter of convening a meeting. 72. The argument of the learned senior counsel for the defendant is that Rule 19(viii) may be harmoniously construed so as to serve the purpose of the rule; if the general secretary does not convene F the meeting, the requisitioning members cannot be made helpless, and in the normal course, having given the requisition, they were entitled to have a meeting, and if not convened by the general secretary within the given time, they could themselves convene such a meeting. He also added that even if the general secretary G convenes a meeting within 30 days from the date of receipt of the requisition fixing the date of the meeting after several years, it will create an anomalous situation. In that regard the learned counsel submitted that convening a meeting must be taken as holding a meeting. As already noticed above, general council meeting has to be called atleast once in six months. In case the H THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1167 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] general secretary convenes a meeting within the time given but A scheduling to hold the meeting after few years, in such a situation it can always be challenged as unreasonable and stating that the very object of the rule is defeated or on such other grounds available. It is equally open to the members of the party to amend the rule if so desired so as to make a specific provision in this B regard. 73. Rule 19(vii) says that meeting of the general council shall be held once in six months by giving 15 days notice in advance of the date of the meeting.