However, it is incumbent 63 2021 SCC OnLine SC 985 H 660 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A on the State to not only specifically plead such constitutional concern or statutory immunity but they must also prove and justify the same in Court on affidavit. The Respondent-Union of India must necessarily plead and prove the facts which indicate that the information sought must be kept in secret as their divulgence would affect national security concerns. They must justify the B stand that they take before a Court. The mere invocation of national security by the State does not render the Court a mute spectator.” The issue is not whether the inference that national security concerns are involved is judicially reviewable. It is rather on the standard of proof that is required to be discharged by the State to prove that C national security concerns are involved. It is necessary that we understand the meaning and implications of the term national security before embarking on an analysis of the issue. This Court has held that it is not possible to define national security in strict terms.64 National security has numerous facets, a few of which are recognised under Article 19(2) D of the Constitution. In Ex-Armymen’s Protection Services (supra), a two-Judge Bench of this Court observed that the phrase national security would include factors like ‘socio-political stability, territorial integrity, economic stability and strength, ecological balance cultural cohesiveness and external peace. Justice Patanjali Sastri writing for the majority in Romesh Thappar v. State of Madras65 demarcated the fields of ‘public E ’ and ‘security of state’ as they find place in Article 19 of the Constitution. This Court held that the expression ‘security of the state’ was defined to include a ‘distinct category of those offences against public which aim at undermining the security of the State or overthrowing it’. In Ram Manohar Lohia v. State of Bihar66,Justice F M Hidayatullah (as the learned Chief Justice then was) distinguished the expressions ‘security of State’, ‘law and ’, and ‘public dis’. He observed that diss affecting the security of State are more aggravated than diss that affect public and law and : 55. It will thus appear that just as “public ” in the rulings of G this Court (earlier cited) was said to comprehend diss of less gravity than those affecting “security of State”, “law and ” also comprehends diss of less gravity than those 64 AK Roy v. Union of India, (1982) 1 SCC 271 65 1950 SCC 436 H 66 AIR 1966 SC 740 MADHYAMAM BROADCASTING LIMITED v. UNION OF 661 INDIA & ORS. [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] affecting “public ”. One has to imagine three concentric A circles. Law and represents the largest circle within which is the next circle representing public and the smallest circle represents security of State. It is then easy to see that an act may affect law and but not public just as an act may affect public but not security B of the State.