The offence of criminal misconduct is committed by a public servant if (ii) is proved and (iii) does not happen. Therefore, if a prosecution is launched under sub-section (1) of section 13 of the P.C. Act and the allegation is proved at the trial, the concerned public servant is liable to punishment under sub-section (2) thereof. B 51. The law of the land abhors any public servant to intentionally enrich himself illicitly during the tenure of his service. Increase in the assets of such a public servant tantamount to constitutionally impermissible conduct and such conduct is liable to be put under the scanner of the P.C. Act. The Constitution Bench of this Court in its C decision in Lalita Kumari Vs. Govt. of U.P.8, inter alia, while observing that cases in which preliminary inquiry is to be conducted would depend upon the facts and circumstances of each case, also categorized cases (though not exhaustively) where preliminary inquiry, before registration of a first information report, could be conducted and included ‘corruption D cases’ in such category. A preliminary inquiry or probe, we believe, becomes indispensable in a complaint of acquisition of disproportionate assets not only to safeguard the interest of the accused public servant, if such complaint were lodged with some malice, but also to appropriately assess the quantum of disproportionate assets should there be some substance in this complaint. E 52. In regard to a case of the type under consideration, particularly when the FIR has been registered pursuant to a preliminary inquiry into the complaint of US and is at its nascent stage, it is in course of an investigation that materials are required to be collected and based on such requisite evidence of possession of pecuniary resources or acquisition F of assets or property disproportionate to the known sources of income of the concerned public servant that a police report under section 173(2), Cr. P.C. could be laid. At the stage of conducting a preliminary inquiry, exercise of investigative powers being barred, such an inquiry is intended to facilitate the process of formation of opinion as to whether a first G information report at all is required to be registered. During the tenure of his office under his employer, the public servant might not have even been suspected of being in possession of pecuniary resources or assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. Such assets or resources might have been held through somebody on his behalf. In such a scenario, H 8 (2014) 2 SCC 1 THE STATE OF CHATTISGARH & ANR. v. AMAN KUMAR 155 SINGH & ORS. ETC. ETC [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] it is indeed a difficult task for the Government - the employer - because A of its impersonal character and the usual lethargy or indolence at Government levels to connect the officer with the resources or assets illicitly acquired. To weed out corrupt public servants, the Government has to engage sincere and dedicated personnel for collecting and collating the necessary material in this regard.