(2) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, if a party so requests or if the arbitral tribunal considers it necessary, the expert shall, after delivery of his written or oral report, participate in an oral hearing where the parties have the opportunity to put questions to D him and to present expert witnesses in to testify on the points at issue. (3) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, the expert shall, on the request of a party, make available to that party for examination all documents, goods or other property in the possession of the E expert with which he was provided in to prepare his report. **** **** **** 28. Rules applicable to substance of dispute.-(1) Where the place of arbitration is situate in India,— F (a) in an arbitration other than an international commercial arbitration, the arbitral tribunal shall decide the dispute submitted to arbitration in accordance with the substantive law for the time being in force in India; (b) in international commercial arbitration,— G (i) the arbitral tribunal shall decide the dispute in accordance with the rules of law designated by the parties as applicable to the substance of the dispute; (ii) any designation by the parties of the law or legal system of a given country shall be construed, unless H otherwise expressed, as directly referring to the RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 411 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] substantive law of that country and not to its conflict of A laws rules; (iii) failing any designation of the law under clause (a) by the parties, the arbitral tribunal shall apply the rules of law it considers to be appropriate given all the circumstances surrounding the dispute. B (2) The arbitral tribunal shall decide ex aequo et bono or as amiable compositeur only if the parties have expressly authorised it to do so. 10[(3) While deciding and making an award, the arbitral tribunal shall, in all cases, take into account the terms of the contract and C trade usages applicable to the transaction.] **** **** **** 34. Application for setting aside arbitral award.-(1) Recourse to a Court against an arbitral award may be made only by an D application for setting aside such award in accordance with sub- section (2) and sub-section (3). (2) An arbitral award may be set aside by the Court only if— (a) the party making the application 11[establishes on the basis of the record of the arbitral tribunal that] — E (i) a party was under some incapacity, or (ii) the arbitration agreement is not valid under the law to which the parties have subjected it or, failing any indication thereon, under the law for the time being in force; or F (iii) the party making the application was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings or was otherwise unable to present his case; or G 10 Subs. by Act 3 of 2016, sec. 14, for sub-section (3) (w.r.e.f. 23-10-2015). Sub-section (3), before substitution, stood as under: “(3) In all cases, the arbitral tribunal shall decide in accordance with the terms of the contract and shall take into account the usages of the trade applicable to the transaction.”.