(emphasis supplied) D 77. It has been elucidated in the preceding paragraphs that the classification of a borrower’s account as fraud in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Master Directions on Frauds entails significant civil consequences for the borrower. Since the Master Directions on Frauds do not expressly provide an opportunity of being heard to the E borrower before classifying an account as fraud, the rule of audi alteram partem has to be read into the provisions of the said directions to save them from the vice of arbitrariness. 78. Before concluding, we also want to address the argument by the borrowers that the requirement of passing a reasoned must be F read into the Master Directions on Frauds. The borrowers also relied on Jah Developers (supra) where it was held that a final decision of the Review Committee declaring the borrower as a ‘wilful defaulter’ must be made by a reasoned . We agree with this contention of the borrowers because: (i) a reasoned allows an aggrieved party to G demonstrate that the reasons which persuaded the authority to pass an adverse against the interests of the aggrieved partyare extraneous or perverse; and (ii) the obligation to record reasons acts as a check on the arbitrary exercise of the powers.58 The reasons to be recorded need H 58 Kranti Associates (P) Ltd. v. Masood Ahmed Khan, (2010) 9 SCC 496 STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 527 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] not be placed on the same pedestal as a of a court. The reasons A may be brief but they must comport with fairness by indicating a due application of mind 79. In light of the legal position noted above, we hold that the rule of audi alteram partem ought to be read in Clauses 8.9.4 and 8.9.5 of the Master Directions on Fraud. Consistent with the principles of natural B justice, the lender banks should provide an opportunity to a borrower by furnishing a copy of the audit reports and allow the borrower a reasonable opportunity to submit a representation before classifying the account as fraud. A reasoned has to be issued on the objections addressed by the borrower. On perusal of the facts, it is indubitable that the lender C banks did not provide an opportunity of hearing to the borrowers before classifying their accounts as fraud. Therefore, the impugned decision to classify the borrower account as fraud is vitiated by the failure to observe the rule of audi alteram partem. In the present batch of appeals, this Court passed an ad-interim restraining the lender banks from taking any precipitate action against the borrowers for the time being. In D pursuance of our aforesaid reasoning, we hold that the decision by the lender banks to classify the borrower accounts as fraud, is violative of the principles of natural justice. The banks would be at liberty to take fresh steps in accordance with this decision. 80. Lastly, the borrowers have argued that the Master Directions E on Frauds suffer from manifest arbitrariness because they stipulate an opportunity of a hearing to third parties, while denying the same to borrowers, who face significant civil consequences.