E 55. The first alleged blood sample of the appellant collected on 14.6.2010 was sent for analysis vide communication dated 16.6.2010 (Ext.60). The second alleged blood sample of the appellant taken on 20.7.2010 was sent the very same day vide communication (Ext.72). 56. There is only one document (Ext.79) on record, indicating the F appellant to have been medically examined. But even this document does not reveal sample of the body part being drawn. In any event, the doctor who conducted such examination, has not stepped into the witness box to testify the correctness of the contents thereof. Also the document itself is uninspiring confidence as we notice certain interpolations therein G and in a different hand. Additionally, the document does not fall true to thestatutory requirements imposed under Section 53A Cr.P.C. 57. This Court in Krishan Kumar Malik v. State of Haryana4 (two-Judge), observed the necessity of compliance with Section 53A, 4 (2011) 7 SCC 130 H PRAKASH NISHAD @ KEWAT ZINAK NISHAD v. STATE OF 175 MAHARASHTRA [SANJAY KAROL, J.] which later on was clarified in Rajendra Prahladrao Wasnik v. State A of Maharashtra5(three-Judges) that the said provisionis not mandatory in nature. It was observed that it only requires a positive call to be taken in respect of the need to follow the provision or not. The bench held- “49…There must be reasonable grounds for believing that the examination of a person will afford evidence as to the commission B of an offence of rape or an attempt to commit rape. If reasonable grounds exist, then a medical examination as postulated by Section 53-A(2) CrPC must be conducted and that includes examination of the accused and description of material taken from the person of the accused for DNA profiling…” C (Emphasis Supplied) 58. Here, a child of the tender age of six was assaulted brutally and killed. The appellant was arrested on suspicion of having committed the crime. The police proceeded in accordance therewith and were supposed to have made discoveries as per the statements made by the appellant in custody, then in what manner can it be said that, at the time D when such a positive call was required to be made by the authorities, reasonable grounds did not exist for the compliance with Section 53A to be a must? This, in the view of this Court is a glaring lapse in the investigation of this crime, for a six-year-old child was sexually assaulted on both of the private parts of her body. Medical examination of the E appellant would have resulted into ascertainment of such assault. 59. As has been hitherto observed, there is no clarity of who took the samples of the appellant. In any event, record reveals that one set of samples taken on 14.6.2010 were sent for chemical analysis on 16.6.2010 and the second sample taken, a month later on 20.7.2010 is sent the very F same day. Why there exist these differing degrees of promptitude in respect of similar, if not the same- natured scientific evidence, is unexplained.