Even the Hon’ble High Court of Andhra Pradesh held the product to be falling under the category of Drug and Medicine and is sold as medicine. The ratio of in case of CCE Vs. ZANDU C PHARMACEUTICAL WORKS LTD. 2006 (204) E.L.T. 18 (S.C.) is also not applicable as the product label clearly shows the product as Homeopathic medicine The of Hon’ble Apex Court in case of Sujanil Chemco Industries Vs. CCE, Pune 2005 (181) ELT 206 (SC) and Tribunal in case of Bakson Homeo D Pharmacy (P) Ltd. Vs. CCE, New Delhi 2001 (136) ELT 485 (TR- DEL) are absolutely applicable to the present case in view of our above findings and we do not find any reason to differ with those decisions. 10. We also find that the adjudicating authority at the one hand E has held that the classification done before amendment in Central Excise Tariff in the year 2012 would require relook into the classification of the product in question and thus refused to accept the settled classification of goods under chapter 30 in terms of Appellate s passed in favour of Appellant. However on the other hand the adjudicating authority has relied upon the s F rendered in the context of Central Excise Tariff before year 2012 and the Board Circular issued in year 1997 which clearly shows that there is no uniformity adopted by him to decide the issue. The adjudicating authority has relied upon the Circular No. 333/49/97 CX dt. 10.09.1997 to hold that the medicine is prescribed by a G medical practitioner, used for limited time and not every day unless it is prescribed to deal with specific disease. He also relied upon the s in case of Alpine Industries Vs. CCE, Delhi 1997 (92) ELT 53 (TRI), CCE, Mumbai Vs. M/s Muller & Phipps, Richardson Hindustan Ltd. 1998 (35) ELT 424 (TRI) to hold that the word must be construed in popular sense i.e the meaning as H 312 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A understood by the people conversant therewith. The adjudicating authority has held that though the there is no rationale behind applying the 1997 circular in the year 2012 but since the said circular has not been withdrawn or held to be inapplicable in these matter by any court or law, the same would be applicable as it was relied upon by the Courts of law in numerous cases and in B the light of said circular the product is not prescribed by a medical practitioner for any disease. We find that the adjudicating authority has chosen to apply pick and choose approach wherever it suited him for confirming demand against Appellant. We are not in agreement with the above approach and views of the adjudicating C authority. We find that the Appellant were earlier issued demand notice on four different occasions and on each occasion the issue stands decided in favour of Appellant by the Appellate Authorities holding the goods to be Homeopathic medicine and liable to duty accordingly.