Income Tax Act, 1961 – s.69A – Article and Valuable Article F – Distinguished – Held (per Hrishikesh Roy, J. ): Articles of value are a genus of which valuable articles are a species i.e. a subset of high priced items – An article having value may not be a valuable article – Categorising all sundry items as valuable articles will lead to an interpretation which will be foreign to the purpose of the law G and the intention of the legislature in so far as s.69A is concerned. Doctrines/Principles – Noscitur a Sociis and ejusdem generis – Discussed. Maxims – Absoluta sententia expositore non indiget – Explained. H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 533 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER Allowing the appeals, the Court A HELD: (Per K. M. Joseph, J. ): 1. When goods are entrusted to a common carrier, the entrustment would amount to a contract of bailment within the meaning of Section 148 of the Contract Act, 1872 when it is for B being carried by road, as in this case. A contract for bailment may not involve any consideration being payable in which case Section 58 of the Contract Act obliges the bailor to repay to the bailee the necessary expenses incurred by him for the purpose of bailment. Possession is central to bailment. Section 151 of the Contract Act declares that ‘in all cases of bailment the bailee is C bound to take as much care of the goods bailed to him as a man of ordinary prudence would, under similar circumstances, take of his own goods of the same bulk, quality and value as the goods bailed.’ Can it be said that the standard of care as declared in Section 151 is alone applicable to the common carrier. The subject D matter is not res integra. [Para 37][555-D-F] 2. To apply Section 69A of the Income Tax Act, it is indispensable that the Officer must find that the other valuable article, inter alia, is owned by the assessee. A bailee, who is a common carrier, is not an owner of the goods. A bailee who is a E common carrier would necessarily be entrusted with the possession of the goods. The purpose of the bailment is the delivery of the goods by the common carrier to the consignee or as per the directions of the consignor. During the subsistence of the contract of carriage of goods, the bailee would not become the owner of the goods. In the case of an entrustment to the F carrier otherwise than under a contract of sale of goods also, the possession of the carrier would not convert it into the owner of the goods. [Para 39][557-E-F] 3. Section 39 of the Sale of Goods Act, 1930 contemplates delivery pursuant to a contract of sale by the seller to the carrier G as prima facie to be deemed to be the delivery of the goods to the buyer. It becomes the responsibility of the buyer of a carrier to fulfil its contractual obligations and deliver the goods to the consignee or as per its instructions.