The undersigned as such, require you forthwith desist from using or allowing to be used water supplied to the premises no.30, C.R. Avenue, Ward No.47 for any purpose other than domestic purpose, failing which the water F connection would be cut off or the supply of water thereto would be turned off under the provision of Section 275 (1) (c) of the Act, without any further reference. Sd/- Sd/- Sd/- Asst. SAE,W.S./G Exec.Engineer G Engineer Section ‘G’ Water Supply(C) C.P.-67 – 28-10-06-5,000 H Dated 22.08.2008" TRUST ESTATE KHIMJI KESHAWJI & ANR. v. THE KOLKATA 829 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION & ORS. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] 3.2. It would also be relevant to state that another notice of even A date was issued for contravention of Section 258 read with Section 558 of the Act calling upon the appellant to immediately remedy the fault in the supply line failing which KMC would itself carry out the repair work and recover its expenses from appellant. It further warned the appellant that supply could be turned off or B cut off under provisions of Section 275(1)(f) & (i) of the Act. 3.3. Proceedings with respect to the notice under Section 258 of the Act came to an end as repair work was carried out by appellant to the satisfaction of KMC. As such only issue which survives for consideration is the validity of notice under Section 238/271 of the C Act. 3.4. The appellant preferred writ petition before the High Court registered as WP No.1414 of 2008 challenging the notice under Section 238/271 of the Act. In the said petition it was stated that appellant was owner of the said premises which comprised of D ground floor and six floors. Apart from the top floor and the ground floor which was occupied by the appellant for residential purposes, rest of the floors were let out to various offices and commercial establishments. Various other grounds were raised in the petition. However, for consideration of this appeal, following grounds raised would be relevant which are stated hereunder: - E (i) The notice was only addressed to the owner and not to all the occupiers, details of which were available with KMC as trade licences were issued by it from time to time in favour of different occupants. (ii) Under Section 272(4) of the Act, which begins with a non- F obstante clause, it was provided that wholesome water may be used in lieu of unfiltered water for non-domestic purposes where supply of unfiltered water is not available. It is admitted case that unfiltered water is not available in the locality where the premises in question is situate. G (iii) The impugned notice was non-speaking as it did not give details of alleged violations; as such no specific response could be given by the appellant. H 830 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A (iv) The contravention of Section 275(1)(c) of the Act gives the power to the Commissioner to cut off or turn off supply of water where occupier of the premises contravenes Section 238 of the Act.