This circular was interpreted in Krishi Upaj Samiti (supra). The court held that the fee collected in that case could not be said to be a statutory exaction or levy, but was for consideration: “10. The aforesaid submission seems to be attractive but has no substance. Section 9(2) is an enabling provision and the C words used is “market committee may”. It is to be noted that insofar as sub-section (1) of Section 9 is concerned, the word used is “shall”. Therefore, wherever the legislature intended that the particular activity is a mandatory statutory, the legislature has used the word “shall”. Therefore, when under D sub-section (2) of Section 9, the word used is “may”, the activities mentioned in Section 9(2)(xvii) cannot be said to be mandatory statutory duty and/or activity. Under Section 9(2), it is not a mandatory statutory duty cast upon the Market Committees to allot/lease/rent the shop/platform/land/space to the traders. Hence, such an activity cannot be said to be a E mandatory statutory activity as contended on behalf of the appellants. Even the fees which is collected is not deposited into the Government treasury. It will go to the market committee fund and will be used by the market committee(s). In the facts of the case on hand, such a fee collected cannot have the F characteristics of the statutory levy/statutory fee. Thus, under the 1961 Act, it cannot be said to be a mandatory statutory obligation of the Market Committees to provide shop/land/ platform on rent/lease. If the statute mandates that the Market Committees have to provide the land/shop/platform/space on rent/lease then and then only it can be said to be a mandatory G statutory obligation otherwise it is only a discretionary function under the statute. If it is discretionary function, then, it cannot be said to be a mandatory statutory obligation/ statutory activity. Hence, no exemption to pay service tax can be claimed.” H CENTRAL GST DELHI - III v. DELHI INTERNATIONAL 345 AIRPORT LTD [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 38. The principal holding, so to say, was that the discretionary fee A could be levied, and that there was no “duty cast upon the Market Committees to allot/lease/rent the shop/platform/land/space to the traders”. The second reason was that the amounts were credited to a market fund, which was later deposited in the government treasury, even after which it remained a market committee fund. B 39. In the present case, undoubtedly, neither is there any compulsion to levy development fee nor is the collection conditional upon its deposit in the government treasury. However, the absence of these features in this court’s opinion, does not render UDF any less a statutory levy. Firstly, the ruling in Consumer Online Foundation C (Supra) is conclusive that UDF is a statutory levy. Secondly, the collection is not premised on rendering of any service. Thirdly, the amounts collected are deposited in an escrow account, not within the control of the assesses. Fourthly, the utilization of funds, is monitored and regulated by law.