Such transfer of baggage at the nick of time when it is about to be searched would again create practical problem. Who in such a case would be informed of the right that he is entitled in law to be searched before a Magistrate or a gazetted offi cer? This may lead to many practical diffi culties. A statute should be so interpreted as to avoid unworkable or impracticable results. In Statutory Interpretation by Francis Bennion (3rd Edn. ), para 313, the principle has been stated in the following manner : “The court seeks to avoid a construction of an enactment that produces an unworkable or impracticable result, since this is unlikely to have been intended by Parliament. Sometimes however, there are overriding reasons for applying such a construction, for example where it appears that Parliament really intended it or the literal meaning is too strong.” x x x x 350 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. 26. The Constitution Bench decision in Pooran Mal v. The Director of Inspection: (1974) 1 SCC 345, was considered in State of Punjab v. Baldev Singh, and having regard to the scheme of the Act and especially the provisions of Section 50 thereof it was held that it was not possible to hold that the in the said case can be said to have laid down that the “recovered illicit article” can be used as “proof of unlawful possession” of the contraband seized from the suspect as a result of illegal search and seizure. Otherwise, there would be no distinction between recovery of illicit drugs, etc. seized during a search conducted after following the provisions of Section 50 of the Act and a seizure made during a search conducted in breach of the provisions of Section 50. Having regard to the scheme and the language used a very strict view of Section 50 of the Act was taken and it was held that failure to inform the person concerned of his right as emanating from sub-section (1) of Section 50 may render the recovery of the contraband suspect and sentence of an accused bad and unsustainable in law. As a corollary, there is no warrant or justifi cation for giving an extended meaning to the word “person” occurring in the same provision so as to include even some bag, article or container or some other baggage being carried by him.” (Emphasis supplied) 89. Thus, in Pawan Kumar (supra) the larger Bench while answering the reference in no uncertain terms stated that “a bag, briefcase or any such article or container, etc. can, under no circumstances, be treated as body of a human being. They are given a separate name and are identifi able as such. They cannot even remotely be treated to be part of the body of a human being.” The Court reasoned that a person of varying capacity can carry diff erent items on his or her body but that does not make those items as a part of body. The Court observed, “Depending upon the physical capacity of a person, he may carry any number of items like a bag, a briefcase, a suitcase, a tin box, a thaila, a jhola, a gathri, a holdall, a carton, etc.