6.Learned senior counsel relied upon decisions of this Court in the case of (i) Dhartipakar Madan Lal Agarwal v. Rajiv Gandhi1 (ii) M. Karunanidhi v. H.V. Hande & Ors.2 and (iii) Mulayam Singh Yadav v. Dharam Pal Yadav & Ors.3. He submitted that once the F paragraphs in the Election Petition concerning allegations of corrupt practice are struck out, nothing will survive in the Election Petition as the term of the appellant is already over and a fresh election has been held thereafter. 7.Lastly, the learned senior counsel submitted that while deciding G the applications made by the appellant, the High Court could have either allowed the applications or rejected the same. But the High Court has 1 1987 Supp SCC 93 2 (1983) 2 SCC 473 H 3 (2001) 7 SCC 98 SENTHIBALAJI V. v. A.P. GEETHA AND ORS. 553 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] committed an error by directing the first respondent to produce documents A which she had not produced. 8.Shri Balaji Srinivasan, the learned counsel representing the first respondent pointed out that material facts in support of the allegations of corrupt practice are already pleaded in the Election Petition. He pointed out that the first respondent has relied upon representations made by her B to various authorities in which specific details of corrupt practices have been set out. He submitted that as material facts have already been pleaded, the High Court rightly did not exercise its powers under Rule 16 of VI of CPC. Relying upon a decision of this Court in the case of V.S. Achuthanandan v. P.J. Francis & Anr.4, the learned C counsel submitted that material particulars can always be supplied later on even if the period of limitation for filing the election petition is over. He also relied upon another decision of this Court in the case of Ponnala Lakshmaiah v. Kommuri Pratap Reddy and Ors.5. He submitted that while dealing with applications under Rule 11 of VII or Rule 16 of VI of CPC, the Court cannot adopt a hypertechnical D approach. Relying upon what is held in paragraph 9 of a of a Constitution Bench of this Court in the case of Balwan Singh v. Lakshmi Narain & Others6, he submitted that an opportunity is always available to the election petitioner to apply for amendment of the election petition for incorporating particulars or for amplifying the particulars. He invited E our attention to the impugned and urged that the High Court has correctly applied settled legal principles and therefore, no interference is called for. OUR VIEW 9. We have given careful consideration to the submissions. We F have carefully perused the Election Petition filed by the first respondent. As noted earlier, the election to the said Constituency was postponed in terms of the dated 27th May 2016 passed by the Election Commission. The challenge to the election was on two grounds. Firstly, that the nomination of the appellant was improperly accepted and G secondly, corrupt practices have been committed by the appellant or by other persons with his consent.