v. COMMANDING 621 OFFICER & ORS. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] Reliance was placed on following observations of this court’s in Nivedita Singh v Dr Asha Bharti33: “6. A reading of the above para shows that a medical offi cer who is employed in a hospital renders service on behalf of the hospital administration and if the service as rendered by the Hospital does not fall within the ambit of 2(1)(o) of the Act being free of charge, the same service cannot be treated as service Under Section 2(1)(o) for the reasons that it has been rendered by medical offi cer in the hospital who receives salary for the employment in the hospital. It was thus concluded that the services rendered by employee-medical offi cer to such a person would therefore continue to be service rendered free of charge and would be outside the purview of Section 2(1)(o) of the Act.” 34. The learned ASG relied on the of Jacob Mathew v State of Punjab34 and Martin F D’Souza v Mohd Ishfaq (hereafter, “Martin F. D’Souza”)35 to contend that in cases of medical negligence, courts must refer the matter to a competent doctor or a specialized committee in the relevant fi eld and only on the recommendation of such expert giving prima facie fi nding of medical negligence that doctor should be summoned. And in the present case, the appellant has not produced any expert opinion to substantiate his claim of medical negligence. 35. Reliance was also placed on the medical report dated 05.03.2014, issued when the appellant was admitted to the hospital facility at MH Ahmedabad, owing to Pneumonia. This medical report stated that the appellant was detected HIV negative, which shows that the appellant was HIV negative for a period of 12 years (i.e., from July 2002 to March 2014). 36. It was further submitted that IMC Professional Conduct Regulations requires consent only for the purpose of surgical treatment, and blood transfusion not being a surgical treatment, consent of the appellant is not energy, board or lodging or both, [housing construction,] entertainment, amusement or the purveying of news or other information, but does not include the rendering of any service free of charge or under a contract of personal service.” 33 2021 SCC OnLine SC 3165. 34 [2005] Supp 2 SCR 307; (2005) 6 SCC 1. 35 [2009] 3 SCR 273; (2009) 3 SCC 1. 622 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. mandatory and at no point of time treatment was forced upon the appellant. It was further argued that Medical Boards are not the primary source of evidence in relation to the detection of HIV infection disease, and the test report dated 05.03.2014 must be considered as primary evidence. 37. Learned ASG further submitted that the appellant failed to show any connection between the transfusion of blood and HIV positive status of the appellant. It was argued that the fi ndings of the Medical Board as to the disability of the appellant being attributed to service was solely for the purpose of granting disability pension and the same fi ndings cannot be used to infer negligence on the part of the respondent authorities.