It is contended that Section 86(1)(b) of the Act empowers the StateCommission to regulate the price of sale and purchase of electricity between the generating companies and distribution licensees and the terms and conditions of the PPA cannot be set to be inviolable. Merely because in PPA, tariff H GUJARAT URJA VIKAS NIGAM LIMITED v. RENEW WIND 707 ENERGY (RAJKOT) PVT. LTD. [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] rate as per Tariff , 2010 is incorporated that does not A empower the Commission to vary the terms of the contract to the disadvantage of the consumers whose interest the Commission is bound to safeguard. Sanctity of PPA entered into between the parties by mutual consent cannot be allowed to be breached by a decision of the State Commission to extend B the earlier control period beyond its expiry date, to the advantage of the generating company, Respondent 1 and disadvantage of the appellant. Terms of PPA are binding on both the parties equally. 66. In Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. v. EMCO Ltd., facts C were similar and the question of law raised was whether by passing the terms and conditions of PPA, the respondent can assail the sanctity of PPA. This Court held that power producer cannot go against the terms of the PPA and that as per the terms of the PPA, in case, the first respondent is not able to commence the generation of electricity within the “control D period” the first respondent will be entitled only for lower of the tariffs.” 54. Similarly, in Bangalore Electricity Supply Co. Ltd. vs. Konark Power Projects Ltd. & Ors32 this court held as follows: E “13. The contention that Under Regulations 5.2, 5.3, 5.4 of the 2004 Regulations as well as Sections 61 and 62 of the Electricity Act, power is vested with the Commission to vary the tariff is concerned, such power specifically provided for in the said Regulations will only operate prior to fixing of the tariff once the concerned Power Purchase Agreements are F ultimately concluded and the terms are agreed between the parties under the Power Purchase Agreements, thereafter, in our considered opinion, Regulation 5.1 of the 2004 Regulations alone would apply in the case of the parties before us. Consequently, there was no scope for the Commission to G vary the tariff agreed between the parties under the approved Power Purchase Agreement.” 55. Section 61 of the Act enacts the basis for tariff determination. On the other hand, Section 62 is concerned with the fixation of various 32 (2016) 13 SCC 515 H 708 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A other charges and tariffs. Section 64 lists the manner and procedure for tariff determination by the Commission. Section 86 lists the functions of the Commission and reiterates the determination of tariffs to be a prominent task of the commission. Tariff determination no doubt, comprehends the exercise of regulatory function, including purchase, sourcing, procurement of electricity from generators, by distribution and B other licensees, and their sales.