The history of Ordnance Factories, available from the record is that by the Central Government dated 27th September, 1975, the President had extended the Armed Forces Headquarters Service scheme mutatis mutandis to the Directorate General Headquarters Staff . Later, by of 09.01.1979, the Ordnance Factory Board was set up at the Headquarters offi ce of the DGOF. These documents point to the untenability of the respondents’ submission that of services are not Headquartes based services. In this context, it is worth mentioning that what comprises “Headquarters” is indicated in the Sixth CPC recommendations although no such defi nition exists under the CCS (Revised Pay) Rules. At para 3.1.1 of the Sixth CPC recommendations, it is stated that: “Office staff in Headquarters and Field Organisations of Government of India 3.1.1 The various Secretariats of the Ministries and Departments of Government of India together constitute the headquarters organization. The Secretariats are chiefl y involved in matters relating the formulation of policy and ensuring that these policies are executed in a coordinated and eff ective manner. Actual execution of these policies, however, is left to fi eld agencies outside the Secretariat which may be either attached or subordinate offi ces or quasi- Government/autonomous/public sector undertakings.” 22. If the respondents’ submission is that Headquarters implies the headquarters being located in New Delhi, there is no warrant-either express or implied, for such a contention. Headquarters of diff erent Central Government organizations can and are geographically dispersed- some, deliberately having regard to functional necessity and others as a historical reality. These can, without anything more, not be the basis of discrimination or valid diff erentiation.” (emphasis supplied) 7. Having noted the manner of consideration made by the High Court, before we advert to appreciate the correctness of the same, it would be necessary to take note of the rival contentions addressed relating to the power UNION OF INDIA & ORS V. D.G.O.F. EMPLOYEES 867 ASSOCIATION AND ANR. [A.S. BOPANNA, J.] of the Court to delve into the aspect relating to determination of pay scale. The learned senior counsel for the appellant in support of his contention that the fi xation of pay scale is in the realm of the employer and the Court should exercise restraint has relied on the pronouncement of this Court in State of Punjab and others vs. Jagjit Singh and others (2017) 1 SCC 148 with specifi c reference to para 42 wherein the parameters relating to consideration of cases relating to equal pay for equal work has been adverted to and the extent to which comparison between one set of employees with another is permissible. It is stated therein that where there is no comparison between one set of employees of one organisation and another set of employees of a diff erent organization, there can be no question of the equation of pay scales under the principle of “equal pay for equal work” even if two organizations have a common employer. 8. The decision in Union of India vs. Indian Navy Civilian Design Offi cers Association and Another (2023) SCC Online SC 173 is next referred to by the learned senior counsel for the appellant to point out the consideration made therein at para 11 to 14 with reference to the earlier decisions of this Court.