[2023] 15 S.C.R. 213 : 2023 INSC 946 CASE DETAILS AMBALAL PARIHAR v. STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS. (Criminal Appeal No. 3233 of 2023) OCTOBER 16, 2023 [ABHAY S.OKA AND PANKAJ MITHAL, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Impugned passed in Civil Writ Petition, fi led by the second to fourth respondents for clubbing of eight FIRs fi led against them, directing that no coercive action be taken against the aforesaid respondents in connection with the said FIRs, if justifi ed. Administration of Justice – Abuse of process of law – Forum hunting – Six FIRs were registered against the second to fourth respondents, at the instance of the appellant – Two other FIRs were also registered against them by some other fi rst informants, respondents sought quashing thereof, however, no interim relief was granted – Then a Writ Petition was fi led on the civil side by the aforesaid respondents for clubbing the eight FIRs – Single Judge directed that no coercive action be taken against the respondents in connection with all eight FIRs – Appellant alleged forum hunting by respondents stating that the Civil Writ Petition for consolidation of eight FIRs was fi led to avoid the roster Judge who had not granted interim relief: Held: Action of fi ling Civil Writ Petition by the respondents was nothing but a gross abuse of process of law and it was a classic case of forum hunting – It is wondered how a Civil Writ Petition for clubbing FIRs could be entertained – In the roster notifi ed by the Chief Justice, there is a separate roster for Criminal Writ Petitions – If the Courts allow such sharp practices, the roster notifi ed by the Chief Justice will have no meaning – The Judges have to follow discipline and ought not to take up any case unless it is specifi cally assigned by the Chief Justice – A Judge can take up a case provided either the cases of that category have been assigned to him as per the notifi ed roster or the particular case is specifi cally assigned by the Chief 213 214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Justice – Taking up a case not specifi cally assigned by the Chief Justice is an act of gross impropriety – Though a Civil Writ Petition was fi led, the Judge ought to have converted it into a Criminal Writ Petition which could have been placed only before the roster Judge taking up Criminal Writ Petitions – Civil Writ Petition dismissed – Therefore, the impugned does not survive – Costs of Rs.50,000/- imposed on the respondents – The conduct of the respondents be brought to the notice of the concerned Court which is hearing petitions u/s.482, CrPC fi led by them for quashing FIRs – Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 – s.482. [Paras 7, 8 and 10] OTHER CASE DETAILS INCLUDING IMPUGNED AND APPEARANCES CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 3233 of 2023. From the and dated 08.05.2023 of the High Court of Judicature for Rajasthan at Jodhpur in SBCWP No.