Non-production of a physical evidence would lead to a negative inference within the meaning of Section 114(g) of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (hereinafter referred to as the Evidence Act). The procedure contemplated through the notification has D an element of fair play such as the deposit of the seal, numbering the containers in seriatim wise and keeping them in lots preceded by compliance of the procedure for drawing samples. The afore-stated principles of law are dealt with in extenso in Noor Aga v. State of Punjab, (2008) 16 SCC 417: E “89. Guidelines issued should not only be substantially complied with, but also in a case involving penal proceedings, vis-à-vis a departmental proceeding, rigours of such guidelines may be insisted upon. Another important factor which must be borne in mind is as to whether such directions have been issued in terms of the provisions of the statute or not. When directions are issued by an F authority having the legal sanction granted therefor, it becomes obligatory on the part of the subordinate authorities to comply therewith. 90. Recently, this Court in State of Kerala v. Kurian Abraham (P) Ltd. [(2008) 3 SCC 582] , following the earlier decision of this G Court in Union of India v. Azadi Bachao Andolan [(2004) 10 SCC 1] held that statutory instructions are mandatory in nature. 91. The logical corollary of these discussions is that the guidelines such as those present in the Standing cannot be blatantly flouted and substantial compliance therewith must be insisted upon H MANGILAL v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 525 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] for so that sanctity of physical evidence in such cases remains A intact. Clearly, there has been no substantial compliance with these guidelines by the investigating authority which leads to drawing of an adverse inference against them to the effect that had such evidence been produced, the same would have gone against the prosecution. B 92. Omission on the part of the prosecution to produce evidence in this behalf must be linked with a second important piece of physical evidence that the bulk quantity of heroin allegedly recovered indisputably has also not been produced in court. The respondents contended that the same had been destroyed. C However, on what authority it was done is not clear. Law requires that such an authority must flow from an passed by the Magistrate. Such an whereupon reliance has been placed is Exhibit PJ; on a bare perusal whereof, it is apparent that at no point of time had any prayer been made for destruction of the said goods or disposal thereof otherwise. What was necessary D was a certificate envisaged under Section 110(1-B) of the 1962 Act. An was required to be passed under the aforementioned provision providing for authentication, inventory, etc. The same does not contain within its mandate any direction as regards destruction. E XXX XXX XXX 95. The High Court proceeded on the basis that non-production of physical evidence is not fatal to the prosecution case but the fact remains that a cumulative view with respect to the discrepancies in physical evidence creates an overarching F inference which dents the credibility of the prosecution.