or from the admissions elicited from these witnesses, the circumstances in which he was in the company of deceased. When PW-10 and PW-14 have clearly stated that they had seen the accused in the company of the deceased, and there being no satisfactory explanation offered by the accused F to the contrary, it has to be necessarily held that accused had failed to discharge the burden cast upon him. When PW-10 and PW-14 have in clear terms deposed to have last seen the accused with the deceased, necessarily accused must offer an explanation as to how and when he started living separately and there being no explanation offered necessarily in the chain of circumstances, G the last seen theory propounded by the prosecution to drive home the guilt of the accused requires to be accepted. [Para 16.5 and 16.6][416-G-H; 417-A; 418-B-C] H 400 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 1.6. The prosecution relied upon is the recovery of dead body at the instance of the accused, based on voluntary statement, which statement has been disowned by the accused and the same not having been proved by the prosecution according to the accused. The said statement of the accused has been marked as Ex.P-2 through PW-25. The said statement was recorded in the B presence of PW-1, CW-3 and interpreter – PW-10. [Para 17][418- D-E] 1.7. Section 27 permits the derivative use of custodial statement in the ordinary course of events. There is no automatic presumption that the custodial statements have been extracted C through compulsion. A fact discovered is an information supplied by the accused in his disclosure statement is a relevant fact and that is only admissible in evidence if something new is discovered or recovered at the instance of the accused which was not within the knowledge of the police before recording the disclosure D statement of the accused. The statement of an accused recorded while being in police custody can be split into its components and can be separated from the admissible portions. Such of those components or portions which were the immediate cause of the discovery would be the legal evidence and the rest can be rejected The submission by the accused that the confession statement is E to be discarded in its entirety cannot be accepted for reasons more than one. Firstly, the conduct of the accused would also be a relevant fact as indicated in Section 8. [Para 18][419-A-D] 1.8. It is a trite law that in pursuance to a voluntary statement made by the accused, a fact must be discovered which F was in the exclusive knowledge of the accused alone. In such circumstances, that part of the voluntary statement which leads to the discovery of a new fact which was only in the knowledge of the accused would become admissible under Section 27. Such statement should have been voluntarily made and the facts stated G therein should not have been in the knowhow of others. When the deposition of PW-10 is perused it would leave no manner of doubt that statement of the accused having been recorded being voluntary and when the statement is being recorded in the language not known to the accused, the assistance of interpreter H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 401 if taken by the police cannot be found fault with.