11. Emphasising the importance of the principles of natural justice in a criminal trial, learned senior counsel Sri Nagamuthu, submitted that if such a hearing is not provided to the accused then the rights of the persons summoned to be added as an accused would be jeopardised. In E this regard, learned Senior Counsel also submitted that the invocation of power under Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. is one to proceed with the trial on the basis of the evidence already recorded and that the satisfaction of the Sessions Court/Trial Court in such a case would be an objective satisfaction and not a subjective one and, therefore, in to ensure F that the right of the persons summoned to be added as an accused is enforced,it is necessary that such a person is heard before his addition asan accused to be tried along with other accused already facing trial. 12. It was next contended that if ultimately the person summoned is not given a right to seek discharge which he is also entitled to seek, it G becomes all the more crucial that on notice being issued to the person to be added as an accused, he is heard in the first instance and, thereafter, an is passed on his addition to the list of accused to be tried along with other accused. According to him, though Section 319 Cr.P.C. is silent as to H opportunity of hearing before being added as an accused, the same has YASHODHAN SINGH & ORS. v. THE STATE OF UTTAR 1203 PRADESH & ANR. to be read into the provision which would be in compliance to the principle A of natural justices. In this connection, he has referred to the development of law regarding filing of protest petition against a closure report. 13. Learned counsel appearing for the other appellants also submitted that in the instant case, the appellants were named in the FIR but in the final report, their names were not mentioned. No protest petition B was filed as against the said final report. It is only at the stage of trial that the summoning was passed by the Sessions Court, which could not have invoked Section 319 of the Cr.P.C. to summon the appellants herein to be added to the list of accused when their names did not figure in the final report. C 14. Therefore, it was contented on behalf of the appellants that either the in Jogendra Yadav be complied with by granting an opportunity of hearing to the appellants herein or the matter may be referred to a larger Bench in case this Bench is not inclined to follow the said . D 15. Per contra, learned senior counsel appearing for the State and also learned counsel appearing for the complainant contended that the observations of this Court in Jogendra Yadav as well as the observations of this Court in Ram Janam Yadav have to be construed only from the perspective of the peculiar facts of the said cases.