At that point of time, the appellant and his father were in their field. The appellant is said to have asked the driver of the lorry to move the lorry to his field to load the crop. This was questioned by the deceased which resulted in a quarrel. It is the case of the prosecution that after verbal altercation between the appellant and the deceased for quite some C time, the appellant is alleged to have picked up a “Hoe” (Kalaikottu – in Tamil, a gardening tool with a small metal blade attached with a wooden handle used mainly for weeding) & inflicted a single blow on the head of the deceased as a result of which the deceased fell unconscious and later died in the hospital. D 7. The FIR was lodged on 25.10.2015 at 19.30 Hrs. On completion of the investigation, police filed charge sheet for the offence of murder. The case was committed to the Court of Sessions as the offence was exclusively triable by the Sessions Court. The Additional Sessions Judge, Namakkal vide dated 06.09.2017 framed the following charge:- E “Whereas the deceased Balasubramaniam has been living with his wife Baby and family members at Sevalkattu Moolai near Government High School in Pandamangalam; that the Al is the son of A2; that both the accused were living in Poosaripalayam; in Sirukinatrypalayan: both the accused and the deceased Balasubramaniarn had their agricultural lands F adjacent to each other’s lands; that there was a pathway between both these lands and that there has been a prior enmity for a longtime regarding the ownership of that pathway between both parties. On 25.10.2015 at 07.30 hrs Al and A2 were loading tapioca cultivated and harvested in their lands G on to a lorry owned by one Mr. Palanival, having the registration number TN 33 AF 3114 by parking that lorry on the disputed pathway. At that time the deceased Balasubramaniam came there and told them that the lorry could not be led in and blocked it. Then A2 yelled at the deceased Balasubramaniam saying “You do not have a H ANBAZHAGAN v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY THE 1101 INSPECTOR OF POLICE [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] pathway here. You may bring anyone you want” and then Al A and A2 pushed the deceased Balasubramaniam down and with an intention to murder him Al had hit the head of the deceased Balasubramaniam with a “weed removing axe” (Kalaikothi) while A2 was pelting stones at him whereby the deceased Balasubramaniam sustained grievous injuries on B his head. Balasubramaniam was immediately carried to the Government Hospital in Velur, then taken to Government Hospital in Namakkal where he did not respond to treatment and was declared dead at 05.20 pm. Therefore you the accused have committed an offense punishable under 302 IPC and which can be tried by this court. C I hereby issue an that both of you Al and A2 should be tried by this court for the commission of the above offense.” 8.