That the Appellant herein could have been entitled to F receive family pension had he been legally adopted by the deceased government servant, which was not the case in the instant matter. ii. That the Tribunal had erred in relying on Section 8 and 12 of the HAMA Act, 1956, which generally G deals with, inter alia, adoption by a Hindu widow. iii. That Rule 54 (14) (b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules does not deal with adoption by a widow of a government servant after the death of the government servant. H SHRI RAM SHRIDHAR CHIMURKAR v. UNION OF INDIA & 937 ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA J.] 4. We have heard learned Counsel, Mrs. K. Sarada Devi, appearing A on behalf of the Appellant, and learned Additional Solicitor General of India, Mrs. Madhvi Goradia Divan, appearing on behalf of the Union of India, and perused the material on record. Submissions: 5. Mrs. K. Sarada Devi, learned Counsel appearing on behalf of B the Appellant, at the outset, contended that the High Court erred in interfering with the findings of the Tribunal, without appreciating the law on the capacity of a Hindu widow to adopt. 5.1. It was further contended that adoption made by a Hindu widow would be deemed to be an adoption by her deceased C husband also, as per the provisions of HAMA Act, 1956, and in view of the said position of law, the High Court ought not to have interfered with the findings of the Tribunal. That such a view has stood affirmed by this Court in Vijayalakshmamma wherein a declaration was made to D the effect that adoption by a Hindu widow would be deemed to be adoption by her husband also. 5.2. Reliance was also placed on the text of Rule 54 (14) (b) of the CCS (Pension) Rules, as it initially stood, as contrasted with the text of the said provision after amendments to the E same in the years 1990 and 1993, to contend that the bar against children born or adopted after retirement, seeking family pension, was removed by way of the subsequent amendments. Therefore, children adopted at any time after retirement of the government servant, including children adopted by the widow of the government servant after his F death ought to be included under the definition of ‘family’ for the purpose of granting family pension. 5.3. That unlike the position under classical Hindu Law, a Hindu female under the provisions of the HAMA Act, 1956 is rendered eligible to adopt, not only acting at the behest of G her husband or on seeking his approval, but also in her own right. Further, Section 12 thereof provides that a child adopted shall cease to have any ties with the family of her/his birth and shall only have ties with his adoptive family. On a conjoint reading of the aforesaid propositions, what emerges is that H 938 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A an adoption by a Hindu widow would necessarily create a tie between the child so adopted and her deceased husband.