He submitted that since the appellants were a part of the unlawful assembly, it was not necessary for the prosecution to attribute 1 2023 SCC OnLine SC 262 192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. a specifi c role to each of them. It is submitted that the object of the unlawful assembly was to kill the members of the complainant party and as such, no interference would be warranted in the fi nding of conviction recorded by the trial court as affi rmed by the High Court. He further submitted that the injuries sustained by the deceased was on vital parts caused with deadly weapons. 9. With the assistance of the learned counsel for the parties, we have perused the material placed on record. 10. Chironji (PW-6) is the fi rst informant. He has narrated about the incident which had taken place on a day prior to the day of occurrence of the present incident. He has stated that, after the accused persons assaulted Madan, Lila (sic Leelabai) and Kamlesh (sic Kailash), when they were going on a tractor to the Police Station for lodging the complaint, they were waylaid by Mangal, Roopa, Sewak, Ram Sahai, Parshuram, Lakhan, Jalim, Diwan and Siya and 4-5 other persons. All of them stopped their tractor and thereafter hurled hand bombs. He further stated that Sewak beat with Gupti on his chest and also hit Gupti on his head. He stated that Roopa stabbed him with sword on his shoulder. He stated that Madan was stabbed in the chest by Lakhan with barchi, on which, he became unconscious. He stated that thereafter, they went to the Police Station. Madan died at 10.00 am. His evidence is corroborated by Ramhet (PW-12). 11. Dr. S.K. Majeji (PW-4) has performed autopsy on the deceased. Injuries sustained by the deceased are thus: “Injury no. 1: Deep punctured wound l’’ X 1/2” X Lung Deep in the chest on the left side. The skin and muscles below this injury and left lung of the deceased had ripped apart because of this injury. The size of ripped lung was 1” X 2” X 2”; Injury no.2: Peeled wound 4” X l” in the center of the back; and Injury no.3: Peeled wound ½’’ X l/2” on left arm.” 12. It is sought to be urged on behalf of the appellants that the testimonies of Chironji (PW-6) and Ramhet (PW-12) are not reliable inasmuch as there are material contradictions in their evidence. No doubt that there are certain inconsistencies in the evidence of Chironji (PW-6) and PARSHURAM v. STATE OF M.P. 193 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] Ramhet (PW-12). However, it is to be noted that the witnesses are rustic villagers and they cannot be expected to give minute details identical with each other. 13. The law with regard to conviction under Section 302 read with Section 149 of IPC has been succinctly discussed by a Constitution Bench of this Court in the locus classicus of Masalti v. State of U.P.2, wherein this Court observed thus: “17.