In sum, whilst considering treaty interpretation, it is vital to take into account practice of the parties. There is no dispute that treaties constitute binding obligations upon their signatories. Yet, like all compacts, how the parties to any specifi c instrument view them, give eff ect to its provisions, and the manner of acceptance of such conventions or compacts are in the domain of bilateral relations and diplomacy. Much depends upon the relationship of the parties, the mutuality of their interests, and the extent of co-operation or accommodation they extend to each other. In this, a range of interests combine. The issue of treaty interpretation and treaty integration into domestic law is driven by constitutional and political factors subjective to each signatory. Therefore, domestic courts cannot adopt the same approach to treaty interpretation in a black letter manner, as is required or expected of them, while construing enacted binding law. The role of practice- which is, as the previous discussion demonstrates, not bilateral or joint practice, but practice by one, accepted generally by the international community as operating in that particular sphere, which is relevant, and at times determinative. 87. This court is of the opinion that the treaty practice of Switzerland, Netherlands and France is dictated by conditions peculiar to their constitutional and legal regimes. Could it conceivably be argued that in the event of failure of the Swiss Confederation to secure the requisite majority in a referendum or approval by the Swiss Parliament, or in the absence of approval by both houses of the States General in Netherlands, a DTAA provision or trigger event could nevertheless be assimilated into executive decrees? The answer is obviously in the negative. Likewise, the treaty practice in India points to a consistent pattern of behaviour when the signatory to an existing DTAA, points to the event of a third ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1207 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] state entering into OECD membership, and a resultant trigger event, the benefi cial eff ect given to the later third-party state has to be notifi ed in the earlier DTAA, as a consequential amendment, preceded by exchange of communication (and perhaps, negotiation) and acceptance of that position by India. The essential requirement of a notifi cation under Section 90 of the consequences of the trigger (or causative) event cannot be undermined. V. Conclusions 88. In the light of the above discussion, it is held and declared that: (a) A notifi cation under Section 90(1) is necessary and a mandatory condition for a court, authority, or tribunal to give eff ect to a DTAA, or any protocol changing its terms or conditions, which has the eff ect of altering the existing provisions of law. (b) The fact that a stipulation in a DTAA or a Protocol with one nation, requires same treatment in respect to a matter covered by its terms, subsequent to its being entered into when another nation (which is member of a multilateral organization such as OECD), is given better treatment, does not automatically lead to integration of such term extending the same benefi t in regard to a matter covered in the DTAA of the fi rst nation, which entered into DTAA with India.