This contention also needs to be repelled as Explanation I seeks to make it clear that if a person is otherwise covered as a “connected person”, this provision would also cover a person who is in management or control of the business of the corporate debtor during the implementation of a resolution plan. Therefore, any such person is not indeterminate at all, but is a person who is in the saddle of the business of the corporate debtor either at an anterior point of time or even during implementation of the resolution plan. This disposes of all the contentions raising questions as to the constitutional validity of Section 29-A(j). 47.1. After a careful analysis, this Court opined that the expressions ‘related party’ and ‘relative’ contained in the defi nition sections must be read noscitur a sociis with the categories of person mentioned in Explanation I. So read, it would include only persons who are connected with the business activity of the resolution applicant. This Court further clarifi ed that the expression ‘connected person’ would also cover a person who is in EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 903 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] management or control of the business of the corporate debtor during the implementation of a resolution plan. 48. In Phoenix ARC Private Limited versus Spade Financial Services Limited9, this Court noted that the expression ‘related party’ is defi ned in Section 5(24) in relation to a corporate debtor and Section 5(24A) provides a corresponding defi nition in relation to an individual. Thereafter, it has been observed as under:- 88. An issue of interpretation in relation to the fi rst proviso of Section 21(2) is whether the disqualifi cation under the proviso would attach to a fi nancial creditor only in praesenti, or if the disqualifi cation also extends to those fi nancial creditors who were related to the corporate debtor at the time of acquiring the debt. 48.1. Referring to its earlier decision in Arcelor Mittal (India) (P) Ltd. V. Satish Kumar Gupta10, where the issue was whether ineligibility of the resolution applicant under Section 29 A(c) of the Code is attached to an applicant at the date of commencement of the corporate insolvency resolution process or at the time when the resolution plan is submitted by the resolution applicant. It was clarifi ed that the opening words of Section 29(A) stating “a person shall not be eligible to submit a resolution plan…..” clearly indicates that the stage of ineligibility attaches when the resolution plan is submitted by the resolution applicant; thus the disqualifi cation applies in praesenti. This Court referred to Section 21(2) of the Code, more particularly to the second proviso thereto which deals with the Committee of Creditors and the ineligibility of a related party in the consideration and voting on a resolution plan by the said committee and held as follows: 101. However, if such an interpretation is given to the fi rst proviso of Section 21(2), all fi nancial creditors would stand excluded if they were a “related party” of the corporate debtor at the time when the fi nancial debt was created.