Accused statement was registered under section 313 of Criminal Procedure Code and he was clearly asked that poison was found in deceased’s visceral examination report, what you have to say about it? Regarding this accused Balvir Singh said that “I do not have knowledge how it was found, but deceased was heart patient and was on medication”. Regarding this, defence examined DW-1 who is deceased’s son and who said in his examination-in-chief that “my mother was undergoing treatment at Delhi, where she died”. He further said “my grandmother and father love me a lot and treated my mother nicely”. He is a child witness. This witness told that the death of the deceased took place during treatment but, nothing is said about where she was undergoing treatment, or how she died. Defence argued that deceased was a heart patient and because of which death occurred but this argument is negated by viscera report. DW-2 produced by defence said in his examination-in-chief that “accused was getting the deceased continuously treated at Delhi. Deceased Sudha was distressed because of her illness. Accused use to take care of Sudha. Balvir Singh and his mother did not harass her, and that she may have done something 826 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. to herself because of her illness”. This witness produced by defence has based his evidence on new facts. During cross-examination, examination of prosecution witness by defence, no question regarding such matter was asked as to whether the deceased was distressed either before her illness or because of her illness. DW-1 who is deceased’s son and on whom defence stressed upon, has not stated anything regarding the deceased being distressed due to her illness. DW-1 has only stated that death occurred during treatment, while DW-2 has based his evidence on new facts which are not concurring with the facts of defence because they have said that treatment was given at Escorts Hospital. Regarding this defence has questioned PW-1 that in year 2006 accused paid a bill of rupees 3,82,500/-at Escorts Hospital which was refuted by him. Regarding this defence has produced documents. I have examined those documents. Although defence have not proved those documents but in fi le page number 48A/2 a document of rupees 3,82,500/-is present which was given by Dr. Nitish Chandra, but said document is not a bill of payment instead it is an estimate required for complete checkup and operation, because in the document it is written that –‘Advance payment may please be made at the time of admission by case/demand draft in favour of Escorts Heart Institute and Research Centre Ltd. Payable at New Delhi’. By looking at the document it is clear that accused and others did not pay any money. Apart from this there is no document in the fi le for payment of rupees 3,82,500/-. regarding this there is no statement from defence. 22. Apart from this prosecution witness PW-4’s cross-examination was conducted. In his cross-examination by defence the witness has said “it is true that in the inquest report deceased’s husband stated that my wife after delivery of son, used to remain ill. Often, she had episodes of unconsciousness.