×× ×× ×× 13. Both benches of the High Court, with due respect, gave to the provision a very wide and varied interpretation and that too on literality and grammaticals seemingly overlooking the legal philosophy which permeates the provision, the same being that the debts due and payable, so as to claim priority, must be appropriated to the period within 12 months next before the relevant date and IDBI (THROUGH STRESSED ASSETS STABILIZATION FUND 1073 CONSTITUTED BY THE GoI)v. SUPT. OF CENTRAL EXCISE AND CUSTOMS AND OTHERS [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] their liability for payment must be founded during that period and no other. To put it in simpler words, the State has a priority over debts, liability and obligation of which was born within the time frame of those twelve months and as such due and becoming due and payable within those twelve months next before the relevant date, ascertainable if necessary later, if not already ascertained. We are in respectful agreement with the interpretation put by the Court of Appeal to Section 264 of the English Companies Act in Airedale Garage case, analogous as it is to the provision in hand, warranting the same interpretation; more so when any other interpretation would lead to the results feared by the Company Law Committee extracted above. In such view of the matter, we need not elaborately comment, discuss or demolish, sentence by sentence, the reasoning given by the Single Bench as also the Division Bench of the High Court towards interpreting the provision. The words ‘having become due and payable within 12 months next before the relevant date’ need be understood to mean putting a restriction or cordoning off the amount for which priority is claimable and not in respect of each and every debt on account of taxes, rates and cesses etc. which may be outstanding at that time and payable. And further that such priority is in respect only of debts those of which become due and payable because the liability to those is rooted, founded and belonging to that period of twelve months prior to the relevant date and none other; both the conditions existing.” 19. D.A. Desai, J., in his in Sales Tax Offi cer, Petlad (supra) as a judge of Gujarat High Court, had examined the question of when a debt becomes payable, for this is a requirement to be satisfi ed, and only when the debt becomes ‘due and payable’ during the twelve months next before the relevant date, does the debt get the character of a preferential debt. After elaborate discussion, D.A. Desai, J. has held that the debt becomes ‘due’ under the applicable taxing statute on the date when the sale, that is, the taxing event takes place. Tax may become ‘due’ but may be payable in future in terms of the statute. In the context of the Sales Tax Act in question27, 27 Bombay Sales Tax Act, 1953 and Central Sales Tax Act, 1956. 1074 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. it was held that the sales tax became ‘due and payable’ when the returns were fi led.