The B foofaraw made in the Conference by those who had to apply the provision, was not without substance because of the garboil [Ed. : From the French word gérable: meaning a confused dised state; turmoil.] situation which this provision had created and is amply reflected in the proposals which were submitted in the C following terms: “In the case of a block assessment, there are two problems in relation to the levy of surcharge. The first is that Section 113 does not mention a Central Act. In the absence of a reference to another Central Act in the charging section, it becomes D difficult to justify levy of surcharge. Even if it is assumed that reference in the Finance Act to Section 113 is a sufficient authority to levy surcharge, the second problem is that the Finance Act levies surcharge on the amount of income tax on the income of a particular assessment year whereas in the block assessment tax is levied on the undisclosed income of E the block period. Absence of a specific assessment year in the block assessment may render the levy suspect. Yet another problem is the rate of surcharge applicable. To illustrate, if the search took place on, say, 4-4-1996, whether the rate of surcharge is to be adopted as applicable to the assessment F year 1996-1997 or the assessment year 1997-1998, the rate of surcharge being different for the two years? The provisions of Section 113 or the provisions of the Finance Act do not offer any guidance on the issue. Suggestions G The foregoing problem indicates that levy of surcharge on undisclosed income is a matter of uncertainty and is prone to litigation. In the circumstances, it is suggested that Section 113 may be amended retrospectively in to provide for levy of surcharge at the rate applicable to the assessment year relevant H to the financial year in which the search was concluded.” K.L. SWAMY v. THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX & 709 ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] The Chief Commissioners accepted the position, in no uncertain A terms, that as per the language of Section 113, as it existed, it was difficult to justify levy of surcharge. It was also acknowledged that even if Section 113 empowered to levy surcharge, since block assessment tax is levied on the undisclosed income of the block period, absence of specific assessment year in the block B assessment would render the levy suspect. XXXXXXXXXXXX 44. The Finance Act, 2003, again makes the position clear that surcharge in respect of block assessment of undisclosed income was made prospective. Such a stipulation is contained in C the second proviso to sub-section (3) of Section 2 of the Finance Act, 2003. This proviso reads as under: “Provided further that the amount of income tax computed in accordance with the provisions of Section 113 D shall be increased by a surcharge for purposes of the Union as provided in Paras A, B, C, D or E, as the case may be, of Part III of the First Schedule of the Finance Act of the year in which the search is initiated under Section 132 or requisition is made under Section 132-A of the Income Tax Act:” E Addition of this proviso in the Finance Act, 2003 further makes it clear that such a provision was necessary to provide for surcharge in the cases of block assessments and thereby making it prospective in nature.