A copy shall also be sent to the Head of the Department concerned, if necessary. The notice shall indicate that the representation or reply, if any, should be made within fifteen days F from the date of receipt of the notice and in any case not more than thirty days from the date of receipt of the notice. In case the applicant requests for adjournment or extension of the time-limit, reasonable time, may be granted. (9) (a) After personal hearing if the Scrutiny Committee is satisfied G regarding the genuineness of the claim, Validity Certificate shall be issued in Form G. (b) After personal hearing, if the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied about the genuineness of the claim and correctness of the Scheduled Tribe Certificate, it shall pass an of H MAH. ADIWASI THAKUR JAMAT SWARAKSHAN SAMITI v. 1123 THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] cancellation and of confiscation of theCertificate and A communicate the same to the Competent Authority for taking necessary entries in the register and for further necessary action. The Scheduled Tribe Certificate shall then be stamped as “ cancelled and confiscated”. 19. Sub-rule (2) of Rule 12 clearly provides that only if the Scrutiny B Committee is not satisfied with the documentary evidence produced by the applicant, it shall forward the application to the Vigilance Cell for conducting the school, home and other enquiry. Therefore, in every case, as a matter of routine, the Scrutiny Committee cannot mechanically forward the application to Vigilance Cell for conducting an enquiry. When C sub-rule (2) of Rule 12 contemplates that only if the Scrutiny Committee is not satisfied with the documents produced by the applicant that the case should be referred to Vigilance Cell, it follows that the Scrutiny Committee is required to pass an recording brief reasons why it is not satisfied with the documents produced by the applicant. Before referring the case to the Vigilance Cell, application of mind to the material D produced by the applicant is required and therefore, the application of mind must be reflected in the sheets of the Scrutiny Committee. 20. It is not possible to exhaustively lay down in which cases the Scrutiny Committee must refer the case to Vigilance Cell. One of the tests is as laid down in the case of Kumari Madhuri Patil1. It lays E down that the documents of the pre-Constitution period showing the caste of the applicant and their ancestors have got the highest probative value. For example, if an applicant is able to produce authentic and genuine documents of the pre-Constitution period showing that he belongs to a tribal community, there is no reason to discard his claim as prior to 1950, F there were no reservations provided to the Tribes included in the ST . In such a case, a reference to Vigilance Cell is not warranted at all. 21. In the impugned in Civil Appeal No. 2502 of 2022 (Shilpa Vishnu Thakur’s case2), the Full Bench of the Bombay High Court has noted that people having the surname “Thakur” belong to G both forward castes and various backward castes.