This reduced rate will be applicable to payments made in respect of the right or property which is fi rst granted or under a contract which is signed, after the 12th day of December, 1988. A copy of the notifi cation bearing GSR No. 635(E), dated 24th June, 1992, is enclosed. 3. The Canadian Government have also passed a Remission dated 3rd December, 1991, making the revised rate as above applicable to Indian residents as well in respect of royalties or fees for technical services paid by a Canadian resident.” 66. It is quite clear that the Protocol, to the original DTAA was unambiguous and emphatic; it required that the trigger event would lead to 119 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. “such lower rate will automatically be applied for the taxation of royalties and fees for technical services paid by a resident of India to a resident of Canada where the royalties or fees for technical services are paid in respect of a right or property”. In such an instance, of language, in the protocol, being as emphatic as the third Protocol to the India-Switzerland DTAA, the treaty practice of India was consistent; a separate notifi cation was later issued. 67. The respondents had relied on decrees/decisions of each of the countries, to underline that in terms of treaty practice of the three countries, the Union government has to extend reciprocity, which means that similarly, automatic benefi ts have to be given to taxpayers, claiming them under DTAAs and Protocols, on the occurrence of a third-party state granted better benefi ts, gaining admission/membership into OECD. The decree or decision of the Directorate General of Fiscal Aff airs, International Fiscal Aff airs (relevant authority in the Kingdom of Netherlands), relied upon by Concentrix and Optum Global42 reads as follows: “In the treaty India agreed with Slovenia which entered into force on 17 February 2005 has entered a participation dividend rate of 5 percent. This is the case a participation dividend, if a company immediately provides at least 10 percent of the capital hold the body that pays the dividends. Slovenia joined. the OECD on 21 July 2010. Under the most-favored nation clause in the Protocol to the Convention, this event has the eff ect of retroactive eff ect to and As of July 21, 2010 a rate of 5 percent applies to participation dividends, which are paid by a body that a resident of the Netherlands to a body that is a resident of India. The text of the relevant Treaty provision from the India -Slovenia Treaty is contained in the attachment. The most-favored-nation clause remains on portfolio dividends (if a body is less than 10 percent of the share capital of the company that pays the dividends) in the Netherlands-India relationship a rate of 10 percent applies. This rate is taken from the treaty between India 42 Decision of 28 February 2012, No. IFZ 2012/54M, Tax treaties: India, issued by the Director General, Fiscal Aff airs, Kingdom of Netherlands ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1191 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.]