In Keyishian v. Board of Regents of New York55, the E Supreme Court of the United States of America, struck down a law which authorized the board of regents to prepare a list of subversive organizations and to deny jobs to teachers belonging to those organizations. The law made membership in the Communist Party prima facie evidence for disqualification from employment. Mr. Justice Brennan, speaking for F the Court held that, penalizing mere knowing membership, without a specific intent to further the unlawful aims of an organization, is not a constitutionally adequate basis for exclusion from such positions as those held by appellants. 42. In Yates v. U.S.56, the Petitioners were members of the G Communist Party in California and were indicted under the Smith Act, charging them with conspiring (1) to advocate and teach the duty and 56 354 US 298 (1957) 53 367 US 1 (1961) 54 341 US 123, 174 (1951) H 55 385 US 589 1966 ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 577 [SANJAY KAROL, J.] necessity of overthrowing the Government of the United States by force A and violence, and (2) to organize, as the Communist Party of the United States, a society of persons who so advocate and teach, all with the intent of causing the overthrow of the Government by force. While reversing the conviction of the Petitioners, the Supreme Court observed that the district court failed to distinguish between advocacy of forcible B overthrow and advocacy of action, by holding that advocacy of violent action at some future time was enough. 43. Reliance was placed on Clarence Brandenberg (supra), as discussed above. 44. In Whitney v. California57, the question which arose was C whether the petitioner, who joined and assisted in the organization of a Communist Labor Party contravening the California Criminal Syndicalism Act, did so with knowledge of its unlawful character and purpose. The Supreme Court of the United States of America, while upholding the constitutionality of the abovementioned act, observed that the freedom D of speech which is secured by the Constitution does not confer an absolute right to speak, without responsibility. Furthermore, although the rights of free speech and assembly are fundamental, they are not, in their nature, absolute. In Indra Das, reliance was placed on the concurring opinion of Mr. E Justice Brandeis wherein he observed that fear of serious injury cannot alone justify suppression of free speech and assembly. It is the function of speech to free men from the bondage of irrational fears. To justify suppression of free speech, there must be reasonable ground to fear that serious evil will result if free speech is practiced. There must be reasonable ground to believe that the danger apprehended is imminent. There must be F reasonable ground to believe that the evil to be prevented is a serious one. 45. Reliance was placed on the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Holmes in Gitlow v. New York58. In this case, the appellant was a member of the Left-Wing Section of the Socialist Party.