Whether or not the search should be conducted in the presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate ultimately depends on the exercise of such right as provided under Section 50. In the event the suspect declines this right, there is no further obligation to have his search conducted in the presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, and in such a situation the empowered police offi cer can proceed to conduct the search of the person himself. To read Section 50 otherwise would render the very purpose of informing the suspect of his right a redundant exercise. We are of the view that the decision of this Court in Arif Khan (supra) cannot be said to be an authority for the proposition that notwithstanding the person proposed to be searched has, after being duly apprised of his right to be searched before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, but has expressly waived this right in clear and unequivocal terms; it is still mandatory that his search be conducted only before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate. 61. A plain reading of the extracted paragraphs of Arif Khan (supra) referred to above would indicate that this Court while following the ratio of the decision of the Constitution Bench in Vijaysinh Chandubha Jadeja (supra) held that the same has settled the position of law in this behalf to the eff ect that, whilst it is imperative on the part of the empowered offi cer to apprise the person of his right to be searched only before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate; and this requires strict compliance; this Court simultaneously proceeded to reiterate that in Vijaysinh Chandubha Jadeja (supra) “it is ruled that the suspect person may or may not choose to exercise the right provided to him under Section 50 of the NDPS Act”. 62. There is no requirement to conduct the search of the person, suspected to be in possession of a narcotic drug or a psychotropic substance, only in the presence of a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, if the person proposed to be searched, after being apprised by the empowered offi cer of his right under Section 50 of the NDPS Act to be searched before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistate categorically waives such right by electing to be searched by the empowered offi cer. The words “if such person so requires”, as used in Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act would be rendered otiose, if the 332 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. person proposed to be searched would still be required to be searched only before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, despite having expressly waived “such requisition”, as mentioned in the opening sentence of sub-Section (2) of Section 50 of the NDPS Act. In other words, the person to be searched is mandatorily required to be taken by the empowered offi cer, for the conduct of the proposed search before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate, only “if he so requires”, upon being informed of the existence of his right to be searched before a Gazetted Offi cer or Magistrate and not if he waives his right to be so searched voluntarily, and chooses not to exercise the right provided to him under Section 50 of the NDPS Act.