2.1 That thereafter, pursuant to the decision of the Principal Bench F of the Central Administrative Tribunal, New Delhi to regularise casual employees by way of framing of scheme, the services of the original applicant came to be regularised as Lower Division Clerk with effect from 31.03.1995 pursuant to the Scheme of Regularisation of Casual Staff Artists of Doordarshan, 1992/94. The original application was given the regular scale of Lower Division Clerk from the date of regularisation G on the said post. 2.2 That thereafter the original applicant approached the Tribunal seeking consideration of her past service. The said OA came to be dismissed, which was the subject matter of writ petition before the High Court. The High Court was pleased to permit the original applicant to H 662 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A submit representation to the department. That thereafter the respondent – original applicant submitted representation dated 11.4.2014. Vide dated 18.09.2014, the department rejected the representation of the respondent for giving her the benefit of casual/contractual services rendered by her from 1985 till 31.03.1995 for calculating the pensionary/ service benefits. B 2.3 That thereafter, the original applicant filed another OA No. 446/2014 before the Tribunal. By a detailed and dated 08.09.2021, the Tribunal dismissed the said OA by observing that the services rendered by the respondent as contractual/casual cannot be treated and/or considered as temporary service and therefore the services C rendered as such shall not be counted for the purpose of retiral benefits/ service benefits. The and passed by the Tribunal dismissing the OA was the subject matter of writ petition before the High Court. By the impugned and , the Division Bench of the High Court has observed that the services in temporary capacity will D include the classes of temporary servants such as casual or even contractual. By observing so and relying upon Rule 13 of the Rules applicable, the High Court has allowed the writ petition and has directed that the services of the respondent – the writ petitioner rendered as contractual/casual shall be liable to be counted as temporary service for the purposes of calculating qualifying service in accordance with the E rules and accordingly she shall be paid the pension on her retirement. The impugned and passed by the High Court is the subject matter of the present appeal. 3. Shri Rajeev Sharma, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants has vehemently submitted that admittedly since F 1985 till her services were regularised on 31.03.1995, the respondent rendered the services as a casual/contractual employee. It is submitted that the services rendered as a casual/contractual employee cannot be said to be rendering services as a temporary employee and/or rendering a temporary service. It is submitted that therefore proviso to Rule 13 of G the Central Civil Services (Pension) Rules, 1972 (hereinafter referred to as the ’1972 Rules’) shall not be applicable and therefore the services rendered as such as casual/contractual employee cannot be counted for the purposes of pensionary benefits/service benefits.