Learned counsel would submit that in the given set of facts and circumstances, D the reliefs granted by the High Court do not call for any interference. 11. Having given anxious consideration to the rival submissions and having examined the record, while we do not feel inclined to upset the substantive relief granted to the writ petitioner in paragraph 29 of the impugned in the peculiar circumstances of the case but, we have E not an iota of doubt that all other directions and mandate issued by the High Court in the impugned cannot be approved. 12. As regards the question of re-evaluation, the principles enunciated by this Court could be usefully recapitulated as follows: 12.1. In the case of Mukesh Thakur (supra) this Court observed F and held as under: - “24. The issue of revaluation of answer book is no more res integra. This issue was considered at length by this Court in Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education v. Paritosh Bhupeshkumar Sheth [(1984) G 4 SCC 27 : AIR 1984 SC 1543], wherein this Court rejected the contention that in the absence of the provision for revaluation, a direction to this effect can be issued by the Court. The Court further held that even the policy decision incorporated in the Rules/ Regulations not providing for rechecking/verification/revaluation cannot be challenged unless there are grounds to show that the H DR. B R AMEDKAR UNIVERSITY, AGRA v. DEVARSH NATH 481 GUPTA & ORS. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] policy itself is in violation of some statutory provision. The Court A held as under: (SCC pp. 39-40 & 42, paras 14 & 16) “14. … It is exclusively within the province of the legislature and its delegate to determine, as a matter of policy, how the provisions of the statute can best be implemented and what measures, substantive as well as B procedural would have to be incorporated in the rules or regulations for the efficacious achievement of the objects and purposes of the Act. … 16. … The Court cannot sit in over the wisdom of the policy evolved by the legislature and the subordinate C regulation-making body. It may be a wise policy which will fully effectuate the purpose of the enactment or it may be lacking in effectiveness and hence calling for revision and improvement. But any drawbacks in the policy incorporated in a rule or regulation will not render it ultra D vires and the Court cannot strike it down on the ground that, in its opinion, it is not a wise or prudent policy, but is even a foolish one, and that it will not really serve to effectuate the purposes of the Act.” 25. This view has been approved and relied upon and reiterated E by this Court in Pramod Kumar Srivastava v. Bihar Public Service Commission [(2004) 6 SCC 714 : 2004 SCC (L&S) 883 : AIR 2004 SC 4116] observing as under : (SCC pp. 717-18, para 7) “7. … Under the relevant rules of the Commission, there is no provision wherein a candidate may be entitled to ask F for revaluation of his answer book.