The Union of India claims that the reasons and the documents cannot be disclosed in the interest of national security and confidentiality of intelligence inputs. The State at this stage is required D to prove that confidentiality and national security are legitimate aims, and that the purposes of confidentiality and national security are served by non-disclosure. 78. At this stage, the court has to examine the threshold question whether in a constitutional democracy, a fundamental right can be limited E to realise the purpose underlying the law or action.59 The criteria for determining proper purpose differs from one legal system to another. For instance, the South African Constitution prescribes a general limitation clause which prescribes the general grounds to limit all fundamental rights.60 The Indian Constitution does not prescribe a general limitations’ F clause. A few of the provisions in Part III such as Article 19 and 25 have a specific purpose based limitation clause. This does not mean that the provisions that do not have an express limitation clause are absolute. Other rights that do not have an express limitation clause can be limited through an implied reading of the provisions of the Constitution. Our constitutional jurisprudence does not accept the theory that constitutionally G protected rights live and survive in contextual isolation. Each is linked to 59 Aharon Barak (n 38) 247; Justice Sikri in Modern Dental (paragraph 55) 60 Article 26(1) states that the limitation on human rights should be reasonable and justifiable in an open and democratic society based on human dignity, equality and freedom. H 658 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A the other. Hence, the entire text has to evolve in meaning and content with the canvas which bears the tapestry. 79. Aharon Barak argues that one of the accepted grounds of proper purpose for the limitation of rights is public interest (or public good).61 Though the existence of such a purpose is never in contention, B the content of public interest is unclear. Public interest, he argues, must reflect the notions of justice and tolerance shared by the society. The courts while identifying if the purpose is legitimate must not fall into the den of dominant impulses but instead prioritise purposes in furtherance of constitutional ideals and values. However, the court must necessarily be cautious to not cross the thin line between adjudication and policy C making. Certain purposes are absolutely antithetical to public interest in a constitutional democracy. The Constitution, as we all know, is a living document. Its meaning and the values it espouses develop with time. The court while determining the purpose must be cognizant of such developments and must read the Constitution in the socio-political context D – bearing in mind both history and the prospect of societal change at the time of interpretation. 80. The Constitution prescribes national security as one of the grounds which can be used to reasonably restrict rights expressly in the context of Article 19. Further, other provisions of the Constitution prescribe E a departure from principles during emergency situations that impact national security.62 Similarly, informational privacy and confidentiality are now values that have been read into the Constitution, particularly in view of the decision of a nine Judge Bench in Justice KS Puttaswamy (9J) (supra) and the enactment of the Right to Information Act 2005.