This implies construction of these two expressions in the same way as has been done in Section 15. “terrorist organisation” has been independently defined in Section 2(m) to mean an organisation E listed in the First Schedule or an organisation operating under the same name as an organisation so listed. But so far as the word “terrorist” is concerned, in this Section also, the interpretation thereof would be relatable to the same expression as used in Section 15. It is one of the basic rules of statutory F construction that an expression used in different parts of a statute shall ordinarily convey the same meaning – unless contrary intention appears from different parts of the same enactment itself. No such contrary intention can be found in the 1967 Act. Section 38 of the 1967 Act carries the heading or title “offence relating to membership of a terrorist organisation”. A terrorist G act would have to be construed having regard to the meaning assigned to it in Section 15 thereof. Interpretation to this provision has been given earlier. “terrorist organisation” [as employed in Section 2(m)], is not a mere nomenclature and this H 874 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A expression would mean an organisation that carries on or indulges in terrorist acts, as defined in said Section 15. The term terrorism, in view of the provisions of Section 2(k) of the said Act, ought to be interpreted in tandem with what is meant by ‘terrorist Act’ in Section 15 thereof. [Paras 32 and 33][907-B-G] B 1.6 In this context, to bring the appellants within the fold of Section 38 of the 1967 Act, the prosecution ought to have prima facie establish their association with intention to further the said organisation’s terrorist activities. It is only when such intention to further the terrorist activities is established prima facie, appellants could be brought within the fold of the offence relating C to membership of a terrorist organisation. To bring within the scope of Section 38 of the 1967 Act, it would not be sufficient to demonstrate that one is an associate or someone who professes to be associated with a terrorist organisation. But there must be intention to further the activities of such organisation on the part D of the person implicated under such provision. But the same line of reasoning in respect of membership of a terrorist organisation under Section 20, ought to apply in respect of an alleged offender implicated in Section 38 of the 1967 Act. There must be evidence of there being intention to be involved in a terrorist act. So far as the appellants are concerned, at this stage there is no such E evidence which can be relied on. The Court ought to carefully examine every case, before making an assessment if the Act would apply or not. When the statutes have stringent provisions the duty of the Court would be more onerous. Graver the offence, greater should be the care taken to see that the offence would F fall within the four corners of the Act.