This bar is not specifi cally stated and mentioned, though the legislature could have stated this in simple words. Rather, in Section 9(1) the words used are, “construct, maintain or operate a captive generating plant”. Thus, construction, maintenance or operation of a CGP under Section 9(1) of the Act can be read disjunctively. This emanates from the use of the word, “or”, with reference to “construct, maintain or operate” in Section 9(1). This would be rational and reasonable interpretation in consonance with the legislative intent. It is not necessary that the person who maintains and operates the CGP must have also constructed the CGP. Construction, maintenance or operation can be by diff erent persons. This is brought out in Rule 3 of the Rules which specifi es the eligibility criteria for captive users. Rule 3 refers to the percentage of ownership of the captive user in the CGP, and use/consumption by the captive user in the fi nancial year. 33. Clause (c) to Explanation 1 to Rule 3 states that ownership in relation to the generating station or power plant set up by a company or body corporate means the equity capital with voting rights. In other cases, ownership means proprietary interest and control over the generating station or power plant. 34. Section 9(2) the words used are “every person, who has constructed a captive generating plant and maintains and operates such plant”. The expression, “every person” can refer to a person who maintains and operates a CGP while not having constructed the CGP, which meaning and interpretation gains affi rmation from the language of Section 9(1) which states that a, “a person may construct, maintain or operate a captive generating plant”. In case of ambiguity, it is useful to apply the purpose and object rule of interpretation. A practical interpretation is preferable, so as not to over-ride the legislative intent. It is legitimate for the court to assume that the legislature knows the reality and supports and enacts practicable laws which encourages and promotes business activities. M/S. DAKSHIN GUJARAT VIJ COMPANY LTD. v. M/S. GAYATRI 369 SHAKTI PAPER AND BOARD LTD. [SANJIV KHANNA, J.] 35. The expression, “person”, as defi ned under Section 2(49) of the Act, includes, inter alia, body corporates and association or body of individuals, whether incorporated or not. Transfer of ownership in case of companies and association of persons is a normal occurrence and incidence of business. 36. This issue was examined in Kadodara Power40and it has been observed: “Can the ownership of the CGP be transferred after its set up? : ×× ×× ×× 21. It is submitted that the words “set up” here are important and that the person who has set up the plant alone can own captive generating plant and not the person(s) who is transferee from the original owner(s). This proposition has not been accepted by the Commission in the impugned . Nor does this proposition appeal to us. The Act nowhere prescribes that once set up by a person(s) a captive generating plant cannot be transferred to another owner.