For the same reason, the contention that the suit was bad for non-joinder of necessary parties of all his legal heirs/ E representatives also has to fail. 37.There is yet another reason why the contention that suit was bad for non-joinder of necessary parties due to failure to bring on record the legal representatives of the deceased third defendant Sri. Hanumaiah should fail. We have already noted the case which the defendants sought F to bring in, without taking up necessary pleadings in the written statement filed in the suit. Relying on Exhibit D-1 it is contended that pursuant to the agreement for sale of the suit schedule property executed in favour of the first appellant herein/the first defendant jointly by Sriman Madhwa Sangha and Sri Vittal Rao its possession was handed over to the first G appellant herein. We have already upheld its rejection by the High Court. However, what we are taking out of the said contention is that based on the same the appellants cannot raise a ground of non-joinder of necessary parties, as stated above, as the first appellant was arrayed as a party in the very suit itself and he being the person in favour of whom the same was allegedly executed. The contention raised based on Exhibit D-2 H 390 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A sale deed was also repelled by the High Court and we have also upheld the same. We took note of the same again solely to stress upon the position that the case built upon the same can in no way be the basis for raising a contention of non-joinder of necessary party/parties. This is because the deceased second appellant who was shown as the vendee thereunder was the original second defendant in the suit. For the reasons B above also the contention of non-joinder of necessary parties must fail. 38.We have already found that the courts below are correct in holding that the defendants did not have a case of ownership over the suit schedule property and such a case sought to bring out based on Exhibit D-2 was repelled by the High Court and we have upheld the C same. They have also failed to establish any better claim for possession. The finding of the High Court that any volume of evidence sans appropriate pleadings would be no avail is the correct exposition of law. In the decision in Duggi Veera Venkata Gopala Satyanarayana v. Sakala Veera Raghavaiah and Anr.11, this Court agreed with the observation made D in the earlier decision in Hasmat Rai & Anr. v. Raghunath Prasad12 that any amount of proof offered without pleadings is generally of no relevance. In Duggi Veera Venkata Gopala Satyanarayana (supra) with respect to the aforesaid observations in Hasmat Rai & Anr. (supra) this Court held, ‘we respectfully agree with the above statement of law and reiterate the same.’ Further, it is also relevant to refer to paragraph E 85.6 of the decision in Union of India v. Ibrahim Uddin and Anr.13, which reads thus:- “85.6.