This was canvassed B in Garware(supra) but the Court instead set a deadline for 45 days for adjudication and 15 days for appointment of arbitrator with the following observation: “37. One reasonable way of harmonising the provisions contained in Sections 33 and 34 of the Maharashtra Stamp Act, which is a C general statute insofar as it relates to safeguarding revenue, and Section 11(13) of the 1996 Act, which applies specifically to speedy resolution of disputes by appointment of an arbitrator expeditiously, is by declaring that while proceeding with the Section 11 application, the High Court must impound the instrument which D has not borne stamp duty and hand it over to the authority under the Maharashtra Stamp Act, who will then decide issues qua payment of stamp duty and penalty (if any) as expeditiously as possible, and preferably within a period of 45 days from the date on which the authority receives the instrument. As soon as stamp E duty and penalty (if any) are paid on the instrument, any of the parties can bring the instrument to the notice of the High Court, which will then proceed to expeditiously hear and dispose of the Section 11 application. This will also ensure that once a Section 11 application is allowed and an arbitrator is appointed, the arbitrator can then proceed to decide the dispute within the time F frame provided by Section 29A of the 1996 Act.” 85.9 The above enunciation in Garware(supra) as is apparent goes against the legislative mandate which had prescribed the deadline of 60 days for appointment of arbitrators under Section 11(13) of the Arbitration Act, 1996. The criticism that a deadline of 45 days would G be impractical, cannot also be brushed aside lightly. N. Discussion on Vidya Drolia 86. This case was concerned with the arbitrability of landlord- tenant disputes and the forum before which the issue of arbitrability H 488 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A must first be raised. The paragraph 146 as quoted below may require a relookin the context of the issue under consideration. “146. We now proceed to examine the question, whether the word “existence” in Section 11 merely refers to contract formation (whether there is an arbitration agreement) and excludes the B question of enforcement (validity) and therefore the latter falls outside the jurisdiction of the court at the referral stage. On jurisprudentially and textualism it is possible to differentiate between existence of an arbitration agreement and validity of an arbitration agreement. Such interpretation can draw support from the plain meaning of the word “existence”. However, it is equally C possible, jurisprudentially and on contextualism, to hold that an agreement has no existence if is not enforceable and not binding. Existence of an arbitration agreement presupposes a valid agreement which would be enforced by the court by relegating the parties to arbitration. Legalistic and plain meaning interpretation D would be contrary to the contextual background including the definition clause and would result in unpalatable consequences. A reasonable and just interpretation of existence requires understanding the context.