1 from reapproaching the State Government and seeking conversion of the usage of land and attendant approvals under the 1959 Rules. The State Government shall be at liberty to consider such a proposal in public interest and in accordance with the 1959 Rules. B 107. With regard to the Appellant Unions, we do not consider it expedient for us to enter into the demands made by the labour unions for the dues of JKSL’s employees. We express no views on the content of the prayers by the Appellant Unions, and leave it open for them to seek their remedies under law from the Appropriate Government, and judicial forums. C 108. We may summarize our overall conclusions in the following points:- A. There has been an uninterrupted and subsisting relationship of lessor and lessee between the State Government and D either JKSL or Respondent No. 1, in the context of LIA, Kota. From the first lease deed executed in 1967, till date, the State Government has maintained the position of lessor; B. The lease with JKSL, and all leases thereafter with JKSL and/or Respondent No. 1, have been signed under the 1959 E Rules. The terms of the lease are clearly in compliance with the 1959 Rules; C. The land in LIA, Kota was never transferred to RIICO under the Government dated 18.09.1979. The State Government has always maintained title and ownership of F the area; D. The land was also never allotted to RIICO on a leasehold basis under Rule 11A of the 1959 Rules. Thus, RIICO was never expressly given any leasehold rights, and had no G authority to further sub-lease the land, along with other corresponding powers, under Rule 12 of the 1959 Rules; E. In any case, Rule 11A of the 1959 Rules is of no importance, as there had to be an express allotment of the land to RIICO on a leasehold basis after the coming into force of Rules H BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 309 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] 11A and 12. No such express allocation was ever made in A favour of RIICO; F. The 1979 Rules are not statutory in nature. The reference to the 1979 Rules in Rule 12 of the 1959 Rules, does not accord any statutory recognition to the former; B G. There was no violation of the Principles of Natural Justice in this case. The entire basis for granting permission for conversion of the land, and subdivision of the plots, was on an incorrect assumption of power by RIICO under the 1979 Rules, to act as the lessor of LIA, Kota. RIICO was never C given any leasehold rights over the land. When the basis for a benefit received by a party is itself invalid, there is no question of giving the party a chance to be heard; H. The State Government was competent to issue directions under Article 138 of the AoA of RIICO, to cancel the D supplementary lease deeds and attendant permissions.