A.A.G., Deepak Thukral, A.A.G., Ms. Rekha Dayal, Sr. Adv., Ms. Suhseni Sen, Ms. Manisha Chava, Rustam Singh Chauhan, Gurmeet Singh Makker, Sahil Bhalaik, Tushar Giri, Siddharth Anil Khanna, Mahfooz Ahsan Nazki, Surjendu Sankar Das, Ms. Annie Mittal, Vinod Sharma, Pashupathi Nath Razdan, Ms. Maitreyee Jagat Joshi, Astik Gupta, Ms. Akanksha Tomar, Nishe Rajen Shonker, Mrs. Anu K. Joy, Abraham Mathew, Alim Anvar, Pukhrambam Ramesh Kumar, Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, Siddharth Dharmadhikari, Sourav Singh, Aditya Krishna, Mrinal Gopal Elker, Saurabh Singh, Siddhesh Shirish Kotwal, Ms. Ana Upadhyay, Ms. Manya Hasija, Tejasvi Gupta, Pawan Upadhyay, Nirnimesh Dube, Shibashish Misra, Ajay Pal, Mayank Dahiya, Ms. Sugandh Rathor, Tanmaya Agarwal, Wrick Chatterjee, Mrs. Aditi Agarwal, Vinayak Mohan, Raj Bahadur Yadav, Shreekant Neelappa Terdal, Sri Harsha Peechara, Duvvuri Subrahmanya Bhanu, Ms. Pallavi, Ms. Kriti Sinha, Rajiv Kumar Choudhry, Aravindh S., Abbas, Abhinav Mukerji, Mrs. Bihu Sharma, Ms. Pratishtha Vij, Mohit Prasad, Ms. Swati Ghildiyal, Samar Vijay Singh, Dr. Monika Gusain, Nikunj Gupta, Keshav Mittal, Tapesh Kumar Singh, Prashant Bhardwaj, Aditya Pratap Singh, Priyanshu Malik, V. N. Raghupathy, Manendra Pal Gupta, Varun Varma, M. Bangaraswamy, S. Spandana Reddy, Avijit Mani Tripathi, T.K. Nayak, Ms. Rekha Bakshi, Ms. Marbiang Khongwir, Ms. K. INITIATIVES FOR INCLUSION FOUNDATION & ANR. v.679 UNION OF INDIA & ORS. Enatoli Sema, Ms. Limayinla Jamir, Amit Kumar Singh, Ms. Chubalemla Chang, Prang Newmai, Raghvendra Kumar, Anand Kumar Dubey, Devvrat Singh Naruka, Ms. Harsha Sharma, Maneeshpathak, Sabarish Subramanian, Shuvodeep Roy, Kabir Shankar Bose, Deepayan Dutta, Vishwa Pal Singh, Ms. Rachana Gandhi, Mukesh Kumar, Bharpur Singh, Sandeep Kumar, Ashish Pandey, Akash, Gopal Singh, Akhileshwar Jha, Hitesh Kumar Sharma, Neeraj Singh, Ms. Yamini Sharma, Ritika Raj, Ms. Niharika Dewivedi, Ms. Manju Jetley, Gaurav Agrawal, Satya Mitra, Advs. for the Respondents. / OF THE SUPREME COURT S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J. 1. The writ-petitioner organisation, approaches this court under Article 32 of the Constitution, seeking issuance of appropriate s directing the respondents [Union government, and each State/UT government – collectively referred to as ‘respondent-state’] to take steps for implementing the provisions of the Sexual Harassment at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 read with the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Rules, 2013 [hereafter “Act/POSH Act” or “Act” and “Rules/POSH Rules” respectively]. The detailed claims1 are extracted verbatim: “1. To issue a writ in the nature of mandamus or an appropriate writ, or direction as may be necessary:- a. Directing all the Respondents, i.e. Union of India, States and UTs to implement the provisions of the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition, Redressal) Act, 2013 and the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition, Redressal) Rules, 2013 without any further delay; 1 The following abbreviations have been used in the writ petition, as well as in this hereafter: “LCC” or “LC” mean ‘Local Committee’ (as per Act 23/2016 which amended ‘local complaints committee’ to ‘local committee’); and “ICC” or “IC” to mean ‘Internal Complaints Committee’. 680 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. b. Directing all the States/UTs to notify and appoint the District Offi cers as per Section 5 of the Act; c. Directing all the States/UTs to constitute LCCs in all the districts as per Section 6 & 7 of the Act; d. Directing all the States/UTs to appoint Nodal Offi cers as per Section 6 of the Act; e. Directing all the States/UTs to constitute ICCs as per Section 4 of the Act in all the workplaces defi ned in Section 2(o) of the Act; f. Directing all the States/UTs to ensure reporting and collection of Annual Compliance Reports from all workplaces by all the District Offi cers of respective States as per Section 21 and 22 of the Act; g. Directing all the States/UTs to ensure that the Annual Compliance Reports collected by District Offi ce[r]s, containing information on the number of cases fi led and their disposal, are consolidated and the reports are published and put in public domain; h. Directing all the States/UTs to give due publicity to the Acts and Rules in all the Districts – block, talukas, tehsil in rural or tribal area and ward or municipality in the urban area and that awareness activities will be organized to advance the understanding of the provisions of this Act; i.