The learned counsel has contended that merely E for non-consideration of revised resolution plan, which was revised at the instance of CoC itself, the approval could not have been set aside overriding the commercial wisdom of CoC. It has also been submitted that the promoters’ earlier proposition with reference to Section 12-A of the Code was wholly ambiguous and could not have been countenanced in the manner presented before CoC or even before NCLAT. While F referring to certain other areas of concern including the amount deposited by the resolution applicant, it has been suggested on behalf of these financial creditors that CIRP must be allowed to go on while leaving promoter a right to propose a better resolution plan by way of a Swiss Challenge Process; and for that purpose, he should be made to deposit G at least a sum of Rs. 471.70 crore in an escrow account prior to the voting on his settlement offer. Points for determination 37. For what has been noticed hereinabove and looking to the overall scenario, the following principal points arise for determination in H this batch of appeals: M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 857 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] A. Whether the valuation process of the assets of the corporate A debtor had been in violation of the Regulations 27 and 35 of the CIRP Regulations and thereby, approval of the resolution plan had been in contravention of Sections 30(2) and 61(3) of the Code? B. Whether there had been non-compliance of Regulation 36- A(2)(iii) of the CIRP Regulations for want of publication of Form B G on the designated website not later than 75th day from the insolvency commencement date; and failure to advertise as mandated had a direct impact on the maximization of asset value, particularly when the entire CIRP was conducted during lockdown at the time of Covid-19 pandemic? C C1. Whether the resolution applicant is ineligible to submit a resolution plan in terms of Section 29-A(e) of the Code for being disqualified to act as a director under Section 164(2)(b) of the Companies Act? C2. Whether the resolution applicant is ineligible to submit a D resolution plan so as to act as alter ego of the trust “Sri Balaji Vidyapeeth” that had already been declared ineligible; and submission of plan by resolution applicant is barred by virtue of Section 88 of the Trusts Act? C3. Whether the resolution plan in question leads to violation of E Section 166(4) of the Companies Act and hence, cannot be approved in terms of Section 30(2)(e) of the Code? D1. Whether the Appellate Tribunal has erred in holding that the resolution plan in question, which was placed before the Adjudicating Authority for approval, was void and non-est in law F because in the ninth CoC meeting dated 22.01.2021, the resolution plan was sent back to the resolution applicant for further revision; and the revised resolution plan thereafter submitted by the resolution applicant on 25.01.2021 was directly filed before the Adjudicating Authority without being put to vote before CoC?