How can one allow the natural persons to escape liability on such specious plea? In such a situation the Latin maxim Lex Non Cogit Ad Impossibilia is attracted which means law does not compel a man to do which he cannot possibly perform. H 1032 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Broom’s “Legal Maxims” contains several illustrative cases in support of the maxim. This maxim has been referred to with approval by this Court in State of Rajasthan v. Shamsher Singh reported in 1985 supp SCC 416. 52. Thus, where the proceedings under Section 138 of the NI Act B had already commenced and during the pendency the plan is approved or the company gets dissolved, the directors and the other accused cannot escape from their liability by citing its dissolution. What is dissolved is only the company, not the personal penal liability of the accused covered under Section 141 of the NI Act. They will have to continue to face the prosecution in view of the law laid down in Aneeta Hada(supra). Where C the company continues to remain even at the end of the resolution process, the only consequence is that the erstwhile directors can no longer represent it. FEW OF THE ABSURD SITUATIONS THAT MAY ARISE IF SECTION 138 PROCEEDINGS IN RELATION TO THE D SIGNATORIES/DIRECTORS ARE HELD TO BE NOT MAINTAINABLE AFTER THE RESOLUTION PLAN IS APPROVED 53. If the argument that the signatories/directors are not liable to be proceeded under Section 138/141 of the NI Act once the E resolution plan is approved, the same may lead to the following absurd situations: i. If during the lifetime of the Section 14 moratorium , some of the accused are convicted under Section 138 of the NI Act, they will have to be released in appeal once the F resolution plan is approved. Thus, then, no purpose would be served by proceeding further against the co-accused under Section 138 during the moratorium. ii. If the resolution plan is not approved and the corporate debtor goes under liquidation in such circumstances under G Section 35(1)(k) of the IBC the liquidator can represent the corporate debtor. Thus, the prosecution under Section 138/141 continues. This may lead to absurd situations in working of the IBC and its impact on Section 138 proceedings. H AJAY KUMAR RADHEYSHYAM GOENKA v. TOURISM 1033 FINANCE CORP. OF INDIA LTD. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] iii. At the end of the liquidation, the distribution will take place A under Section 53 of the IBC. Therein everyone, including the creditors will get their share as per the waterfall mechanism statutorily decided and the same would be binding and mandatory. Thereafter, the corporate debtor is dissolved under Section 54 of the IBC after selling of the B assets under liquidation. Now during the said period, the prosecution might have been completed and appeals would be pending. Then it would be argued that because under the liquidation the amount is accepted, the prosecution against the signatory/director cannot continue after the dissolution C of the corporate debtor.