If the arbitrator fi nds the agreement valid, there is no problem as the arbitration will proceed and the award will be made. However, if the arbitrator fi nds the agreement invalid, inoperative or void, this means that the party who wanted to proceed for arbitration was given an opportunity of proceeding to arbitration, and the arbitrator after fully trying the issue has found that there is no scope for arbitration. Since the arbitrator's fi nding would not be an enforceable award, there is no need to take recourse to the judicial intercession available under Section 48(1)(a) of the Act.” 158. When the referral court renders a prima facie opinion, neither the arbitral tribunal, nor the court enforcing the arbitral award will be bound by such a prima facie view. If a prima facie view as to the existence of an arbitration agreement is taken by the referral court, it still allows the arbitral tribunal to examine the issue in-depth. Such a legal approach will help the referral court in weeding out prima facie non-existent arbitration agreements. It will also protect the jurisdictional competence of the arbitral tribunals to decide on issues pertaining to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement. I*. Harmonious construction of the Arbitration Act, the Stamp Act, and the Contract Act 159. One of the cardinal principles of the interpretation of statutes is to discover and give eff ect to the legislative intention. If a statute is susceptible to two interpretations, the court will have to reject the construction which * Ed. Note: PART I IN RE: INTERPLAY BETWEEN ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS UNDER 1169 THE ARBITRATION AND CONCILIATION ACT 1996 AND THE INDIAN STAMP ACT 1899 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] will defeat the plain intention of the legislation.150 The court has to ascertain the intention of the legislation by considering not only the clause to be interpreted, but also the entirety of the statute. The legislature often enacts a statute to give eff ect to legislative policy. When enacting a statute, the legislature often endeavors to ensure that the provisions of a statute do not contradict the provisions of the same statute or provisions of another statute. However, inconsistencies or contradictions may nonetheless arise between statutes. In such situations, it is left to the court to bring about a harmony between the working of such statutes. 160. In Sultana Begum v. Prem Chand Jain,151 this Court analysed the relevant decisions of this Court and laid down the following principles pertaining to the harmonious construction of statutes: a. It is the duty of the courts to avoid a head-on clash between two sections of the Act and to construe the provisions which appear to be in confl ict with each other in such a manner as to harmonise them; b. The provisions of one section of a statute cannot be used to defeat the other provisions unless the court, in spite of its eff orts, fi nds it impossible to eff ect reconciliation between them; c. When there are two confl icting provisions in an Act, which cannot be reconciled with each other, they should be so interpreted that, if possible, eff ect should be given to both.