v. 1219 UNION OF INDIA pattern of provisions – including the specifi c provisions, enabling or entitling women, certain benefi ts and the eff ect of Sections 19, 20, 21 and 21A of SMA is that even if for arguments’ sake, it were accepted that Section 4 of SMA could be read in gender neutral terms, the interplay of other provisions- which could apply to such non-heterosexual couples in such cases, would lead to anomalous results, rendering the SMA unworkable – Gender neutral interpretation of existing laws would complicate an already exhausting path to justice for women and leave room for the perpetrator to victimise them – A law which was consciously created and fought for, by women cannot, by an interpretive sleight be diluted. [Paras 79, 82, 85, 87, 101, 102, 149] – Held (per Pamidighantam Sri Narasimha, J.) (Also concurring): The constitutional challenge to the Special Marriage Act, 1954 and the Foreign Marriage Act, 1969 must fail – Semantic impossibilities of gender-neutral constructions of the Special Marriage Act, 1954 and the Foreign Marriage Act, 1969. [Para 4] – Held (per Sanjay Kishan Kaul, J. ): If the intent of the SMA is to facilitate inter-faith marriages, then there would be no rational nexus with the classifi cation it makes, i.e., excluding non-heterosexual relationships – An objective to exclude non-heterosexual relationships would be unconstitutional, especially after this Court in Navtej has elaborately proscribed discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation – Therefore, the SMA is violative of Article 14 of the Constitution – However, there are multifarious interpretive diffi culties in reading down the SMA to include marriages between non-heterosexual relationships – Entitlements devolving from marriage are spread out across a proverbial ‘spider’s web’ of legislations and regulations – Tinkering with the scope of marriage under the SMA can have a cascading eff ect across these disparate laws. [Para 17] LGBTQ community / Queer persons – Discrimination and violence against – Directions sought to obviate the same: Held [per S. Ravindra Bhat, J. (for himself and Hima Kohli, J. )]: The State shall ensure - consistent with the previous s in K.S. Puttaswamy, Navtej Johar, Shakti Vahini and Shafi n Jahan- that the choice exercised by queer and LGBTQ couples to cohabit is not interfered with and they do no face any threat of violence or coercion – Respondents shall take suitable steps to ensure that queer couples and transgender persons are not subjected to any involuntary medical or surgical treatment – Above directions in relation to transgender persons to be read as part of and not in any manner whittling down the directions in NALSA so far as they apply to transgender persons – This court is alive to the feelings of being left out, 122 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. experienced by the queer community;however, addressing their concerns would require a comprehensive study of its implications involving a multidisciplinary approach and polycentric resolution, for which the court is not an appropriate forum to provide suitable remedies.