Further, in the early morning of 15.03.2019, accused Gajjala Uday Kumar Reddy, D. Siva Shankar Reddy/A-5 and others were G already present at the house of Sri YS Bhaskar Reddy/ Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy and prepared for immediately proceeding to the house of YS Vivekananda Reddy to manage the scene of crime as conveyed by T. Gangi Reddy @ Y. Gangi Reddy/A-1 to three other co-assailants including H 574 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Sheikh Dasthagiri (A-4 turned approver) at 5.20 AM at his residence. (viii) The petitioner/complainant further averred that Sri N. Siva Prakash Reddy called from his mobile phone to Sri Y.S. Avinash Reddy at his mobile phone at 06:26:15 AM and B informed him about the death of Sri Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy. Thereafter, Sri Y.S. Avinash Reddy accompanied by D. Siva Shankar Reddy/A-5, Gajjala Uday Kumar Reddy, E.C. Surendra Reddy, Prashant Reddy, Raghava Reddy and Ramana Reddy (both Pas of Y.S. Avinash Reddy) immediately reached in three to four vehicles at the house C of Sri Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy. The forensic analysis of Google takeout of accused Gajjala Uday Kumar Reddy carried out by CFSL, New Delhi reveals that location of mobile phone of Gajjala Uday Kumar Reddy was inside the house of Sri Y.S. Bhaskar Reddy at 06:25:25 AM and just D two minutes after at 06:27:28 AM, location of his mobile phone was found outside the house of Sri Y.S. vivekananda Reddy and thereafter, he was found present inside the house of Sri Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy at 6:29 to 6:31 AM. (ix) The petitioner/complainant further averred that Y.S. Avinash E Reddy and other persons accompanied with him after entering in the house of Sri Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy had seen the blood present in the bedroom and dead body lying in pool of blood in the bathroom with visible gruesome injuries on the head. Thereafter, Sri Y.S. Avinash Reddy using mobile on one number (9000006243) of his PA, F Raghava Reddy made a call to Sri J. Shankaraiah, (92121100544), then Circle Inspector, Pullivendula and informed him that Sri Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy had died due to heart attach and heavy blood vomiting, which is present at bedroom and bathroom. He further told Sri J. G Shjankaraiah to send three to four constables for bandobast. It is evident that Sri Y.S. Avinash Reddy had called police only after seeing the dead body of Sri Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy and discussing the matter with D. Siva Shankar Reddy. It indicates that the fake story of heart attack and blood vomiting was floated in a pre-meditated manner to H give it a colour of natural death as a part of conspiracy.” SUNEETHA NARREDDY v. Y S AVINASH REDDY & ANR. 575 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 27. In this backdrop, the issue which arises for consideration is as A to whether the High Court was justified in (i) granting an ad interim stay of arrest; and (ii) directing that the examination before the CBI in the course of the investigation shall be “in printed/written form” during the course of which a questionnaire may also be handed over to the first respondent.