9212 of 2012 whereas the of dismissal of the application under section 151 of the CPC is the subject matter of challenge in Civil Appeal No. 9213/2012. Proceedings before this Court 19. Grant of relief claimed in the writ petitions and dismissal of D the two applications of the State and its officers for review of the and /under section 151 of the CPC led the State and its officers to approach this Court with separate special leave petitions. 20. Certain s passed in these proceedings need to be noted. E 21. On the special leave petitionscarried by the State from the and passed on PNB’s writ petition and the of dismissal of the State’s application under section 151 of the CPC, an was passed by this Court on 11th March, 2011 recording as follows: “The respondent-Bank has filed an affidavit contending inter F alia that they have recovered their dues and also released the property, which was under mortgage in favour of the borrower since they have liquidated the loan amount with interest. Counsel appearing for the State seeks for a week’s time to enable him to obtain instructions. G He may obtain instructions accordingly. Re-notify on 18.3.2011.” 22. The next effective dated 8th April, 2011 passed by this Court on the aforesaid special leave petitions recorded that: H STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. M/S A.J. 787 INFRASTRUCTURES PVT. LTD [DIPANKAR DATTA, J.] “So far these petitions are concerned, in our considered A opinion, these petitions have been rendered infructuous partly in view of the fact that bank, who is a contesting respondent no. 1 herein, has already recovered its dues and thereafter released the property from its hypothecation. Hence, the name of respondent no. 1 is deleted from the array of respondents B and the petitions as against respondent no. 1 stand dismissed. These petitions also stand dismissed so far as respondent nos. 3 and 5 are concerned. Therefore, these petitions survive only against respondent nos. 2 and 4.” 23. As a result of the above , the special leave petitions stood C dismissed against PNB (the first respondent), the borrower (the second respondent) and Shri Durga Dass (the fifth respondent) and survived qua the Recovery Officer, DRT, Chandigarh (the second respondent) and Shri R.T. Tejpal (the fourth respondent). 24. Practically, with the exit of PNB from the proceedings in view D of the developments subsequent to filing of the special leave petitions resulting in dismissal of the special leave petitions qua PNB, it admits of no doubt that the issue inter se the relevant parties, i.e., the State and PNB, as to whether the High Court was justified in outlawing section 16-B of the HPGST Act,attained finality. E 25. Notwithstanding such position, this Court on 7th December, 2012 granted special leave on both the petitions to appeal whereupon the appeals were placed before us for hearing anddecision. Issues 26. The legal issues arising for decision on these appeals are: F (i) Whether, in view of dismissal of the special leave petition qua PNB by the dated 8th April, 2011, the and outlawing section 16-B of the HPGST Act can at all be examined?