an agreement and conspiracy to achieve a certain result in Parliament and had been paid a bribe.” 18. The learned Judge observed that he was conscious of the seriousness of the off ence which the alleged bribe takers were said to have committed and that by reason of the lucre that they have received, they enabled the Government to survive. But the opined, “our sense of indignation should not lead us to construe the Constitution narrowing, impairing the guarantee to eff ective parliamentary participation and debate.” However, it is signifi cant to note that despite the above observations, the majority was of the view that the immunity which covers bribe takers did not protect a particular Member of Parliament (Mr Ajit Singh) in the case, as ultimately, he did not cast his vote in the No Confi dence Motion. 19. The contrary view of two judges in PV Narasimha Rao was elucidated in the of Justice S.C. Agarwal. The learned Judge observed that the expression “in respect of” would have to be construed in its true perspective. The minority recognized that while the object and purpose of Article 105(2) of the Constitution is to enable Members of Parliament to speak freely or to cast their votes without fear of consequences an interpretation that places Members of Parliament above the law would be repugnant to the healthy functioning of a parliamentary democracy. In this context, the divergence in the views of Justice S C Agarwal (speaking for two judges) with that of Justice S.P Bharucha (speaking for two judges) emerges from the following extract (paragraph 47 at page 673): “47. As mentioned earlier, the object of the immunity conferred under Article 105(2) is to ensure the independence of the individual legislators. Such independence is necessary for healthy functioning of the system of parliamentary democracy adopted in the Constitution. Parliamentary democracy is a part of the basic structure of the Constitution. An interpretation of the provisions of Article 105(2) which would enable a Member of Parliament to claim immunity from prosecution in a criminal court for an off ence of bribery in connection with anything said by him or a vote given by him in Parliament or any committee thereof and thereby place such Members above the law would not only be repugnant to healthy functioning of parliamentary democracy but would also be subversive of the rule of law which is SITA SOREN v. UNION OF INDIA 761 also an essential part of the basic structure of the Constitution. It is settled law that in interpreting the constitutional provisions the court should adopt a construction which strengthens the foundational features and the basic structure of the Constitution. (See: Sub-Committee on Judicial Accountability v. Union of India [(1991) 4 SCC 699] SCC at p. 719.) The expression “in respect of” precedes the words “anything said or any vote given” in Article 105(2). The words “anything said or any vote given” can only mean speech that has already been made or a vote that has already been given.