142-Emp. dated 1st November, 2007 it was clarified that Notification No. 97-Emp. was only restricted to State Government employees, and in so far as other establishments are concerned, they would have to formulate their own policies having regard to the principles C applicable to the State Government Employees. That in the absence of a policy formulated specially for municipal employees, compassionate appointment could have been granted on the strength of Circular Nos. 301-Emp., 302-Emp. and 303-Emp. 5.3. It was averred that since delay in acting upon the application D of the Respondent-Writ Petitioners was attributable only to the appellant’s authorities, therefore, the Respondents ought not to be prejudiced on account of such delay. That the Respondents-Writ Petitioners diligently pursued the matter with the authorities, as also before the High Court of Calcutta. E With the aforesaid submissions it was prayed on behalf of the Respondents-Writ Petitioners that the present appeals be dismissed as being devoid of merit and the impugned be affirmed. Points for Consideration: 6. The following points would arise for consideration: F i.Whether the Division Bench of the High Court of Calcutta erred in allowing the appeals filed by the Respondents-Writ Petitioners and directing that their claims for compassionate appointment be considered by the Appellant? G ii.What ? 6.1. These appeals primarily concern the question whether there exists any scheme in the State of West Bengal, governing compassionate appointment governing municipal employees dying in harness. In the event that the aforesaid question is answered in the affirmative, it would H be necessary to determine whether a direction issued several years after THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL v. DEBABRATA TIWARI & 627 ORS. ETC. ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] applications for compassionate appointment are filled, to consider and A decide such applications, is in consonance with the object of a policy/ scheme for compassionate appointment. Policy of Compassionate Appointment: The Rationale: 7. The majesty of death is that it is a great leveller for, it makes no B distinction between the young and the old or the rich and the poor. Death being as a consequence of birth at some point of time is inevitable for every being. Thus, while death is certain, its timing is uncertain. Further, a deceased employee does not always leave behind valuable assets; he may at times leave behind poverty to be faced by the immediate members of his family. Therefore, what should be done to ensure that death of an C individual does not mean economic death for his family? The State’s obligation in this regard, confined to its employees who die in harness, has given rise to schemes and rules providing for compassionate appointment of an eligible member of his family as an instance of providing immediate succour to such a family. Support for such a provision has D been derived from the provisions of Part IV of the Constitution of India, i.e., Article 39 of the Directive Principles of State Policy. 7.1. It may be apposite to refer to the following decisions of this Court, on the rationale behind a policy or scheme for compassionate appointment and the considerations that ought to guide determination of E claims for compassionate appointment.