Comp.-Vol. VI, Comp.-Vol. VI, Common VI, pdf pg.94) pdf pg.93) pdf pg.93) Comp.-Vol. VI, pdf pg.93) 31. Learned counsel argued that the assessees are entitled to the benefi t of the lower tax rate of 5% provided for in the DTAAs between India and Lithuania, Slovenia, and Colombia respectively, by relying on the MFN clause in the treaty/protocol to the India-Netherlands, India-Switzerland and India-France DTAAs in terms of which after the signing of the DTAA with these countries (and other protocols), if India entered into a DTAA 116 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. with an OECD member where India has agreed for a rate of tax on dividend lower than the rate provided for in each of the DTAAs with Netherlands, Switzerland and France respectively, such lower rate also applies to those DTAAs. It is urged that the MFN clauses in the three DTAAs and their protocols clearly oblige Indian revenue offi cers to grant the benefi t that is given to countries which subsequently entered into DTAAs with India, and were given favourable benefi ts, upon their entry into OECD. 32. On the OECD membership issue, it was argued that the revenue’s only reason in the denying the applicability of the lower rate of withholding tax at 5% - which was challenged by the assessee in the relevant impugned decision, was that the benefi t of the MFN clause cannot be given as Lithuania, Columbia, etc, were not OECD members at the time of signing of the India-Netherlands DTAA. OECD membership requirement for the third country at the time of signing of its own DTAA was not the reason given for rejection in the impugned before the High Court. 33. Counsel submitted that the word “is” appearing in Article 10(1) of the India-Netherlands DTAA is in fact a complete answer to the revenue’s objection that Slovenia/Lithuania/Columbia ought to be members of OECD both at the time of signing of the India-Netherlands DTAA or at the time of execution of their own DTAA, and also at the time claim for lowering withholding by the assessee is made. Hence, the revenue is alluding that “is a member of OECD” appearing in the MFN clause means membership of OECD is a continuous requirement. Thus, if the argument, of the revenue that the phrase “is a member of OECD” is literally interpreted, it would mean Slovenia, Lithuania, and Columbia ought to be members of the OECD at the time of signing of India-Netherlands DTAA, at the time of execution of their own DTAA, and also the time when the assessee invokes the MFN clause is to be accepted; then, the consequence would be that while interpreting Article 10(1) of India-Netherlands DTAA which also uses the same word “is” (“is a resident”) the same meaning ought to be given. However, it is undisputed that while claiming the benefi t of Article 10, the assessee needs to be a resident of India/Netherlands only for the year in which the benefi t of Article 10 is sought by an assessee.