17.2. It has been strenuously argued that the very convening ofthe meeting of General Council, to be held on 11.07.2022, had been illegal B andnonest; the said meeting remains unauthorised; and no resolution taken therein could be said to be permissible in lawfor two main reasons. First that, from a reading of the Rules 19(vii) and 20-A(viii), it is but clear that the authority to convene the General Council meeting is vested only with the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator, acting jointly. C Therefore, the Presidium Chairman neither had the power to make any announcement on 23.06.2022 about convening of the General Council meeting on 11.07.2022 nor he could have convened any such meeting. Further, the written notice dated 01.07.2022, not signed by OPS and sent to the General Council members by an unspecified body (Head Quarters’ Office Bearers) to call for the meeting on 11.07.2022, is voidfor D having been issued by the persons without having authority to do so under the byelaws of the party. It has also been submitted that in regard to such questions arising in the past, the High Court has held in the case of S. Thirunavukkarasu (supra), that the scheme of byelaws does not envisage the requisitionists to convene the General Council meeting; E and if the General Secretary does not act on the requisition with sufficient dispatch, the only option in such a scenario is to approach the Court. On the same principles and analogy, if at all the Co-ordinator and the Joint Co-ordinator would fail to convene the meeting, the only option is to seek intervention of the Court but a meeting cannot be convened by the persons not authorised to do so. F Secondly, the notice dated 01.07.2022 did not comply with the requirement of 15 days period as stipulated under Rule 19(vii) of the byelaws of the party; and there is a long-standing practice of AIADMK party to issue written invitations to the members of the General Council for the meetings. It is further submitted that the announcement made by G the Presidium Chairman at the meeting was lacking in material particulars such as venue, etc. which is contrary to settled principles of law as laid out in the authoritative book “Shackleton on the Law and Practice of Meetings”7. H 7 Edited by Madeleine Cordes, John Pugh-Smith, 13th ed., Thomson Reuters at p. 41. THIRU K. PALANISWAMY v. M. SHANMUGAM & ORS. 1161 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] 17.3. Learned counsel for the appellants have further contended A that the balance of convenience in the present matters has been in favour of grant of injunction as prayed for. It is submitted that the so-called will of a purported majority in the General Council does not reflect the will of the entire primary membership of the party; and no data has been submitted by the respondents to suggest that the primary members of B the party want to revert to the regime of single leadership. It is further submitted that the issue of balance of convenience is to be considered in light of the nature of prima facie case set up by the plaintiffs in the suit; and not de hors such issue, as has been done by the Division Bench of the High Court in the impugned.