These provisions in the International Human Rights instruments are a necessary safeguard against the reality of arbitrary and inhumane deprivation of liberty and the inability of those thus deprived to benefi t from legal resources and constitutional guarantees that they are entitled to for the conduct of their defence as required by law in any judicial system and by application of international human rights standards. 570 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 20. Comparative legal study on law of criminal procedure presents India as an exemplar with respect to the provision for pre-arrest bail. It would be useful to consider how other jurisdictions have dealt with the issue of pre-arrest bail as under: (a) Possibly, the only known case of an application for a pre-arrest bail bond in the United States of America is In re: Sturman, 1984.604 F. Supp. 278. (F. E. Devine (1990) Anticipatory Bail: An Indian Civil Liberties Innovation, International Journal of Comparative and Applied Criminal Justice, 14:1-2, 107-114). The U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio presumed that the applicant’s motion was made to spare himself of the embarrassment of arrest. In denying the motion as premature, the Chief District Judge commented that the “setting of a bail bond is to insure the accused’s presence at trial; it is not designed as a means to avoid arrest.” (b) In the United Kingdom, the common law of arrest was codifi ed in Section 2 of the Criminal Law Act, 1967. The salient facets of Section 2 are that for an arrest to be lawful, the off ence must be one carrying a penalty of fi ve years imprisonment (an “arrestable off ence”); and there must, at the minimum, be suspicion on reasonable grounds that the person to be arrested either has committed, is committing or is about to commit the off ence. It may be wielded as a tool to prevent the destruction of evidence, interference with witnesses or warning accomplices who have yet to be arrested. When there is reason to suspect an off ence may be repeated, especially though not exclusively in the case of violent off ences, it may be used to prevent such repetition. (c) The United Kingdom’s Royal Commission Report on Criminal Procedure (Philips Commission)(1981) - cited affi rmatively by this Court in Joginder Kumar vs. State of U.P., (1994) 4 SCC 260, para 17-19 - proposed to restrict the circumstances in which the police could exercise the power of arrest with warrant to deprive a person of his liberty to those in which it would genuinely be necessary to enable them to execute their duties of preventing the commission of off ences, investigating crime, and PRIYA INDORIA v. STATE OF KARNATAKA AND ORS. 571 ETC. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] bringing suspected off enders before the Courts; and to simplify, clarify and rationalise the existing statutory powers of arrest, confi rming the present rationale for the use of those powers. It stated as follows: “In attempting to limit the power of arrest, we have no intention of inhibiting the police from fulfi lling their functions of detecting and preventing crime.