It does not appear that the larger plea that the income is totally exempt on the principle of mutuality, was decided in favour of the assessee. In the appeals fi led by the Revenue, the only question that may probably arise is, whether income received from the property let out and interest by way of FDRs, NSC etc. can be brought to tax under the head “income from property”. Since the issue raised in this batch of seven cases is not similar to or same as the one involved in the other cases coming under Groups A to D, we do not propose to deal either with the facts or the decisions rendered by the authorities in this batch of cases (Group E). All that we propose to do is to de-link the cases coming under Group E and direct them to be posted separately for hearing and disposal before an appropriate Bench. (emphasis by us) b) Cawnpore Club: Subsequent to de-linking of Group E cases in respect of Cawnpore Club, the dated 05.02.1998 passed in those batch of appeals which formed Group E cases reads as under: “IN THE SUPREME COURT OF INDIA Civil Appeal Nos. 4777-78 of 1989,4534 of 1991,1773 of 1992,4303 of 1995, 3840 of 1996 and 8046 of 1995 5 February 1998 Decided On: 05.02.1998 SECUNDRABAD CLUB ETC. v. C.I.T.-V ETC. 989 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Appellants: Commissioner of Income Tax Vs. Respondent: Cawnpore Club Ltd. In the Supreme Court of India B.K Kirpal & S.P. Kurdukar, JJ. 1. One of the questions which the High Court had decided in other cases relating to the same assessee was that the doctrine of mutuality applied and, therefore, the income earned by the assessee from the rooms let out to its members could not be subjected to tax. No appeal had been fi led against the said decision and the matters stood concluded as far as the assessee was concerned. This being so, no useful purpose would be served in proceeding with the appeals on the other questions when the respondent cannot be taxed because of the principle of mutuality. 2. The appeals were accordingly dismissed. No as to costs.” (emphasis by us) The aforesaid was passed by a two-Judge Bench of this Court on 05.02.1998. c) Bangalore Club: Thereafter, the decision in the case of Bangalore Club was rendered by another two Judge Bench on 14.01.2013. In Bangalore Club, the question was, whether, for the relevant assessment years, the said Club rightly sought an exemption from payment of income tax on the interest earned on the fi xed deposits kept with certain banks, which were corporate members of the said club, on the basis of doctrine of mutuality. However, tax was paid on the interest earned on fi xed deposits kept with non-member banks. In the said case, surplus amounts of the said Club were deposited in four banks which were members of the said Club. The question that arose was, whether, the principle of mutuality would apply to the funds deposited in the said four banks.