The Decision of the Arbitral Tribunal: The Arbitral Tribunal interpreted the contract and construed Clause 5.1.2 of the contract as limited to taxes that could be raised by the Respondent-Contractor directly on the Appellant, as opposed to taxes that formed part of the materials quoted in the ‘Schedule of Items of Rates - Bill of Quantities’. For this, the Arbitral Tribunal also relied on Clause 11.7 of the Contract. The Arbitral Tribunal was of the view that Entry Taxes on earth-moving equipment formed part of the cost of the works quoted in the Bill of Quantities. For this reason, the Arbitral Tribunal came to the conclusion that the increased liability on account of imposition of Entry Tax could not be reimbursed under Clause 5.1.2, as recoupment for the same could only be governed by the Price Variation clauses (clause 7.1.1 and 7.1.2 in Chapter 7). 8.1 Interpreting the Price Variation clauses, the Arbitral Tribunal noted that the contract only provided for generic price variation based on KONKAN RAILWAY CORP. LTD v. CHENAB BRIDGE PROJECT 221 UNDERTAKING [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] a standardised formula. It also found that Clause 7.1.2 specifi cally barred cognizance of “any sort of fl uctuations in taxes and other market conditions for any individual item for the purpose of making adjustments in payments”. Accordingly, the Arbitral Tribunal held that the claim for recouping increased tax liability for individual or specifi c items, in this case, the imposition of entry tax, could not be reimbursed under Clauses 7.1.1 and 7.1.2. 8.2 The Tribunal reasoned that the contractor was aware of these conditions at the time when the prices were quoted, and therefore, the claim could not succeed under Price Variation clauses. 8.3 As regards the claim for Toll Tax which formed part of Dispute IV, the Tribunal adopted the same interpretation of the contractual clauses and rejected the claim. 9. Decision of the High Court under Section 34 of the Act: The Respondent’s challenge to the Arbitral Award under Section 34 of the Act was considered and dismissed by the Single Judge of the High Court by its dated 17.01.2019. The High Court concluded that there were two possible views with respect to the construction of relevant clauses of the contract. However, as the Arbitral Tribunal adopted one interpretation and since it was a reasonable interpretation, the Single Judge of the High Court held that there was no justifi cation for exercising jurisdiction under Section 34 of the Act to interfere with the fi ndings of the Arbitral Tribunal. 10. Decision of the Division Bench under Section 37 of the Act: The Division Bench of the High Court, while considering the appeal under Section 37 of the Act, proceeded to reinterpret the contractual clauses and arrived at a distinct conclusion. The Division Bench rejected the Arbitral Tribunal’s and the Single Judge’s interpretation of Clause 5.1.2 of the contract and came to the conclusion that the said clause will also include indirect taxes such as service tax, GST, Works Contract Tax, etc.