The emphasis on recording reasons is that if the decision reveals the “inscrutable face of the sphinx”, it can, by its silence, render it virtually impossible for the courts to perform their appellate function or exercise the power of judicial review in adjudging the validity of the decision. Right to reason is an indispensable part of a sound judicial system; reasons at least suffi cient to indicate an application of mind to the matter before court. Another rationale is that the aff ected party can know why the decision has gone against him. One of the salutary requirements of natural justice is spelling out reasons for the made; in other words, a speaking-out. The “inscrutable face of the sphinx” is ordinarily incongruous with a judicial or quasi-judicial performance.” 32. Again, in East Coast Railway versus Mahadev Appa Rao4, this Court observed that arbitrariness in the making of an by an authority can manifest itself in diff erent forms. Non-application of mind by the authority making the is only one of them. Application of mind is best demonstrated by disclosure of mind by the authority making the and disclosure is best done by recording the reasons that led the authority to pass the in question. Absence of reasons either in the passed by the authority or in the record contemporaneously maintained is clearly suggestive of the being arbitrary, hence legally unsustainable. The above observations of this Court fi nd place in paragraph No.23 which is extracted hereinunder: 23. Arbitrariness in the making of an by an authority can manifest itself in diff erent forms. Non-application of mind by the authority making the is only one of them. Every passed by a public authority must disclose due and proper application of mind by the 4 (2010) 7 SCC 678 890 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. person making the . This may be evident from the itself or the record contemporaneously maintained. Application of mind is best demonstrated by disclosure of mind by the authority making the . And disclosure is best done by recording the reasons that led the authority to pass the in question. Absence of reasons either in the passed by the authority or in the record contemporaneously maintained is clearly suggestive of the being arbitrary hence legally unsustainable. 33. This position has been reiterated by this Court in Kranti Associates (P) Ltd. Versus Masood Ahmed Khan5, wherein this Court emphasized that an passed by a quasi-judicial authority or even an administrative authority aff ecting the rights of parties, must be a speaking . In other words, the must speak for itself. This Court held as follows: - 12.The necessity of giving reason by a body or authority in support of its decision came up for consideration before this Court in several cases. Initially this Court recognised a sort of demarcation between administrative s and quasi-judicial s but with the passage of time the distinction between the two got blurred and thinned out and virtually reached a vanishing point in the of this Court in A.K.