91. The only justifi cation for entertaining the Writ Petition is contained in paragraphs 11 and 14 respectively of the Impugned . Whilst the High Court has accepted that normally, such a Writ Petition would not be maintainable, it proceeded to entertain the same because of the “peculiar facts and circumstances of the present case”, “it would be in the interest of all concerned if the consensus reached between the Respondent Bank and the Petitioners is taken cognizance of by us.” Thereafter, it went on to say that the “arrangement referred to above is in the interest of all, including the Auction Purchaser”. A perusal of paragraph 14 would indicate that since the outcome which the High Court considered to be ideal could be achieved, it did not hold the Writ Petition to be an abuse of process. 92. This Court has time and again, reminded the High Courts that they should not entertain petition under Article 226 of the Constitution if an eff ective remedy is available to the aggrieved person under the provisions of the SARFAESI Act. This Court in Satyawati Tondon (supra) made the following observations: 142 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. “43. Unfortunately, the High Court overlooked the settled law that the High Court will ordinarily not entertain a petition under Article 226 of the Constitution if an eff ective remedy is available to the aggrieved person and that this rule applies with greater rigour in matters involving recovery of taxes, cess, fees, other types of public money and the dues of banks and other fi nancial institutions. In our view, while dealing with the petitions involving challenge to the action taken for recovery of the public dues, etc. the High Court must keep in mind that the legislations enacted by Parliament and State Legislatures for recovery of such dues are a code unto themselves inasmuch as they not only contain comprehensive procedure for recovery of the dues but also envisage constitution of quasi-judicial bodies for redressal of the grievance of any aggrieved person. Therefore, in all such cases, the High Court must insist that before availing remedy under Article 226 of the Constitution, a person must exhaust the remedies available under the relevant statute. 44. While expressing the aforesaid view, we are conscious that the powers conferred upon the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution to issue to any person or authority, including in appropriate cases, any Government, directions, s or writs including the fi ve prerogative writs for the enforcement of any of the rights conferred by Part III or for any other purpose are very wide and there is no express limitation on exercise of that power but, at the same time, we cannot be oblivious of the rules of self-imposed restraint evolved by this Court, which every High Court is bound to keep in view while exercising power under Article 226 of the Constitution. 45. It is true that the rule of exhaustion of alternative remedy is a rule of discretion and not one of compulsion, but it is diffi cult to fathom any reason why the High Court should entertain a petition fi led under Article 226 of the Constitution and pass interim ignoring the fact that the petitioner can avail eff ective alternative remedy by fi ling application, appeal, revision, etc.