MOSER BAER KARAMCHARI UNION THR. PRESIDENT MAHESH 95 CHAND SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA [M. R. SHAH, J.] It is also prayed that distribution of the workmen’s due as A envisaged under Section 53(1)(b)(i) of the IBC, be declared as unreasonable and violative of Article 14 of the Constitution of India, as Section 53(1)(b)(i) of the IBC limits the workmen’s dues payable to workmen to twenty-four months only preceding the date of of Liquidation and then rank the said workmen’s dues equally with the B secured creditors in the events such secured creditors has relinquished security in the manner set out in Section 52 of the IBC. It is further prayed that settlement of Workmen Dues should be done in accordance with the reasonable principles laid down under Section 326 even in the event of liquidation under the IBC. C 2. Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Advocate has appeared as Amicus Curiae. Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned Senior Advocate, has appeared on behalf of the petitioner(s). Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG has appeared on behalf of the respondent-Union of India. 3. Shri K.V. Viswanathan, learned Senior Advocate has first of D all taken us to the legislative history of the Companies Act and the Preferential Payments and also the framing of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. 3.1 It is submitted that the Companies Act, 1956, as it existed prior to the Companies (Amendment) Act, 1985, did not provide for any E “overriding preferential payments” to any party. It is submitted that in 1985, the Companies (Amendment) Bill, 1985 sought to introduce the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 529, definition of “workmen”, “workmen’s dues” and “workmen’s portion” through insertion of Section 529(3) and the “overriding preferential payments” through Section 529- A. F 3.2 It is submitted that the Statement of Objects and Reasons for bringing these changes into effect was to ensure that the resources of the company are distributed even to workers whose labour and effort form a part of the capital of the Company. Resultantly, through Companies (Amendment) Act, 1985, the idea of “workmen’s portion” and the G “overriding preferential payments” were introduced and crystallised in the Companies Act, 1956. 3.3 It is submitted that a cumulative reading of Section 529 and Section 529-A of the Companies Act, 1956 indicates that firstly, the security of every secured creditor is deemed to be subject to a pari H 96 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A passu charge in favour of the appellant - workmen, to the extent of the workmen’s portion. Secondly, when the secured creditor opts to realise his security, so much of the debt due to such secured creditor as could not be realised by him by virtue of the proviso or the amount of workmen’s portion in his security, whichever is less, will rank pari passu with the workmen’s dues. Thirdly, the workmen’s dues and debts of secured B creditor as described in Section 529(1) Proviso (c) get overriding preferential payment and rank pari passu. These debts are payable in full, unless the assets are insufficient to meet them, in which case they shall abate in equal proportions.