The fact that a notification issued under Section 25(1) of the Customs Act, 1962 is required to be laid before Parliament under Section 159 thereof does not make any substantial difference as regards the jurisdiction of the Court to pronounce on its validity.” F The court later also said that: “19. Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 under which the notifications are issued confers a power on the Central Government coupled with a duty to examine the whole issue in the light of the public interest. It provides that if the Central G Government is satisfied that it is necessary in the public interest so to do it may exempt generally either absolutely or subject to such conditions goods of any description from the whole or any part of the customs duty leviable thereon. The Central Government may if it is satisfied that in the public interest so to do exempt from the payment of duty by a special in H each case under circumstances of an exceptional nature to UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. A. B. P. PVT. LTD. & ANR. 1125 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] be stated in such any goods on which duty is leviable. A The power exercisable under Section 25 of the Customs Act, 1962 is no doubt discretionary but it is not unrestricted.” 21. The court, however, did not strike down the withdrawal notification, but recorded that the government failed to consider the impact of the withdrawal, on newspaper publishers, and how that would affect B the exercise of freedom of speech. Therefore, the court required the executive to review the matter, after considering all relevant factors. In Dai-Ichi Karkaria (supra), a customs notification which reduced exemption from 75% to 25% for a particular period (30-12-1986 to 10- 9-1987) was held unjustified because the executive had “not taken into account all the relevant factors while issuing the impugned C notifications reducing the exemption to 25% for the aforesaid period” and “failed to discharge its statutory obligation while issuing the impugned notifications. Justifications offered, to say the least, is far too naive to be accepted.” 22. In Kasinka (supra), the court again described the power under D Section 25 of the Act, and the legitimacy of exercise of grant or withdrawal of exemption and observed that: “[..] The withdrawal of exemption “in public interest” is a matter of policy and the courts would not bind the Government to its policy decisions for all times to come, irrespective of the E satisfaction of the Government that a change in the policy was necessary in the “public interest”. The courts, do not interfere with the fiscal policy where the Government acts in “public interest” and neither any fraud or lack of bona fides is alleged much less established. The Government has to be left free to determine the priorities in the matter of utilisation F of finances and to act in the public interest while issuing or modifying or withdrawing an exemption notification under Section 25(1) of the Act.