However, the plaintiff challenged the sale made in favour of the first defendant, inter-alia, on the ground that the second defendant could not have executed a sale deed in the absence of the original power of attorney and the sub-registrar was required to verify this aspect from the second defendant. It was contended that the sale deed executed C without producing the power of attorney was without authority as the plaintiff No.2 was not competent to transfer the possession in the absence of the original power of attorney. The suit was dismissed by the Trial Court and the First Appellate Court. The High Court in Second Appeal reversed the decision of the Trial Court and First Appellate Court and D decreed the suit in favour of the plaintiff. In doing so, the High Court noted that it was unclear from the endorsement on the sale deed as to by whom the plaintiff No.2 was identified to be the power of attorney. This Court in a Civil Appeal challenging the decision of the High Court, set aside the same and held that a power of attorney holder, while executing a sale deed, need not produce the original document conferring power E of attorney. That a sale would not be liable to be disturbed solely on the ground that the power of attorney forming the basis of such sale was not produced before the Sub-Registrar at the time of registration. On examining the scheme of Sections 32-34 of the Registration Act, the following observations were made: F “19.The argument of the plaintiff that for a proper and legal presentation of a document, the first defendant was obliged to produce the original power of attorney, does not appear to be sound. 20. In other words, when a person empowers another to execute a document and the power of attorney, acting on the power, G executes the document, the power of attorney holder can present the document for registration under Section 32(a). Section 32(a) of the Registration Act deals with the person executing a document and also the person claiming under the same. It also provides for persons claiming under a decree or an being entitled to H 182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A present a document. Section 32(b) speaks about the representative or assignee of ‘such a person’. The word such a person in Section 32(b) is intended to refer to the persons covered by Section 32(a). Finally, Section 32(c) provides for the agent of ‘such a person’ which necessarily means the persons who are encompassed by Section 32(a). Besides agent of the person covered by Section B 32(a), Section 32(c) also takes in the agent of the representative or assignee. Now the words representative or assignee are to be found in Section 32(b). Thus, Section 32(c) deals with agents of the persons covered by Section 32(a) and agents of the representative or assignee falling under Section 32(b). It is in C respect of such an agent that there must be due authorisation by a power of attorney, which in turn, is to be executed and authenticated in the manner provided for in Section 33.