They could continue to pursue their remedies before the OAT when it was first established, instead of before the Orissa High Court. 51. The Union Government was not acting in a judicial capacity when it set up the OAT. On the establishment of the OAT, pending E cases before the High Court were transferred to the OAT. Indeed, the decision to establish an SAT is based on policy and expediency. It is up to each State Government to evaluate the need for an SAT within their state, to consider the advantages and disadvantages as well as the financial, administrative, and other practical aspects of establishing an SAT. The Union Government may then establish the SAT upon receiving F a request, in terms of Section 4(2) of the Administrative Tribunals Act. The decision to establish an SAT is undoubtedly an administrative decision. Administrative decisions, unlike quasi-judicial decisions, may be reversed by the application of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act. The applicability of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act does not stand G excluded in the present case. 52. The appellants’ reliance on Industrial Infrastructure Development Corpn. (Gwalior) M.P. Ltd. v. CIT19 is misplaced for similar reasons. In that case, Section 21 of the General Clauses Act was 19 (2018) 4 SCC 494 H ORISSA ADMINISTRATIVE TRIBUNAL BAR ASSOCIATION v. 775 UNION OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] found to be inapplicable to the because it was a quasi-judicial A . For the reasons discussed above, the establishing the OAT is an administrative . 53. We clarify that the distinction between quasi-judicial and administrative decisions has been invoked for the purpose of determining whether Section 21 of the General Clauses Act may be invoked to reverse B the decision to establish an SAT. Administrative s continue to be amenable to judicial review in accordance with law. b. Section 21 of the General Clauses Act is otherwise appli- cable to the Administrative Tribunals Act C 54. Having decided that there is no threshold bar to the applicabil- ity of Section 21 of the General Clauses Act, we now consider whether it applies in the present case. The locus classicus on this subject is State of Bihar v. D N Ganguly20, where this Court held: “9. … It is well settled that this section embodies a rule of construction and the question whether or not it applies to the D provisions of a particular statute would depend on the subject- matter, context, and, the effect, of the relevant provisions of the said statute. In other words, it would be necessary to examine carefully the scheme of the Act, its object and all its relevant and material provisions before deciding whether by the application of E the rule of construction enunciated by Section 21, the appellant’s contention is justified that the power to cancel the reference made under Section 10(1) can be said to vest in the appropriate government by necessary implication. If we come to the conclusion that the context and effect of the relevant provisions is repugnant to the application of the said rule of construction, the appellant F would not be entitled to invoke the assistance of the said section.