F 3. The Tribunal, while allowing the appeal by the respondent, set aside an dated 22 March 2022 of the Whole Time Member4 under Section 15HA of the SEBI Act by which a penalty of Rs Ten lakhs was imposed on the respondent for violating of Sections 68 and 77A of the Companies Act 1956 and Regulations 3(a), (b), (c), (d), 4(1), 4(2)(f), (k) G and (r) of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Prohibition of Fraudulent and Unfair Trade Practices relating to the Securities Market) 1 “SEBI” 2 “SEBI Act” 3 “Tribunal” H 4 “WTM” SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE BOARD OF INDIA v. 421 V SHANKAR [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] Regulations 20035 read with Sections 12A (a), (b) and (c) of the SEBI A Act. 4. The respondent was a Company Secretary of Deccan Chronicle Holdings Limited6 for two years, 2009-10 and 2010-11. 5. On 3 August 2017, a notice to show cause was issued by the B WTM of SEBI to DCHL, its Chairperson, Vice-chairperson and the respondent to show cause as to why an enquiry should not be held against them, followed by the imposition of a penalty. The respondent participated in the enquiry. The WTM proceeded to hold the respondent liable on the ground that he was a Company Secretary during the Financial Year 2010-11 when a buyback offer worth Rupees 270 crores was made by C the company in violation of regulatory provisions. 6. The WTM found that the respondent had ascribed his signatures on the public announcement for buyback in his capacity as a Company Secretary. The finding against the respondent was that as a ‘statutory official’ of the company, he should have exercised due diligence and D checked the veracity of the buyback offer documents and legal compliance before authenticating them and signing the public announcement which was found to have violated the provisions of the Companies Act 1956. The WTM held the respondent liable for the conduct of the company in connection with the buyback of its equity shares without adequate free E reserves which was found to have misled the investors/shareholders. The respondent was held liable for violating the provisions of Sections 68 and 77A of the Companies Act 1956 and of the provisions of the PFUTP Regulations together with cognate provisions of the SEBI Act. 7. In appeal, the of the WTM has been set aside by the Tribunal on 1 November 2022. The findings which have been arrived at F by the Tribunal are encapsulated in paragraphs 14 and 15 of the impugned . The Tribunal has, during the course of its decision held that once the offer and the balance sheet were approved by the Board of Directors, the duty of the Company Secretary was “only to authenticate the contents indicated in the balance sheet and in the offer document”. In other words, G according to the Tribunal, the respondent was not required to enquire into the veracity of the buyback offer documents. In coming to the conclusion that the obligation to comply was essentially placed on the 5 “PFUTP Regulations” 6 “DCHL” H 422 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R.