15. XXII Rule 5 of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013 reads as under:- “5. Where the petitioner has been sentenced to a term of imprisonment, the petition of appeal shall state whether the petitioner has surrendered and if he has surrendered then the petitioner shall, by way of proof of such surrender, fi le the certifi ed copy of the of the Court in which he has surrendered or a certifi cate of the competent offi cer of the Jail in which he is undergoing the sentence. A mere attestation of SANJIT SAHA & ANR. v. THE STATE OF WEST BENGAL 93 the signatures on the Vakalatnama from the jail authorities shall not be considered as suffi cient proof of surrender. Where the petitioner has not surrendered to the sentence, the petition of appeal shall not be accepted by the Registry unless it is accompanied by an application for seeking exemption from surrendering. Where the petition of appeal is accompanied by an application for exemption from surrendering, that application alone shall be posted for hearing/s before the Court in the fi rst instance.” As is clear from the above that ordinary rule is that a convict has to surrender to the sentence before fi ling the Special Leave Petition unless an application for exemption from surrendering is fi led. 16. Under V Rule 2(35), the Judge In-chambers has the power to exempt from surrendering or to refuse exemption. In the event of refusal of exemption and in the event of not surrendering, the matter is placed before the Chamber Judge for non-prosecution. V Rule 2(35) reads as under: V BUSINESS IN CHAMBERS 2.The powers of the Court in relation to the following matters may be exercised by a Single Judge sitting in Chambers, “35. Application for exemption from surrendering, provided that not more than one opportunity be granted for surrendering. In case of refusal and/or if accused do(es) not surrender, the matter be placed before the Hon’ble Judge in Chambers for non-prosecution.” 17. The legal position is when a Judge In-Chamber grants time to surrender, at the next hearing, the Judge has to be informed as to whether the convict has surrendered or not. If exemption from surrendering is refused and the accused does not surrender, the matter should be placed for non-prosecution. The Judge In-Chambers should be posted with the clear information as to whether the accused has surrendered or not surrendered after refusal of exemption. The problem has arisen in this case due to a communication gap. I feel urgent steps need to be taken so that these eventualities do not occur again. 94 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 18. Guidelines are necessary as to the further course of action, in cases where after refusal of exemption from surrendering, the information is not forthcoming to the Court. Information may not be forthcoming for myriad reasons - counsel’s non-appearance, counsel’s death or for any other reason. 19. In the present case, both the petitioners had surrendered within the time granted by this Court but however there was no communication forthcoming on or before 24.02.2020, when the matter was listed in Chambers.