Further, by now at least 73 posts under Post Code 447 have fallen vacant, either due to resignation by the appointed candidates or otherwise, while there are only 29 SLP petitioners 29 (1991) 3 SCC 47 856 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. waiting for their chances. It is thus prayed on behalf of these appellants that they be considered for appointment. 42. Before we proceed to notice the response to the above contentions, it may be noted that, though in SLP (C) No. 4321 of 2022 all such candidates whose qualifi cation has been challenged are impleaded, as per offi ce report dated 23.03.2023, notices were not served on them directly, rather it was served through Respondent no.1 (State of H.P.). Further, from the record it appears that O.A. No.5543 of 2017, out of which SLP (C) No.4321 of 2022 arises, was fi led by initially impleading only two selected candidates as would be clear from the date chart submitted by the SLP petitioners. Otherwise also, in O.A. No.5543 of 2017, it has not been specifi cally disclosed as to how those candidates were ineligible. Therefore, even if we assume that all those selected candidates were impleaded later, it is not clear, fi rstly, whether they were served with notice of the proceedings before the High Court or the Tribunal, and, secondly, whether any foundation was laid before the High Court or Tribunal to individually question their eligibility qualifi cation. 43. In the above backdrop, on behalf of the State– respondents it is contended that such appointments were made under the fi rst advertisement more than fi ve to six years ago. Such appointees have not only passed the written test but have also cleared computer typing test. They are Class III (Non-gazetted) employees who, by virtue of long experience, have not only gained adequate profi ciency in their job but are now placed in various departments of the State. Therefore, if their appointment is disturbed, it would paralyse the Govt. set up. Moreover, several of such candidates might have crossed maximum age limit for participating in a fresh recruitment exercise. It is, therefore, prayed by the respondents that their appointment(s) should not be disturbed in exercise of discretionary powers of this Court. 44. Upon consideration of the rival submissions and having regard to: (a) that appointments were made after taking written and computer typing test of the candidates; (b) that there is no specifi c allegation of nepotism or mala fi des in making such appointments; (c) that nature of the post does not require a high degree of technical skill; (d) the length of period during which the appointments have continued; and (e) that there is no clarity whether ANKITA THAKUR & ORS. v. THE H.P. STAFF SELECTION 857 COMMISSION & ORS. [MANOJ MISRA, J.] such appointees were duly served with notice of the proceeding before the High Court, or whether a specifi c challenge was laid to their eligibility individually, we are of the considered view that even if such appointments were made taking aid of the relaxation dated 21.08.2017, it would not be in the interest of justice to disturb those appointments made under the fi rst advertisement (Post Code 447).