80. In other words, when the arbitration agreement is not required to be compulsorily registered as referred to under Section 17 of the Act, 1908 the reference of a certified copy under the Scheme of Rules, 1996 appears to be of an authenticated copy of the arbitration agreement that E qualifies the requirement of Section 7 of the Act, 1996 at the pre-referral stage for the purposes of appointment of an Arbitrator under Section 11(6A) of the Act, 1996.Hence, the question of raising objection regarding the arbitration agreement not being stamped or insufficiently stamped at the pre-referral stage may not arise. F 81.Section 16 of the Act, 1996 is referred to as under:- “16. Competence of arbitral tribunal to rule on its jurisdiction.— (1) The arbitral tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including ruling on any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement, and for that purpose,— G (a) an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract; and (b) a decision by the arbitral tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not entail ipso jure the invalidity of the arbitration clause. H M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 415 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] (2) A plea that the arbitral tribunal does not have jurisdiction shall A be raised not later than the submission of the statement of defence; however, a party shall not be precluded from raising such a plea merely because that he has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator. (3) A plea that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its B authority shall be raised as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond the scope of its authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings. (4) The arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases referred to in sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), admit a later plea if it considers the delay justified. C (5) The arbitral tribunal shall decide on a plea referred to in sub- section (2) or sub-section (3) and, where the arbitral tribunal takes a decision rejecting the plea, continue with the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award. (6) A party aggrieved by such an arbitral award may make an D application for setting aside such an arbitral award in accordance with section 34.” 82. Section 16(1) of the Act, 1996envisaged that an Arbitral Tribunal can rule upon own jurisdiction, “including ruling on any objection with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement”. The E provision is based on the doctrine of Kompetenz- Kompetenz and the doctrine of Separability. The doctrine of Kompetenz-Kompetenz means that the Arbitral Tribunal is competent enough to rule on its own jurisdiction. At the same time, the Doctrine of Separability severs the arbitration clause from the commercial contract. Section 16(1)(a) F presupposes the existence of a clause of arbitration and mandates the same to be treated as independent to the other terms of the contract.