Bevelled cut incised wound 9 x 3 cm x skin cut in the left temporal region. F 4. Bruises 3 x 3 cm below the left nipple. 5. Bruises 3 x 2 cm over the 11th right rib in the interior axillary line.” She has stated that the dead-body was received at the hospital at G 1 PM on 13.06.1989 and the post-mortem was conducted at 11 AM on 14.06.1989. 10.7 PW-7 is the Investigating Officer who had submitted the charge-sheet. According to him, the investigation was conducted by Sub- Inspector Dhirendra Nath Saikia and after his transfer it was entrusted H 628 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A to him. He then states that out of thirteen, eight accused were charge- sheeted and five were reported to be absconders. He also states that he made several attempts to arrest the absconded accused but could not find any traces of them. He also stated that he made attempts to collect the injury report of Robi Phukan (PW2) at St. Look Hospital, Chabua and also at Medical College, Dibrugarh but could not find any records of B the injured person. He proves the charge-sheet bearing his signature as Ex.-4. He also states that the earlier Investigating Officer Dhirendra Saikia had collected the post-mortem report from the Medical College and had not done any investigation in the case. All the investigation, according to him, was carried out by Sub Inspector D. Gogoi who had C expired. In his cross-examination he has stated that the scribe of the FIR was Md. Majid Sikdar and that no evidence is recorded of the said scribe in the case diary. The witnesses Nareswari Phukan PW 1, Anjana Phukan PW 4 had not stated before the Investigating Officer about the assault made by Kuleswar and Dulen Phukan on the body of the deceased. D 11. The accused in their statements under Section 313 of the CrPC have not stated anything in particular, and have denied their involvement in the incident. No evidence is led in defence. 12. Having gone through the evidence not only which is available E on record of the appeal but also having seen the original record, our analysis of the same is as under: 13. The job of the prosecution is not to accept the complainant’s version as Gospel Truth and proceed in that direction but the investigation must be made in a fair and transparent manner and must ascertain the truth. The evidence collected during investigation should then be analysed F by the Investigating Officer and accordingly a report under Section 173(2) of the CrPCshould be submitted. Further, the duty of the Trial Court is to carefully scrutinise the evidence, try to find out the truth on the basis of evidence led.Wherever necessary the Trial Court may itself make further inquiry on its own with regard to facts and circumstances which may G create doubt in the minds of the Court during trial. If the investigation is unfair and tainted then it is the duty of the Trial Court to get the clarifications on all the aspects which may surface or may be reflected by the evidence so that it may arrive at a just and fair conclusion.