In eff ect, Rajesh Yadav was not even ‘accused of any off ence’ at the time he made a confession and allegedly helped the police fi nd the dead body. Similarly, Raja Yadav was not arrested by the time his confession was recorded and he was not ‘accused of any off ence’ when he allegedly helped the police in seizing his blood-stained clothes. In eff ect, they were not in the ‘custody of the police’ at that time. In that situation, the vital question that would arise is as to the legal sanctity of the procedure adopted by the police and, in consequence, the value to be attached to the seizures made by them on the strength of such so-called confessions. 22. Section 26 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (for brevity, ‘the Evidence Act’), provides that no confession made by any person whilst he is in the custody of a police offi cer shall be proved against such person, unless it is made in the immediate presence of a Magistrate. Section 27, thereafter, is in the nature of an exception to Section 26 of the Evidence Act. It states that, when any fact is deposed to as discovered in consequence of information received from a person accused of any off ence, in the custody of a police offi cer, so much of such information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, as relates distinctly to the fact thereby discovered, may be proved. Therefore, it is essential under Section 27 of the Evidence Act that the person concerned must be ‘accused of an off ence’ and being in the ‘custody of a police offi cer’, he or she must give information leading to the discovery of a fact and so much of that information, whether it amounts to a confession or not, that relates distinctly to the fact discovered, may be proved against him. In eff ect, both aspects, viz, being in ‘the custody of a police offi cer’ and being ‘accused of an off ence’, are indispensable pre- requisites to render a confession made to the police admissible to a limited extent, by bringing into play the exception postulated under Section 27 of the Evidence Act. 23. In this regard, reference may be made to Bodhraj alias Bodha and others vs. State of Jammu & Kashmir7, wherein this Court had observed that the requirement of ‘police custody’ is productive of extremely anomalous results and may lead to the exclusion of valuable evidence in cases where 7 (2002) 8 SCC 45 16 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. a person, after committing a crime meets a police offi cer and states the circumstances of the crime which lead to the discovery of the dead body, weapon or any other material fact, in consequence of the information thus received from him, and he is subsequently taken into custody and becomes an ‘accused’. This Court pointed out that this information, which would otherwise be admissible, becomes inadmissible under Section 26 of the Evidence Act as it did not come from a person in the ‘custody of a police offi cer’ or rather, came from a person not in the ‘custody of a police offi cer’.