In this scheme, the new levies were IGST and compensation cess. These were not part of the original Notification No. 18/2015, and necessitated its amendment. Since the entire GST universe, so to say, is dependent on a comprehensive input credit and refund system, the policy makers (which C in this case, were tax administrators and the DGFT) were of the opinion that since countervailing duty (CVD) and special additional duty (SAD), which were subsumed under the GST regime and the other levy (compensation cess), the previous regime of permitting AAs to govern import of duty free articles, as inputs, should continue, but that for the D new levies, the system of input credit, and refunds should prevail. 62. In this court’s opinion, the introduction of the ‘pre-import condition’ may have resulted in hardship to the exporters, because even whilst they fulfilled the physical export criteria, they could not continue with their former business practices of importing inputs, after applying E for AAs, to fulfil their overseas contractual obligations. The new dispensation required them to pay the two duties, and then claim refunds, after satisfying that the inputs had been utilized fully (wastage excluded) for producing the final export goods. The re-shaping of their businesses caused inconvenience to them. Yet, that cannot be a ground to hold that the insertion of the ‘pre-import condition’, was arbitrary, as the High F Court concluded. It was held, in Rohitash Kumar & Ors. v Om Prakash Sharma & Ors31 that inconvenience or hardship is not a ground for the court to interpret the plain language of the statute differently, to give relief. “In Mysore SEB v. Bangalore Woolen Cotton & Silk Mills G Ltd. AIR 1963 SC 1128 a Constitution Bench of this Court held that, “inconvenience is not” a decisive factor to be considered while interpreting a statute. In Martin Burn Ltd. V. Corpn. Of Calcutta AIR 1966 SC 529, this Court, while 31 (2013) 11 SCC 451. H UNION OF INDIA AND ORS. v. COSMO FILMS LIMITED 221 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] dealing with the same issue observed as under: (AIR p. 535, A para 14) “14. . A result flowing from a statutory provision is never an evil. A Court has no power to ignore that provision to relieve what is considers a distress resulting from its operation. A statute must of course be given effect to whether a court likes B the result or not.” 26. Therefore, it is evident that the hardship caused to an individual, cannot be a ground for not giving effective and grammatical meaning to every word of the provision, if the language used therein is unequivocal.” C Again, in State of Madhya Pradesh v Rakesh Kohli32 it was observed that the court is not concerned with the wisdom or unwisdom, the justice or injustice of the law as Parliament and State Legislatures and that “hardship is not relevant in pronouncing on the constitutional validity of a fiscal statute or economic law.” D 63. The respondents had relied on some decisions, notably Laxmi Khandsari (supra) which dealt with the general theory of reasonableness; the court observed that imposition of reasonable restrictions and its extent would depend upon the object which the law or policy seeks to serve.