It can cause not only confusion in the mind of the child but a quest to find out who the real father is and a mixed feeling towards E a person who may have nurtured the child but is not the biological father. Not knowing who one’s father is creates a mental trauma in a child. One can imagine, if, after coming to know the identity of the biological father what greater trauma and stress would impact on a young mind. Proceedings which are in rem have a real impact on not only the child but also on the relationship between the mother and the child itself which F is otherwise sublime. It has been said that parents of a child may have an illegitimate relationship but a child born out of such a relationship cannot carry the stamp of illegitimacy on its forehead, as, such a child has no role to play in its birth. An innocent child cannot be traumatised and subjected to extreme stress and tension in to discover its paternity. That is why Section 112 of the Evidence Act speaks about a G conclusive presumption regarding the paternity of a child, subject to a rebuttal, as provided in the second part of the Section. In today’s world, there can even be a race to claim paternity of a child so as to invade upon its rights, particularly, if such a child is endowed H 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A with property and wealth. There could also be exclusions in a testament doubting the paternity of a child or an evasion in performance of parental obligations such as payment of maintenance or living and educational expenses by simply doubting the paternity of a child. In many cases, this would cast a doubt on the chastity of the B mother of a child when no such doubt could arise. As a result, the reputation and dignity of a mother of a child would be jeopardised in society. What is of utmost importance for a lady who is the mother of a child is to protect her chastity as well as her dignity and reputation, in that, she would also preserve the dignity of her child. C No woman, particularly, who is married can be exposed to an enquiry on the paternity of a child she has given birth to in the face of Section 112 of the Evidence Act subject to the presumption being rebutted by strong and cogent evidence. Section 112 particularly speaks about birth of a child during marriage and raises a conclusive presumption about legitimacy. Section 112 has recognised the institution of marriage D i.e., a valid marriage for the purpose of conferring legitimacy on children born during the subsistence of such a marriage. As to children born outside a valid marriage, the personal law of respective parties would apply. But in the cases of children born from a relationship in the nature of marriage and when the parents are in a E domestic relationship or those born as a result of a sexual assault or to those who are in a casual relationship or to those forced or subjected to render sexual favours and beget children, the problem of their legitimacy gets complex and is serious.