To the contrary, the unauthorised occupation was not disputed, with the only plea being taken of having planted certain trees (rubber trees), put to use for rubber tapping. 30. It is also a matter on record that such proceedings stood concluded by the appropriate authority (Tehsildar). By dated 24th February, 1982 the appropriate authority (Tehsildar) had passed an directing the claimant to not only vacate the land but also to pay compensation amounting to Rs. 354/-; these facts were never referred to in the plaint. 31. The Assistant Collector, Idduki, unequivocally stated the reason for non-assignment of land to the claimanst, for the same being set out for a public purpose. Noticeably, the passed by the Tehsildar or the Assistant Collector was never ever subjected to challenge by the claimants either by resorting to the mechanism provided under the Act nor in the suit, the subject matter of consideration. 32. It is for the fi rst time in the written statement that the factum of passing the under The Act was brought to the notice of the Civil Court which fact was neither refuted to nor explained by way of replication. 33. That apart, joint reading of the testimonies of PW1(Brajeetha), PW3(Cherian) and PW4(Narayanan), do not in any manner establish the factum of the claimant having ever claimed the possession hostile to that of true owner i.e., the State. 34. Their testimonies only establish plaintiff s/claimants’ possession and having put the land to use for planting trees,though with a variation of period, i.e., about 15 to 40 years. Be that as it may, it has come on record with some variations that the rubber trees were planted just about 15 to 18 years prior to the date on which the depositions were recorded. 35. On oath, in a specifi c query put to PW1 as to whether there is no record to establish suit the property to be in their possession from the 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. year 1940 onwards, there is a categorical denial. Equally the witness denies having any proof of residing in the property, since 1940, adjacent to the property subject matter of the suit. 36. All that it is stated is that the property was being enjoyed, assuming the same to be theirs. 37. It is in this view of the matter, we fi nd that the fi ndings returned by the High Court holding the witnesses, more particularly PW1 to PW5 to have established the claimants’ claims by way of adverse possession to be erroneous. 38. In view of the above, the appeal is allowed. The judgement of the High Court in S.A. 740 of 1995 dated 5th August, 2009 is set aside, and the judgement rendered by the First Appellate Court in Appeal Suit No. 3 of 1991 dated 3rd April, 1995 is restored. 39. Interlocutory applications, if any, shall stand disposed of. 40. No as to costs. Headnotes prepared by: Appeal allowed. Nidhi Jain