Accordingly, the bail application is rejected.” 6. It appears that during the pendency of the above-stated bail application, the respondents (Subhash Yadav and Rajesh Vikram Singh) H 580 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A also moved the High Court for their enlargement on bail. In the case of Subhash Yadav, it was categorically pointed out before the High Court that he was involved in at least 14 criminal cases and was already a convict under Section 302 IPC. While on bail in that case, he was found involved in the murder of Ashfaque Ahmad, in the bail application of the respondent - Rajesh Vikram Singh, the High Court was apprised of the B fact that there are 26 criminal cases registered against him, of course, in some of which, he has already been acquitted and in a few cases, he was on bail. In one of the cases – Crime No. 229/2004, under Section 302 IPC etc., he was convicted and in Criminal Appeal No. 497/2008, his conviction and sentence were suspended. C 7. The High Court briefly narrated the prosecution case and after noticing the contentions from both sides, concluded that “considering the rival submissions of learned counsel for parties and going through the contents of FIR, relevant part of the case diary as discussed above, I am of the opinion that the applicant is entitled to be released on bail.” D 8. The complainant, who is the father of the deceased, being aggrieved by the grant of bail to the private respondents, is before this Court. 9. We have heard learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant, the learned Senior counsel appearing on behalf of the private E respondents as well as learned Additional Advocate General appearing on behalf of the State of Uttar Pradesh. 10. There cannot be any quarrel with the submission advanced by Mr. R. Basant, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for one of the private respondents that the Court while granting bail is not required to F give detailed reasons touching the merits or de-merits of the prosecution case as any such observation made by the Court in a bail matter can unwittingly cause prejudice to the prosecution or the accused at a later stage. The settled proposition of law, in our considered opinion, is that the granting bail should reflect the judicial application of mind taking into consideration the well-known parameters including:- G (i) The nature of the accusation weighing in the gravity and severity of the offence; (ii) The severity of punishment; H ANSAR AHMAD v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH AND ANR. 581 (iii) The position or status of the accused, i.e. whether the A accused can exercise influence on the victim and the witnesses or not; (iv) Likelihood of accused to approach or try to approach the victims/witnesses; B (v) Likelihood of accused absconding from proceedings; (vi) Possibility of accused tampering with evidence; (vii) Obstructing or attempting to obstruct the due course of justice; (viii) Possibility of repetition of offence if left out on bail; C (ix) The prima facie satisfaction of the court in support of the charge including frivolity of the charge; (x) The different and distinct facts of each case and nature of substantive and corroborative evidence.