v. UNION OF INDIA & 513 ORS. Reorganisation Act is crystal clear. The very fact that the duty of A making the readjustment as per sub-sections (2) and (3) of Section 62 on the basis of the 2011 census figures has been entrusted to the Delimitation Commission suggests that the legislature intended that the Delimitation Commission for the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir will remain unaffected by the requirement B of completing the exercise by the end of July 2008. The provisions of sub-Sections (2) and (3) of Section 62 will have to be interpreted in a manner that gives effect to the intention of the legislature. If it is held that due to the failure of the legislature to modify the time limit provided in sub-Section (6) of Section 10 of the Delimitation Act, 2002, the Central Government is powerless to C appoint a Delimitation Commission for the newly created Union territory, the provisions of Section 62 of the J&K Reorganisation Act will be rendered nugatory. A statute cannot be interpreted in a manner that will render some of its provisions otiose. A statute must be construed and interpreted in such a manner as to make D it workable. Therefore, the argument based on sub-Section (6) of Section 10 of the Delimitation Act 2002 will have to be rejected. [Para 34][544-H; 545-A-E] 3.4. Articles 2 and 3 of the Constitution enable the Parliament to create new States and Union territories. Accordingly, E the two new Union territories have been created. The J&K Reorganisation Act which created the two new Union territories assigns the role of readjustment of constituencies to the Delimitation Commission under the Delimitation Act, 2002. Article 4 of the Constitution permits the Parliament to incorporate such provisions in the law made in accordance with F Article 3 for the formation of new States and Union territories, which may be necessary to give effect to the provisions of the law. Such a law may also contain provisions as to representations in Parliament and in the Legislature of the State or States affected by such law. Therefore, such law which is made under Article 3 G can always provide for readjustment of the Constituencies in the newly constituted States or Union territories through the Delimitation Commission. Hence, there is no illegality associated with the establishment of the Delimitation Commission under the impugned dated 6th March 2020. [Para 35][545-F-H; 546-A] H 514 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 3.5. Under the notification dated 6th March 2020, the appointment of the Chairperson of the Delimitation Commission who was a retired Judge of this Court was for a period of one year. By the notification dated 3rd March 2021, the said period was extended up to two years. By the third impugned notification dated 21st February 2022, the said period of two years was B extended to two years and two months. Once the Delimitation Commission was established, there is nothing wrong if the Central Government extended the period of appointment of the Chairperson till the task of delimitation/readjustment was completed.