The impugned Notification was sought to be challenged on the ground that it has caused H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 143 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] hardship to number of persons. It was therefore urged that this Court A should either hold the impugned Notification to be arbitrary or direct the Central Government to exercise the powers under Section 4(1)(ii) of the 2017 Act or by exercising the powers under Article 142 of the Constitution of India to provide a window so as to enable genuine persons to exchange their demonetized notes. We have already referred to the of B this Court in the case of Km. Sonia Bhatia (supra) hereinbefore. 301. As such, the contention that the impugned notification is liable to be set aside on the ground that it caused hardship to individual/citizens will hold no water. The individual interests must yield to the larger public interest sought to be achieved by impugned Notification. C 302. Insofar as the suggestion to frame a scheme and provide a window for a limited period so as to enable citizens having genuine reasons to exchange the notes is concerned, we do not find that it will be appropriate for us in the absence of any expertise in economic, monetary and fiscal matters to frame such a scheme. In our view, it will be D encroaching upon the areas reserved for the experts. If the Central Government finds that there exists any such class of persons and there are any reasons for extending the benefit under Section 4 of the 2017 Act, it is within its discretion to do so. In our view, it cannot be done by a judicial mandate. E 303. We therefore hold that the RBI does not have independent power under sub-section (2) of Section 4 of the 2017 Act in isolation of the provisions of Sections 3 and 4(1) thereof to accept the demonetized notes beyond the period specified in notifications issued under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the 2017 Act. F IX. ANSWERS TO THE QUESTIONS 304. We accordingly answer the Reference as under: (i) The power available to the Central Government under sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act cannot be restricted G to mean that it can be exercised only for ‘one’ or ‘some’ series of bank notes and not for ‘all’ series of bank notes. The power can be exercised for all series of bank notes. Merely because on two earlier occasions, the demonetization exercise was by plenary legislation, it cannot H 144 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A be held that such a power would not be available to the Central Government under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act; (ii) Sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act does not provide for excessive delegation inasmuch as there is an B inbuilt safeguard that such a power has to be exercised on the recommendation of the Central Board. As such, sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the RBI Act is not liable to be struck down on the said ground; (iii) The impugned Notification dated 8th November 2016 does C not suffer from any flaws in the decision-making process; (iv) The impugned Notification dated 8th November 2016 satisfies the test of proportionality and, as such, cannot be struck down on the said ground; D (v) The period provided for exchange of notes vide the impugned Notification dated 8th November 2016 cannot be said to unreasonable; and (vi) The RBI does not possess independent power under sub- section (2) of Section 4 of the 2017 Act in isolation of the E provisions of Sections 3 and 4(1) thereof to accept the demonetized notes beyond the period specified in notifications issued under sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the 2017 Act.