10.00 crores respectively were again put up for auction vide E-auction notice dated 28.06.2021. By an e-mail dated 29.06.2021, the E-auction notice along with E-Auction Process Information Document were sent to the prospective bidders, including the appellant. 6.2. Before the date of auction on 20.07.2021, earnest money deposit (EMD) was paid by the appellant and another intending bidder both for Lot No.2 and the subject property. Five minutes before the scheduled closure of bidding time there was a spurt of counter bids for Lot No.2 by the appellant and the other bidder, taking the price from Rs.8.50 crores to Rs.14.79 crores. The pattern of bidding in respect of Lot No.2 and the fact that the same two entities had submitted EMD for the subject property, but the bid being ultimately made only by the appellant led Respondent No.2 to believe that higher bids could be received for the subject property on further re-auction. 6.3. According to Respondent No.2, the subject property had a cost of Rs.17.30 crores and written down book value of Rs.8.59 crores as compared to Lot No.2, which had cost of Rs.9.28 crores and written down book value of only Rs.2.45 crores. However, Lot No.2 was sold for Rs.14.39 crores as against its reserve price of Rs.8.50 crores. Respondent No.2 therefore expected a price higher than Rs.10 crores for the subject property as Lot No.2 despite having a substantially lower worth as per the available record had fetched bids higher than Rs.10 crores. 6.4. For the aforesaid reasons and to maximise the value of the subject property which would enure to the benefi t of all stakeholders, Respondent No.2 thought it prudent to explore the possibility of further price enhancement in respect of the subject property and therefore decided to cancel the auction for the subject property. 6.5. In support of the above averments, Respondent No.2 has referred to certain terms and conditions in the E-auction notice and the E-Auction EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 871 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] Process Information Document. Clause 3(f) binds the applicant to accept the terms of the disclaimer, which forms an integral part of the E-Auction Process Information Document. Clause 3 (k) says that the Liquidator has the absolute right to accept or reject any or all bids or adjourn/postpone/cancel the E-auction or withdraw any asset/property or portion thereof from the E-auction at any stage without assigning any reason thereof. As per Clause 5 (m), the bidder with the highest off er/bid does not get any right to demand acceptance of his bid. Clause 5 (n) provides for intimation to be sent to the successful bidder via e-mail. Date of sending the mail would be considered as the date of receipt of the intimation. As per Clause 2 (h), on the close of the auction, the highest bidder shall be invited to provide balance sale consideration within 90 days of the date of such demand. Clause 2 (i) makes it clear that on payment of the full amount, the sale shall stand completed.