H MS. INDIRA JAISING v. SUPREME COURT OF INDIA, 445 THROUGH SECRETARY GENERAL [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] 45. With respect to younger advocates, we would like to state A that they are naturally not precluded from applying for designation, particularly as the 2018 Guidelines do not require anything more than ten years of practice. However, we believe that such advocates would have to display that extra bit of ability to be designated. 46. We must also say that the Supreme Court rests on a different B footing as the highest court of the land. Although designations in the Supreme Court in comparison to High Courts have usually taken place at the age of 45 plus, younger advocates have also been designated. While we would not like to restrict applications only to advocates who are above 45 years of age, only exceptional advocates should be designated C below this age. We say no more and leave this aspect to the wisdom of the Permanent Committee and the Full Court. 47. Here, we would like to reiterate the observation made in the 2017 that the power of suo motu designation by the Full Court is not something that is being taken away. This power has been and can D continue to be exercised in the case of exceptional and eminent advocates through a consensus by the Full Court. 48. An endeavour was made by the Union of India to reopen the 2017 itself. That however is not our remit in the present applications. We are not at the stage of a review or a reference of the E matter to a larger Bench. We are only on the aspect of fine-tuning what has been laid down by this Court in the 2017 . It is also pertinent that the then Attorney General was present throughout the oral hearings that culminated in the 2017 . There is also the question of what the role of the Union can even be at this stage, particularly as the Bar F Council of India, which is the representative body of the lawyers is being represented before us. 49. Lastly, we come to the aspect of the pending applications for designation. Once we have fine-tuned the norms, we cannot say that the pending applications will be considered under the old norms. The G exercise to be undertaken now would have to include these existing applications. However, such candidates can be given the time to update or replace their applications in light of the norms laid down by the present . We urge the Secretariat to process these applications expeditiously. H 446 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A 50. We only hope that our endeavour to simplify some aspects of the process results in the designation of more meritorious candidates. The process of improvement is a continuous one and we learn from every experience. This is one more step in the fine-tuning of this exercise and we hope it achieves the purpose. The ultimate objective is to provide better assistance to litigants and the Courts.