30. Having said this, however, we are also of the opinion that the possibility of the incident not being premeditated, cannot be totally disregarded, considering the overall ‘circumstances’ of the case, as urged before us and even considering the contradictions in the two statements of PW-2. We do not discredit the evidence of PW-2. She is a reliable witness. But only to the extent of what led to the incident, we are inclined to grant a limited benefi t to the accused but not like the one given by the High BIRBAL NATH v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ORS 99 [SUDHANSHU DHULIA, J.] Court. We are of the opinion that this case is of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, and not of murder. There were contradictions in the two statements of PW-2 as we have discussed in the preceding paragraphs. These contradictions, however, are not enough to completely discredit this witness. All the same, these contradictions, in the given fact of the case, do give a benefi t of doubt to the accused as to the case of premeditated attack of the prosecution. In our opinion, therefore the attack would come under Exception 4 to Section 300, the attack not being premeditated, but was, “in a sudden fi ght in the heat of passion upon a sudden quarrel and without the off ender having taken undue advantage or acted in a cruel or unusual manner.” 31. Both the appeals are allowed and the of the High Court dated 08.08.2007 is liable to be set aside and is hereby quashed. As far as the of the Trial Court is concerned, we convert the fi ndings of Section 302 to that of Section 304 part I IPC, and that of Section 307 to Section 308 IPC. We sentence each of the accused for seven years of rigorous imprisonment (R.I.) under Section 304 part I IPC and three years of rigorous imprisonment under Section 308 IPC. The remaining fi ndings and sentences awarded by the Trial Court shall remain. 32. Out of the six accused, we have been informed that Jethnath has passed away. The case against him therefore stands abated. The remaining accused shall surrender before the Court concerned within four weeks from today, from where they shall be sent to prison to carry out the remaining sentence. Bail bonds, if any, shall stand discharged. The period of sentence already undergone by the accused shall be adjusted from the sentences presently awarded. All sentences will run concurrently. Let a copy of this be sent to the concerned court for onward compliance of our s. Headnotes prepared by: Appeals allowed. Nidhi Jain