This is contemplated under the Nationalisation Act. A The mantle of operating the monopoly therefore, fell on the appellants. The appellants are State within the meaning of Article 12 of the Constitution. Theycontinue to be charged with the duty to be guided by the Directive Principles contained in Article 39(b). Learned Senior Counsel would point out that the Act does not deal with a company like B the appellant. In other words, while there may be indication in Section 19(4)(g) of the Act that the fact that a body is a monopoly under the statute may indicate the presence of dominant position, there is a subtle distinction. Unlike an ordinary monopoly, a corporate body like the appellant represents a case of a monopoly with the added and unique feature that it is an ‘Article 39(b)’ monopoly.Such a monopoly is outside C the purview of the Act. Reliance is placed on decisions of this Court to emphasize the point that the Nationalization Act was enacted with a view to give effect to the provision of Article 39(b) (See Ashoka Smokeless Coal India (P) Ltd. and Others v. Union of India and Others1 following Sanjeev Coke Mfg. Co. v. Bharat Coking Coal D Ltd. and Another2). 8. Learned Senior Counsel drew our attention to Sections 3 and 11 of the Nationalisation Act to contend that general superintendence, direction, control and management of the affairs and business of a coal mine,inter alia, as contained in Nationalisation Act, must be given the E widest interpretation. In this regard, reliance is placed by appellants on s interpreting similar words in Article 324 of the Constitution (See In Re Gujarat Assembly Election matter3and Election Commission of India v. Ashok Kumar and Others4). Our attention is drawn also to Article 31C of the Constitution for the proposition that a law which gives effect to Article 39(b) or 39(c) cannot be impugned on F the ground that it is inconsistent with Articles 14 and 19 of the Constitution. Such a law is to be treated as reasonable. On the other hand, if an action is inconsistent or runs counter to the Directive Principles, it may,prima facie, be brushed with the tarnish of it being unreasonable. (See Kasturi Lal Lakshmi Reddy and Others v. State of Jammu and Kashmir and G Another5).It is further pointed out by the appellants that on a conspectus 1 (2007) 2 SCC 640 2 (1983) 1 SCC 147 3 (2002) 8 SCC 237 4 (2000) 8 SCC 216 5 (1980) 4 SCC 1 H 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A of the Nationalisation Act and on placing it side-by-side with the provisions of the Act, the divergence and the consequent anomalous results of bringing the appellant under the Act, would clearly emerge. Our attention is drawn to the long title of the Act. It is pointed out that the object of the Act is to ensure freedom of trade. This is contrasted with a long title of the Nationalisation Act which indicates that the Law-Giver intended to B vest ownership and control of the coal mines in the State so that the said resource is so distributed as to best serve the common good.