H S. NARAHARI AND ORS. v. S.R. KUMAR AND ORS. 1013 [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] III. Whether the plaintiffs further proves that any leases, etc., A of the suit property by the defendant no. 1 for the period beyond her life time are void and not binding upon them? IV. Whether the defendant no. 7 proves that he has lawfully entered into an agreement of sale with defendant no. 2 and 3 for their respective portion of property? B V. Whether the defendant no. 7 proves that there will be miscarriage of justice if this suit is decreed against the entire schedule property? 11. Vide and dated 11.04.2002, the Learned Trial C Court dismissed the suit filed by the respondents herein, vacated the stay , and held that the compromise decree entered into between the parties is binding on the respondents. 12. Aggrieved by the same, the respondents preferred an appeal in the High Court. During the pendency of the said appeal, Smt. Ansuya Bai passed away. Further, the respondents also filed an application under D VI Rule 17 of CPC for amendment of plaint and sought for a relief of recovery of possession of property. 13. Vide and dated 10.08.2007, the High Court did not disturb the finding of the Trial Court regarding the compromise decree being binding on the respondents, however, in respect of the E additional relief of possession of part of suit property, the matter was remanded to the Trial Court, for proper adjudication. 14. Aggrieved by the same, the appellant No.1 herein filed Special Leave Petition in this Court, and during the pendency of the said Special Leave Petition, the Trial Court proceeded with the matter remanded to F its jurisdiction. 15. Vide and dated 29.10.2011, the Trial Court on the limited ground of possession of part of the suit property, decreed the suit in favour of the respondent no.1 and respondent no.2 herein. G 16. Aggrieved by the aforesaid and decree of the Trial Court, the petitioner(s) therein filed another appeal in the High Court. During the pendency of the said first appeal before the High Court, the Special Leave Petition filed in this Court by the petitioner(s)/appellant(s) was dismissed vide dated 03.01.2013 on the ground that the relief prayed for in the Special Leave Petition had exhausted itself. H 1014 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 17. However, while dismissing the said Special Leave Petition, this Court held that since the first appeal filed against the dated 29.10.2011 was still pending before the High Court and that there were issues raised in the Special Leave Petition qua the remand , this Court gave liberty to the petitioner(s) therein to raise all such questions before the High Court in the pending appeal without being influenced by B the remand . Subsequently, the said first appeal also came to be dismissed vide dated 20.12.2019. 18. Aggrieved by the dismissal of the first appeal, the petitioner(s)/ appellant(s) filed another Special Leave Petition before this Court, however, the same was dismissed as withdrawn with liberty to approach C the High Court by means of filing a review petition.