This would have resulted in a conundrum. Therefore, Section 19 and Article 246Aareto be understood as expressing a fi eld of legislation available to both the Parliament and the 194 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. State Legislatures to in furtherance of the status quo, cater to unforeseen or other eventualities in the administration of existing tax laws. An example can be that a heavy fi nancial burden, being cast as a consequence of holding that the machinery for collection of an existing levy, was defective, the High Court invalidating a rule or statutory provision. In that event, were it to be held, that the state lacked competence altogether to legislate, and cure the defects through a validating enactment, during the period till 01.07.2017, the results could have been catastrophic. The phrase “amend” or “repeal” denotes a legislative activity. That it is spoken of in a provision, introduced through a constituent process, means that it has to be given meaning, because no words or provisions can be considered as surplusage. 96. The meaning of the term ‘amend’ is well-known it takes within its sweep the idea of correcting something, adding something, deleting, or substituting something or doing something to an existing document, enactment, or rule to make it better. P. Ramanatha Aiyar’s Advance Law Lexicon35, has this to say: “Amendment/Repeal. Amendment is, in fact, a wider term and it includes abrogation or deletion of a provision in an existing statute. If the amendment of an existing law is small, the Act professes to amend; if it is extensive, it repeals a law and re-enacts it. There is no real distinction between repeal and an amendment. Bhagwat Ram Sharma v UOI, AIR 1988 SC 740, 746.9 Amend. A word derived from the French word signifying ‘to make better’; ‘to change for the better.’ To alter formally by some addition, omission or substitution [Preamble, T.P. Act (4 of 1882)]. The power to ‘amend’ Constitution conferred by Article 368 of the Constitution is wide enough to include the power to take away fundamental rights. [Shankri Prasad Singh v. UOI, AIR 1951 SC 458] The dictionary meaning of the word ‘amend’ is to correct a fault or reform; but in the context of Article 368 reliance on the dictionary 35 P. Ramanatha Iyer, Advance Law Lexicon, Volume I at Page 271 THE STATE OF TELANGANA & ORS. v. M/S TIRUMALA 195 CONSTRUCTIONS [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] meaning of the word is singularly inappropriate, because what Article 368 authorises to be done is the amendment of the provisions of the Constitution. An amendment of a law may in a proper case include the deletion of any one or more of the provisions of the law and substitution in their place of new provisions. Similarly an amendment of the Constitution which is the subject matter of the power conferred by Article 368, may include modifi cation or change of the provisions or even an amendment which makes the said provisions inapplicable in certain cases. The power to amend in the context is a very wide power and it cannot be controlled by the literal dictionary meaning of the word ‘amend’.