The said reasoning was employed despite noting the fact that even if there was any power of review, in the extant circumstances, it was wholly arbitrary. It was further observed that a judicial verdict by the learned Civil Court should have been E respected. This Court would note that such reasoning is also erroneous. The fact remained that, rightly or wrongly, the learned Civil Court had granted this opportunity to the appellant to move again for expunction of adverse remarks, which the appellant did. Having said that, this Court would now look at the issue from a totally legal point of view – firstly, F the authorities were exercising the power conferred on them by statute, and secondly, any which amounts to ‘review’ (in the legal sense of the word) of an earlier by the same authority cannot be undertaken, unless specifically so conferred by the relevant statute. 24. Moreover, the learned Civil Judge (Junior Division) found no ground to interfere with the adverse remarks yet granted liberty to the G appellant to move for expunction thereof. The learned Civil Court erred in assuming that it had the power to do so, in the absence of any such provision in the Punjab Police Rules, 1934. There may be cases where a High Court under Articles 226 or 227 of the Constitution of India or this Court in exercise of its constitutional powers may specifically direct for H 416 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A fresh consideration of a representation, even in the absence of specific provisions. In High Court of Tripura v Tirtha Sarathi Mukherjee, (2019) 16 SCC 663, the question that arose was whether, in the absence of a statutory provision, a writ petitioner could seek re-evaluation of examination answer scripts? Answering, this Court held: B “20. The question however arises whether even if there is no legal right to demand re-valuation as of right could there arise circumstances which leave the Court in any doubt at all. A grave injustice may be occasioned to a writ applicant in certain circumstances. The case may arise where even though there is no provision for re-valuation it turns out that C despite giving the correct answer no marks are awarded. No doubt this must be confined to a case where there is no dispute about the correctness of the answer. Further, if there is any doubt, the doubt should be resolved in favour of the examining body rather than in favour of the candidate. The wide power D under Article 226 may continue to be available even though there is no provision for re-valuation in a situation where a candidate despite having giving correct answer and about which there cannot be even the slightest manner of doubt, he is treated as having given the wrong answer and consequently the candidate is found disentitled to any marks. E 21. Should the second circumstance be demonstrated to be present before the writ court, can the writ court become helpless despite the vast reservoir of power which it possesses?