It further restricted the Municipal Council from changing the user of the land of ‘open space’ and ‘amenity space’ except for the benefi cial enjoyment of residential plot holders. It further quashed and set aside the resolution dated 23rd January 2018 of the Municipal Council to the extent it resolved to construct an indoor game hall, multi-purpose meeting hall, and swimming pool on open space/amenity space. 550 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 4.12 Being aggrieved thereby, the present appeals are fi led. 5. We have heard Shri Sanjay Kharde, learned counsel for the Municipal Council, Shri Amol Gavali, learned counsel for the landowners, Ms. Pradnya Talekar, learned counsel for the plot holders, and Shri Aaditya Aniruddha Pande, learned counsel for the State. 6. Shri Sanjay Kharde, learned counsel submitted that the Division Bench of the High Court had grossly erred in allowing the writ petition fi led by the plot holders. He submitted that the plot holders had also belatedly challenged the Government Notifi cation dated 18th August 2004 by fi ling a writ petition in the year 2018. It is, therefore, submitted that the petition of the plot holders was also liable to be dismissed. 7. Shri Kharde further submitted that the landowners having taken the advantage of the Government Notifi cation dated 18th August 2004, vide which their land was converted from ‘No Development Zone (Green Zone)’ to ‘Residential Zone (Yellow Zone)’ could not have made a volte-face and challenged the very same notifi cation. He further submitted that even the claim of the plot holders was liable to be rejected. The plot holders purchased the plots on the basis of the sanctioned layout, which clearly showed that 10% of the land was reserved for ‘amenity space’, which was to belong to the Municipal Council. He, therefore, submitted that the High Court had grossly erred in allowing the writ petition fi led by the plot holders. 8. Shri Amol Gavali and Ms. Pradnya Talekar, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the landowners and plot holders respectively, on the contrary, submitted that the High Court after considering the provisions of Sections 22, 33, and 37 of the Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning Act, 1966 and the Development Control Regulations (for short “the DCR”) has come to a considered fi nding that the ownership of the ‘open space’ and the ‘amenity space’ vest in the landowners/plot holders and as such, needs no interference. They further submitted that the High Court has rightly relied on the of this Court in the case of Pt. Chet Ram Vashist (Dead) by LRs. V. Municipal Corporation of Delhi1 wherein this Court, while considering the pari materia provisions, 1 (1995) 1 SCC 47 SHIRDI NAGAR PANCHAYAT v. KISHOR SHARAD 551 BORAWAKE [B. R. GAVAI, J.] has held that the Municipal Council cannot impose the condition to surrender a part of the land and transfer it in its favour free of cost as a condition precedent for sanctioning layout. They, therefore, submit that the present appeals are liable to be dismissed.