For establishing his legal liability recourse to ordinary courts of law is indispensable.” 114. Quoting from Wade and Phillips on Constitutional Law, this Court pointed out in the State of Karnataka (supra) that “responsibility D to Parliament only means that the Minster may be compelled by convention to resign.” 115. The extent to which the enforcement of collective responsibility can be taken was also indicated in the above decision as follows: E “50. The whole question of responsibility is related to the continuance of a Minister or a Government in office. A Minister’s own acts or omissions or those of others in the department in his charge, for which he may feel morally responsible, or, for which others may hold him morally responsible, may compel him to resign. By an extension of this F logic, applied to individual Ministers at first, emerged the principle of “collective responsibility” which we find enacted in Articles 75(2) and 164(2) of our Constitution. The only sanction for its enforcement is the pressure of public opinion expressed particularly in terms of withdrawal of political support by members of G Parliament or the State Legislature as the case may be.” 116. In other words, this Court indicated that while a Minister may be compelled to resign for his individual acts of omission or commission, the only sanction for the enforcement of collective responsibility is the “pressure of public opinion”. H 696 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 117. In R.K. Jain vs. Union of India109, this Court was concerned with a public interest litigation relating to the functioning of the Customs, Excise and Gold Control Appellate Tribunal. At that time the office of the President of the Tribunal was lying vacant for over six months. But after rule nisi was issued in the first writ petition, the Government appointed someone as the President of the Tribunal. Immediately, a B second writ petition was filed challenging the appointment and also some of the recruitment rules relating to the appointment.The file relating to the appointment was produced in a sealed cover and the Government claimed privilege in terms of Section 123 of the Indian Evidence Act, 1872 and Article 74(2) of the Constitution. While dealing with the C executive power of the President and the role of the Council of Ministers, K.Ramasamy, J., said “The principle of ministerial responsibility has a variety of meanings precise and imprecise, authentic and vague”. Paragraphs 29 and 30 of the report in R.K. Jain (supra) may be usefully extracted as follows: D “29. It would thus be held that the Cabinet known as Council of Ministers headed by Prime Minister under Article 75(3) is the driving and steering body responsible for the governance of the country. They enjoy the confidence of the Parliament and remain in office so long as they maintain the confidence of the majority. They are answerable to the Parliament and accountable to the E people. They bear collective responsibility and shall be bound to maintain secrecy. Their executive function comprises of both the determination of the policy as well as carrying it into execution, the initiation of legislation, the maintenance of , the promotion of social and economic welfare, direction of foreign policy.