D 19. This court, in Manoj v. State of Madhya Pradesh28, considered the s reported as Rajendra Prahladrao Wasnik (supra), Chhannu Lal Verma v. State of Chhattisgarh29, Anil @ Anthony Arikaswamy Joseph (supra) and several other decisions, the Law Commission’s reports, and held that [SCR, p. 573-576]: E 27 The observations in Bachan Singh, listing mitigating factors are that “(1) That the offence was committed under the influence of extreme mental or emotional disturbance. (2) The age of the accused. If the accused is young or old, he shall not be sentenced to death. F (3) The probability that the accused would not commit criminal acts of violence as would constitute a continuing threat to society. (4) The probability that the accused can be reformed and rehabilitated. The State shall by evidence prove that the accused does not satisfy the conditions 3 and 4 above. (5) That in the facts and circumstances of the case the accused believed that he was morally justified in committing the offence. G (6) That the accused acted under the duress or domination of another person, (7) That the condition of the accused showed that he was mentally defective and that the said defect impaired his capacity to appreciate the criminality of his conduct.” 28 [2022] 9 SCR 452: (2023) 2 SCC 353 29 [2018] 14 SCR 355: (2019) 12 SCC 438 H VIKAS CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF DELHI 765 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] “212. The goal of reformation is ideal, and what society must A strive towards – there are many references to it peppered in this court’s jurisprudence across the decades – but what is lacking is a concrete framework that can measure and evaluate it. Unfortunately, this is mirrored by the failure to implement prison reforms of a meaningful kind, which has B left the process of incarceration and prisons in general, to be a space of limited potential for systemic reformation. The goal of reformative punishment requires systems that actively enable reformation and rehabilitation, as a result of nuanced policy making. As a small step to correct these skewed results and facilitate better evaluation of whether there is a possibility C for the accused to be reformed (beyond vague references to conduct, family background, etc. ), this court deems it necessary to frame practical guidelines for the courts to adopt and implement, till the legislature and executive, formulate a coherent framework through legislation. These guidelines may D also offer guidance or ideas, that such a legislative framework could benefit from, to systematically collect and evaluate information on mitigating circumstances. Practical guidelines to collect mitigating circumstances 213. There is urgent need to ensure that mitigating E circumstances are considered at the trial stage, to avoid slipping into a retributive response to the brutality of the crime, as is noticeably the situation in a majority of cases reaching the appellate stage. 214. To do this, the trial court must elicit information from the F accused and the state, both. The state, must - for an offence carrying capital punishment - at the appropriate stage, produce material which is preferably collected beforehand, before the Sessions Court disclosing psychiatric and psychological evaluation of the accused.