126. In Shafi n Jahan (supra), a three-Judge Bench of this Court held: “84. … Our choices are respected because they are ours. Social approval for intimate personal decisions is not the basis for recognising them. Indeed, the Constitution protects personal liberty from disapproving audiences.” 127. The consequence of the of this Court in National Legal Services Authority (supra) and Navtej Singh Johar (supra) is that the members of the queer community are no longer second-class citizens of our country. Their individual and group rights are on par with any other citizen of this country. Their gender identity or sexual orientation cannot be a ground on which they are discriminated against. SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR. v. UNION 1317 OF INDIA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] 128. Mr. Tushar Mehta, the learned Solicitor General, submitted during the course of his arguments that two persons from the LGBTQ community have the right and the liberty to celebrate their union and label the union with any term they see fi t, including ‘marriage.’ The Union of India does not, however, wish to accord legal recognition to such ceremonies and unions. If the marriages of queer people were to be recognized by law enacted by Parliament, it would be the next step in its progression. iv. The signifi cance of marriage as a socio-legal institution 129. One of us (DY Chandrachud, J.) in Navtej (supra) held that the members of the LGBTQIA+ community have a right to navigate public spaces without the interference of the State. The claim of the petitioners in this case, however, is on a slightly diff erent footing. The petitioners seek the active involvement of the State in their relationships through conferring recognition. Through marriage, the State confers legal recognition to a relationship between two heterosexual persons. By doing so, it recognises that relationships in the form of marriage are not merely a lifestyle but an important constituent unit for the sustenance of social life. The State confers innumerable benefi ts, both tangible and intangible, to a family unit constituted by marriage. The petitioners seek that the State grant legal recognition to the relationship between non-heterosexual persons in the form of marriage because they are otherwise excluded from the express and implied benefi ts of marriage. They claim that non-heterosexual unions have not been able to attain social sanctity because their relationship is invisible in the eyes of the law. 130. Before we discuss the State’s interest in regulating the personal relationship between two persons to understand the necessity of its interference in the private sphere, it is important to discuss the manner in which the State regulates marriages. 131. The State: fi rstly, prescribes conditions with respect to who can enter into a valid marriage; secondly, regulates the marital relationship during its sustenance; and thirdly, regulates the repercussions of the breakdown of a relationship of marriage. 132. The State prescribes various conditions for the solemnization of a valid marriage which inter alia includes the conditions of consent, a 131 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R.