Section 185(2)(5) further provides that Section 6 of the General Clauses Act 1897 would be applicable in relation to matters prescribed in Section 185(2) with regard to the effect of repeals; E ii. Regulation 19(1) of the Electricity Supply Code 2005, provides that any terms and conditions of supply which are inconsistent with the provisions of the Maharashtra Electricity Supply Code 2005 shall be deemed to be invalid from the date on which these regulations come F into force; and c. From 20 January 2005till the enactment of the 2021 Regulations: The Maharashtra Electricity Supply Code 2005, which came into force from 20 January 2005, would apply. To determine whether the Maharashtra Electricity Supply G Code 2005 would govern the facts of a particular case, the relevant date would be when the auction purchaser had requested the Electricity Board to supply electricity. 172. In the six cases originating from Maharashtra, the respondents were successful auction purchasers who purchased the premises in court H 728 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A auction sales. The appellant-Board relied on Condition 23 of the MSEB Conditions of Supply to impose a precondition of clearing electricity arrears of the erstwhile consumer, before a new electricity connection could be provided. The High Court in all the cases directed the appellant- Board to provide reconnection or fresh connection to the respondents, without insisting on payment of arrears. B 173. These impugned s raise a common question on the applicability and the scope of Condition 23. This Court would first deal with the overall argument on the applicability of Condition 23 of the MSEB Conditions of Supply, and its interpretation, before delving into the specific factual matrix of the cases. C 174. In Maharashtra State Electricity Board v. Super & Stainless Hi Alloys Ltd.,77 the Bombay High Court relied on the decision of this Court in Isha Marbles (supra) to quash the impugned circular dated 19 December 1998 for lack of jurisdiction as it was held to be beyond the powers of the Electricity Board under Section 24 of the 1910 D Act. The High Court concluded that the contract of supply was only between the Electricity Board and the previous consumer, and since the subsequent purchaser was a third party, it cannot be made liable for the past liabilities of the erstwhile consumer. 175. In Supdt. Engg. Maharashtra State Electricity Board v. E M/s Umang Enterprises,78 the High Court placed reliance on the decisions of this Court in Isha Marbles (supra)and Gujarat Inns (supra) to reject the argument of the appellant-Board. The Bombay High Court disposed of the writ petition with a direction to the appellant to grant an electricity connection to the premises, without insisting on clearance of past dues of the previous consumer. It is important to note F that the High Court in its reasoning did not refer to the MSEB Conditions of Supply and the import of Condition 23 on the liability of the auction purchasers. 176. In Maharashtra State Electricity Board v. Ecto Spinners,79 and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co. Ltd. G v. M/s Zia Iron Store,80 the High Court considered the purport of Condition 23 of the MSEB Conditions of Supply.