1. Leave granted F 2. Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and dated 23.10.2021 passed by the High Court of Uttarakhand at Nainital in WPSB No. 407/2020, by which, the High Court has allowed the said writ petition and has set aside dated 04.12.2020 passed by the Chairman, Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Principal Bench, G New Delhi by which the learned Principal Bench of the Tribunal transferred Original Application (OA) No. 331/109/2020 filed by the original writ petitioner, from the Allahabad Bench (Nainital Circuit Bench) to the Principal Bench, New Delhi, the Union of India has preferred the present appeal. H UNION OF INDIA v. SANJIV CHATURVEDI 61 [M. R. SHAH, J.] 3. The facts leading to the present appeal in a nutshell are under:- A 3.1 That the contesting respondent No. 1 herein – original writ petitioner filed original application (OA) before the Nainital Circuit Bench, CAT with the following prayers: - “a. To call for records and issue appropriate direction/ B for quashing present system of 360 degree appraisal being used in empanelment of officers at the level of Joint Secretary and above in Central Government, being arbitrary, unreasonable, in violation of principles of natural justice, being in supersession of statutory rules and finding of Parliamentary Committee Report. C b. To restrain the respondents from filling up the posts of Joint Secretary/equivalent to Joint Secretary rank and also posts above in rank of Joint Secretary in Central Government, through contract system, in future. c. To set aside all those provisions of present Central Staffing Scheme, governing constitution of and evaluation by D Expert Panel for the purpose of empanelment at Joint Secretary level in Government, issued vide O.M. 36/77/94-EO Central (SM-1)” date 05.01.1996 and modified subsequently, being arbitrary, unreasonable, violative of principles of natural justice and in violation of basic federal structure enshrined into the E Constitution. d. To direct the respondents to remove huge artificial time lag created between empanelment of officers of different services and between same levels in Central Government and State Government, in case of All India Service Officers. F e. To direct the respondents to consider the case of Applicant for empanelment to the level of Joint Secretary in view of fulfillment of all the eligibility criteria regarding completion of requisite number of years of service and elevation into Level-14 of Pay Matrix; or alternatively, issue directions to respondents not G to reject abovementioned case of Applicant, on any ulterior/ subjective/oblique consideration, and decide the same objectively, on merit, facts and in accordance with law only. f. To and appropriate investigation so as to fix responsibility into various irregularities into recruitment process H 62 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A of Joint Secretary rank officers through contract system, taken place in the year 2019, in view of irregularities brought out in para 3.5 of factual matrix.” 3.2 That thereafter, the Union of India filed transfer application under Section 25 of the Administrative Tribunals Act, 1985 (Act, 1985) B seeking transfer of OA filed by the writ petitioner from Nainital Circuit Bench to the Principal Bench, New Delhi.