In fact, once the issuance of the Proclamation is held valid, the scrutiny of the kind and degree of power used under the Proclamation, falls in a narrower compass. There is every risk and fear of the court undertaking upon itself the task of evaluating with fi ne scales and through its own lenses the comparative merits of one rather than the other measure. The court will thus travel unwittingly into the political arena and subject itself more readily to the charges of encroaching upon policy-making. The “political thicket” objection sticks more easily in such circumstances. Although, therefore, on the language of Article 356(1), it is legal to hold that the President may exercise only some of the powers given to him, in practice it may not always be easy to demonstrate the excessive use of the power.” (emphasis supplied) 195. Justice Reddy observed that in exercise of the discretion, the President must consider the advisability and necessity of the action: IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 121 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] “280. The use of the word ‘may’ indicates not only a discretion but an obligation to consider the advisability and necessity of the action. It also involves an obligation to consider which of the several steps specifi ed in sub-clauses (a), (b) and (c) should be taken and to what extent? The dissolution of the Legislative Assembly – assuming that it is permissible – is not a matter of course. It should be resorted to only when it is necessary for achieving the purposes of the Proclamation. 289. […] Once Parliament places its seal of approval on the Proclamation, further steps as may be found necessary to achieve the purposes of the Proclamation, i.e., dissolution of Legislative Assembly, can be ed. In other words, once Parliament approves the initial exercise of his power, i.e., his satisfaction that a situation had arisen where the government of the State could not be carried on in accordance with the Constitution the President can go ahead and take further steps necessary for eff ectively achieving the objects of the Proclamation. Until the approval, he can only keep the Assembly under suspended animation but shall not dissolve it.” (emphasis supplied) 196. A holistic reading of the decisions of Justice Sawant and Justice Reddy, indicates that the actions by the President after issuing a Proclamation are subject to judicial review. However, there were some variations in the s of the learned Judges on the standard needed to be applied by the Court to test the validity of exercise of power by the President after the issuance of the Proclamation. Justice Sawant applied the standard of whether the exercise of power was mala fi de or palpably irrational. Justice Reddy observed that the advisability and necessity of the action must be borne in mind by the President. d. Interpretation of Part XVIII 197. This Bench sitting in a combination of fi ve judges is bound by the decision of the majority on the issue of whether the exercise of power by the President after the issuance of Proclamation is subject to judicial review.