iii. Whether the remand of an accused can be continued by the trial court during the pendency of investigation beyond the stipulated time as prescribed by the CrPC? 61. This Court, while allowing the petition observed in paras 24 D and 25 respectively, as under: “24. This right of statutory bail, however, is extinguished, if the charge sheet is filed within the stipulated period. The question of resorting to a supplementary chargesheet u/s 173(8) of the Cr.PC only arises after the main chargesheet E has been filed, and as such, a supplementary chargesheet, wherein it is explicitly stated that the investigation is still pending, cannot under any circumstance, be used to scuttle the right of default bail, for then, the entire purpose of default bail is defeated, and the filing of a chargesheet or a supplementary chargesheet becomes a mere formality, and a F tool, to ensue that the right of default bail is scuttled. 25. It is thus axiomatic that first investigation is to be completed, and only then can a chargesheet or a complaint be filed within the stipulated period, and failure to do so would trigger the statutory right of default bail under Section 167(2) G of Cr.PC. In the case of Union of India vs Thamisharasi & Ors. [(1995) 4 SCC 190] , which was a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985, on finding that the investigation was not complete and a chargesheet was not filed within the prescribed period, denial H of default bail was held to be in violation of Article 21 of the JUDGEBIR SINGH @ JASBIR SINGH SAMRA @ JASBIR 47 v. NATIONAL INVESTIGATION AGENCY [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Constitution of India, and it was further held that even the A twin limitation on grant of bail would not apply.” 62. Thus, in Ritu Chhabaria (supra), the facts were altogether different. In the said case, indisputably, the investigation was in progress, but as the statutory time period to file the chargesheet was coming to an end, the chargesheet was filed clarifying that the investigation was still B pending. In such circumstances, this Court took the view that there is no question of filing any supplementary chargesheet, taking the aid of sub section (8) of Section 173 of the CrPC, as sub section (8) of Section 173 of the CrPC comes into play only after the investigation is completed and the chargesheet is laid. We are of the view that the aforesaid decision C of this Court is of no avail to the accused in the present case. In the case on hand, the chargesheet was filed after the entire investigation was completed. This fact is not in dispute. 63. Thus, we answer Issue No. 1 holding that filing of a chargesheet is sufficient compliance with the provisions of Section 167 of the CrPC D and that an accused cannot claim any indefeasible right of being released on statutory/default bail under Section 167(2) of the CrPC on the ground that cognizance has not been taken before the expiry of the statutory time period to file the chargesheet.