Dismissing the appeals and Contempt petition, the Court D HELD : 1.1 Section 47 CPC, being one of the most important provisions relating to execution of decrees, mandates that the court executing the decree shall determine all questions arising between the parties to the suit or their representatives in relation to the execution, discharge, or satisfaction of the decree and that E such questions may not be adjudicated in a separate suit. What is intended by conferring exclusive jurisdiction on the executing court is to prevent needless and unnecessary litigation and to achieve speedy disposal of the questions arising for discussion in relation to the execution, discharge or satisfaction of the decree. Should there be any resistance offered or obstruction F raised impeding due execution of a decree made by a court of competent jurisdiction, the provisions of Rules 97, 101 and 98 of XXI enable the executing court to adjudicate the inter se claims of the decre appellants have been deprived of the fruits of the Decree for over two decades, it would only be just and proper G to request the Executing Court to proceed to decide the contentious issues in accordance with law e-holder and the third parties in the execution proceedings themselves to avoid prolongation of litigation by driving the parties to institute independent suits. No wonder, the provisions contained in Rules 97 to 106 of XXI CPC under the sub-heading “Resistance H JINI DHANRAJGIR & ANR. v. SHIBU MATHEW & ANR. ETC. 553 to delivery of possession to decree-holder or purchaser” have been A held to be a complete code in itself. Rules 97 to 103 of XXI provide the sole remedy both to parties to a suit as well as to a stranger to the decree put to execution. [Para 17][565-F-G; 566-A-C] 1.2 In terms of the ordainment of Rule 102 of XXI, B Rules 98 and 100 thereof would not apply to resistance or obstruction in execution of a decree for the possession of immovable property by a person to whom the -debtor has transferred the property after the institution of the suit in which the decree was passed. [Para 23][567-E] C 1.3 The submission that the respondents are pendente lite transferees, the doctrine of lis pendens applies, and in view of the clear terms of Rule 102, the objections were not maintainable; therefore, the respondents are not entitled to the protection of having an adjudication of their claims in terms of Rule 98, though D attractive at first blush, pales into insignificance in view of the peculiar facts obtaining here. If, indeed, there have been transfers post dismissal of the Suit during the time when there was no pending lis, it would be most appropriate for the Executing Court to determine the question as to whether any of the transfers made by defendant no. 3 to the respondents would attract Rule 102. E This would indeed involve an exercise of leading of evidence by the parties and merely because the Suit was ultimately decreed on 21st October 2000 and ultimately was upheld by this Court with a minor modification of the amount of compensation, that would not be sufficient justification to throw out the objections F raised by the respondents as being devoid of merit.