Such appointments made have no co- E relation with the appointments made by the State Government under its regular establishments in terms of the recruitment rules which are prescribed for various State/subordinate services. Thus, no right could have been conferred/vested in favour of the individual and that apart, the Government has reviewed the whole scheme by introducing employment scheme for rural educated mass, to meet the appointments F earlier made and since they are discontinued by dated 8th November, 2011, the present Government voluntarily came out with the scheme dated 7th June, 2022 to consider such of the unemployed youth who had discontinued to work in the village panchayat as MNP, for almost a decade by that time, be given priority and may be engaged G under the Central Government scheme, which was framed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005(hereinafter being referred to as the “Act 2005”) on an honorarium of Rs. 7500/- per month and the State also voluntarily came forward that as their appointment was earlier discontinued, thus for a period of 6 months, i.e. 1st December, 2011 to 31st May, 2012, each of the employee H THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU v. TAMIL NADU 399 MAKKAL NALA PANIYALARGAL [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] who discontinued and is not interested in seeking re-engagement under A the present scheme can always accept his 6 months’ wages for the respective period. 20. Learned counsel submits that majority of them have received their wages by this time but theminiscule of persons who are contesting today, either have not encashed or have repaid the money back to the B Government and submits that those who are left out and have not joined so far under the present scheme introduced by the Government dated 7th June, 2022, although as per timelines introduced, no fresh engagement can be made but earlier this Court permitted the persons who were disengaged to join and become member of the scheme, still the C Government has kept it open and the persons who would like to join, they are always at liberty to re-join in terms of the scheme introduced dated 7th June, 2022 and those who are not inclined, can always accept their 6 months’ wages for the period from 1st December, 2011 to 31st May, 2012 at any point of time from the Office of the District Collector if they have not already received so far. D 21. In support of the submissions, learned counsel has placed reliance on the recent of this Court in State of Gujarat and Others Vs. R.J. Pathan and Others1wherein taking note of the earlier , this Court has expressed that appointments which are made E for a fixed term and on a fixed salary in a temporary unit which was created for a particular project, they are not entitled to seek regularization and if such a direction is issued by the High Court for absorption/ regularization of the employees who were appointed in a temporary unit which was created for a particular project, are held not in conformity with law and such s passed by the High Court for regularization, in F the facts and circumstances, have not been countenanced by this Court.