[2023] 16 S.C.R. 1525 : 2023 INSC 1091 CASE DETAILS LAJJA RAM & ORS. v. RATI CHAND & ORS. ETC (Civil Appeal Nos. 2835-2836/2011) NOVEMBER 09, 2023 [HRISHIKESH ROY AND SANJAY KAROL, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for Consideration: N ature and extent of a bhondedar’s right over a shamlatdeh property (land reserved & used for common purpose in villages) and whether the bhondedar can exercise ownership rights over the granted land. Customary Practice – Bhondedar – Bhondedar’s right over a shamlatdeh land – Nature and extent – Punjab Village Common Lands (Regulation) Act, 1961 – Punjab Mujara Act, 1887 – Punjab Occupancy Tenants (Vesting of Proprietary Rights) Act, 1953 – In an earlier proceeding for declaration and occupancy rights before Asst. Collector against the Gram Panchayat, Defendant No.1 was held entitled to hereditary rights in view of the longstanding service of his ancestors as mujara (tenants) relating to the suit land-shamlatdeh land – Defendant No.1 sold the shamlatdeh land to appellants-Defendant nos.2- 5 – Suit fi led by Respondents (inhabitants of the village & biswedars- proprietors) for declaration, possession & injunction – Dismissed by Trial Court – First Appellate Court reversed the said and decreed the Respondents’ suit, declaring the Defendant No.1 as only a bhondedar but not the owner of the shamlatdeh land and annulling the sale deeds executed in favour of the appellants – upheld by High Court: Held: The term ‘bhondedar’ has no statutory or legislative defi nition – But over a period of time, the term is equated with limited grant of land for service to be rendered by the grantee – It is a customary practice in the Punjab region (present-day areas comprising largely in the states of Punjab & Haryana) – A bhondedar has only limited right and should he fail to carry 1525 152 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. out his assigned duties, even this limited right becomes unavailable – The very nature of the tenure(s) does not bestow upon the holder, any right to alienate the granted land – All alienations made by the limited holder of property, would be manifestly void because a bhondedar does not possess title or ownership right of the property granted to him, as a bhonda – Dfdt. No.1 held conditional and limited possessory rights as a bhondedar, subject to services being rendered towards the village community – Such limited right remained unaff ected and unaltered as long as the bhondedar fulfi lled their service obligations toward the village – However, the Dfdt. No.1 not only ceased to render the required services but also relocated to a diff erent place soon after unauthorisedly selling the suit land to appellants – Consequently, the bhondedar can have no legitimate claim whatsoever, over the suit land – When the services were ceased to be rendered towards the management, maintenance and upkeep of the shamlatdeh land, the limited grant so made to the bhondedar, by the proprietors-biswedars, in lieu of such services, extinguished – High Court also found that the decision in the previous proceeding cannot extinguish the rights of the plaintiff s and the Gram Panchayat in the suit because the biswedars were unaware of the Asst.