Explanation 1.- Explanation 2.— G Explanation 3.-For the purposes of clause (d), “associate”, in relation to a person, means- (i) any individual who had been or is residing in the residential premises (including outhouses) of such person; H PLATINUM THEATRE v. COMPETENT AUTHORITY SMUGGLERS & 1093 FOREIGN EXCHANGE MANIPULATORS ACT, 1976 [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] (ii) any individual who had been or is managing the affairs or A keeping the accounts of such person; (iii) any association of persons, body of individuals, partnership firm, or private company within the meaning of the Companies Act, 1956 ( 1 of 1956), of which such person had been or is a member, partner or director; B (iv) any individual who had been or is a member, partner or director of an association of persons, body of individuals, partnership firm or private company referred to in clause (iii)at any time when such person had been or is a member, partner or director of such association, body, partnership firm or private C company; (v) any person who had been or is managing the affairs, or keeping the accounts, of any association of persons, body of individuals, partnership firm or private company referred to in clause (iii); D (vi) ….” …. 6. Notice of forfeiture. E (1) If, having regard to the value of the properties held by any person to whom this Act applies, either by himself or through any other person on his behalf, his known sources of income, earnings or assets, and any other information or material available to it as a result of action taken under section 18 or otherwise, the competent F authority has reason to believe (the reasons for such belief to be recorded in writting) that all or any of such properties are illegally acquired properties. it may serve a notice upon such person (hereinafter referred to as the person affected) calling upon him within such time as may be specified in the notice, which shall not G be ordinarily less than thirty days, to indicate the sources of his income, earnings or assets, out of which or by means of which he has acquired such property, the evidence on which he relies and other relevant information and particulars, and to show cause why all or any of such properties, as the case may be, should not be H 1094 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A declared to be illegally acquired properties and forfeited to the Central Government under this Act. (2) Where a notice under sub-section (1) to any specifies any property as being held on behalf of such person by any other person. a copy of the notice shall also be served upon such other B person. 7. Forfeiture of property in certain cases. (1) The competent authority may, after considering the explanation, if any, to the show- cause notice issued under section 6, and the materials available before it and after giving to the person affected C (and in a case where the person affected holds any property specified in the notice through any other person, to such other person also) a reasonable opportunity of being heard, by , record a finding whether all or any of the properties in question are illegally acquired properties.