11.3 As noted earlier, the previous demonetisations were not carried out on the strength of sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act inasmuch as both the legislations categorically B stated that the demonetisation was “notwithstanding anything contained in Section 26 of the Act”. In fact, under the 1978 Act, one of the objects of the demonetisation of high denomination bank notes was that such notes facilitated illicit transfer of money for financial transactions C which were harmful to the national economy or were used for illegal purposes and therefore, it was necessary in public interest to demonetise the high denomination bank notes. The use of the non-obstante clause clearly indicates that the Central Government was not demonetising the currency on the recommendation of the Central Board of the Bank D under sub-section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. In fact, this position is demonstrated by the fact that in the year 1978, the then Central Government sought an opinion of the Central Board of the Bank regarding the demonetisation of high denomination bank notes. The proposal for E demonetisation arose from or was initiated by the Central Government which sought the opinion of the Central Board of the Bank. Therefore, the proposal for demonetisation initiated by the Central Government was de hors sub- section (2) of Section 26 of the Act. F 11.4 The fact that the non-obstante clause found a place in Section 3 of the Ordinance of 1946 as well as in Section 3 of the 1978 Act, would clearly indicate that the Central Government, in those cases, did not demonetise the high denomination bank notes on the recommendation made by the Central Board of the Bank under sub-section (2) of G Section 26 of the Act but on the other hand, the same was carried out de hors the said provision by plenary legislations. Hence, the Central Government which initiated the process chose the route through legislation for carrying out the demonetisation rather than by issuing an executive notification in the Gazette of India. H 172 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A 11.5 The above is in contrast with the issuance of the gazette notification dated 8th November, 2016, which was followed by the Ordinance of 2016 and then the Act of 2017 was enacted. The said Act, inter alia, provides that the specified bank notes would cease to be the liability of the Reserve Bank of India or the Central Government. B 11.6 The demonetisationcarried out in the year 2016, of all series of bank notes of denomination Rs.500/- and Rs.1,000/- which forms the subject matter of the controversy at hand was, on the other hand, carried out by the Central Government by issuance of a notification in the Gazette of C India on 8th November, 2016. For ease of reference, the impugned notification dated 8th November, 2016 is extracted as under: “MINISTRY OF FINANCE (Department of Economic Affairs) D NOTIFICATION New Delhi, the 8thNovember, 2016 S.O. 3407(E). — Whereas, the Central Board of Directors of the Reserve Bank of India (hereinafter referred to as the Board) has recommended that bank notes of denominations of the existing E series of the value of five hundred rupees and one thousand rupees (hereinafter referred to as specified bank notes) shall be ceased to be legal tender; And whereas, it has been found that fake currency notes of the specified bank notes have been largely in circulation and it F has been found to be difficult to easily identify genuine bank notes from the fake ones and that the use of fake currency notes is causing adverse effect to the economy of the country; And whereas, it has been found that high denomination bank notes are used for storage of unaccounted wealth as has been G evident from the large cash recoveries made by law enforcement agencies; And whereas, it has also been found that fake currency is being used for financing subversive activities such as drug trafficking and terrorism, causing damage to the economy and H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 173 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.]