However, in the instant case, Srikant Mantri did not convert himself into a corporate entity, instead transferred his membership card of CSE to an existing company and became a Director therein. 13. Accordingly, it has rightly been held by the Board and confirmed D by the Tribunal in the impugned holding that the appellant was not entitled to claim exemption invoking Para 4 of Schedule III to the Regulations and no evidence has been placed by the appellant on record even in rebuttal before this Court. In the given circumstances, there appears no reason or justification to disturb the concurrent finding of fact in the appeal filed at the instance of the appellant Company. E 14. We have heard learned counsel for the parties and with their assistance perused the material available on record. 15. So far as issue no. (i) in reference to stock broker which requires multiple registrations to operate on more than one stock exchange(s) or a single registration will suffice for all the stock exchanges F is concerned, it has been decided by this Court in Securities and Exchange Board of India Vs. National Stock Exchange Members Association and Another1 and remains no more res integra in view of the of this Court wherein it has been held as under:- “47. Thus, in our considered view, the conjoint reading of the G expression “a certificate” as referred to in Section 12(1) of the Act read with the scheme of Rules, 1992 and Regulations 1992, leads to an inevitable conclusion that the stock broker not only 1 2022 SCCOnline SC 1392 H 742 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A has to obtain a certificate of registration from SEBI for each of the stock exchange where he operates, at the same time, has to pay ad valorem fee prescribed in terms of Part III annexed to Regulation 10 of the Regulations, 1992 in reference to each certificate of registration from SEBI in terms of the computation prescribed under Circular dated 28th March, 2002 and fee is to be B paid as a guiding principle by the stock broker which is in conformity with the scheme of Regulations 1992.” 16. The issue involved in the instant appeal confines as to whether the appellant Company is entitled to fee continuity benefits under Para 4 of Schedule III of the Regulations 1992. C 17. To examine the said issue no. (ii), it will be apposite to first take note of para 4 of Schedule III of Regulations, 1992 which is as follows:- “Where a corporate entity has been formed by converting such individual or partnership membership card of the exchange, such D corporate entity shall be exempted from payment of fee for the period for which the erstwhile individual or partnership member, as the case may be, has already paid the fees subject to the condition that the erstwhile individual or partner shall be the whole time director of the corporate member so converted and such E director will continue to hold minimum 40 per cent shares of the paid up equity capital of the corporate entity for a person of at least three years from the date of such conversion.