Some interest on the settlement amount also came in. This has allowed B the Union to work out a more wholesome allotment for the claimants. 44. We are cognizant that no amount is truly adequate when such incidents occur. Nevertheless, a monetary determination had to take place, and the only compensatory mechanism known to common law is that of a lump-sum settlement. This was deemed far more preferable to C the alternative option, whereby the suit would be allowed to be tried without a reasonable expectation of knowing when the trial would come to an end. This determination would of course be subject to further appeals and the process of execution, particularly as UCIL’s assets in India were only about Rs. 100 crores. Without a settlement, immediate funds would D not have been available for the victims. All these factors weighed with this Court while arriving at the settlement. 45. It is the Union’s own stand that the Commissioner has adjudicated all claims through procedure established by law where the possibility of appeal was provided. Further, it has been admitted in the E proceedings culminating in this Court’s dated 19.07.2004 that the amount of settlement was found to be in surplus of the actual requirement, and thus the claimants had been “provided compensation that was more than what was reasonably awardable to them under law”. This reinforces the position that the settlement amount was sufficient to compensate the claimants. F 46. The Union has filed the present curative petitions seeking to reopen the settlement after opposing attempts by private parties to do so. The scenario arising in case of a shortage was clearly outlined in the review , i.e. the responsibility was placed on the Union of India, being a welfare State to make good the deficiency and to take out the G relevant insurance policies. Surprisingly, we are informed that no such insurance policy was taken out. This is gross negligence on part of the Union of India and is a breach of the directions made in the review . The Union cannot be negligent on this aspect and then seek a prayer from this Court to fix such liability on UCC. H 898 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 47. Union of India’s claim for a ‘top up’ has no foundations in any known legal principle. Either a settlement is valid or it is to be set aside in cases where it is vitiated by fraud. No such fraud has been pleaded by the Union, and their only contention relates to a number of victims, injuries, and costs that were not contemplated at the time the settlement was effected. There is also specifically no pleading under the heading of B Claims 2 and 3 that can be said to be admissible, or one that could not be envisaged at the stage of settlement. It was known that medical facilities would have to be extended to rehabilitate people and there was bound to be environmental degradation. In fact, it is the UCC’s allegation that the Union and State Governments did not proactively detoxify or decomission C the site, thereby aggravating the problem.