Further, the defi nitions of ‘motor vehicle’ as well as the defi nition of ‘passenger’ were restricted as a result, the buses owned by the appellants used for carriage of the appellant’s employees and their children gratis were not covered within the charging section. Also, the defi nition of ‘transport vehicle’ was restricted. 44 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. ii. Explanation to Section 3 (1) of the Act of 1955 introduced a legal fi ction requiring assessments to be made on the assumption that even passengers who did not pay a fare, were being carried at the ‘normal rate’ chargeable on the concerned route. There was no defi nition of ‘route’ for the purposes of the Act and the defi nition of ‘route’ under the MV Act could not be referred to as the routes on which the appellant’s buses plied were not ‘routes’ in the sense defi ned under the MV Act. Hence, ‘route’ could not be equated to any ‘road’ so as to hold the appellant-assessee liable to pay tax under the Act of 1955. That for charging tax, by invoking the Explanation to Section 3(1), routes were required to be prescribed, but since no routes had been prescribed, the Explanation could not come to the rescue of the respondent Authorities. iii. In the absence of any prescription as to what the ‘normal rate’ would be, the Respondent Authorities could not have levied tax on the appellant based on artifi cial assumptions. There was no basis to warrant the Authorities from taking into account the fare payable in the adjoining areas, in calculating the ‘normal rate.’ iv. The charging provision could not be given eff ect to unless the terms ‘route’ and ‘normal rate’ had been expressly and unambiguously defi ned. v. The term ‘business’ was defi ned in a narrow manner in the Act of 1955 and meant the business of carriage of passengers and goods. Therefore, when the defi nition of the term ‘business’ was read into the charging provision, the inference was that those who were not in the business of carrying passengers and goods, would not be covered by the charging provision. vi. Intention of the legislature was to make the Act of 1955 applicable only to persons who carried on the business of transport. The defi nition of ‘owner’ would fortify such fi nding, as ‘owner’ was defi ned to be a person holding a permit under the Motor Vehicles Act. 16.2. Having identifi ed the basis for the fi nding of the Division Bench of the High Court that the Act of 1955 was inapplicable to the NHPC LTD. v. STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH 45 SECRETARY & ORS.[B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] appellants herein, we shall now proceed to determine whether such basis has been removed by curing the defects listed hereinabove, by introducing the Amendment and Validation Act of 1997. For this purpose, a tabular representation of the defects pointed out by the High Court and details of the corresponding provision(s) enacted/amendment introduced to remove the defects, is as hereinunder: Sl.