upon the nature of the statute, rights and liabilities thereunder and other relevant factors.” The principle stands reiterated in Securities and Exchange Board of India v. Sunil Krishna Khaitan & Ors.30 23.2 In Jagdish v. State of Karnataka31, this Court referred to a number of decisions to reiterate that where the statute in question does not prescribe a limitation, the rights conferred therein must be exercised within reasonable time. 23.3 This aspect of reasonable time was recently discussed by this Court in Madras Aluminium Co Ltd v. Tamil Nadu State Electricity Board32, having referred a three-Judge Bench decision in SEBI v. Bhavesh Pabari33 stating that the concept is to be applied and judged in each case per its own peculiar facts. 24. We further refer to observations made in Ajaib Singh v. Sirhind Coop. Marketing-cum-Processing Service Society Ltd.34 to the eff ect that Courts should be wary of prescribing specifi c period of limitation in cases where the legislature has refrained from doing so. It was further observed that where the defence of delay is employed in a situation where no limitation is prescribed vide statute, the exact prejudice or loss suff ered by the party if such a delay is condoned, must be shown on facts. In other words, in the absence of a specifi c limitation it would be improper for courts to dismiss a plea is solely on the ground of delay without having examined the nature of laws prejudice caused to the other party in the facts and circumstances of the case at hand. The holding in Ajaib Singh (supra) was affi rmed by a three-Judge Bench of this court in Purohit & Co. v. Khatoonbee.35 25. In light of above discussion, it is clear that when a Court is seized of a situation where no limitation stands provided either by specifi c applicability 30 (2023) 2 SCC 643 31 (2021) 12 SCC 812 32 (2023) 8 SCC 240 33 (2019) 5 SCC 90 34 (1999) 6 SCC 82 35 (2017) 4 SCC 783 838 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. of the Limitation Act or the special statute governing the dispute, the Court must undertake a holistic assessment of the facts and circumstances of the case to examine the possibility of delay causing prejudice to a party. When no limitation stands prescribed it would be inappropriate for a Court to supplant the legislature’ s wisdom by its own and provide a limitation, more so in accordance with what it believes to be the appropriate period. A court should, in such a situation consider in the facts and circumstances of the case at hand, the conduct of the parties, the nature of the proceeding, the length of delay, the possibility of prejudice being caused, and the scheme of the statute in question. It may be underscored here that when a party to a dispute raises a plea of delay despite no specifi c period being prescribed in the statute, such a party also bears the burden of demonstrating how the delay in itself would cause the party additional prejudice or loss as opposed to, the claim subject matter of dispute, being raised at an earlier point in time.