2.3 Having heard learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners as well as the State and taking into consideration the fact that some portion of the land of the writ petitioners has been G utilized for the purpose of construction of the road and no compensation has been paid and the land has been used without acquiring the land under the provisions of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894 (hereinafter referred to as ‘the Act, 1894’), the learned Single Judge allowed the writ petition and directed the appellants to initiate the process for acquisition of the land of the writ petitioners in accordance with law. H 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 2.4 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the and passed by the learned Single Judge, the State preferred the Letters Patent Appeal before the Division Bench of the High Court allowing the delay of 354 days in preferring the LPA. By the impugned the Division Bench of the High Court has refused to condone the delay and consequently has dismissed the LPA on the ground of limitation. Hence, B the present appeal. 3. Shri Abhimanyu Jhamba, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State has vehemently submitted that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the learned Single Judge has materially erred in directing to initiate the process for acquisition of the land of the original writ petitioners C in a writ petition which was filed after a period of 21 years from the date of the use of the land in question which was used for the construction of road. 3.1 It is submitted that before the learned Single Judge it was the specific case on behalf of the State that the land was used with the D consent of the original writ petitioners and the same was done on the request of the writ petitioners and with condition that they will not claim compensation for the same. 3.2 Thus, the impugned and passed by the learned Single Judge has been assailed mainly on the ground of delay and laches. E 4. Present appeal is vehemently opposed by Ms. Radhika Gautam, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the original writ petitioners. 4.1 It is submitted that nothing is on record that at the relevant time the original writ petitioners consented for the use of their land for construction of road without claiming compensation for the same. F 4.2 It is vehemently submitted that as such initially a notification under Section 4 of the Act, 1894 was issued for acquisition of the land at Village Tikkari on 17.05.1996, however the notification so issued under Section 4 of the Act, 1894 was permitted to lapse. G 4.3 It is submitted that thereafter neither the fresh acquisition proceedings were initiated nor even the compensation with respect to the land used for construction of road has been paid. 4.4 It is submitted that the State on the ground of delay and laches cannot evade its legal responsibility towards those from whom private H property has been expropriated.