The above principle has been reiterated in the case of Venkatesan Balsubramaniyan vs. The Intelligence Officer, DRI Bangalore (Cr. Appeal No. 801 of 2020), reported in (2020) 13 Scale F 191 wherein this Court observed that a default bail illegally or erroneously granted under Section 167(2) CrPC can be cancelled under Section 439(2) CrPC. 18. Taking into consideration all these facts and circumstances but without expressing any views on the merits of the ongoing trial, we G are satisfied that the High Court did not take into consideration the relevant material while granting bail to the private respondents. It may be true that an accused cannot be permitted to be languished in jail indefinitely but the Courts while considering the bail application need to wait for the appropriate stage where such a relief can be granted without any adverse H 584 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A impact on the prosecution case. That stage is yet to reach in the present trial as some of the crucial eye witnesses are yet to depose. 19. For the reasons aforestated, the appeals are allowed, the impugned s dated 23.09.2021, passed by the High Court of Judicature at Allahabad, Lucknow Bench, Lucknow in Bail Application No. 624 of B 2019 and Bail Application No. 4309 of 2019, granting regular bail to the private respondents, are hereby set aside and both the respondents are directed to surrender before the Trial Court forthwith, failing which coercive action shall be taken against them. 20. However, the respondents shall be at liberty to apply for bail C after examination of all the eye witnesses or other material witnesses. Any such application shall be considered as per its own merit without being influenced by the observations made hereinabove. 21. The Trial Court is directed to decide the case expeditiously and make an endeavour to conclude the trial within one year. D 22. As a sequel thereto, pending interlocutory applications also stand disposed of. Ankit Gyan Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Aarsh Choudhary, LCRA) E F G H