Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules requires no analytical approach to understand that it contains two limbs. Firstly, to attract it requires the satisfaction of the President that “in the interest of the security of the State” it is not expedient to hold any inquiry in the manner provided in D the CCA Rules. The second limb enables the disciplinary authority to consider, having regard to the circumstances of the case to consider and make such s thereon, as it deems fit. In the case on hand in invocation of the provision of Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules, dated 11.08.2007 was passed dismissing the appellant from service with effect E from 01.09.2003 without conducting inquiry upon the satisfaction of the President that it is not expedient to hold any inquiry in the manner provided in the CCA Rules “in the interest of the security of the State”. Therefore, the first question is whether the dispensation with the inquiry based on satisfaction that “in the interest of the security of the State” it is not expedient to hold any inquiry, invites interference. Subject to its answer F the question whether the of dismissal invites interference, has to be looked into. 23. Paragraph 126 of the decision of the Constitution Bench in Tulsiram Patel’s case (supra) would reveal that the Constitution Bench, G while considering a provision pari materia to Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules viz., Rule 14 of the Railway Servants Rules, found error inasmuch as the issue was considered by confining to Rule 14 itself, without taking into account the second proviso of Article 311 (2) of the Constitution of India. After observing that exercise of power is always referrable to the H 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A source of such power and must be considered in conjunction with it and held that the source of power to dispense with an inquiry, in such circumstances, is derived from the second proviso to Article 311 (2). Bearing in mind the said observation and holding we have carefully considered the passed by the Administrative Tribunal which was subjected to further judicial review by the High Court. We have no B hesitation to hold that a bare perusal of the of the Tribunal would reveal that the tribunal had considered the question not confining its consideration only to Rule 16 (iii) of the CCA Rules but also taking into consideration the source of power derived from the second proviso to Article 311 (ii) of the Constitution of India. Obviously, the question whether C it is expedient to hold an inquiry as provided under the CCA Rules has to be considered and the satisfaction as to its expediency or inexpediency has to be reached based on “interest of the security of the State”. The meaning and scope of the expression ‘security of the State’ has been considered by the Constitution Bench in Tulsiram Patel’s case (supra). It was observed that the expressions “Law and ”, “Public ” D and “security of the State” have been used in different Acts.