15.2. It was further submitted that the accused were not only involved in a conspiracy to kill the deceased, Vikash Panwar, but also D actively participated in his murder. That having regard to the gravity of the offences alleged against the accused, the bail applications ought not to have been allowed. With the aforesaid submissions, it was prayed that the present appeals be allowed, the impugned s be set aside and the bail E bonds of the respondents-accused be cancelled. 16. Per contra, learned counsel for the respondents-accused, supported the impugned s and submitted that the same do not suffer from such perversity as would justify interference by this Court. 16.1. It was further submitted that no matter how serious the F nature of the alleged offences may be, the accused shall be entitled to be released on bail if the competent court is of the prima-facie view that the accused was/were not involved in the alleged crime. 16.2. That the conclusion of trial in connection with F.I.R. No. 134 of 2020, would take a considerable amount of time and it would be G against the interest of justice and the fundamental value of liberty to keep the accused in custody for such an indefinite period. Therefore, the High Court was right in enlarging the accused on bail. 16.3. It was contended that there was no justifiable cause for the apprehension that the respondents-accused would influence the H ROHIT BISHNOI v. THE STATE OF RAJASTHAN & ANR. 511 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] witnesses. That when the statement of prosecution witness, Nirma who A turned hostile, was recorded by the Trial Court, the respondents-accused were in judicial custody. Therefore, there is no way that they could have influenced the said witness to turn hostile. 16.4. That the respondents-accused had no intention to misuse the liberty granted to them and this was evidenced by the fact that there B has been no allegation against them as to non-compliance or abuse of conditions of bail. 16.5. Learned counsel for respondent-accused, Vikas Vishnoi submitted that the only role ascribed to the said accused in the alleged crime is that he was riding on a motorcycle together with a co-accused C at the time of incident. That no allegation has been made as to the said accused inflicting any injuries to the deceased. 16.6. As regards the allegations against respondent-accused, Rajendra Bishnoi to the effect that he hit the deceased on his head with the butt of the pistol, it is submitted that the same were baseless and D there was no evidence to prove the same. So also, the allegations against respondent-accused, Budharam to the effect that he had fired bullet shots at the deceased. With the aforesaid submissions, it is prayed that the present appeals be dismissed as being devoid of merit and the impugned s be E affirmed. 17. Having regard to the contention of the learned counsel for the appellant that the impugned s granting bail to the respondents- accused are bereft of any reasoning and they are cryptic and bail has been granted in a casual manner, we extract those portions of the F impugned s dated 14 February, 2022 and 02 February, 2023 passed by the High Court which provides the “reasoning” of the Court for granting bail, as under : Impugned dated 14 February, 2022 “Heard learned counsel for the parties.