), is to be made accessible to D all members as a place of recreation, garden or playground. 175. The words ‘communal and recreational purpose’, for which the OSR area is to be used, in the case of the impugned Rule/Regulation, appears to indicate that the word ‘communal’ is to be given a meaning, E which would be in keeping with the object of law, enable members of the public as well, to gain access when the layout is more than 10000 square meters. In this regard even in Pt. Chetram (supra) we recapture the following: “6. Reserving any site for any street, open space, park, school F etc. in a layout plan is normally a public purpose as it is inherent in such reservation that it shall be used by the public in general. The effect of such reservation is that the owner ceases to be a legal owner of the land in dispute and he holds the land for the benefit of the society or the public in general. It may result in creating an obligation in nature of trust and may preclude the owner from G transferring or selling his interest in it. It may be true as held by the High Court that the interest which is left in the owner is a residuary interest which may be nothing more than a right to hold this land in trust for the specific purpose specified by the coloniser in the sanctioned layout plan. But the question is, does it entitle H 1162 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A the Corporation to claim that the land so specified should be transferred to the authority free of cost. That is not made out from any provision in the Act or on any principle of law. …” 176. Rule 61(7) of the Andhra Pradesh Rules in Andhra Pradesh, which we have referred to, is unambiguous that the area used as B ‘greenery’ shall be accessible to the ‘entire community’. It is to be secured by means of the gift contemplated in Rule 61(14). While, we cannot be sitting in over the said Rule, we would think that the purport of the impugned Rule/Regulation must be understood as persuading the Court to not place a narrow interpretation. C 177. In this regard we find reassurance in the view taken by the courts in the United States even in the presence of the taking clause under the 5th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. In an Article titled “Techniques for Preserving Open Spaces” published in 75 Harv. L. Rev. 1622, we find the following: D “Required Dedication and Reservation. — A municipality can require the developer of a new subdivision to provide such facilities as roads, streets, sewers, and playgrounds as a condition to plat approval. In the leading case of Ayres v. City Council a requirement that the subdivider dedicate land for road and street purposes and E leave undeveloped an accompanying area for trees and shrubbery was approved on the theory that since the new subdivision created the need for and would specially benefit from the improvements, the developer and ultimate purchasers rather than the entire community should bear the cost of providing them.