Till 1984, the Association used to organise the fair itself using voluntary members’ labour but in 1985, the fair was organised by a professional organiser i.e., through the Company (Exhibition and Trade Fairs Pty Limited). There were forty-eight exhibitors out of which only twenty-nine were members of the Association. The claim was initially rejected by the Commissioner of Income Tax on the basis that the receipt must be treated as an ordinary trading receipt received in the course of the Association’s business. It was held that the principle of mutuality did not apply. Ultimately, the High Court of Australia by a majority of 2:1 held that the Commissioner was right and affi rmed his decision and set aside the decision of the Tribunal. Analysis: 9. While considering the questions that arise in these appeals, we have to take into account the following aspects: a) Whether the of this Court in Cawnpore Club is a binding precedent which ought to have been taken note of and considered by a Co-ordinate Bench of this Court while deciding the case of Bangalore Club? b) Whether the of the Karnataka High Court in Canara Bank has to be restricted to the facts of the said case although the special leave petition fi led against the said was dismissed by this Court? c) Whether a Coordinate Bench of this Court has rightly decided the case of Bangalore Club? 10. Learned senior counsel, Sri Datar, placed heavy reliance on the of this Court in Kunhayammed vs. State of Kerala, AIR (2000) SC 2587, to contend that once an appeal has been preferred or a petition seeking leave to appeal has been converted into an appeal before the Supreme Court, that is, once leave has been granted in a Special Leave Petition, the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court is invoked and the or 1016 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. passed in appeal would attract the doctrine of merger. The may be of reversal, modifi cation or merely of affi rmation. That in the case of Cawnpore Club, the of this Court clearly attracts the doctrine of merger inasmuch as this Court gave its imprimatur to the of the Allahabad High Court impugned in those civil appeals by categorically stating that the doctrine of mutuality would apply in the context of the interest earned on fi xed deposits made in a bank by Cawnpore Club. If that be so, then the law declared by the Supreme Court in the case of Cawnpore Club would be a binding precedent and ignoring the said in a subsequent case, a Coordinate Bench of this Court had passed a contradictory , i.e., in the case Bangalore Club. Therefore, it was contended that the of this Court in Bangalore Club being per incuriam, cannot have any precedential value and if this Bench is to accept the said position, then the earlier passed by this Court in Cawnpore Club must be applied in the instant case, or in the alternative, the matter could be referred to a larger Bench for considering the correctness or otherwise of the in Bangalore Club.