(2009) 9 SCC 221 with reference to para 45 wherein it is observed that the opinions of the experts rendered on the basis of their expertise, which were notarised would be reliable more so when the respondents did not question the correctness thereof either before the Court or the Commission and when the respondents did not examine any expert to show that the opinions are not correct. 11. In our opinion, the said observation in the cannot read as a provision in the statute but will be to assess the evidentiary value keeping in view the overall nature of the case and the evidence that is brought on record and if the affi davit is in support of such material. In the instant case, though in the summary procedure before the NCDRC the cross-examination in the nature as done in the Civil Court would not be followed, it is no doubt true that in a normal circumstance it would be open to fi le interrogatories relating to the statements made in the affi davit. In the instant case it is true 574 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. that no such eff ort has been put forth by the respondents but in our view it is not detrimental. 12. As against what was considered in the case which has been cited by the learned senior counsel for the appellant wherein it is clearly indicated that the medical records had been referred to in the affi davit fi led by the doctor, a close perusal of the affi davit fi led by Dr. Satyajit Pathak would indicate that he has stated only about administering the vaccine and the fact of the shoulder pain being reported to him subsequently. The advice he had given in that regard and the medication prescribed is also stated. He thereafter states the names of the doctors to whom he had referred the appellant for further treatment. Neither the affi davit of the doctors who had subsequently treated the appellant with specifi c reference to the shoulder pain has been fi led nor has the said doctor who has fi led the affi davit indicated any reference in medical terms or with regard to his medical research on the subject to place it on affi davit that the vaccination was the cause due to which the appellant had suff ered ‘myositis’ and had led to the disablement in the nature as stated by the appellant seeking for compensation. The only averment in this regard is contained in para 24 of the affi davit wherein he states that he being the family doctor of the appellant is of the opinion that it is nothing but the reaction of the Engerix-B vaccine because of which the complainant has suff ered a lot. As already noted there is absolutely no material based on which such conclusion has been reached by the said doctor except to opine in that manner. In such circumstance, the non cross- examination or tendering interrogatories was wholly unnecessary in respect of the affi davit fi led by him.