Thommen and V. Ramaswami, JJ.) is unsustainable in law. The proposition that where applications are called for prescribing a particular date as the last date for fi ling the applications, the eligibility of the candidates shall have to be judged with reference to that date and that date alone is a well-established one. A person who acquires the prescribed qualifi cation subsequent to such prescribed date, cannot be considered at all. An advertisement or notifi cation issued/published calling for applications constitutes a representation to the public and the authority issuing it is bound by such representation. It cannot act contrary to it. One reason behind this proposition is that if it were known that persons who obtained the qualifi cations after the prescribed date but before the date of interview would be allowed to appear for the interview, other similarly placed persons could also have applied. Just because some of the persons had applied notwithstanding that they had not acquired the prescribed qualifi cations by the prescribed date, they could not have been treated on a preferential basis…..” 56. Apart from all of this, the correctness of Ram Kumar Gijroyacase (supra) was referred to a three-Judge Bench in the case of Karn Singh Yadav (two-Judges). A perusal of para six of the referral clearly shows that the Bench was echoing the ratio of the three-judge Bench in Ashok Kumar Sharma’s case (supra) though there is no express reference to the said case. However, when the matter came before a three-Judge Bench, the reference was not answered and even after noticing that Ram Kumar Gijroya case (supra) covered the case of Karn Singh Yadav (two-Judges), the Court, however, denied relief to Karn Singh Yadav, the petitioner by holding that since the appellant was never appointed to the post at that length of time it 70 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. was not possible to grant any relief to the appellant. Ram Kumar Gijorya (supra) is clearly distinguishable. 57. Be that as it may, we are bound by the of the three-Judge Bench in Ashok Kumar Sharma (supra) and we follow the said and reiterate the principle laid down thereon. It is also interesting to note that even in Deepak Yadav (supra), a , strongly relied upon by the learned counsel for the petitioners, the principle in Ashok Kumar Sharma (supra) has been reiterated. However, because of what the Court called an abnormal and cataclysmal year, an exception was made due to the ongoing pandemic, lockdown and restrictions imposed thereof. In Alok Kumar Singh (supra), no rules like the ones present in this case are shown to have existed. In the present case, there are clear prescriptions as to eligibility, as has been discussed herein above. 58. In Gaurav Singh’scase (supra), this Court has held as under:- “A technical irregularity in a certifi cate issued by the competent authority in respect of the correct fi nancial year cannot be equated with an Income and Asset Certifi cate in respect of a diff erent fi nancial year when the Income and Assets for the particular fi nancial year prior to the year of submission of the application, goes to the root of eligibility of a candidate to qualify in the EWS category.