IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 107 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] The relevant portion of Article 356 is extracted below: “356. Provisions in case of failure of constitutional machinery in States: (1) If the President, on receipt of a report from the Governor of a State or otherwise, is satisfi ed that a situation has arisen in which the Government of the State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of this Constitution, the President may by Proclamation— (a) assume to himself all or any of the functions of the Government of the State and all or any of the powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor or any body or authority in the State other than the Legislature of the State; (b) declare that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament; (c) make such incidental and consequential provisions as appear to the President to be necessary or desirable for giving eff ect to the objects of the Proclamation, including provisions for suspending in whole or in part the operation of any provisions of this Constitution relating to any body or authority in the State: Provided that nothing in this clause shall authorise the President to assume to himself any of the powers vested in or exercisable by a High Court, or to suspend in whole or in part the operation of any provision of this Constitution relating to High Courts. […]” 180. Article 356 accounts for a situation where there is a breakdown – a ‘failure’ as the Article states - of the constitutional machinery in the State. Though this phrase is found in the marginal note of the provision and not its text, s of Constitution Benches of this Court have held that Article 356 must be interpreted with reference to the marginal note.172 For the President to issue a Proclamation under Article 356, two pre-conditions 172 State of Rajasthan v. Union of India (1977) 3 SCC 392 and SR Bommai v. Union of India, (1994) 3 SCC 1 108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. have to be fulfi lled, which are: (a) the satisfaction of the President that a situation has arisen in which the government of a State cannot be carried on in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution; and (b) the satisfaction that such a situation has arisen must be formed either on the basis of a report sent by the Governor of the State or otherwise. If these two conditions have been fulfi lled, the President by a Proclamation may: (a) assume to himself “all or any” functions of the Government of the State and “all or any” powers vested in or exercisable by the Governor or any other authority in the State; (b) declare that the powers of the Legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament; and (c) make “incidental and consequential” provisions which are “necessary or desirable” for giving eff ect to the object of the Proclamation.