But it does not create any right or interest of the Corporation in the land so specified. The resolution of the Standing Committee, therefore, that the area specified in the layout plan for the park and school shall vest in the Corporation free of cost, was not in accordance with law.” H (Emphasis supplied) ASSOCIATION OF VASANTH APARTMENTS’ OWNERS v. 1107 V. GOPINATH & ORS. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] 88. Still further, the Court held as follows: A “6. Reserving any site for any street, open space, park, school etc. in a layout plan is normally a public purpose as it is inherent in such reservation that it shall be used by the public in general. The effect of such reservation is that the owner ceases to be a legal owner of the land in dispute and he holds the land for the benefit B of the society or the public in general. It may result in creating an obligation in nature of trust and may preclude the owner from transferring or selling his interest in it. It may be true as held by the High Court that the interest which is left in the owner is a residuary interest which may be nothing more than a right to hold C this land in trust for the specific purpose specified by the coloniser in the sanctioned layout plan. But the question is, does it entitle the Corporation to claim that the land so specified should be transferred to the authority free of cost. That is not made out from any provision in the Act or on any principle of law. …” D (Emphasis supplied) T. VIJAYALAKSHMI AND OTHERS V. TOWN PLANNING MEMBER AND ANOTHER44 89. In this case, the appellants were the owners of agricultural land, who had been permitted to use the same for non-agricultural purposes E in 2004. An application was filed for approval of a building plan. This Court, inter alia, held as follows: “15. The law in this behalf is explicit. Right of a person to construct residential houses in the residential area is a valuable right. The said right can only be regulated in terms of a regulatory statute F but unless there exists a clear provision the same cannot be taken away. It is also a trite law that the building plans are required to be dealt with in terms of the existing law. Determination of such a question cannot be postponed far less taken away. Doctrine of legitimate expectation in a case of this nature would have a role to play. G xxx xxx xxx 18. It is, thus, now well-settled law that an application for grant of permission for construction of a building is required to be decided 44 (2006) 8 SCC 502 H 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A in accordance with law applicable on the day on which such permission is granted. However, a statutory authority must exercise its jurisdiction within a reasonable time. (See Kuldeep Singh v. Govt.