We do not think that there needs to be any elaborate consideration of the meaning of the word “compensation” in terms of the amount F referred to under the section. The amount referred to under the section is the amount @ 15% compound interest on the amount already deposited, as ed [Manjeet Kaur Monga v. K.L. Suneja, 2015 SCC OnLine Comp AT 593] by the Tribunal. Merely, because a liquidated amount is not stipulated or determined by the G Tribunal, it cannot be said that it is not the compensation. Once the interest, as ed by the Tribunal, is calculated that will be the amount of compensation referred to under Section 12-B of the Act. 6. During the course of hearing of the appeals another interesting H point came up for consideration. It has been brought to the notice M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1137 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] of this Court that when the builder company, the appellant in the A appeals arising out of SLPs (C) Nos. 10484-85 of 2016, had taken the pay from Citibank on 30-4-2005, the amount of Rs 4,53,750 covered by the pay had actually been deducted from their current account. But at the same time, the amount had not been paid/received by the payee. In the instant case, the B account-holder cancelled the pay and requested for re-credit of the amount and, accordingly, it is seen that Citibank has re- credited the amount to the account only on 22-6-2016. It is the contention of the account-holder company that for the period the money was with the Bank, the account-holder is entitled to interest and that can be the compensation if at all that can be paid to the C appellant in Civil Appeals Nos. 5032-33 of 2016 for the period after the cancellation of the allotment. We may, of course, take note of the submission of the builder that in terms of the principles of restitution under Section 144 CPC and on the general principle of restitution, the builder cannot be put to unmerited injustice and D the appellant should not take the undue advantage as held by this Court in Citibank N.A. v. Hiten P. Dalal [Citibank N.A. v. Hiten P. Dalal, (2016) 1 SCC 411 : (2016) 1 SCC (Civ) 342] , as canvassed by the learned counsel appearing for the builder. 7. The learned counsel appearing for Citibank, inviting our E reference to the additional affidavit contended that it is a fact that the money from the current account of the builder has been deducted on 30-4-2005 and it has not been paid to the payee. But, at the same time, it cannot be said that the money was enjoyed by the Bank, since being a pay , at any moment the instrument is presented, the Bank was bound to honour the same and, F therefore, only for the lapse on the part of either the payee or the account-holder for encashing or cancelling the instrument, the Bank cannot be saddled with any interest.