Before we finally pronounce on the question as to whether Article 96 would apply in respect of a void transaction, we deem it appropriate to deal with certain other aspects. The waqf in question is the creation of Akbar Ali Khan on 26.07.1934. It is the case of the appellant that it was registered as waqf al aulad at No. 1476. The transferor of the second sale deed, viz., Qasim Ali Khan took over as B the Mutawalli when Akbar Ali Khan, his father, died on 16.02.1958. It is not in dispute that Qasim Ali Khan instituted OS 1 of 1950 wherein he impleaded his father Akbar Ali Khan and the transferee of a part of the waqf property which was effected by his father. The Decree of the Trial Court in favour of the plaintiff was affirmed by the High Court by C dated 11.07.1962. The affirmed the view of the Trial Court that there was a valid waqf. It is categorically found by the High Court that all the legal requirements in respect of the creation of the waqf by a Shia under the Mohammedan law had been made out. It was held that Akbar Ali Khan did create a waqf-alal-aulad on 26.07.1934 which was effective in law. Therefore, as between the waqif who was D the first Mutawalli also, and between his son, Qasim Ali Khan, the findings in the of the High Court clearly holds that there was a valid waqf. After the death of Akbar Ali Khan, his son Qasim Ali Khan took over as Mutawalli. He instituted OS 421 of 1959. Therein, his brothers were the defendants, viz., Kasim Ali Khan and Raza Ali Khan. It was E the act of the defendants getting their names mutated in the Revenue Records, which occasioned the said suit. It is during the pendency of the suit, i.e., on 14.10.1960, one of the defendants Kazim Ali Khan transferred his alleged, one-third right in favour of the first respondent in one of the Appeals before us. The suit was decreed. The High Court in the Appeal filed by the defendants, remanded the matter back by dated F 25.09.1963. However, while it was so, consolidation proceedings commenced under the U.P. Consolidation of Proceedings Act, 1953. Under the provisions of the said Act, the proceedings in the suit would abate when consolidation commences. Thereafter, it is the Consolidation Officer, whose decision is appealable to the Settlement Officer and which G latter Authority’s decision can be revised in a Revision by the Deputy Director, who hold sway. The plaintiff in the suit, viz., Qasim Ali Khan, accordingly, placed his objections against the name of his brothers being entered. The objections of Qasim Ali Khan were found to be with merit. Resultantly, the names of the brothers were directed to be removed and their place, the name of the waqf was directed to be entered. The brothers H SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 971 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]