Under the said circumstances, the legal point raised on the side of the petitioner is really having subsisting force. On that score alone, these petitions are liable to be allowed.” (Emphasis supplied) H 178 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A 80. Thus, one Co-ordinate Bench of the High Court, virtually sat in appeal over the of another Co-ordinate Bench and took a contrary view. The learned Single Judge says in his impugned that the High Court in its earlier dated 11.09.2014 referred to above omitted to consider the decision of this Court in the case of Vinay Tyagi (supra) and therefore, per incuriam whereas, the decision of this Court B in the case of Vinay Tyagi (supra) was very much looked into and has been referred to in the dated 11.09.2014. Thus, two contrary views have been taken by different judges of equal strength of the High Court on the same subject and litigation. 81. We would like to extend a word of caution over here. While it C is open to a learned Judge to differ with a view of a Co-ordinate Bench the sequitur is to make a reference to a larger Bench on papers being placed before the learned Chief Justice. The learned Judge cannot simply say “with due respect, I do not agree to the ratio...” or “the decision is per incuriam as a binding of the Supreme Court has not been D considered….” and proceed to take a contrary view as done in the impugned . Such an approach would result in conflicting opinions of Co-ordinate Benches, resulting in judicial chaos and is, thus, improper. This is something atrocious and unacceptable. 82. We may remind the High Court of the observations made by E this Court in Official Liquidator v. Dayanand and Others reported in (2008) 10 SCC 1. In this decision, this Court has emphasised the adherence to basics of judicial discipline and the need for predictability and a certainty in law. In that context, certain earlier s have been referred to as to whether one Bench of the Court not following the view of another Co-ordinate Bench has been commented upon as under: F “78. There have been several instances of different Benches of the High Courts not following the s/s of coordinate and even larger Benches. In some cases, the High Courts have gone to the extent of ignoring the law laid down by this Court without any tangible reason. Likewise, there G have been instances in which smaller Benches of this Court have either ignored or bypassed the ratio of the s of the larger Benches including the Constitution Benches. These cases are illustrative of non-adherence to the rule of judicial discipline which is sine qua non for sustaining the system. In Mahadeolal Kanodia v. Administrator General of W.B. [AIR H STATE THROUGH CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. 179 HEMENDHRA REDDY & ANOTHER. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 1960 SC 936 : (1960) 3 SCR 578] this Court observed : (AIR A p. 941, para 19) “19.