Explanation.--For the purposes of sub-section (1), the expression "public servant" includes such person-- (a) who has ceased to hold the offi ce during which the off ence is alleged to have been committed; or (b) who has ceased to hold the offi ce during which the off ence is alleged to have been committed and is holding an offi ce other than the offi ce during which the off ence is alleged to have been committed. A. SREENIVASA REDDY v. RAKESH SHARMA AND ANR. 955 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] (2) Where for any reason whatsoever any doubt arises as to whether the previous sanction as required under sub-section (1) should be given by the Central Government or the State Government or any other authority, such sanction shall be given by that Government or authority which would have been competent to remove the public servant from his offi ce at the time when the off ence was alleged to have been committed. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),— (a) no fi nding, sentence or passed by a special Judge shall be reversed or altered by a Court in appeal, confi rmation or revision on the ground of the absence of, or any error, omission or irregularity in, the sanction required under sub-section (1), unless in the opinion of that court, a failure of justice has in fact been occasioned thereby; (b) no court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on the ground of any error, omission or irregularity in the sanction granted by the authority, unless it is satisfi ed that such error, omission or irregularity has resulted in a failure of justice; (c) no court shall stay the proceedings under this Act on any other ground and no court shall exercise the powers of revision in relation to any interlocutory passed in any inquiry, trial, appeal or other proceedings. (4) In determining under sub-section (3) whether the absence of, or any error, omission or irregularity in, such sanction has occasioned or resulted in a failure of justice the court shall have regard to the fact whether the objection could and should have been raised at any earlier stage in the proceedings. Explanation.— For the purposes of this section,— (a) error includes competency of the authority to grant sanction; (b) a sanction required for prosecution includes reference to any requirement that the prosecution shall be at the instance of a specifi ed authority or with the sanction of a specifi ed person or any requirement of a similar nature.” 956 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 53. Sanction contemplated under Section 197 of the CrPC concerns a public servant who “is accused of any off ence alleged to have been committed by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his offi cial duty” whereas, the off ences contemplated in the PC Act, 1988 are those which cannot be treated as acts either directly or even purportedly done in the discharge of his offi cial duties.