Having observed thus, the three-Judge Bench went on to consider the said question. In that regard, paragraphs 32, 33 and 53 are relevant and reads thus: 2 (2003) 4 SCC 305 H 3 (2015) 1 SCC 166 SABARMATI GAS LIMITED v. SHAH ALLOYS LIMITED 199 [C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J.] “32. As observed earlier, Sub-section (1) of Section 22 may A be divided into two parts. In one part, it provides that “no proceedings’’ be instituted for the winding up of the industrial company or for execution, distress or the like against any of the properties of such industrial company, and in the second part it provides that “no suit” for the recovery of money or B for the enforcement of any security against the industrial company or of any guarantee in respect of any loans or advances granted to the industrial company, “shall lie or be proceeded with further, except with the consent of the Board or, as the case may be, the Appellate Authority.” C 33. Undoubtedly, the present proceedings viz. “application for recovery” cannot specifically be described as proceedings for execution, distress or the like against any of the properties, but it is certainly a proceeding which results in and in fact had resulted in the execution and distress against the property of the Company and is therefore liable to be construed as a D proceeding for the execution, distress or the like against any of the properties of the industrial company. We are of the view that such a construction would be within the intendment of Parliament wherever the proceedings for recovery of a debt which has been secured by a mortgage or pledge of the E property of the borrower are instituted. Surely, there is no purpose in construing that Parliament intended that such an application for recovery by summary procedure should lie or be proceeded with, but only its execution be interdicted or inhibited especially. In this context, it may be remembered that the proceedings by way of an application for recovery F according to a summary procedure as provided under the RDDB Act are not referred to in Section 22 simply because the RDDB Act had not then been enacted. 53. Moreover, we have found nothing contrary in the intention of the SICA to exclude a recovery application from the purview G of Section 22, indeed there could be no reason for such exclusion since the purpose of the provision is to protect the properties of a sick company, so that they may be dealt with in the best possible way for the purpose of its revival by the BIFR. In State of Punjab v. The Okara Grain Buyers Syndicate H 200 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A Ltd. MANU/SC/0023/1963: AIR 1964 SC 669, the Court articulated the importance of preserving the beneficent purpose of the statute and observed: 14. … We shall therefore proceed to examine the provisions of the Act on the footing that the test for determining B whether the Government is bound by a statute is whether it is expressly named in the provision which it is contended binds it, or whether it “is manifest that from the terms of the statute, that it was the intention of the legislature that it shall be bound”, and that the intention to bind would be clearly made out if the beneficent purpose of the statute C would be wholly frustrated unless the Government were bound.” 13.