any to pay any amount to the aforesaid two persons namely Shri A Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira out of the total sale consideration of Rs. 172.08 crores. Therefore, it is prayed to allow the prayers and issue the directions as prayed in the present application even by invoking the principle of restitution. 4. Shri N. Venkataraman, learned ASG appearing on behalf of B the Management of the Unitech Limited has pointed out the number of facts and various transactions with respect to the land in question right from 2005 onwards to demonstrate and satisfy this Hon’ble Court that Unitech Limited was the absolute owner of the land in question and that neither Shri Naresh Kempanna nor Col. Mohinder Khaira were having C any title and/or ownership rights in the land in question and therefore, were not entitled to any amount out of the sale consideration/sale transaction of the land in question. 5. Present application has been vehemently opposed by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the respective respondents - Shri Naresh D Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira. Number of submissions have been made on merits on behalf of the contesting respondents – in whose favour amount is already disbursed/paid pursuant to the earlier (s) passed by this Court. Pursuant to the earlier (s) passed by this Court, it appears that solely on the basis of the report submitted by Justice Dhingra Committee on the basis of one MOU dated 02.01.2018 and E without adjudicating the rights of the respective parties, more particularly, the claims of Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira to receive the amount, amount of Rs. 98.07 crores has been paid to Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira (Rs. 56.11 crores paid to Shri Naresh Kempanna and Rs. 41.96 crores paid to Col. Mohinder Khaira). F However, it is required to be noted that even the Justice Dhingra Committee submitted the report to pay the said amount to the aforesaid two persons without any adjudication of the claims of the Unitech, M/s Devas and aforesaid two persons, namely, Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira and just on the basis of MOU dated 02.01.2018, Justice Dhingra Committee submitted the report on the basis of which, G this Court passed the directing to pay amount of Rs. 56.11 crores to Shri Naresh Kempanna and Rs. 41.96 crores to Col. Mohinder Khaira out of sale proceeds of the land sold to M/s Devas Global LLP. Even there was no adjudication by this Court on the entitlement of the amount paid to Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira. There are H 958 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A serious disputes on the entitlement of the aforesaid amount already paid to Shri Naresh Kempanna and Col. Mohinder Khaira. Thus, there was an obvious error and/or mistake on the part of this Court in directing to pay Rs. 56.11 crores to Shri Naresh Kempanna and Rs. 41.96 crores to Col. Mohinder Khaira, which as such was without any adjudication of the claims of the aforesaid two persons.