Wherever the vacant area B can be segregated from the residential house, it can be separated and utilized for earmarked purpose i.e. school premises. (10) As regard to the land where houses have been constructed by the petitioners, the Gram Panchayat and the Deputy Commissioner can exercise either of the two options, namely, (i) C to take land double of the occupied/ encroached land from the petitioners wherever they offer such land provided that the market value of such land is not less than the market value of the encroached land; or (ii) the Gram Panchayat may pass resolution whereupon the Deputy Commissioner shall get the market value of the land assessed and in that case, the petitioners instead of D giving double of the land shall be liable to pay such value. (11) Wherever the area under occupation of the petitioner is more than 200 sq.yards, the Deputy Commissioner may re-ascertain as to how many family (ies) are residing and whether such families are to be treated as ‘separate units’ or one unit. E (12) The land to be offered by the petitioners must be in close vicinity of the school so that it can be utilized for identified common purpose. (13) The needful shall be done within four months from the date of receipt of a certified copy of this . Till then status quo F shall continue to be maintained. (14) Disposed of accordingly.” 2.10 That the appellants preferred a Review Application being RA No. 284 of 2016, which was also dismissed vide dated G 21.10.2016. The passed by the High Court disposing of the main writ petition in terms of the above and the dismissing the review application are the subject matter of the present appeals. 3. Present appeals were heard by this Court on 29.03.2022. This Court passed the following :- H THE STATE OF HARYANA AND ORS. v. SATPAL & ORS. 17 [M. R. SHAH, J.] “The Assistant Collector, Mustafabad is hereby directed to A submit a report along with Map/Sketch pointing out the exact measurement of the land bearing Khasra No.61/2 which was earmarked for the School and the playground. In the report, it shall also be mentioned the total area of Khasra No.61/2 and the measurement of the area occupied as School and the area to be B used for playground and that whether in the land other than being used for School there are any other encroachers or not other than the respondents herein and the total area occupied by the respondents herein and whether just adjacent to Khasra Nos.61/ 2 and 62, there is any other land available which can be purchased by the respondents herein and which can be offered to the C Panchayat which can be used for the playground. The aforesaid exercise shall be completed within a period of 10 days from today. Put up on 19.04.2022.” D 3.1 Pursuant to the passed by this Court dated 29.03.2022, fresh demarcation of the Khasra Nos. 61/2 and 62 of Mauja Magharpur has been undertaken and a report has been filed before this Court.