Section 7(5) provides that a reference in a contract to a document containing an arbitration clause constitutes an arbitration agreement if the contract is in writing and the reference is such as to make that arbitration clause part of the contract. i. Separability of the arbitration agreement 90. The concept of separability or severability of an arbitration agreement from the underlying contract is a legal fi ction which acknowledges the separate nature of an arbitration agreement. The separate nature of the arbitration agreement from the underlying contract is one of the cornerstones of arbitration law. As Redfern and Hunter explain, an arbitration agreement is juridically independent from the underlying contract in which it is contained.87 87 Redfern and Hunter on International Arbitration (7th edn, Oxford University Press, 2023) 81 113 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. The concept of separability refl ects the presumptive intention of the parties to distinguish the underlying contract, which captures the substantive rights and obligations of the parties, from an arbitration agreement which provides a procedural framework to resolve the disputes arising out of the underlying contract. This presumption has various consequences in theory and practice, the most important being that an arbitration agreement survives the invalidity or termination of the underlying contract. 91. Schwebel, Sobota and Manton explain in a book on International Arbitration that the separability presumption88 is based on four factors: fi rst, the intention of the parties to require arbitration of any dispute arising between them, including disputes over the validity of the contract; second, preventing an unwilling party from avoiding its earlier commitment by alleging the invalidity of the underlying contract; third, since the arbitration agreement and the underlying contract are considered as two separate agreements, the insuffi ciency in fulfi lling formalities in the underlying contract would not result in the invalidity of the arbitration agreement; and fourth, if the separability presumption is discarded, courts will have to rule on the merits of the disputes instead of the arbitral tribunals. 92. The rationale for the separability presumption lies in the contractual freedom of the parties to an arbitration agreement to settle their disputes by proceedings before an arbitral tribunal to the exclusion of courts. According to the common grain of business understanding and expectation, the parties intend all their disputes over substantive rights and obligations under the underlying contract to be resolved by the arbitral tribunal.89 Therefore, the separability presumption ensures that an arbitration agreement survives a termination, repudiation, or frustration of a contract to give eff ect to the true intention of the parties and ensure sanctity of the arbitral proceedings. 93. Switzerland was one of the fi rst jurisdictions to recognize the separability presumption. In a decision rendered by the Swiss Federal Tribunal in 1933, it was observed that “[e]ven where the arbitration clause is contained in the same document as the substantive contract to which it relates 88 Stephen Schwebel, Luke Sobota, and Ryan Manton, International Arbitration: Three Salient Problems (Cambridge University Press, 2nd edn, 2020) 4.