Since confi rmation vide G.O. Rt. No. 2190 dated 18.10.2022 was issued by Respondent No. 1 thereafter, the Petitioner subsequently amended his Petition to challenge the dated 18.10.2022 as well. 5.2 The Respondents have contended that a writ of habeas corpus is not maintainable in the present case relying on the of Home Secretary (Prison) v. H. Nilofer Nisha, (2020) 14 SCC 161. The said was dealing with the issue of whether a habeas corpus would lie to secure release of a person who is undergoing imprisonment sentence as per Court s, and had not been illegally detained [paras 1 & 17]. This is completely diff erent from preventive detention. In fact, in para 16 of the said itself it has been held that habeas corpus is often used as a remedy in preventive detention cases as the said can only be challenged in writ jurisdiction. The Writ Petition fi led by the Petitioner was therefore maintainable. 6. In view of the above, it is respectfully prayed that the Impugned and dated 07.03.2023 be set aside, the dated 25.08.2022 passed by Respondent No. 2 and the confi rmation s dated 01.09.2022 and 18.10.2022 issued by Respondent No. 1 be quashed, and the Petitioner be released forthwith from Central Prison, Rajamahendravaram, East Godavari District, Andhra Pradesh. 7. It is further prayed that in the event the Petitioner is convicted in any of the FIRs on which the detention was based, then the PESALA NOOKARAJU v. THE GOVERNMENT OF 541 ANDHRA PRADESH & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] period spent in illegal preventive detention may be treated as custody undergone for the purposes of any sentence of imprisonment imposed thereunder.” SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENTS 9. Mr. Mahfooz A. Nazki, the learned counsel appearing for the respondents, in his written submissions as stated thus:- “A. Interpretation of Section 3(2) of the 1986 Act i. Section 3, to the extent relevant, reads as under: 3. Power to make detaining certain persons:- (1) The Government may, if satisfi ed with respect to any boot-legger, dacoit, drug-off ender,goonda, immoral traffi c off ender or land-grabber that with a view to preventing him from acting in any manner prejudicial to the maintenance of public it is necessary so to do, make an directing that such person be detained. (2) If, having regard to the circumstances prevailing or likely to prevail in any area within the local limits of the jurisdiction of a District Magistrate or a Commissioner of Police, the Government are satisfi ed that it is necessary so to do, they may, by in writing, direct that during such period as may be specifi ed in the , such District Magistrate or Commissioner of Police may also, if satisfi ed as provided in sub-section (1), exercise the powers conferred by the said sub-section: Provided that the period specified in the made by the Government under this sub-section shall not in the fi rst instance, exceed three months, but the Government may, if satisfi ed as aforesaid that it is necessary so to do, amend such to extend such period from time to time by any period not exceeding three months at any one time.” ii.