This Court has also referred to the definition of the words, money, bullion valuable and article. The Court approves the view taken by the High Court of Gujarat in Bhagwandas Narayandas (supra) that a document of title to immovable property or a fixed deposit receipt would not qualify as other valuable article. The H M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 589 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] reasons which have been given appear to us to be sound. A document of A title or a fixed deposit receipt would not be ‘articles’ which can be bought and sold in a market. An article, would also not encompass an item of immovable property. This Court can safely conclude that an article must be movable property. One strong indication that the Principle of Ejusdem Generis may not apply is a decision of this Court in Chuharmal (supra), B where the articles involved were watches. Watches by no stretch of imagination can be brought in on the basis of ejusdem generis. They do not belong to the so-called genus of money or bullion or jewellery. The hallmark of a watch in the context of the expression ‘other valuable article’ would be that it is marketable and it has value. When it comes to value, it is noticed that in the definition of the word ‘valuable’ in Black’s C Law Dictionary, it is defined as ‘worth a good price; having a financial or market value’. The word ‘valuable’ has been defined again as an adjective and as meaning worth a great deal of money in the Concise Oxford Dictionary. Valuable, therefore, cannot be understood as anything which has any value. The intention of the law-giver in introducing Section D 69A was to get at income which has not been reflected in the books of account but found to belong to the assessee. Not only it must belong to the assessee, but it must be other valuable articles. Let us consider a few examples. Let us take the case of an assessee who is found to be the owner of 50 mobile phones each having a market value of Rs.2 lakhs each. The value of such articles each having a price of Rs.2 lakhs E would amount to a sum of Rs.1 crore. Let us take another example where the assessee is found to be the owner of 25 highly expensive cameras. Could it be said that despite having a good price or worth a great deal of money, they would stand excluded from the purview of Section 69A. On the other hand, let us take an example where a person F is found to be in possession of 500 tender coconuts. They would have a value and even be marketable but it may be wholly inapposite to describe the 500 tender coconuts as valuable articles. It goes both to the marketability, as also the fact that it may not be described as worth a ‘good’ price. Each case must be decided with reference to the facts to find out that while articles or movables worth a great deal of money or G worth a good price are comprehended articles which may not command any such price must stand excluded from the ambit of the words ‘other valuable articles’.