The Court thereupon held: “12. This Article refers to a transfer for valuable consideration. A transfer which is void ab initio is in the eye of C law no transfer at all and hence will not come within the scope of this Article. This Article obviously applies to cases where the transfer can be avoided or is voidable. But if the transfer is void ab initio then Art. 65 of the new Limitation Act would apply. The transferee’s possession since the date of the transfer becomes adverse from the date of the transfer inasmuch as the transferee D had no right in respect of the property at all and he was a mere trespasser. xxx xxx xxx 14. In AIR 1966 SC 859 (Srinivasa Reddiar v. N. Ramaswamy Reddiar), the question for decision before their E Lordships was “Does Art. 134-B permit any distinction to be made between transfers effected by a previous manager on the basis that the property transferred belongs to the religious endowment and those made by him on the basis that the said property is his own private property?” Their Lordships held that Article 134-B F does not permit any such distinction. It was held that the character of the representations made by the previous manager in regard to his relation with the property which is the subject-matter of transfer is irrelevant for the purpose of Art. 134-B. The question whether this Article applies to void or voidable transaction did not arise for consideration in that case.” G (Emphasis supplied) 25. Since reference was made to AIR 1966 SC 859 and the same was distinguished, we may advert to the said . The contention, which was taken before this Court was that when a transfer is made by H a Manager not as Manager but as an individual, such transfer being void SABIR ALI KHAN v. SYED MOHD. AHMAD ALI KHAN AND 965 OTHERS [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] ab initio, the possession of the transferee was adverse from the date of A the transfer and therefore, in such a situation, Article 134B of the Limitation Act, 1908, the predecessor Article of Article 96 of the present Limitation Act, with the difference we have noted in the third column, would not apply. This Court, in fact, noted that two s of the Privy Council, viz., 1900 27 Indian Appeals 69 (EC) and 37 Indian Appeals B 147 EC, supported the said contention. In regard to the first of the cases (27 Indian Appeals 69 EC, it is found that the Privy Council held that where hereditary Trustees of a religious endowment sold their hereditary right of management and transferred the endowed property, the sales were null and void, if there was no custom providing otherwise. It was further noted that the Privy Council was dealing with the case of Article C 124 of the Limitation Act, 1908. It was further found that what was sold was the hereditary office as also the property, though, immovable properties of the temple were also sold.