The Explanation being in the nature of an exception is to be read outside the scope of the expression “for any other sufficient reason” in F XLVII Rule 1 CPC. In other words, if, on a question of law, a decision of a Court is reversed by a subsequent decision of a superior Court (Larger Bench in the instant case) and the same is reopened on the basis of the said subsequent decision there would be no finality of s of the Court even between the parties thereto. It is, hence, observed that even an erroneous or is binding on the G parties thereto even if subsequently that very is reversed in a subsequent decision of a superior Court. Otherwise, there would be chaos and no finality of any decision of a Court which is against public policy. s rendered by a Court of competent jurisdiction as per the prevailing law are binding on the parties to the said . Merely H because that is subsequently overruled by a subsequent decision GOVT. OF NCT OF DELHI THR. THE SECRETARY, LAND AND BUILDING 241 DEPT. v. M/S. K.L. RATHI STEELS LTD. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of a superior Court in any other case, the same shall not be a ground for A review of such . 37. In this context, the object and purpose of the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC cannot be lost sight of and it needs to be emphasised. In my view, the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC is in the nature of an exception to the expression “for any other sufficient B reason”. This would mean that if, in the mind of a Court there is a sufficient reason for the review of a , it cannot be on the ground/reason covered in the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC. Thus, the circumstances mentioned in the Explanation would be an exception and is outside the scope and ambit of “for any other sufficient C reason”. 38. An Explanation is at times appended to a Section to explain the object and content as well as the meaning of words contained in the Section. An Explanation may be added to include something within or to exclude something from the ambit of the main enactment or the D connotation of some words occurring in it. Even a negative Explanation which excludes certain types or a category from the ambit of the Section may have the effect of showing that the category leaving aside the excepted types is included within it. An Explanation can also be added to serve as a proviso to the main Section vide Y.P. Chawla and Others vs. M.P. Tiwari and another AIR 1992 SC 1360.When an Explanation E is in the nature of a proviso, it is used to remove special cases from the general provision and provide for them especially. Sometimes an Explanation is added to clarify a doubtful point of law as in the instant case the Explanation to XLVII Rule 1 CPC has been inserted by the amendment made in the year 1976.