Thereafter, the patient with a ‘TT’ in trauma care stayed at home for another period of six months from 08.07.2004 to 30.01.2005 until Dr. A. G. Pusalkar performed the tracheoplasty. Finally, the ‘TT’ was removed on 14.03.2005. So, considering the multiple procedures, prolonged intubation, severe injuries, and subsequent medical complications, it would be unsound to link or attribute the complications solely to the ‘NI’ procedure conducted on 13.05.2004. 48. Further, details are missing with respect to the date or time- frame within which the ‘NI’ was removed. In the complaint fi led before NCDRC by Mrs. Sunita, it was mentioned that the ‘NI’ was removed on 20.05.2004 based on Dr. Kalidas Parshuramkar’ claim. Since we are aware that Dr. Pradhan re-inserted ‘TT’ on 27.05.2004, it can be concluded that the maximum possible duration during which ‘NI’ could have lasted was two weeks i.e., from 13.05.2004 to 27.05.2004. Despite the removal of ‘NI’ and reinsertion of ‘TT’, the treatment continued till 14.03.2005 i.e., the date on which ‘TT’ was removed for the last time. Subsequent medical complications could have occurred or magnifi ed at any point during the long course of treatment at multiple hospitals and by various doctors. Therefore, a causal link has not been established between the ‘NI’ procedure (dated 13.05.2004) and the subsequent medical complications such as voice-loss and permanent respiratory tract deformity. 49. As the main charge of negligence regarding the aforesaid ‘NI’ procedure is found to be unsubstantiated, the issue of not impleading Dr. Rajesh Swarnakar in the context becomes irrelevant. However, the plea raised by the doctors and Suretech Hospital seeking rejection of Mrs. Sunita’s Consumer Case No. 48/2005 on account of non-impleadment of necessary parties is not acceptable. When the consumer case was fi led, a charge of negligence against Dr. M.A Biviji was leveled in relation to the ‘Barium 138 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Swallow Test’. Moreover, there was also a negligence charge with respect to Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal, Dr. Madhusudan Shendre, and Dr. M.A Biviji regarding ‘Severe Thrombocytopenia’ and ‘Severe Septicemia’. Additionally, there was an allegation of negligence against Dr. Nirmal Jaiswal and Dr. Madhusudan Shendre for unjustifi ably and forcefully performing ‘NI’ procedure on Mrs. Sunita which resulted in the subsequent medical complications. All the aforementioned charges are factual in nature. A necessary party cannot always be identifi ed at the threshold without looking at the evidence. On this aspect, the Court in Savita Garg v. Director, National Heart Institute3held that in case of an allegation of negligent treatment at a hospital, the burden to establish the absence of such negligence lies on the hospital itself. The hospital can discharge such burden by producing the concerned doctor to establish that due care was taken. Needless to say, hospitals must account for the services discharged by doctors engaged by them. CONCLUSION 50. Taking into consideration the medical literature on record as well as the expert medical committee report presented by the RML Hospital, it is reasonable to conclude that subglottic stenosis & subsequent trauma in the trachea is not an uncommon phenomenon with respect to a patient that has suff ered serious injuries in a road accident.