8. Hence the only question that remains for consideration before us is whether the act of the accused is culpable homicide amounting to murder or not. In other words, the question is whether the acts of the accused would come under Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC or would be an act of culpable homicide amounting to murder punishable under Section 302. 9. This Court in Rampal Singh v. State of U.P.2, while altering the off ence under Section 302 to Section 304 Part 1 of IPC, has elaborately discussed the distinction between culpable homicide amounting to murder and culpable homicide not amounting to murder. What is held is that classifi cation would be a matter of fact depending upon the evidence led in the trial. Broadly speaking, the factors to be considered are enumerated in paragraph 25 thereof. The same is been reproduced below: “25. As we have already discussed, classifi cation of an off ence into either part of Section 304 is primarily a matter of fact. This would have to be decided with reference to the nature of the off ence, intention of the off ender, weapon used, the place and nature of the injuries, existence of premeditated mind, the persons participating in the commission of the crime and to some extent the motive for commission of the crime. The evidence led by the parties with reference to all these circumstances 2 (2012) 8 SCC 289 MARIAPPAN v. STATE REP. BY INSPECTOR OF POLICE 1079 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] greatly helps the court in coming to a fi nal conclusion as to under which penal provision of the Code the accused is liable to be punished. This can also be decided from another point of view i.e. by applying the “principle of exclusion”. This principle could be applied while taking recourse to a two-stage process of determination. Firstly, the Court may record a preliminary fi nding if the accused had committed an off ence punishable under the substantive provisions of Section 302 of the Code, that is, “culpable homicide amounting to murder”. Then secondly, it may proceed to examine if the case fell in any of the Exceptions detailed in Section 300 of the Code. This would doubly ensure that the conclusion arrived at by the court is correct on facts and sustainable in law. We are stating such a proposition to indicate that such a determination would better serve the ends of criminal justice delivery. This is more so because presumption of innocence and right to fair trial are the essence of our criminal jurisprudence and are accepted as rights of the accused.” 10. It would also be apt here to refer to the judgement of Surinder Kumar Vs. Union Territory, Chandigarh3, wherein this Court had laid down the grounds to invoke Exception 4 to Section 300 IPC: “7. To invoke this exception four requirements must be satisfi ed, namely, (i) it was a sudden fi ght; (ii) there was no premeditation; (iii) the act was done in a heat of passion; and (iv) the assailant had not taken any undue advantage or acted in a cruel manner.