— an opinion with which I entirely agree—that it has been the long-standing practice on the original side that, whenever counsel wishes to give an undertaking to the Court, he never expressly uses the words “to the Court” but merely states that he undertakes on behalf of his client, and that undertaking is always understood to be an undertaking to the Court which could be enforced by committal proceedings….” (Emphasis supplied) 60. The contrary view was taken by Harris, C.J., of the Calcutta High Court in Nisha Kanto Roy Chowdhuri v. Smt. Saroj Bashini Goho reported in AIR 1948 Cal 294. It was expressedthat if the court had considered that the expression "undertaking" had come to acquire a technical meaning and if he had considered that aspect of the case, he would not have come to the conclusion that the only way to construe the expression 'undertaking' was to give it its plain natural meaning. Three s of the Calcutta High BALWANTBHAI SOMABHAI BHANDARI v. HIRALAL 1105 SOMABHAI CONTRACTOR (DECEASED) REP. BY LRS. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] Court, all delivered by Single Judges, undoubtedly, were noticed which have taken the view that an "undertaking" means an "undertaking to the court." Another Division Bench of the Calcutta High Court in Chhaya Debi v. Lahoriram Prashar, (1962-63) 67 CWN 819 considered the aforesaid two cases and construing the decree in that case held that the undertaking given by the opposite party was an undertaking given to court and the opposite party always understood the undertaking as one given to the court. The decree in terms of the settlement had only recorded that the opposite party "gives an undertaking to the eff ect that he would quit." 61. This Court in Rama Narang (supra) while referring to the Contempt of Courts Act, 1952, had noticed that it did not contain many of the provisions of the Act 1971 for the Legislature had left formulation of the law of contempt to the Courts, which had resulted in confl icting views expressed by diff erent High Courts. Reference was made to the confl icting view expressed by the Calcutta High Court in Nisha Kanto Roy (supra) and the Bombay High Court in Bajranglal Gangadhar Khemka (supra). In the former case, it was held that a compromise decree passed by the Court containing an undertaking was nothing more than an agreement of the parties with the sanction of the Court super-added. The passed by the Court cannot mean anything more than an agreement and had no greater sanctity than the agreement itself. Per contra, the Bombay High Court, in Bajranglal Gangadhar Khemka (supra) had drawn a distinction between the execution proceedings and proceedings for contempt which arise from wilful default of an undertaking. The referred to the long-standing practice as per which the expression “undertaking” had come to acquire a technical and legal meaning and understanding. It was observed that the expression “when a party undertakes” is used to give an undertaking to the Court as distinct from when a counsel states that he undertakes on behalf of his client.