In that case, the plaintiff therein had alleged that the defendant therein and his legal representatives were occupying the suit premises as gratuitous licensees and upon termination of such licence, the plaintiff was entitled to a decree for possession. The trial court found that G defendants were tenants and not licensees as alleged by the plaintiff. The 1st Appellate Court recorded a finding to the contrary, held that the defendants were let into the suit property by plaintiff on humanitarian grounds and as gratuitous licensees and the license was validly terminated by plaintiff. It thus, negatived the defence of the defendants that they were tenants. In the plaint itself, the plaintiff therein had taken an H GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 921 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] alternative plea that he was entitled to vacant possession of the premises A on the ground of bona fide personal need, nuisance, annoyance and damage allegedly caused to the premises and to the adjoining garden land belonging to him by the defendants. This Court held that the alternative plea of plaintiff and the defence set up by defendants was no different from each other. The Court held that it was open to the plaintiff B not only to take a plea of license but also to alternatively plead tenancy in support of his plea for relief of recovery of possession. The Court held that defendants therein had specifically admitted that the property belongs to plaintiff and that they were in occupation thereof as tenants, and an issue was also framed whether defendants were in occupation as license or as tenants, and defendants had full opportunity to prove C their respective cases. So, the defendants cannot be said to have been taken by surprise by the alternative case pleaded by plaintiff nor could any injustice would result to them from the alternative plea being allowed and tried by the Court. It observed that even if the alternative plea had not been allowed to be raised in the suit filed by appellant, he would have D been certainly entitled to raise that plea and seek eviction in a separate suit filed on the very same grounds. 45. In Revajeetu Builders (supra), cited by the learned counsel for the Appellant, a two-Judge Bench of this Court had an occasion to deal with 6 Rule 17 C.P.C. In that case, the of this E Court in Usha Balashaheb Swami and Others v. Kiran Appaso Swami and Others reported in (2007) 5 SCC 602, was followed. It referred to the in M/s. Ganesh Trading Co. v. Moji Ram reported in (1978) 2 SCC 91, wherein at para 50, this Court observed that if a plaintiff seeks to alter the cause of action itself and introduces it indirectly through amendment of his pleadings, an entirely new or inconsistent cause of F action, amounting virtually to the substitution of a new plaint or a new cause of action in place of what was originally there, the Court will refuse to permit it, if it amounts to depriving the party, against which a suit is pending, of any right which may have accrued in its favour due to lapse of time.