 After some time, sentence pronounced.  Copy of the provided to the accused. 8. A close reading and scrutiny of the -sheet recorded by the Trial Court, as stated above in brief, would manifest that the accused was not provided an opportunity to engage a counsel of his choice and instead his submission was recorded that he desires to be defended by a counsel appointed through legal aid. From the very beginning, the trial proceeded on day-to-day basis except on Saturday and Sunday and all the witnesses examined by the prosecution were produced without issuing summons. One witness-Sunil was directed to be produced from District Jail, Dhar through production warrant. However, this witness was never examined nor there is any indication that this witness has been given up. It is this witness (Sunil) who was named as a suspect in the FIR. Non-examination of this witness has therefore left a crucial gap in the prosecution case. It is signifi cant to note that the FSL report, Viscera report and DNA report were not submitted along with the charge-sheet. The same were presented before the Trial Court on 04.05.2018. The accused was never asked as to whether he admits the documents, as required under Section 294 of Cr.P.C.. Neither any witnesses NAVEEN @ AJAY v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 985 [PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, J.] were called to prove these reports. After the prosecution case was closed on 08.05.2018, the accused examination was conducted on the very next day i.e. on 09.05.2018 and thereafter on the next day i.e. on 10.05.2018, the case was fi xed for examination of defence witness. It requires special notice that the accused was in jail and was not defended by a counsel of his choice but by a legal aid counsel. He was not in a position to present the witness himself, yet he was directed to keep his witnesses present on the next day i.e. on 10.05.2018. On this date, he could not produce his witnesses, therefore, his defence was closed, and the case was posted for fi nal arguments after recess. 9. In a case of this nature, the trial was conducted on day-to-day basis and the -sheet does not record that copies of statement of witnesses were supplied to the accused or his counsel, it is not known as to whether the defence counsel was supplied all the requisite material basing which he could have advanced his fi nal arguments. 10. The -sheet would thus clearly indicate that the trial was conducted in a hurried manner without providing ample and proper opportunity to the defence counsel, who was engaged through legal aid, to prepare himself eff ectively. It is also to be noted that copies of DNA Report, FSL Report and Viscera Report were presented before the Court during the course of trial on 04.05.2018. 11. In the matter of Bashira vs. State of U.P.4, almost similar situation, like in the present case arose, when the trial was conducted in 13 days.