Thus, while upholding the principles of “Tribunalisation” under Article 323A or Article 323B, the Bench was unequivocally of the view that decisions of Tribunals would be subject to the jurisdiction of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution, and would not be restricted by the 42nd Constitutional Amendment which F introduced the aforesaid two Articles. In our view, this should have put the matter to rest, and no Bench of less than seven Judges could have doubted the proposition. The need for the observations in the five-Judges’ Bench in Rojer Mathew19 case qua the Armed Forces Tribunal really arose because of the observations made in Major General Shri Kant G Sharma & Anr.20 Thus, it is, reiterated and clarified that the power of the High Court under Article 226 of the Constitution is not inhibited, and 17 (supra) 18 (supra) 19 (supra) H 20 (supra) UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. PARASHOTAM DASS 613 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] superintendence and control under Article 227 of the Constitution are A somewhat distinct from the powers of judicial review under Article 226 of the Constitution. 27. We also find merit in the contention of the private parties that while the said Act was introduced keeping in mind the earlier observations of the Supreme Court inter alia in Lt. Col. Prithi Pal Singh Bedi21 B case, all that has been provided is a single judicial review by the tribunal against the administrative/disciplinary decision as envisaged in the rules applicable to different Armed Forces. Section 31 of the said Act is undoubtedly restrictive in character as an appeal to the Supreme Court would only lie on a point of law of general public importance. There are, C as urged by the learned counsels, a number of issues that cropped up, which are personal in character and do not raise issues of larger public importance. 28. We can say with some experience of handling these matters in exercise of jurisdiction under Article 226, prior to the creation of the D Armed Forces Tribunal, that there used to be a large number of pension matters. Persons who had served in the Armed Forces were left at bay at the stage of pension. This jurisdiction is also vested with the Armed Forces Tribunal. It would be difficult to say that there would be a larger public interest involved in a pension matter, but then, for that concerned person, it is of great importance. To deny the High Court to correct any E error which the Armed Forces Tribunal may fall into, even in exercising jurisdiction under Article 226, would be against the constitutional scheme. The first independent judicial scrutiny is only by the Armed Forces Tribunal. To say that in some matters, a judicial scrutiny would amount to a second appeal, would not be the correct way to look at it. What F should be kept in mind is that in administrative jurisprudence, at least two independent judicial scrutinies should not be denied, in our view.