Illustrations (a) A shoots Z with the intention of killing him. Z dies in consequence. A commits murder. (b) A, knowing that Z is labouring under such a disease that a blow is likely to cause his death, strikes him with the intention of causing bodily injury. Z dies in consequence of the blow. A is guilty of murder, although the blow might not have been suffi cient in the ordinary course of nature to cause the death of a person in a sound state of health. But if A, not knowing that Z is labouring under any disease, gives him such a blow as would not in the ordinary course of nature kill a person in a sound state of health, here A, although he may intend to cause bodily injury, is not guilty of murder, if he did not intend to cause death, or such bodily injury as in the ordinary course of nature would cause death. (c) A intentionally gives Z a sword-cut or club-wound suffi cient to cause the death of a man in the ordinary course of nature. Z dies in consequence. Here, A is guilty of murder, although he may not have intended to cause Z’s death. (d) A without any excuse fi res a loaded cannon into a crowd of persons and kills one of them. A is guilty of murder, although he may not have had a premeditated design to kill any particular individual.” 406 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. it could be said with certainty that the appellants had knowledge that the act which Babu Ram was exhorted to commit was so imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause death or such bodily injury as is likely to cause death of a person (See Section 300 (Fourthly) of the I.P.C along with illustration (d) thereto). Therefore, the gunshots fi red by Babu Ram at several by-standers/supporters of Satpal, if not all, could be said to be a criminal act done by several persons in furtherance of the common intention of all. A fortiori, even though it might not be safe to hold the appellants vicariously liable for the off ence of murder of the two deceased persons for the reasons already detailed above, but looking at the nature of the incident, the number of persons injured and the role attributed to the appellants, we are of the considered view that the appellants are liable to be convicted for the off ence punishable under Section 307 with the aid of Section 34 of the I.P.C. Thus, in our considered view, the fi nding of the courts below to that extent does not call for any interference. Eff ect of not putting the incriminating circumstance of exhortation to the appellants while recording their statements under Section 313 of the Criminal Procedure Code, 1973. 34. The question that now falls for our consideration is whether, on account of not putting the incriminating circumstance of exhortation to the appellants while recording their statements under Section 313 CrPC, appellants’ conviction with the aid of Section 34 of the I.P.C.