It was clarifi ed that in the event of failure to do so i.e., either of not applying for permission ‘or’ not intimating the respondents upon receipt of permission, the respondents had the right to move the Court for getting the sale executed as also for possession. Thus, from the ninth (9th) day onwards, the onus would shift on the respondents, if within 8 days the appellants had not even applied for permission. Since the consequences of non-performance of the duty cast upon the appellants of applying within 8 days or non-intimation of permission having been granted, in either contingency, a right accrued to the respondents to move Court. 11. In this background, the respondents cannot take the plea that they would be entitled to indefi nitely wait till the appellants informed them about the permission. As soon as the fi rst eight days expired, the respondents had to show due diligence by being vigilant and conscious of their rights and were required to act promptly. There being no notice given to the appellants by the respondents for fi ve and a half years to indicate the reason why they kept waiting or that despite their willingness to comply with their portion of the obligations under the ATS, the appellants had not discharged their obligations under the ATS and why the respondents should not move before the Court for enforcement of the ATS, as contemplated thereunder, 113 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. coupled with the fact that in the entire plaint, there is not even a whisper with regard to the respondents having ever called upon the appellants or given notice to them that they were ready and willing to pay the balance amount and get the Sale Deed executed, in our considered view does not aid the respondents. We see nothing on the record to fathom a valid or justifi able reason for the respondents to have waited for fi ve and a half years before instituting the suit. 12. From perusal of the plaint on the record it, transpires that there is a statement in Paragraph No.6 that till the month of October, 1980, the original respondent (since deceased) and her husband (now, as Legal Representative) had asked the appellants to execute the Sale Deed and then an eviction notice was served on the original respondent (since deceased) and her husband (now, as Legal Representative) and his brother. It has further been stated that this was after the respondents asked the appellants to execute the Sale Deed within 15 days after taking permission. Thus, nowhere it has been even indicated, in clear terms, that the respondents were ready and willing to pay the balance amount and get the Sale Deed executed in their favour. In view thereof, from their own pleadings in the plaint, even after fi ve and a half years, there being no averment that the respondents were ready and willing to perform their obligations under the ATS and pay the balance/remaining amount is enough for the suit of the respondents to be dismissed on the ground of limitation alone.