This would also include the power to suspend in whole or in part, a provision of the Constitution relating to any body or authority in the State. However, the President is barred from exercising the powers of High Courts or suspending any provision of the Constitution related to High Courts. 181. The subsequent clauses of Article 356 prescribe conditions relating to the tenure of the Proclamation. Every Proclamation must be laid before Houses of Parliament, and unless approved by a resolution by both the Houses shall cease to operate within two months.173 However, where the Council of States approves the resolution in two months but the House of People is dissolved, the Proclamation ceases to operate on the expiry of thirty days from the date on which the House of People fi rst sits after reconstitution unless a resolution approving the Proclamation is passed by the House of People before that.174 Article 356(4) states that an approved Proclamation has a life of six months from the date of the issuance of the Proclamation (not the date of approval) unless another Proclamation approving the continuance of the Proclamation is passed. This Proclamation also has a life of six months.175 Thus, Parliament may approve the Proclamation in the fi rst instance (which then has a life of six months) and thereafter also approve its continuance, which shall extend the life of the Proclamation by another six months. However, Parliament shall not pass a resolution 173 Article 356(3) 174 Article 356(4) 175 Article 356(4) IN RE: ARTICLE 370 OF THE CONSTITUTION 109 [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] approving a Proclamation for a period beyond one year since the date of issuance of the Proclamation unless (a) a national emergency under Article 352 is in operation in the whole of India or whole or any part of the State; and (b) the Election Commission of India certifi es that it is necessary that the Proclamation continues to be in force because of the diffi culties in holding general elections.176 However, in no circumstances shall the Proclamation remain in force for more than three years since the date it was fi rst issued.177 182. Where a Proclamation under Article 356 declares that the power of the legislature of the State shall be exercisable by or under the authority of Parliament, Article 357 enunciates the consequences. In such a situation, Parliament which has been conferred with the “powers of the legislature of the State” may confer on the President the power of the legislature to “make laws”, and authorise the President to delegate the power to any other authority, subject to any conditions which the President may impose. Parliament or the President or any other authority to whom the power to make laws has been delegated may enact laws conferring powers and imposing duties upon the Union or its offi cers and authorities. When the House of the People is not in session, the President may authorise expenditure from the Consolidated Fund pending the sanction of Parliament.