Hon’ble the Chief Justice has elaborately explained the negative and positive contours of the doctrine of separability in reference to an arbitration agreement, with which I respectfully agree. 29. In this connection, I may note a decision of the Singapore High Court in the case of BNA v. BNB and Another23 which holds that a defect in the arbitration agreement does not render it void ab initio unless the defect is so fundamental or irretrievable as to negate the parties’ intent or agreement to arbitrate. This principle is based upon the observations of the Court of Appeal of Singapore in the in Insigma Technology Co Ltd v. Alstom Technology Ltd24. from raising such a plea merely because that he has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator. (3) A plea that the arbitral tribunal is exceeding the scope of its authority shall be raised as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond the scope of its authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings. (4) The arbitral tribunal may, in either of the cases referred to in sub-section (2) or sub- section (3), admit a later plea if it considers the delay justifi ed. (5) The arbitral tribunal shall decide on a plea referred to in sub-section (2) or sub- section (3) and, where the arbitral tribunal takes a decision rejecting the plea, continue with the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitral award. (6) A party aggrieved by such an arbitral award may make an application for setting aside such an arbitral award in accordance with Section 34. 23 [2019] SGHC 142. 24 [2009] SGCA 24. 120 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 30. Jurisprudentially it is important to distinguish the terms and consequences of an agreement void ab initio, and a voidable agreement, and the eff ect of illegality and violation of law on an agreement. 31. As per the Indian Contract Act, 187225, an agreement not enforceable by law is said to be void, and an agreement enforceable by law is a contract.26 A contract which ceases to be enforceable by law becomes void when it ceases to be enforceable.27 32. The requirements of Section 10 of the Contract Act28 are that the contract should be made by parties competent to contract, for lawful consideration and with lawful object. Consent of the parties should be free. The contract should not be expressly declared to be void. Section 2 has to be read with Section 10 and not in isolation, in to avoid contradiction and to harmoniously apply the two sections. 33. Sections 1129 and 1230 deal with persons entitled to contract. In instances where a person is explicitly declared as incompetent or does not fall within the defi nition of a competent person under the aforesaid provisions, like a minor or a person of unsound mind, a contract entered into by such person would be void. An agreement is also rendered void when both parties are under mistake of fact31. As per Section 24, agreements are void if consideration and objects are unlawful in part.32 This section does not have any application to the present issue, and neither are we concerned with Section 25, which relates to agreements without consideration and in 25 For short, “the Contract Act”.