The position of H law, even following the amendment of 2018 remains that the provisions C. HARIDASAN v. ANAPPATH PARAKKATTU VASUDEVA 271 KURUP [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of Section 16 of the Act have to be mandatorily complied with by the A party seeking the relief of specific performance. The relief of specific performance cannot be granted in favour of a party who has not performed his obligations under the contract. It is therefore necessary to ascertain whether, the plaintiff had complied with the statutory prerequisites under Section 16 (c) of the Act, before claiming the relief B of specific performance. Section 16 of the Act on being amended w.e.f. st 01 October, 2018, reads as under: “16. Personal bars to relief.—Specific performance of a contract cannot be enforced in favour of a person— (a) who has obtained substituted performance of contract under C section 20; or (b) who has become incapable of performing, or violates any essential term of, the contract that on his part remains to be performed, or acts in fraud of the contract, or wilfully acts at variance with, or in subversion of, the relation intended D to be established by the contract; or (c) who fails to prove that he has performed or has always been ready and willing to perform the essential terms of the contract which are to be performed by him, other than terms of the performance of which has been prevented or E waived by the defendant. Explanation.—For the purposes of clause (c),— (i) where a contract involves the payment of money, it is not essential for the plaintiff to actually tender to the defendant or to deposit in court any money except when so directed F by the court; (ii) the plaintiff must prove performance of, or readiness and willingness to perform, the contract according to its true construction.” G 19. Clause (c) of Section 16 of the Act, which is relevant in the st instant case, though amended w.e.f. 01 October, 2018 clearly states that unless the plaintiff establishes his readiness and willingness to perform his part of the contract, he would not be entitled to a decree of specific performance. Prior to the amendment, the expression “who fails to aver and prove” was on the statute book and its substitution by the words H 272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A “who fails to prove” does not bring about any drastic change to the object and intent of the clause. This is because failing to prove readiness and willingness to perform the essential terms of the contract would first require averments to that effect to be made in the plaint by the plaintiff. The absence of such averments regarding readiness and willingness to perform the essential terms of the contract by the plaintiff would not B permit him to let in any evidence on that aspect. It is a settled principle of law that no evidence can be permitted to be let in in the absence of averments in the plaint / pleadings vide Bachhaj Nahar vs. Nilima Mandal and Ors., (2008) 17 SCC 491.