However, it is to be noted that Part III of the Constitution, is not the sole repository of such rights. Even after some of such inalienable rights have come to be Constitutionally recognised as Fundamental Rights under the Constitution of India, the congruent rights under common law or natural law have not been C obliterated. It also follows, that the corresponding remedies available in common law, are also not obliterated. The object of elevating certain natural and common law rights, as Fundamental Rights under the Constitution was to make them specifically enforceable against the State and its agencies through a Courts of law. These observations gain D legitimacy from the of Mathew, J. in His Holiness Kesavanada Bharati Sripadagalvaru vs. State of Kerala, (1973) 4 SCC 225 (Kesavanada Bharati) wherein His Lordship recognized the object of Constitutions to declare recognised natural rights as applicable qua the state. Adopting the picturesque language of Roscoe Pound, the following observations were made: E “1514. While dealing with natural rights, Roscoe Pound states on page 500 of Vol. I of his Jurisprudence: “Perhaps nothing contributed so much to create and foster hostility to courts and law and Constitutions as this conception F of the courts as guardians of individual natural rights against the state and against society; this conceiving of the law as a final and absolute body of doctrine declaring these individual natural rights; this theory of Constitutions as declaratory of common-law principles, which are also natural-law principles, anterior to the state and of superior validity G to enactments by the authority of the state; this theory of Constitutions as having for their purpose to guarantee and maintain the natural rights of individuals against the government and all its agencies. In effect, it set up the received traditional social, political, and economic ideals of the H 770 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A legal profession as a super-Constitution, beyond the reach of any agency but judicial decision. 1515. I may also in this connection refer to a passage on the inherent and inalienable rights in A History of American Political Theories by C. Marriam: By the later thinkers the idea that men B possess inherent and inalienable rights of a political or quasi- political character which are independent of the state, has been generally given up. It is held that these natural rights can have no other than an ethical value, and have no proper place in politics. There never was, and there never can be,’ says Burgess, ‘any liberty upon this earth and among human beings, outside of state C organization’. In speaking of natural rights, therefore, it is essential to remember that these alleged rights have no political force whatever, unless recognized and enforced by the state. It is asserted by Willoughby that ‘natural rights’ could not have even a moral value in the supposed ‘state of nature’; they would really D be equivalent to force and hence have no ethical significance. (see p. 310).” x x xx x x x “1522.