“124(2). Every Judge of the Supreme Court shall be appointed by A the President by warrant under his hand and seal after consultation with such of the Judges of the Supreme Court and of High Courts in the States as the President may deem necessary for the purpose and shall hold office until he attains the age of sixty-five years: Provided that in the case appointment of a Judge other than the B Chief Justice, the Chief Justice of India shall always be consulted: Provided further that – (a) A Judge may, by writing under his hand addressed to the President, resign his office; C (b) A judge may be removed from his office in the manner provided in clause (4).” (Emphasis supplied) 209. What is of relevance is, however, the elaboration of the procedure, as regards consultation, and the laying down of norms, which D were to govern the appointment to the Superior Judiciary. The mandate to consult four may appear to crystalize a figure not to be found in the Constitution. 210. In fact, we may observe that the Doctrine of Separation of Powers has spawned decisions of this Court largely in the context of E litigation where challenges led to actions by the Legislative Organ, allegedly contravening the limits set for it. This is not to say that we are holding that it would be open to the courts to be oblivious to the true role it is called upon to perform and which flows from the judicial function that it discharges. As noticed by this Court, however, there is no magic F formula and what it all amounts to is, the need to maintain a delicate balance. While, it is true that, ordinarily, the Court cannot, without anything more, usurp what is purely a legislative power or function, in the context of the Constitution, which clothes the citizens with Fundamental Rights and provides for constitutional goals to be achieved and inertia of the Legislative Department producing a clear situation, where there exist G veritable gaps or a vacuum, the Court may not shy away from what essentially would be part of its judicial function. 211. A Writ Petition was filed under Article 32 of the Constitution assailing the appointment of certain Ministers despite their involvement in serious and heinous crimes. The Constitution Bench of this Court in H 170 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A Manoj Narula v. Union of India74 went on to refer to the criminalisation of politics as being an anathema for the sanctity of democracy. Of immediate interest to this Court, are the following observations: “Principle of constitutional silence or abeyance 65. The next principle that can be thought of is constitutional B silence or silence of the Constitution or constitutional abeyance. The said principle is a progressive one and is applied as a recognised advanced constitutional practice. It has been recognised by the Court to fill up the gaps in respect of certain areas in the interest of justice and larger public interest.