We will fi rst refer to Sections 83 and 86 of the Act and 6 Rule 15 of the CPC. “83. Contents of petition — (1) An election petition— (a) shall contain a concise statement of the material facts on which the petitioner relies; (b) shall set forth full particulars of any corrupt practice that the petitioner alleges, including as full a statement as possible of the names of the parties alleged to have committed such corrupt practice and the date and place of the commission of each such practice; and 10 (2013) 4 SCC 776 11 (2022) 3 SCC 269 THANGJAM ARUNKUMAR v. YUMKHAM ERABOT SINGH 397 & ORS. [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] (c) shall be signed by the petitioner and verifi ed in the manner laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) for the verifi cation of pleadings: Provided that where the petitioner alleges any corrupt practice, the petition shall also be accompanied by an affi davit in the prescribed form in support of the allegation of such corrupt practice and the particulars thereof. (2) Any schedule or annexure to the petition shall also be signed by the petitioner and verifi ed in the same manner as the petition. 86. Trial of election petitions — (1) The High Court shall dismiss an election petition which does not comply with the provisions of Section 81 or Section 82 or Section 117. 6 Rule 15: Verifi cation of pleadings — (1) Save as otherwise provided by any law for the time being in force, every pleading shall be verifi ed at the foot by the party or by one of the parties pleading or by some other person proved to the satisfaction of the court to be acquainted with the facts of the case. (2) The person verifying shall specify, by reference to the numbered paragraphs of the pleading, what he verifi es of his own knowledge and what he verifi es upon information received and believed to be true. (3) The verifi cation shall be signed by the person making it and shall state the date on which and the place at which it was signed. (4) The person verifying the pleading shall also furnish an affi davit in support of his pleadings.” 11. The fi rst decision on this issue is by a Constitution Bench in T.M. Jacob v. C. Poulose12. In the said case, the returned candidate was defending an election petition fi led against him on the ground of non-compliance with the requirements under Section 81(3) of the Act. This Court, after going through the diff erence in the legislative intent of Sections 81 and 83 of the Act, observed that non-compliance with the requirements of the former provides for an automatic dismissal of an election petition under Section 86 of the Act, and non-compliance with the latter is a curable defect and would not merit dismissal at the threshold. In this light, this Court observed that: 12 (1999) 4 SCC 274 398 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R.