Therefore, as such the observations made by this Court in the case of Raneef (supra) are to be treated having confined to the bail G matter only. At this stage, it is required to be noted that as such in paragraph 8 this Court in the case of Raneef (supra) has specifically observed that “we are presently only considering the bail matter and are not deciding whether the respondent is guilty or not”. 10.5 Now so far as the decision of this Court in the case of Arup H Bhuyan vs. State of Assam, (2011) 3 SCC 377, taking the view that ARUP BHUYAN v. STATE OF ASSAM & ANR. 535 [M. R. SHAH, J.] mere membership of a banned organization will not incriminate a person A unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence and does an act intended to create dis or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence……., is concerned it is required to be noted that in the said decision this Court has just followed the decision in the case of Raneef (supra). In the said decision this Court has also considered some other B American s of the US Supreme Court (para 10 & 11). 10.6 From the and passed by this Court in the case of Arup Bhuyan (Supra), it appears that after referring to the decisions of the US Supreme Court in paras 10 & 11 thereafter this Court had read down Section 3(5) of TADA and has observed that mere membership of C a banned organization will not incriminate a person unless he resorts to violence or incites people to violence and does an act intended to create dis or disturbance of public peace by resort to violence. 10.7 It is required to be noted that even while deciding Arup Bhuyan (supra) neither the constitutional validity of Section 3(5) of the D TADA nor the Union of India was heard. Even in both the aforesaid decisions this Court had not taken into consideration Article 19(1)(c) and Article 19(4) of the Constitution of India. 10.8 In the case of Indra Das (supra) this Court has just followed the earlier decision in the case of Raneef (supra) and Arup Bhuyan E (supra). 11. In light of the aforesaid factual aspects let us now consider the correctness of the decisions of this Court in the case of Raneef (supra), Arup Bhuyan (supra) and Indra Das (supra). 11.1 Now so far as the reading down of Section 10(a)(i) of the F UAPA, 1967 by this Court in the case of Arup Bhuyan (supra) is concerned, at the outset it is required to be noted that such reading down of the provision of a statute could not have been made without hearing the Union of India and/or without giving any opportunity to the Union of India. G 11.2 When any provision of Parliamentary legislation is read down in the absence of Union of India it is likely to cause enormous harm to the interest of the State.