A reasonable and just interpretation of “existence” requires understanding the context, the purpose and the relevant legal norms applicable for a binding and enforceable arbitration agreement. G An agreement evidenced in writing has no meaning unless the parties can be compelled to adhere and abide by the terms. A party cannot sue and claim rights based on an unenforceable document. Thus, there are good reasons to hold that an arbitration agreement exists only when it is valid and legal. A void and H 390 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A unenforceable understanding is no agreement to do anything. Existence of an arbitration agreement means an arbitration agreement that meets and satisfies the statutory requirements of both the Arbitration Act and the Contract Act and when it is enforceable in law. B 147. We would proceed to elaborate and give further reasons: 147.1 In Garware Wall Ropes Ltd., this Court had examined the question of stamp duty in an underlying contract with an arbitration clause and in the context had drawn a distinction between the first and second part of Section 7(2) of the Arbitration Act, albeit C the observations made and quoted above with reference to ‘existence’ and ‘validity’ of the arbitration agreement being apposite and extremely important, we would repeat the same by reproducing paragraph 29 thereof: “29. This in Hyundai Engg. case is important in that what was specifically under consideration was an arbitration D clause which would get activated only if an insurer admits or accepts liability. Since on facts it was found that the insurer repudiated the claim, though an arbitration clause did “exist”, so to speak, in the policy, it would not exist in law, as was held in that , when one important fact is introduced, namely, E that the insurer has not admitted or accepted liability.Likewise, in the facts of the present case, it is clear that the arbitration clause that is contained in the subcontract would not “exist” as a matter of law until the sub-contract is duly stamped, as has been held by us above.The argument that Section 11(6-A) deals with “existence”, as opposed to Section 8, Section 16 and F Section 45, which deal with “validity” of an arbitration agreement is answered by this Court’s understanding of the expression “existence” in Hyundai Engg. case, as followed by us.”; Existence and validity are intertwined, and arbitration agreement G does not exist if it is illegal or does not satisfy mandatory legal requirements. Invalid agreement is no agreement.” (Emphasisadded) 10. Later, a three-Judge Bench in M/s. N.N. Global Mercantile H Private Limited (supra) held that in arbitration jurisprudence, an M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 391 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS. [AJAY RASTOGI, J.] “arbitration agreement is a distinct and separate agreement, which is A independent from the substantive commercial contract in which it is embedded”. This three-Judge Bench made a reference to the Constitution Bench, as it expressed its disagreements with the view expressed in SMS Tea Estates Private Limited (supra), Garware Wall Ropes Limited (supra), and Vidya Drolia and Others (supra).