: Outcome of Extra Ordinary General Meeting. Dear Sir, We are pleased to inform you that members of theCompany remain present at the Extra Ordinary General Meeting of the Company F held today, has passed Ordinary resolution for increase inAuthorised Share Capital of the Company from Rs. 1Cr. to Rs. 2 Cr. Therefore, Board will go ahead with the propose further issue of Equity Shares to existing members of the Company. We are once G again remind you that last date for furnishing application for subscribingshares would be 5th February, 2010. Therefore,you are requested to exercise. your right before 5th February, 2010. Thanking you, Yours truly, H HASMUKHLAL MADHAVLAL PATEL v. AMBIKA FOOD 271 PRODUCTS PVT. LTD. [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] For Ambika Food Product Private Limited A Director” 41. Now, a contention is taken by respondents that the NCLAT has not found that it was served as such. We bear in mind the following circumstances, however. In regard to the Notice of Extraordinary General B Meeting dated 24.12.2009, a contention was taken by the respondents that the postal cover did not contain the papers of Notice but some other communications. Concurring with the NCLT, in its rejection of the respondents’ case, the NCLAT held as follows: “28. It appears later the VP Patel Group and HM Patel Group C before NCLT took up stand that the postal covers sent did not contain papers of Notice but they contained some other communications relating to the company. Thus in effect they tried to claim before the NCLT that the HM Patel Group was playing fraud. However, as the impugned shows, the learned NCLT D had taken up the contention on these grounds and although it was demonstrated before the NCLT that on opening the envelope cover, it had some papers other than Notice of EOGM, NCLT found that bare perusal of the envelopes which were being shown, it could be seen by naked eye that they were once opened and again sealed. Looking to such approach of these litigants, we will E not like to trust their contentions that they did not get notice of the EOGM.” 42. We would hold that in regard to the allotment of shares, the respondents Groups were put on notice and they must be treated as having refused to avail of the offer. There is a concurrent finding by the F NCLT and NCLAT that the respondents were aware of the increase in share capital as proposed. That the meetings were held in compliance with the law, is concurrently found. 43. The NCLAT reasons that even if applications in proportion to shares already held could be made, unsubscribed shares could be disposed G of only after there is a declining to accept the shares offered. It is further found that there could not have been application in anticipation. This means that it is the understanding of the NCLAT that while shares could be applied for, to the extent of 1:1 as offered, but as regards shares being offered in excess of the said ratio, as permitted under the Board H 272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R.