The above conclusion drawn by the High Court is unacceptable and suff ers from a serious error of law and also an error of fact. The High Court has completely failed to take up the merit of the case in its right perspective and failed to take note of the sensitivity attached to the case. 100. The High Court ought to have considered the fact that on account of the complete failure of state machinery, it was the institution of justice which had taken the task in its hand, fi rstly, by means of a Habeas Corpus Petition and secondly, by means of Suo Moto Revision under Section 401 of CrPC having the foundation of inspecting notes of the Inspecting Judge of the District Judgeship and the resolution of Standing Committee of High Court. The minutes of the Standing Committee and the report of the Inspecting Judge, Justice Navin Sinha dated 04.05.2009 were on record of the High Court but it chose to completely ignore the same. 101. The High Court ought to have considered the checkered history of events that occurred in the case, resulting in the judgement of the Division Bench of the High Court in the Habeas Corpus Petition containing serious observations about the conduct of all the stakeholders of the said criminal trial and also the impact of the report of the Inspecting Judge dated 04.05.2009. 458 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. 102. CW-1 was an old lady and mother of the deceased Rajendra Rai and the eye-witness of the incident, whose fi rst examination was scrapped by the High Court on the allegation of her kidnapping just a few days before that fi rst examination dated 03.11.2006. She was under continuous threat and fear of facing dire consequence, which is apparent on the face of the record. Under these circumstances, in case she had stated in the end of her cross-examination that her son had asked her to take the name of the accused before the Trial Court, there is nothing so contradictory or surprising so as to treat the rest of the substantive ocular evidence as tutored one. In this regard, it is interesting to note that in the impugned , the High Court itself observed that although CW-1 was not named in the chargesheet, but Pirbahor Police Station recorded her statement while she was attending to her injured son in PMHC, which is suffi cient to indicate that her statement was recorded during the investigation. 103. There is no serious discrepancy or variation in the testimony of CW-1 with regard to the sequence of events that occurred during the incident in question. A witness, like the CW-1 of the present case, cannot be expected to possess a photographic memory and to recall the details of an incident. The variations of trivial nature in her testimony are liable to be ignored. The very sentence uttered by her at the end of her examination that “her son had asked her to take the name of the accused before the Court” is not so surprising in a case like the present one.