(2) If in such a case the accused is charged with one off ence, and it appears in evidence that he committed a diff erent off ence for which he might have been charged under the provisions of sub-section (1), he may be convicted of the off ence which he is shown to have committed, although he was not charged with it.” 23. The provision of sub-section (2) of Section 221 read with sub-section (1) of the said section can be taken aid of in convicting and sentencing Accused 1 of offence of abetment of suicide under Section 306 IPC along with or instead of Section 498-A IPC. 946 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 24. Section 215 allows the criminal court to ignore any error in stating either the off ence or the particulars required to be stated in the charge, if the accused was not, in fact, misled by such error or omission in framing the charge and it has not occasioned a failure of justice. See Section 215 CrPC which reads: “215. Eff ect of errors.—No error in stating either the off ence or the particulars required to be stated in the charge, and no omission to state the off ence or those particulars, shall be regarded at any stage of the case as material, unless the accused was in fact misled by such error or omission, and it has occasioned a failure of justice.” 25. As provided in Section 215 CrPC omission to frame charge under Section 306 IPC has not resulted in any failure of justice. We fi nd no necessity to remit the matter to the trial court for framing charge under Section 306 IPC and direct a retrial for that charge. The accused cannot legitimately complain of any want of opportunity to defend the charge under Section 306 IPC and a consequent failure of justice. The same facts found in evidence, which justify conviction of the appellant under Section 498-A for cruel treatment of his wife, make out a case against him under Section 306 IPC of having abetted commission of suicide by the wife. The appellant was charged for an off ence of higher degree causing “dowry death” under Section 304-B which is punishable with minimum sentence of seven years› rigorous imprisonment and maximum for life. Presumption under Section 113- A of the Evidence Act could also be raised against him on same facts constituting off ence of cruelty under Section 498-A IPC. No further opportunity of defence is required to be granted to the appellant when he had ample opportunity to meet the charge under Section 498-A IPC.” 29. In the aforesaid background and the evidence on record as already noticed by us hereinabove, it can be safely noted that High Court ought to have examined as to whether accused could have been convicted for an off ence for which no charge was framed and not undertaking of such an exercise would result in failure of justice? Thus, it will have to be seen from the facts unfolded in the present case as to whether the accused was aware of the basic ingredients of the off ence for which they are being tried and whether the main facts sought to be established against them were explained PARANAGOUDA AND ANOTHER v. THE STATE OF 947 KARNATAKA AND ANOTHER [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.]