[2023] 12 S.C.R. 104 : 2023 INSC 796 CASE DETAILS L.R. PATIL v. GULBARGA UNIVERSITY, GULBARGA (Civil Appeal No. 3254 of 2013) SEPTEMBER 04, 2023 [J. K. MAHESHWARI AND K. V. VISWANATHAN, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issues for consideration: Whether the passed by the Respondent- University pursuant to r.252(b), Karnataka Civil Service Rules, relieving the appellant to accept another appointment ought to be treated as an accepting resignation; and further on facts, whether on joining the new post, the appellant’s lien on the previous post will be maintained until he is permanently absorbed in the new department in which he is subsequently appointed; and lastly is the appellant entitled to the relief prayed. Service Law – Karnataka Civil Service Rules – r.252(b), r.20, Note 4 – Lien of a government servant on the previous post, when ceases to exist: Held: ‘Lien’ of a government servant only ceases to exist when he/ she is appointed on another post ‘substantively’/confi rmed or absorbed permanently – Otherwise, his/her lien would continue on the previous post – In the instant case, lien of the appellant on the previous post of ‘Offi ce Superintendent’ is squarely protected and his lien shall be continued u/r.20, Note 4 as he was never appointed substantively on the new post of ‘Assistant Registrar’ and was continued temporarily on the said post subject to the outcome of the pending litigation challenging his appointment – This fact also fi nds support from the Preamble of the Resolution of the University dated 23.12.2000 – Further, the appointment of appellant to the new post was subject to probation of two years and due to pending litigation, he was continued on a temporary basis despite completion of two years – Further, in terms of r.252(b) relieving cannot be treated as resignation – Thus, the fi nding recorded by the Writ Appellate Court not sustainable – Appellant 104 L.R. PATIL v. GULBARGA UNIVERSITY, GULBARGA 105 entitled to all the service benefits including seniority, consequential promotions and pensionary benefi ts at par with his juniors, though notionally, since he superannuated on 30.06.2007 and has not worked on the promoted post – Impugned set aside – passed by Single Judge restored subject to modifi cations. [Paras 17, 18, 20 and 22] Karnataka Civil Service Rules – r.20, Note 4 – Intention of: Held: As per r.20, Note 4, if a government servant seeks employment in another unit or department or in another cadre or grade in the same department under the Rules, his/her lien on the original appointment shall be continued to be maintained until absorbed in the department or cadre in which he/she is newly appointed. In case the employee is absorbed, he/she shall be entitled to the benefi t of the past service for the purpose of leave and pension – Intention of the said rule is to protect the past service of the government servant in cases where the government servant is not confi rmed or absorbed substantively on the new post on account of his/her failure to satisfactorily complete the probation period or for any other reason.