430 SUPREME CO[U2R02T3 ]R 4E PSO.CR.RT.S 430 [2023] 4 S.C.R. A SAP LABS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED v. INCOME TAX OFFICER, CIRCLE 6, BANGALORE (Civil Appeal No. 8463 of 2022) B APRIL 19, 2023 [M. R. SHAH AND M. M. SUNDRESH, JJ.] Income Tax Act, 1961 : ss. 92, 92A to 92CA, 92D, 92E, 92F and 260 A – Transfer pricing matters – Arm length price, determination of – Arm length price, determined by the tribunal – C Thereafter, determination of the arm’s length price by the High Court, in exercise of powers u/s. 260A – Permissibility of - Held: There cannot be any absolute proposition of law that in all cases where the tribunal has determined the arm’s length price the same is final and cannot be the subject matter of scrutiny by the High Court in D an appeal u/s 260A – When the determination of the arm’s length price is challenged before the High Court, it is always open for the High Court to consider and examine whether the arm’s length price has been determined while taking into consideration the relevant guidelines under the Act and the Rules – It is always open for the High Court to examine in each case whether the determination of E the arm’s length price and the findings recorded by tribunal while determining the arm’s length price are perverse or not – Thus, the impugned s and s passed by the High Court that the determination of arm’s length price by the tribunal shall be final against which an appeal u/s. 260 A is not required to be entertained F is quashed and set aside. Allowing the appeals, the Court HELD: 1.1 While determining the arm’s length price, the tribunal has to follow the guidelines stipulated under Chapter X of the Income Tax Act, 1961, namely, Sections 92, 92A to 92CA, G 92D, 92E and 92F of the Act and Rules 10A to 10E of the Rules. Any determination of the arm’s length price under Chapter X de hors the relevant provisions of the guidelines, can be considered as perverse and it may be considered as a substantial question of law as perversity itself can be said to be a substantial question of H law. Therefore, there cannot be any absolute proposition of law 430 SAP LABS INDIA PRIVATE LIMITED v. INCOME TAX 431 OFFICER, CIRCLE 6, BANGALORE that in all cases where the tribunal has determined the arm’s A length price the same is final and cannot be the subject matter of scrutiny by the High Court in an appeal under Section 260A of the IT Act. When the determination of the arm’s length price is challenged before the High Court, it is always open for the High Court to consider and examine whether the arm’s length price B has been determined while taking into consideration the relevant guidelines under the Act and the Rules. Even the High Court can also examine the question of comparability of two companies or selection of filters and examine whether the same is done judiciously and on the basis of the relevant material/evidence on record.