In a case where the Trial Court is informed that it lacks jurisdiction to issue process for complaints under Section 138 of the Act the proceedings will have to be stayed in such cases. Hence, it is contended that the power of the Trial Court to decide with regard to its jurisdiction is not taken away and in that circumstance exercise of power under Section 482 CrPC by the High Court would be justifi ed. It is further contended by the learned Amicus Curiae that even the position under Section 25(3) of the Contract Act being applicable to criminal proceedings for dishonour of cheque will have to be examined in the background of the provision contained in the Explanation to Section 138 of NI Act which specifi es that the debt or other liability enforceable would be only a legally enforceable debt or other liability. In such circumstances if the cheque is issued in respect of the debt which is not enforceable or a liability which cannot be recovered, in such event, the presumption under Section 139 of NI Act would not be available. 12. Having referred to the s cited, prima facie we are of the opinion that the decision in S. Natarajan and A.V. Murthy (supra) has taken into consideration all aspects. No other elaboration is required even if the observations contained in the case of Expeditious Trial of Cases under Section 138 of NI Act (supra) is taken note, since, whether the debt in question is a legally enforceable debt or other liability would arise on the facts and circumstance of each case and in that light the question as to whether the power under Section 482 CrPC is to be exercised or not will also arise in the facts of such case. Even otherwise we do not see the need to tread that path to undertake an academic exercise on that aspect of the matter, since from the very facts involved in the case on hand ex facie it indicates that the claim which was made in the complaint before the Trial Court based on the cheque which was dishonoured cannot be construed as time-barred and as such it cannot be classifi ed as a debt which was not legally recoverable, the details of which we would advert to here below. In that view, we have chosen not to refer to the cases provided as a compilation as it would be unnecessary to refer to the same. K. HYMAVATHI v. THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH & 421 ANR. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] 13. In that regard the perusal of the impugned would disclose that the very narration as contained in para 4 of the impugned would indicate that the consideration therein was predicated only on two facts as noted by the High Court, (i) that the promissory notes are of the year 2012, (ii) that the cheques are issued in the year 2017. It is in that light the High Court has indicated that the date of issuance of the cheque is beyond three years from the date of issuance of the promissory note so as to classify it as a time-barred debt.