[2023] 11 S.C.R. 789 : 2023 INSC 758 CASE DETAILS IRFAN @ NAKA v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH (Criminal Appeal Nos. 825-826 of 2022) AUGUST 23, 2023 [B.R. GAVAI, J.B. PARDIWALA AND PRASHANT KUMAR MISHRA, JJ.] HEADNOTES Issue for consideration: Whether the prosecution could be said to have proved its case beyond reasonable doubt against the appellant who was convicted for off ence punishable u/ss.302, 436 and 326-A, IPC and sentenced to death, for allegedly setting his son and his real brothers on fi re, solely on the basis of dying declarations. Evidence – Dying declarations – Sole basis of conviction – When not justifi ed – Appellant had strained relationship with his son (victim- deceased) from his first marriage and his two brothers (victims- deceased), all of whom, as per the prosecution, were opposed to his second marriage – He is said to have locked the door of the room from outside in which the victims were sleeping, poured kerosene in the room and set it on fi re – Dying declarations of two of the deceased persons relied upon – Legality: Held: Courts are fi rst required to satisfy themselves that the dying declaration in question is reliable and truthful before placing any reliance upon it – Dying declaration while carrying a presumption of being true must be wholly reliable and inspire confi dence – Where there is any suspicion over the veracity of the same or the evidence on record shows that the dying declaration is not true it will only be considered as a piece of evidence but cannot be the basis for conviction alone – In the instant case, neither the two dying declarations nor the oral evidence of PW-2 and PW-4 inspire any confi dence – Both these witnesses do not fi gure in the two dying declarations 789 790 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. – The two dying declarations are not consistent or rather contradictory to the oral evidence on record – Although, the appellant was named in the two dying declarations as a person who set the room on fi re yet the surrounding circumstances render such statement very doubtful – Diffi cult to rest the conviction solely based on the two dying declarations – Prosecution has not proved its case against the appellant beyond reasonable doubt – Appellant acquitted. [Paras 47, 61, 64, 67-69] Criminal Law – Charge against accused – Duty of prosecution to establish beyond reasonable doubt: Held: It is the duty of the prosecution to establish the charge against the accused beyond reasonable doubt – The benefi t of doubt must always go in favour of the accused – Dying declaration is a substantive piece of evidence to be relied on provided it is proved that it was voluntary and truthful and the victim was in a fi t state of mind – It is just not enough for the court to say that the dying declaration is reliable as the accused is named in the dying declaration as the assailant – Evidence – Dying declaration.