25.2. Regulation 32 empowers the Liquidator to sell the assets of the corporate debtor. Mode of sale is referred to in Regulation 33. As per Regulation 33(1), the Liquidator shall ordinarily sell the assets of the corporate debtor through an auction in the manner specifi ed in Schedule I. 26. This brings us to Schedule I of the Regulations dealing with mode of sale. Para 1 lays down the steps to be taken for auction sale of an asset by the Liquidator. The steps to be taken are mentioned in paras 1(2) to 1(13). As per para 1(3), the Liquidator shall prepare terms and conditions of sale, including reserve price, earnest money deposit (EMD) as well as pre-bid qualifi cations, if any. The second proviso clarifi es that EMD shall not exceed 10 per cent of the reserve price, which as per para 1(4) shall be the value of the asset arrived at in accordance with Regulation 35. 27. Reverting to Regulation 35, we may mention that as per sub- Regulation (1) of the aforesaid provision, the Liquidator shall consider the average of the estimates of the values arrived under Regulation 35. As per sub-Regulation (2), in cases not covered under sub-Regulation (1) or where the Liquidator is of the opinion that fresh valuation is required under the circumstances, he shall within seven days of the liquidation commencement date, appoint two registered valuers to determine the realisable value of the assets or the businesses of the corporate debtor. The fi rst proviso mentions certain persons who should not be appointed as registered valuers, such as, a relative of the Liquidator; a related party of the corporate debtor etc. 886 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. Sub-Regulation (3) says that the registered valuers appointed under sub- Regulation (2) shall independently submit to the Liquidator the estimates of realisable value of the assets or the businesses, as the case may be, computed in accordance with the Companies (Registered Valuers and Valuation) Rules, 2017 after physical verifi cation of the assets of the corporate debtor. Sub- Regulation (4) provides that the average of the two estimates received under sub-Regulation (3) shall be taken as the value of the assets or businesses. 28. Coming back to Schedule-I, we fi nd that as per para 1(4A), where an auction fails at the reserve price, the Liquidator may reduce the price by up to 25% of such value to conduct subsequent auction. 28.1. Paras 1(11), (11A), (12) and (13) of Schedule-I are relevant since much emphasis has been placed by learned counsel for the parties on these provisions. As per para 1(11), if it is required, Liquidator may conduct multiple rounds of auction to maximize the realization from the sale of the assets and to promote the best interest of the creditors. Para 1(11A) says that where the Liquidator rejects the highest bid in an auction process, he shall intimate the reasons for such rejection to the highest bidder and mention it in the next progress report.