It is not measure of backwardness. That is why less rigorous test or lesser marks and competition amongst the class of unequals at the point of entry has been approved both by this Court and American courts. But a student admitted to a medical or engineering college is further not granted relaxation in passing the D examinations. In fact this has been explained as a valid basis in American decisions furnishing justification for racial admissions on lower percentage. Rationale appears to be that everyone irrespective of the source of entry being subjected to same test neither efficiency is effected nor E the equality is disturbed. After entry in service the class is one, that of employees. If the social scar of backwardness is carried even thereafter, the entire object of equalisation stands frustrated. No further classification amongst employees would be justified as is not done amongst students. F 623. Constitutional, legal or moral basis for protective discrimination is redressing identifiable backward class for historical injustice. That is they are today, what they would not have been but for the victimisation. Remedying this and to balance the unfair advantage gained by others is G the constitutional responsibility. But once the advantaged and disadvantaged, the so-called forward and backward, enter into the same stream then the past injustice stands removed. And the length of service, the seniority in cadre of one group, to be specific the forward group, is not as a result of any historical injustice or undue advantage earned H RESERVE BANK OF INDIA & ORS. v. A.K. NAIR & ORS. 813 [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] by his forefather or discrimination against the backward A class, but because of the years of service that are put by an employee, in his individual capacity. This entitlement cannot be curtailed by bringing in again the concept of victimisation. 624. Equality either as propagated by theorists or as B applied by courts seeks to remove inequality by “parity of treatment under parity of condition” [(1976) 2 SCC 310, 380 : 1976 SCC (L&S) 227 : (1976) 1 SCR 906] . But once in “ to treat some persons equally, we must treat them differently” [57 L Ed 2d 750 : 438 US 265 (1978)] has C been done and advantaged and disadvantaged are made equal and are brought in one class or group then any further benefit extended for promotion on the inequality existing prior to be brought in the group would be treating equals unequally. It would not be eradicating the effects of past discrimination but perpetuating it. D 625. Constitutional sanction is to reserve for backward class of persons. That is class or group interest has been preferred over individual. But promotion from a class or group of employees is not promoting a group or class but an individual. It is one against other. No forward class E versus backward class or majority against minority. It would, thus, be contrary to the Constitution. Brother Kuldip Singh, for good and sound reasons has rightly opined, that, Rangachari [(1962) 2 SCR 586 : AIR 1962 SC 36] cannot be held to be laying down good law.” F ***************** 627.