F Disposing of the appeals, the Court HELD: Circumstance – Apartment from where the dead body was found stood in the tenancy and possession of accused ‘S’. G 1. Prosecution seeks to bring home the charge levelled on the accused by relying on certain circumstances. As to when on strength of evidence circumstantial in nature conviction can be lawfully sustained, the law is well settled — the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should, in the first instance, be fully established; these circumstances should H 722 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A be of a definite tendency unerringly pointing towards the guilt of the accused; the circumstances taken cumulatively should form a chain so far complete that there is no escape from the conclusion that within all human probability the crime was committed by the accused; the circumstances should be consistent only with the hypothesis regarding the guilt of the accused; and they must B exclude every possible hypothesis except the one to be proved. Further, the circumstances from which the conclusion of guilt is to be drawn should be fully established meaning thereby that they ‘must’ or ‘should’ and not ‘may be’ established. While dealing with a criminal trial, a Court must not be oblivious of the most C fundamental principle of criminal jurisprudence, which is, that the accused ‘must be’ and not merely ‘may be’ guilty before the Court proceeds to convict him. In Shivaji Sahabrao Bobade & Another v. State of Maharashtra, this Court, elaborating upon the above principle, observed that the mental distance between ‘may be’ and ‘must be’ is long and divides vague conjectures from D sure conclusions. [Paras 23, 24][739-G-H; 740-A-D] 2. In Shivaji Chintappa Patil v. State of Maharashtra, it was observed that Section 106 of the IEA, 1872 does not directly operate against either a husband or wife staying under the same roof and being the last person seen with the deceased. It was E observed that Section 106 of the Evidence Act does not absolve the prosecution of discharging its primary burden of proving the prosecution case beyond reasonable doubt. It is only when the prosecution has led evidence which, if believed, will sustain a conviction, or which makes out a prima facie case, that the F question arises of considering facts of which the burden of proof would lie upon the accused. [Para 32][744-C-D] 3. This Court is of the view that though the prosecution has succeeded in proving that the apartment where body of the deceased was found stood in the tenancy of ‘S’ but it failed to G lead any evidence that the two accused, or any one of them, were present there, or in the vicinity, either on 11.09.2000 or any time thereafter, till recovery of the dead body. In other words, the prosecution miserably failed to show the presence of the accused around the probable time of murder. Further, the prosecution H SANTOSH @ BHURE v. STATE (G.N.C.T.) OF DELHI 723 led no evidence to establish that the concerned apartment was A under lock and key or exclusive control of either ‘S’ or ‘N’.