CENTRAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION v. NAROTTAM 313 DHAKAD & ANR. [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] (7) Where the police officer investigating the case finds it convenient so to do, he may furnish to the accused copies of all or any of the documents referred to in sub-section (5). (8) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to preclude further investigation in respect of an off ence after a report under sub- section (2) has been forwarded to the Magistrate and, where upon such investigation, the offi cer in charge of the police station obtains further evidence, oral or documentary, he shall forward to the Magistrate a further report or reports regarding such evidence in the form prescribed; and the provisions of sub-sections (2) to (6) shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to such report or reports as they apply in relation to a report forwarded under sub-section (2).” (emphasis supplied) 10. As can be seen from sub-section (2) of Section 173, after completion of the investigation, the offi cer in charge of the police station is under an obligation to submit a report to the learned Magistrate in the form prescribed by the State Government, giving particulars as mentioned in sub- section (2). Sub-section (5) is applicable in a case governing Section 170. It applies when it appears to the offi cer in charge of the police station that there is suffi cient evidence or reasonable ground justifying the forwarding of the accused to the learned Magistrate. In such a case, along with the report, the offi cer in charge of the police station is bound to forward copies of the statements recorded under Section 161 of all the persons whom the prosecution proposes to examine as its witnesses. It also enjoins the offi cer in charge of the police station to forward all the documents or relevant extracts thereof on which the prosecution proposes to rely upon other than those already sent to the Magistrate during the investigation. Sub-section (6) of Section 173 confers power on the learned Magistrate to exclude certain parts of the material produced along with the charge sheet while supplying copies thereof to the accused. 11. Section 173 will have to be read with Section 207 which mandates that after cognizance is taken of the off ence by the learned Magistrate on a case instituted on a police report, it is the obligation of the learned Magistrate to furnish free of cost, without any delay, copies of the police report, fi rst 314 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. information report, statements recorded under sub-section (3) of Section 161 of CrPC except the portion in respect of which there is an passed by the learned Magistrate by invoking powers under sub-section (6) of Section 173, confessions and statements recorded under Section 164 and copies of the documents or relevant extracts forwarded along with the police report in accordance with sub-section (5) of Section 173. When the statements of the witnesses or documents covered by sub-section (5) of Section 173 are very bulky, the learned Magistrate has the discretion to allow the accused and his advocate to inspect the said documents instead of providing copies thereof.