48. Most of the precedents cited contain discussions on how the institution of marriage involves issues of basic importance. Many decisions, including Obergefell v. Hodges (hereafter, “Obergefell”)47, recall tradition, to underline that marriage is of utmost signifi cance, and that it underlines the importance of commitment of two individuals towards each other and that it is a foundational relationship of society. Traditions of marriage per se may not support the basis of recognition of marital relationship between non-heterosexual couples. Many decisions by the US courts, have underlined the rationale for declaring the right to marry a fundamental right as being 46 Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission v. Baloji Badhvanath 2009 (5) SCR 668 47 576 US 644 (2015) 145 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. essential to the ly pursuit of Happiness (as it appears in their Declaration of Independence) by free persons. This strand of reasoning is apparent from Loving48 to Obergefell (supra). 49. This with respect is not sound - at least as applied to state licensing of marriage (as in the US), which is what civil marriage is. The fundamental importance of marriage remains that it is based on personal preference and confers social status. Importance of something to an individual does not per se justify considering it a fundamental right, even if that preference enjoys popular acceptance or support. Some may consider education to be fundamentally important in that they consider nothing less than a postgraduate degree is fundamental; there may be a large section of the people, who consider that access to internet is a fundamental right, and yet others, who may wish that access to essential medication is a fundamental right. All these cannot be enforceable rights, which the courts can compel the state or governance institutions to provide. These cannot result in demand for creation of a social institution, and in turn creation of status, through a statute. This result - i.e. recognition, can be achieved only by enacted law. 50. All decisions relied on by the petitioners – K.S. Puttaswamy (supra), Navtej Johar (supra), Shakti Vahini (supra) and Deepika Singh v. Central Administrative Tribunal49, contain broad observations with respect to individuals’ choice of their partner as also a reference as to non- conventional relationships. Some broad observations are undoubtedly to be found in these s they cannot be referenced to hold that a right to marry automatically fl ows in the manner from the provisions of Part III which the petitioner asserts. There cannot, for the above reasons, be a per se assertion that there exists an unqualifi ed right to marry which requires treatment as a fundamental freedom; we agree on this conclusion arrived at by the learned Chief Justice, and his analysis of Shakti Vahini (supra), Shafi n Jahan (supra), Navtej Johar (supra), K.S. Puttaswamy (supra), and NALSA (supra) that the constitution does not expressly recognize a right to marry. 48 Loving v. Virginia, 388 US 1 (1967) 49 2022 (7) SCR 557 SUPRIYO @ SUPRIYA CHAKRABORTY & ANR.