32, p. 17, para. 32). These obligations may involve the adoption of measures designed to secure respect for private life even in the sphere of the relations of individuals between themselves.” 65 [1985] ECHR 4 H 664 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 71. Having taken an overview of the theoretical aspect of “verticality vs horizontality” and the approach of Constitutional Courts in other jurisdictions, let us now come back to the Indian context. 72. Part-III of the Indian Constitution begins with Article 12 which defines the expression “the State” to include the Government and the Parliament of India and the Government and the Legislature of each of B the States and all local or other authorities within the territory of India or under the control of the Government of India. 73. After defining the expression “the State” in Article 12 and after declaring all laws inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights to be void under Article 13, Part-III of the Constitution C proceeds to deal with rights. There are some Articles in Part-III where the mandate is directly to the State and there are other Articles where without injuncting the State, certain rights are recognized to be inherent, either in the citizens of the country or in persons. In fact, there are two sets of dichotomies that are apparent in the Articles D contained in Part III. One set of dichotomy is between (i) what is directed against the State; and (ii) what is spelt out as inhering in every individual without reference to the State. The other dichotomy is between (i) citizens; and (ii) persons. This can be illustrated easily in the form of a table as follows: E F G H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 665 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] A B C D E F G H 666 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A B C D E F G H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 667 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 74. The above table would show that some of the Articles of A Part-III are in the form of a directive to the State, while others are not. This is an indication that some of the rights conferred by Part-III are to be honored by and also enforceable against, non-State actors. 75. For instance, the rights conferred by Articles 15(2)(a) and (b), 17, 20(2), 21, 23, 24, 29(2) etc., are obviously enforceable against non- B State actors also. The owner of a shop, public restaurant, hotel or place of entertainment, though a non-State actor cannot deny access to a citizen of India on grounds only of religion, race etc., in view of Article 15(2)(a). So is the case with wells, tanks, bathing ghats, roads and places of public resort maintained wholly or partly out of State funds or dedicated to the C use of general public, in view of Article 15(2)(b). The right not to be enforced with any disability arising out of untouchability is available against non-State actors under Article 17.