Further, this Court made a comparison between Article 31(1), as it then stood, and Article 21 as both Articles cast a negative duty on the State. In that context it was held that B although there is no express reference to the State in Article 21, it could not be suggested that the Article was intended to afford protection to life and liberty against violation by private individuals. That the words “except by procedure established by law” exclude such suggestion that Article 21 would operate horizontally. C The aforesaid decision is illustrative of this Court’s reluctance to hold that the Fundamental Rights under Articles 19 or 21 of the Constitution, would operate horizontally. It is also to be noted that in the aforesaid case, this Court has acknowledged that a suitable remedy exists under statutory D law to redress the infraction complained of. Therefore, while this Court was mindful that the rights in the realm of common law, some of which have gained statutory recognition, operate horizontally, the Fundamental Rights under Articles 19 and 21, do not, except in the case of seeking a writ in the E nature of habeas corpus. (b) In Zoroastrian Cooperative Housing Society Limited vs. District Registrar, Cooperative Societies (Urban), (2005) 5 SCC 632, the Petitioner society was a registered society with its own bye-laws, under its parent legislation, the Bombay Cooperative Societies Act. As per bye-law 7, only F members of the Parsi community were eligible to become members of the Society. The effect of this was that since housing shares could be transferred only to members, effectively, only Parsis could buy plots under the aegis of the Cooperative Society. This restrictive covenant in the G bye-laws became the subject matter of challenge before this Court, inter-alia, on the ground that it violated the right to equality enshrined in the Constitution. This Court refused to accept such a challenge and held that the Society’s bye- laws were in the nature of Articles of Association of a company and were not like a statute. The bye-laws were H KAUSHAL KISHOR v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. 783 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] only “binding between the persons affected by them.” A That a private contractual agreement is not subject to general scrutiny under Part III of the Constitution. This Court further distinguished between a discriminatory legislation passed by the State and a discriminatory bye-laws of a society or association, which is not ‘State’. Accordingly, it held that B while a legislation may be subject to a challenge on the touchstone of Part III of the Constitution, bye-laws of a society or association, could not. This decision is also demonstrative of this Court’s disapproval of horizontal operation of fundamental rights, C making them directly applicable to interactions, whether contractual or otherwise, between private parties. iii) I am however mindful of the fact that over the years, the conception of “State” as defined under Article 12 of the Constitution has undergone significant metamorphosis. D Through its jurisprudential labour, this Court has devised several principles and doctrines, so as to enable citizens to enforce their fundamental rights not only against “State” as defined in the strict sense to mean “agency of the Government,” but also against entities imbued with public character, or entitles which perform functions which closely E resemble governmental functions.