(i) Annual License fee at the rate of 15% of Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) shall be payable by you, with effect from 1st August, 1999. (ii) In addition the cellular licenses shall pay spectrum charges, with effect from (1.8.1999) the cut-off date of change over to NTP-99 regime, on revenue share basis of 2% of AGR towards WPC Charges covering royalty payment of the use of cellular spectrum upto 4.4 MHz+4.4 MHz and Licence fee for Cellular Mobile handsets & Cellular Mobile Base Stations and also for possession of wireless telegraphy equipment as per the details prescribed by Wireless Planning & Coordination Wing (WPC). Any additional band width, if allotted subject to availability and justification shall attract additional License fee as revenue share (typically) 1% additional revenue share if Bandwidth allocated is upto 6.2 MHz + 6.2 MHz is place of 4.4 MHz+4,4 MHz).” (Emphasis supplied) 13.6. The pertinent qualitative changes effected in the licence conditions, following migration into the Policy of 1999 regime, may be presented in a tabular form, as under: C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 421 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Sl. No. Parameters for National New Telecom Distinction Telecom Policy, Policy, 1999 1994 1. Details of the payment i. Fixed licence i. One-time entry to be made by the fee for the first fee paid by existing operator: three years; telecom operators and entry fee that ii. From the was paid by all the fourth year new entrants; onwards, the amount of ii. Variable annual licence fees to licence fee paid be paid, was as a percentage of dependent on AGR. the number of subscribers, irrespective of the revenue account by the licencee from such subscribers, subject to the pr e s c r ib e d minimum 2. Maximum number of Two No restriction operators permissible in a circle 3. Validity of the licence 10 years, subject 20 years, subject to to extension. extension. 4. Right of the operator/ Licence was non- Restriction on licencee to assign/ assignable and assignment/ transfer the licence non-transferable. transfer of licence was relaxed. 14. The discussion on the points set out above, in our view, must begin with a detailed review of relevant case law detailing the nature and 422 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. characteristics of capital expenditure and revenue expenditure and the tests to identify the same. 14.1. In the impugned , the High Court of Delhi found that there was no decision of the Supreme Court or any of the High Courts directly applicable to the factual matrix of the case and therefore, considered a number of decisions of this Court which we shall refer to as under: (a) At the outset, we preface our discussion by the observations of this Court in Alembic Chemical Works Co. Ltd. vs. CIT, (1989) 3 SCC 329 (“Alembic Chemical Works Co. Ltd.”) wherein the transaction in question was with regard to the one-time payment made under an agreement with a foreign fi rm, by the assessee, to obtain technical know-how for increasing yield of penicillin in its existing plant.