[2023] 6 S.C.R. 643 643 RAMESH CHANDRA VAISHYA A v. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ANR. (Criminal Appeal No. 1617 of 2023) MAY 19, 2023 B [S. RAVINDRA BHAT AND DIPANKAR DATTA, JJ.] Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 – ss. 3(1)(x), 18 – Penal Code, 1860 – ss. 323, 325, 392, 452, 504, 506 – Prosecution case that the appellant was C engaged in an altercation with the second respondent-complainant over the issue of drainage of water – It was alleged that during this altercation, the appellant verbally hurled caste related abuses towards the complainant and his family members, and subsequently physically assaulted the complainant causing him multiple injuries – Two FIRs were filed – First FIR by the complainant against the D appellant and second FIR by appellant against the complainant – First FIR was registered against the appellant u/ss. 323, 504, IPC and 3(1)(x), the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 – Charge-sheet filed – Appellant sought quashing of criminal proceedings u/s. 482 Cr.P.C. before E the High Court – High Court held that without evidence, it was not possible to ascertain the veracity of the allegations, therefore application u/s. 482 Cr.P.C. was not sustained – On appeal, held: Neither the first F.I.R. nor the charge-sheet refers to the presence of a fifth individual (a member of the public) at the place of occurrence (apart from the appellant, the complainant, his wife and their son) F – Since the utterances, if any, made by the appellant were not “in any place within public view”, the basic ingredient for attracting section 3(1)(x) of the SC/ST Act was missing/absent – Further, the allegation in the first F.I.R. is that the appellant had beaten up the complainant for which he sustained multiple injuries – Chargesheet G neither refer to any eye-witnesses other than complainant’s wife and son nor any medical report – The nature of hurt suffered by the complainant in the process is neither reflected from the first F.I.R. nor the charge-sheet – On the contrary, the appellant had the injuries suffered by him treated immediately after the incident – High Court misdirected itself in failing to appreciate the challenge to the criminal H 643 644 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A proceedings including the charge-sheet in the proper perspective and occasioned a grave failure of justice in rejecting such challenge. Allowing the appeal, the Court HELD: 1. The first F.I.R., registered at the instance of the complainant, is silent about the place of occurrence and who, B being a member of the public, was present when the appellant is alleged to have hurled caste related abuses at the complainant. However, on a reading of the second F.I.R. registered at the behest of the appellant, it appears that the incident took place at the house of the appellant. The first question that calls for an C answer is whether it was at a place within public view that the appellant hurled caste related abuses at the complainant with an intent to insult or intimidate with an intent to humiliate him.