This, in C turn, was based on: Firstly, Article 136(2) of the Constitution does not permit any Special Leave to Appeal to the Supreme Court against the of a court or tribunal constituted by or under any law relating to the Armed Forces. Secondly, Section 31 of the said Act states that an appeal to this Court would only lie if “a point of law of general public importance” is involved. D 7. Thus, as most matters are personal to litigants being in the nature of service matters, and may not involve a point of law of “general public importance”, a litigant does not have any forum for grievance redressal, except the High Court under Article 226, which it can approach, aggrieved by an of the Armed Forces Tribunal. Furthermore, the E legislature was conscious of the seminality of the jurisdiction under Article 226 of the Constitution while drafting Section 14 of the said Act, which expressly saves the jurisdiction of the High Court from entertaining appeals arising from the Armed Forces Tribunal under Article 226 and Article 227 of the Constitution. F 8. Section 14(1) of the said Act reads as under. “14. Jurisdiction, powers and authority in service matters. – (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the Tribunal shall exercise, on and from the appointed day, all the jurisdiction, powers and authority, exercisable immediately before that day by G all courts (except the Supreme Court or a High Court exercising jurisdiction under articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution) in relation to all service matters.” 9. Learned counsels contended that Articles 226 and 227 of the Constitution are not in pari materia and, thus, the limitation imposed H 606 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A under Article 227(4) could not be extended to Article 226 of the Constitution. Article 227(4) begins with the phrase “Nothing in this Article ….....” implying that the embargo in the provision is only limited to that Article. 10. It would be worthwhile to reproduce Article 227(4), which B reads as under: 227. Power of superintendence over all courts by the High Court – ...... (4) Nothing in this article shall be deemed to confer on a C High Court powers of superintendence over any court or tribunal constituted by or under any law relating to the Armed Forces.” 11. Thus, even for the sake of argument, were it to be said that Article 227(4) takes away the power of superintendence of the High Court for matters emanating from courts-martial under Section 158 of D the said Act, the same will not dilute the power of the High Courts under Article 226 even for matters dealing with courts-martial. In any case, the High Courts have been reluctant to entertain writ petitions against s under Section 15 of the said Act, and have refused to become a court of second appeal. E 12. Learned counsels fortified their arguments on the basis of observations in S.N. Mukherjee v. Union of India9, more specifically paragraph 42, where the Supreme Court held that the High Courts, under Article 226, have the power of judicial review even in respect of courts- martial and the High Courts can grant appropriate relief “if the said F proceedings have resulted in denial of the fundamental rights guaranteed under Part III of the Constitution or if the said proceedings suffer from a jurisdictional error or any error of law apparent on the face of the record.” 13.