Even for the said purpose the retracted confession on the part of the accused could not have been taken recourse to. 96. Last but not the least, physical evidence relating to three samples taken from the bulk amount of heroin was also not G produced. Even if it is accepted for the sake of argument that the bulk quantity was destroyed, the samples were essential to be produced and proved as primary evidence for the purpose of establishing the fact of recovery of heroin as envisaged under Section 52-A of the Act. H 526 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A XXX XXX XXX 100. Physical evidence of a case of this nature being the property of the court should have been treated to be sacrosanct. Non- production thereof would warrant drawing of a negative inference within the meaning of Section 114(g) of the Evidence Act. While B there are such a large number of discrepancies, if a cumulative effect thereto is taken into consideration on the basis whereof the permissive inference would be that serious doubts are created with respect to the prosecution’s endeavour to prove the fact of possession of contraband by the appellant. This aspect of the matter has been considered by this Court in Jitendra v. State of C M.P. [(2004) 10 SCC 562 : 2004 SCC (Cri) 2028] in the following terms: (SCC p. 565, para 6) “6. … In the trial it was necessary for the prosecution to establish by cogent evidence that the alleged quantities of charas and ganja were seized from the possession of the D accused. The best evidence would have been the seized materials which ought to have been produced during the trial and marked as material objects. There is no explanation for this failure to produce them. Mere oral evidence as to their features and production of panchnama does not discharge the E heavy burden which lies on the prosecution, particularly where the offence is punishable with a stringent sentence as under the NDPS Act.”” 9. On the issue of seizure in the presence of Magistrate, we wish to place reliance upon the decision of this Court in Union of India v. Mohanlal, (2016) 3 SCC 379: F “16. Sub-section (3) of Section 52-A requires that the Magistrate shall as soon as may be allow the application. This implies that no sooner the seizure is effected and the contraband forwarded to the officer-in-charge of the police station or the officer empowered, the officer concerned is in law duty-bound to approach the G Magistrate for the purposes mentioned above including grant of permission to draw representative samples in his presence, which samples will then be enlisted and the correctness of the list of samples so drawn certified by the Magistrate. In other words, the process of drawing of samples has to be in the presence and H MANGILAL v. THE STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH 527 [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] under the supervision of the Magistrate and the entire exercise A has to be certified by him to be correct.