9. It was also submitted that there was a prohibition of registration of documents of transfer/conveyance with respect to the area where the property in question is situate and, therefore, the transfers aff ected under the customary documents was suffi cient to confer title on the respondent. It was also submitted that the in the case of Suraj Lamps & Industries Pvt. Ltd. Vs. State of Haryana and Anr.1, which was of the year 2011, had prospective application and would not have any bearing on the title of the respondents which came to him under the customary documents executed in the year 2008 much prior to the in the case of Suraj Lamps & Industries (supra). 10. Having considered the submissions at the outset, it is to be emphasized that irrespective of what was decided in the case of Suraj Lamps and Industries (supra) the fact remains that no title could be transferred with 1 183 (2011) DLT 1 (SC) SHAKEEL AHMED v. SYED AKHLAQ HUSSAIN 595 [VIKRAM NATH, J.] respect to immovable properties on the basis of an unregistered Agreement to Sell or on the basis of an unregistered General Power of Attorney. The Registration Act, 1908 clearly provides that a document which requires compulsory registration under the Act, would not confer any right, much less a legally enforceable right to approach a Court of Law on its basis. Even if these documents i.e. the Agreement to Sell and the Power of Attorney were registered, still it could not be said that the respondent would have acquired title over the property in question. At best, on the basis of the registered agreement to sell, he could have claimed relief of specifi c performance in appropriate proceedings. In this regard, reference may be made to sections 17 and 49 of the Registration Act and section 54 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882. 11. Law is well settled that no right, title or interest in immovable property can be conferred without a registered document. Even the of this Court in the case of Suraj Lamps & Industries (supra) lays down the same proposition. Reference may also be made to the following s of this Court: (i). Ameer Minhaj Vs. Deirdre Elizabeth (Wright) Issar and 2 Others 3 (ii). Balram Singh Vs. Kelo Devi (iii). M/S Paul Rubber Industries Private Limited Vs. Amit Chand Mitra & Anr.4 12. The embargo put on registration of documents would not override the statutory provision so as to confer title on the basis of unregistered documents with respect to immovable property. Once this is the settled position, the respondent could not have maintained the suit for possession and mesne profi ts against the appellant, who was admittedly in possession of the property in question whether as an owner or a licensee. 13. The argument advanced on behalf of the respondent that the in Suraj Lamps & Industries (supra) would be prospective is also 2 (2018) 7 SCC 639 3 In Civil Appeal No. 6733 of 2022 4 In SLP (C) No.