But the community will not do so in every case. It may do so “in rarest of rare cases” when its collective conscience is so shocked that it will expect the holders of the judicial power centre to infl ict death 14 (1983) 3 SCC 470 796 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. penalty irrespective of their personal opinion as regards desirability or otherwise of retaining death penalty. The community may entertain such a sentiment when the crime is viewed from the platform of the motive for, or the manner of commission of the crime, or the anti-social or abhorrent nature of the crime, such as for instance: I. Manner of commission of murder 33. When the murder is committed in an extremely brutal, grotesque, diabolical, revolting or dastardly manner so as to arouse intense and extreme indignation of the community. For instance, (i) when the house of the victim is set afl ame with the end in view to roast him alive in the house. (ii) when the victim is subjected to inhuman acts of torture or cruelty in to bring about his or her death. (iii) when the body of the victim is cut into pieces or his body is dismembered in a fi endish manner. II. Motive for commission of murder 34. When the murder is committed for a motive which evinces total depravity and meanness. For instance when (a) a hired assassin commits murder for the sake of money or reward (b) a cold-blooded murder is committed with a deliberate design in to inherit property or to gain control over property of a ward or a person under the control of the murderer or vis-a-vis whom the murderer is in a dominating position or in a position of trust, or (c) a murder is committed in the course for betrayal of the motherland. III. Anti-social or socially abhorrent nature of the crime 35. (a) When murder of a member of a Scheduled Caste or minority community etc., is committed not for personal reasons but in circumstances which arouse social wrath. For instance when such a crime is committed in to terrorize such persons and frighten them into fl eeing from a place or in to deprive them of, or make them surrender, lands or benefi ts conferred on them with a view to reverse past injustices and in to restore the social balance. MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 797 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] IV. Magnitude of crime 36. When the crime is enormous in proportion. For instance when multiple murders say of all or almost all the members of a family or a large number of persons of a particular caste, community, or locality, are committed. V. Personality of victim of murder 37. When the victim of murder is (a) an innocent child who could not have or has not provided even an excuse, much less a provocation, for murder (b) a helpless woman or a person rendered helpless by old age or infi rmity (c) when the victim is a person vis-a-vis whom the murderer is in a position of domination or trust (d) when the victim is a public fi gure generally loved and respected by the community for the services rendered by him and the murder is committed for political or similar reasons other than personal reasons.” 55.