As International Law is primarily a law between States only and exclusively, treaties can normally have eff ect upon States only. This Rule can, as has been pointed out by the Permanent Court of International Justice, be altered by the express or implied terms of the treaty, in which case its provisions become self-executory. Otherwise, if treaties contain provisions with regard to rights and duties of the subjects of the contracting States, their Courts, offi cials, and the like, these States must take steps as are necessary according to their Municipal Law, to make these provisions binding upon their subjects, Courts, offi cials, and the like.” 116 8 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. Shah, J also referred to Articles 73 and 253 and further commented: “80...By Article 73, subject to the provisions of the Constitution, the executive power of the Union extends to the matters with respect to which the Parliament has power to make laws. Our Constitution makes no provision making legislation a condition of the entry into an international treaty in times either of war or peace. The executive power of the Union is vested in the President and is exercisable in accordance with the Constitution. The Executive is qua the State competent to represent the State in all matters international and may by agreement, convention or treaties incur obligations which in international law are binding upon the State. But the obligations arising under the agreement or treaties are not by their own force binding upon Indian nationals. The power to legislate in respect of treaties lies with the Parliament under Entries 10 and 14 of List I of the Seventh Schedule. But making of law under that authority is necessary when the treaty or agreement operates to restrict the rights of citizens or others or modifi es the laws of the State. If the rights of the citizens or others which are justiciable are not aff ected, no legislative measure is needed to give eff ect to the agreement or treaty.” In Gramaphone Co. of India Ltd. v. Birendra Bahadur Pandey & Ors.27 it was observed as follows: “The doctrine of incorporation also recognises the position that the Rules of international law are incorporated into national law and considered to be part of the national law, unless they are in confl ict with Act of Parliament. Comity of Nations or no, Municipal Law must prevail in case of confl ict. National Courts cannot say yes if Parliament has said no to a principle of international law. National Courts will endorse international law but not if it confl icts with national law. National courts being organs of the National State and not organs of international law must perforce apply national law if international law confl icts with it.” 27 [1984] 2 SCR 664 ASSESSING OFFICER CIRCLE (INTERNATIONAL TAXATION) 2(2)(2) 1169 NEW DELHI v. M/S NESTLE SA [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] 44. The holding in the decisions discussed above may thus be summarized: (i) The terms of a treaty ratifi ed by the Union do not ipso facto acquire enforceability; (ii) The Union has exclusive executive power to enter into international treaties and conventions under Article 73 [read with corresponding Entries - Nos.