State Cadre posts 1. Chairman or any other Member of the Board to be nominated by the Chairman. 2. Head of the indenting Department or the Secretary of F concerned Administrative Department. 3. Any other officer to be nominated by the Chairman. II. Divisional Cadre posts 1. Member of the Board to be nominated by the Chairman, G who shall be Convenor of the Committee. 2. Additional Commissioner of the concerned Division. 3. Head of the indenting Department. H 758 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A 4. Any other person to be nominated by the Member of the Board chairing the Committee. III. District Cadre Posts. 1. Member of the Board to be nominated by the Chairman who shall be the Convenor of the Committee. B 2. District Employment Officer of the district. 3. District Head of the indenting office/Department. 4. Any other person to be nominated by the Member of the Board chairing the Committee. C Provided that: - (a) the Chairman may if he feels necessary coopt an expert, specialist in the discipline in which appointment is to be made in respect of the State Cadre post; D (b) the Member presiding over the Divisional level Selection Committee/district level Selection Committee may if he feels necessary coopt an expert, specialist in the discipline in which recruitment is to be made in respect of Divisional/District cadre posts as the case may be; E (c) The above Committees shall be presided over by the Chairman/Member of the Board as the case may be; (d) In case of special circumstances, the Board may authorize the aforesaid Committee/Committees to forward the select list to the appointing authority and this action shall be deemed to have the approval of the F Board; (e) The District Employment Officers shall be responsible to receive, compile and short-list applications for district cadre posts;” G ii) In June 2009, a three-member Selection Committee constituted by the Chairman of the Board conducted Interviews. The Committee comprised of Chairman of the Board, Ms. Salma Hamid and Dr. Samina Farhat. Thereafter, the marks awarded by the said Selection Committee in the viva-voce/interview and the marks H TAJVIR SINGH SODHI & ORS. v. THE STATE OF JAMMU 759 AND KASHMIR & ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] awarded for the academic qualifications were tabulated for A all candidates by way of a Final Award Roll. The Final Award Roll was produced by the Board before the High Court and was also secured by the petitioners through RTI. iii) On 07th September, 2009, the Board approved the Select List prepared by the Selection Committee. The approval B letter enclosing the final Select List was signed by all seven members of the Board. Two out of these seven members were members of the Selection Committee along with a subject expert who was appointed under Rule 9(iii). The process of preparing the Select List was as under: C a. Interviews of short-listed candidates were held in a ratio of 1:5. b. On completion of the interview, the award was sealed by each member in an envelope and handed over to the Board through the Convenor for further process.