Referring to such other supplementary agreements it was submitted that the earlier definition of the contracted capacity was given a go by, and completely changed. The issue with regard to down rating thus became irrelevant, and in any event by subsequent written agreement, inter alia, amending the earlier G agreement, there was no question of any further down rating as alleged. The parties are bound by the contractual provisions. The various supplementary PPAs executed between the parties clearly show that the rated capacity was subsequently reduced to 19.8 MW and the obligation of the Claimant was restricted to assuring H 440 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A supply up to 19.8 MW without any reference to degradation of such capacity. The Respondent is therefore not justified in contending that there was an alleged down rating annually of the rated capacity.” 23.2. The Arbitral Tribunal then considered the documentary B evidence produced before it, including a certificate issued by OEM dated 08.11.2005 and Minutes of Meeting dated 05.04.2007, where the issue was settled and all bills till that date were reconciled and future bills were raised on the basis that there was no downrating. This is clear from the following findings in the award in question: - C “52. What is even more significant is the reliance placed upon the certificate issued by the OEM namely BHEL-GE Gas Turbine Services, Private Limited dated November 8, 2005. It is certified by the OEM that subsequent to the commissioning of the Goa plant of the Claimant recommended inspections of Gas Turbine were carried out and Turbine was found to be generating the D Rated Output without any degradation. Similarly, BGGTS had carried out the Hot Gas Path Inspection of GT during Annual Inspection in September 2005. All operating parameters were checked and the Turbine was found to be generating its Rated Output without any degradation. E 53. The Respondent submitted that the certificate refers to there being no degradation of the plant. The degradation and down rating are two different and distinct concepts which cannot be confused with one another. It is not possible to accept this contention because down rating becomes necessary only if there is degradation of the plant. F 54. The Claimant has also referred to the meetings held between the parties, on 5th April 2007, when the Respondent was duly satisfied on the issue relating to down rating of contracted capacity as per OEM’s recommendation which were discussed in the said committee. The Claimant explained that the plant was maintained G as per OEM’s recommendation and there had been no down rating of contracted capacity. The Claimant had already submitted OEMs letter in this regard, which is dated 8th November 2005. The parties agreed at the said meeting that the invoices were to be reconciled as per what was stated in the said meeting and all future invoices H were to be calculated in the same manner. The minutes of the RELIANCE INFRASTRUCTURE LTD. v. STATE OF GOA 441 [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.]