16. In the report of the test conducted on Respondent No.1, the opinion furnished by the Directorate of Forensic Sciences Laboratory, Home Department, Maharashtra, shows the involvement of Respondent No.1 in the murder of Captain Manmohan Singh. His psychological H CAPTAIN MANJIT SINGH VIRDI (RETD.) v. HUSSAIN 477 MOHAMMED SHATTAF & ORS. [RAJESH BINDAL, J.] profiling also pointed out towards him being an antisocial personality A with tendency to go against the social norms. Relevant part of the report is extracted below:- “Psychological Evaluation of the subject Mohammed Shattaf clearly indicates his involvement in the murder of Capt. Manmohan Singh as indicated by Deception on the questions of Polygraph B and by Experiential Knowledge present on the significant probes on BEOS. This finding was corroborated by the finding that the subject has Antisocial Personality Traits and a tendency to portray himself in a socially desirable way. Narcoanalysis could not be conducted on the subject he refused to give written consent for C the procedure”. (emphasis supplied) 17. Besides this, opinion regarding four other persons shows that there was deceit in responding to question about knowledge of killing of deceased. Relevant part of the report is extracted below:- D “Psychological Evaluation of the subjects Ashok Gajraj Chaudhary and Mehboob Dastagi Sheikh included Psychological Profiling and Polygraph Examination in the case of the murder of Capt. Manmohan Singh. With regard to Ashok Gajraj Chaudary, even though he denied having any knowledge about the murder, yet his E Polygraph examination revealed about the murder, yet his Polygraph examination revealed his attempts to deceive on questions related to him hiding information related to the death of Capt. Singh him being asked by somebody to hide information about this murder, and him knowing who has killed the victim. In relation to Mehboob Dastagi Sheikh, even though he denied having F witnessed or helped in the murder of Capt. Manmohan Singh, or having any knowledge about the same, yet his Polygraph Examination reveals ‘Deception’ on the question related to him knowing who has murdered Capt. Manmohan Singh”. (emphasis supplied) G 18. The High Court vide impugned had summed up the entire evidence in two paras without even referring to the Psychological Evaluation including Psychological Profiling, Polygraph Testing and Brain Electrical Oscillations Signature Profiling (BEOS) tests of the accused H 478 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A and the other aides of respondent no.1 and ed discharge of Respondent Nos.1 and 2. 19. Though Psychological Evaluation test report only may not be sufficient to convict an accused but certainly a material piece of evidence. Despite this material on record, the High Court could not have opined B that the case was not made out even for framing of charge, for which only prima facie case is to be seen. 20. If the facts of the case are examined in the light of law laid down by this Court on the subject, it is evident that the High Court has not even referred to the evidence collected by Investigating Agency C produced alongwith chargesheet in its entirety.