C ….” Clause 3.5.30 of the OPWD Code “Application for extension of time for the completion of a work on the grounds of unavoidable hindrance or any other grounds shall be submitted by the contractor within 30 days of such D hindrance and the Divisional Officer shall authorise or recommend such extension of time as deemed necessary or proper within fifteen days of the receipt of such an application. In cases where the sanction of the higher authority to the grant of extension of time is necessary, the Divisional Officer should send his E recommendation as expeditiously as possible. The higher authority should communicate his decision within 60 days from the date of receipt on recommendation in his office. If the s of the competent authority are not received in time the Divisional Officer may grant extension of time under intimation to the concerned authorities so that the contract might remain in force, but while F communicating this extension of time, he must inform the contractor that extension is granted without prejudice to Govt.’s right to levy Compensation under relevant clause of the contract.” 5.2 In the communication granting extension of time with levy of penalty, penalty is levied by the State Government invoking Clause 3.5.5(v) G of the OPWD Code. However, it is required to be noted that Clause 3.5.5(v) of the OPWD Code shall be applicable in a case where the contract is terminated. It permits the appropriate authority/State to terminate the contract with penalty when the progress of work is not as per the conditions of contract. Here, it is not a case of termination of the H THE STATE OF ODISHA & ORS. v. RADHESHYAM AGRAWAL 659 [M. R. SHAH, J.] contract. Therefore, Clause 3.5.5(v) of the OPWD Code which has A been invoked in the communication granting extension of time but with levy of penalty shall not be applicable at all. 5.3 So far as the reliance placed upon Clause 3.5.30 of the OPWD Code by learned counsel appearing on behalf of the State is concerned, even under the said clause, there is no provision for imposition of penalty B while granting extension of time. Clause 3.5.30 only provides that while communicating to the contractor of extension of time, he must be informed that extension is granted without prejudice to State Government’s right to levy compensation under relevant clause of the contract. If the relevant clause of the contract is seen and/or considered, there is no condition C stipulated in the contract that while granting the extension of time, there may be levy of penalty. The relevant clause with respect to the extension of time is Clause-4, which has been reproduced hereinabove. Neither the contract nor the OPWD code provides for imposition of penalty while extending the contract. Therefore, levy of penalty while granting extension of time is wholly without authority of the law and is illegal. D The same has been rightly set aside by the High Court. 5.4 Even otherwise, it is required to be noted that before the levy of penalty of a particular percentage, while granting extension of time, no opportunity of being heard has been given to the contractor as to why the penalty may not be imposed while granting extension of time and at E what rate.