It was concluded that the expense was a part of the cost of operating the profi t earning apparatus and was clearly in the nature of revenue expenditure. 19. L.H. Sugar i Assessee’s i. Merely an i. That the assessee’s Factory and Oil contribution act of good contribution towards Mills Pvt. Ltd. vs. towards the citizenship and the construction Commissioner of construction of a not deductible of a dam, carried Income Tax, U.P., dam, pursuant to expenditure”. no advantage for (1980) 125 ITR the request of the the business of the 293. ii. Revenue Collector; assessee. The same expenditure was contributed ii. Expenditure without any incurred by the obligation to do so assessee towards and was simply an act the construction of good citizenship of roads in the area and hence not around its factory, deductible. under a Sugarcane Development ii. That construction of Scheme floated around the assessee’s by the State factory would Government. be considerably advantageous to the business of the assessee as it would facilitate transport 442 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. of sugarcane into the factory and manufactured sugar out of the factory. Hence, such expenditure was indubitably connected with the business activity of the assessee. 20. Commissioner Expenditure R e v e n u e That the advantage of Income Tax incurred by the expenditure secured by the vs. Associated assessee under assessee by making C e m e n t a tripartite the expenditure Companies Ltd., agreement with the was the securing (1988) 172 ITR State Government of absolution or 257 (SC). and Municipality immunity from of Shahabad, liability to pay to supply water municipal rates and and electricity to taxes for a period of Shahabad and to fi fteen years. If these concrete the road liabilities had been from the factory to paid, the payments the railway station. would have been on In consideration of revenue account and these amenities to hence the advantage be provided by the secured was in the assessee company, fi eld of revenue and the assessee not capital. As a result secured immunity of the expenditure from payment for there was no addition a period of 15 to the capital assets of years. the assessee company and no change in its capital structure. The pipelines which came into existence as a result of the expenditure belonged to the Municipality. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 443 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 21. Alembic Chemical One-time payment R e v e n u e First, that the Works Co. Ltd. made under an expenditure expenditure was vs. Commissioner agreement with incurred for the of Income Tax, a foreign fi rm by purpose of existing Gujarat (1989) the assessee to day-to-day business, 177 ITR 377 (SC). obtain technical i.e., manufacture of know how, for penicillin and not increasing yield for an entirely new of penicillin in its venture unconnected existing plant with or diff erent from the a condition to keep existing business; the said know-how Second, that given the confi dential rapid advancements in the field of medicine, a degree of durability and permanence cannot be attributed to the technical knowhow, particularly when it is not a case of exclusive acquisition.