However thereafter the acquisition G proceedings were kept on hold and the appellants continued to be paid the rent @ Rs. 24/- per square meter per annum for temporary acquisition. That after the disposal of the writ petition in 2017 and though it was assured that the process for permanently acquiring the land would be initiated, nothing was done thereafter and therefore the appellants again H 1024 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A approached the High Court for quashing of the acquisition proceedings and to direct the respondents to release the said land from temporary acquisition and to handover vacant and peaceful possession of the land in question to the appellants. 3.2 It was the case on behalf of the appellants that to continue the B temporary acquisition for nearly 25 years would be absolutely unreasonable and arbitrary and that too by paying abysmally low rent. It was pointed out that in the neighbouring area, Ahmedabad Metro Rail Corporation is paying Rs. 1000/- per square meter per month as rent whereas now the rate of rent fixed for the subject land is Rs. 30/- per square meter per annum. C 3.3 In response to the notice issued by the High Court, the respondents appeared before the High Court. It was again submitted that the competent authority has accorded approval for acquisition of the subject land on permanent basis and the same is under process. A statement was made on behalf of the ONGC before the High Court that D the acquisition proceedings would be concluded within 12 months. An undertaking on behalf of the ONGC was also placed on record. Relying upon the said undertaking, the High Court, by the impugned and , has rejected the prayer for quashing temporary acquisition proceedings. However, taking note of the fact that the Corporation made a show of having paid enhanced rent from Rs. 24/- per square meter per E annum to Rs. 30/- per square meter per annum, which can be said to be abysmally on the lower side and not commensurate with the prevalent market rent and the statutory authorities of the State under similar circumstances having paid Rs. 1,000/- per square meter per month, the High Court has directed that the Corporation would consider the claim F of the appellants for paying rent at Rs. 1,000/- per square meter per month till acquisition of the land on permanent basis from the date of purchase of the land by the appellants i.e., from 15.3.2005. 3.4 Feeling aggrieved and dissatisfied with the impugned and passed by the High Court refusing to quash the temporary G acquisition proceedings and as such not passing any to increase the rent per month for temporary acquisition, the landowners have preferred the present appeal. 4. Shri Gopal Sankaranarayanan, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellants – landowners has vehemently H submitted that to continue the temporary acquisition for number of years, MANUBHAI SENDHABHAI BHARWAD v. OIL AND 1025 NATURAL GAS CORPORATION LTD. [M. R. SHAH, J.]