The Adjudicating Authority also observed that the drug licenses issued by respective authorities, per se did not make H 342 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A AHAHO a preparation of homeopathic medicine. While referring to Materia Medica, the Adjudicating Authority noted his reservations about one ingredient (Pilocarpine) and observed that there was no nexus of the said ingredient with Homeopathy. While referring to the significance of general rules of interpretation as regards the Notes attached to the respective Chapters/Tariff Items in the First Schedule to the Act of 1985, B the Adjudicating Authority observed that as per Note 1(e) to Chapter 30, the said Chapter did not cover preparation of the headings of Chapter 3303 to 3307, even if they have therapeutic or prophylactic properties. 20.1.1. Learned ASG, while supporting the aforesaid findings of the Adjudicating Authority and while assailing the findings of the Tribunal, C has argued that the product in question does not meet the criteria laid down under Chapter 30; that even if the product is stated to possess certain curative or prophylactic value, it would still be cosmetic as it excludes those with subsidiary curative and prophylactic value; and Tariff Item 3305 90 19, specifically meant for “Hair oil”, directly covers the D product in question for, a specific entry would take precedence over a general entry. The ASG has contended that the common parlance test of the product is not in favour of the respondent, as the product is not prescribed by any medical practitioner, is available freely without any prescription in Medical and General Stores, and could be purchased across the counter, as admitted by the respondent. Moreover, the label does not E indicate the condition of sale by authorised medical distributor or retailer under prescription; it does not cure any particular disease; and the claims on the label are for marketing purposes only. The learned ASG has relied upon the decision in Alpine Industries (supra) to submit that any subsidiary therapeutic or prophylactic use of the product would not change F its nature as “Hair oil” if in the common parlance, it is treated as a cosmetic. Learned ASG has also submitted that the product is advertised as hair oil and not a medicament; and is perceived by the public who purchase and sell the product as hair oil (cosmetic) and not as medicament. G 20.2. In contrast to what has been observed by the Adjudicating Authority and what has been argued by learned ASG, it is noticed that in the very first response to the show-cause notice, the respondent asserted that the twin tests for classification of the product as ‘medicament’ were duly satisfied in relation to its product AHAHO in view of the facts and factors: (i) that the manufacturing process, undertaken in terms of the H COMMISSSIONER OF CUSTOMS, CENTRAL EXCISE AND SERVICE TAX, 343 HYDERABAD v. ASHWANI HOMEO PHARMACY [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] manufacturing license issued by the Drug Controller and by the A Directorate of Ayush, would indicate the presence of four homeopathic drugs in the product namely, Arnica Montana, Cantharis, Pilocarpine and Cinchona; (ii) that the drugs so used are mentioned in the authoritative text books like Materia Medica of Homeopathic Drugs; (iii) that its label indicated the words “Homeopathic Medicine” under Schedule K to the B Rules of 1945; (iv) that the product is to be applied to the scalp and not consumed orally; it would cure/prevent the lack of blood circulation to the hair roots, hair fall (alopecia), dandruff, headache and lack of sleep (insomnia), and healing from the said diseases would lead to good health in terms of growth and maintenance of natural colour in the hair; and (v) that the product was a medicament in terms of market parlance, C evidenced by its use over a period of nearly 19 years.