It is in that light, the question would arise as to whether the obtainment of the Class Certifi cate from ABS based on which the present policy covering the period between 09.11.2006 to 08.11.2007 was issued would be valid to be invoked by the appellant in respect of the damage suff ered in the accident which occurred on 03.12.2006. 13. The respondent insurance company declined to honour the claim under the said policy on the basis that the non-disclosure of the fact that the engine crank shaft and connecting rodshad suff ered damage requiring the replacement, had not been informed by the appellant to the Classifi cation Society for the issue of the Class Certifi cate and therefore, the Class Certifi cate would not remain valid for the reason of non-compliance of the warranty requirement. The appellant would however contend that the insurance company having issued the policy for the earlier period and having made the payment on account for the replacement, being aware of the repairs carried out and having gone on a voyage to deliver the booked cargo cannot now decline and it was for the respondent insurance company to make appropriate inquiries before issuing the policy. It is in that background a consideration was made by the NCDRC. 14. To put the matter in perspective by keeping in view the rival contentions and the provisions as also the regulations guiding the parties under the Marine Insurance Act, 1963, and the Rules for Building and Classing, the relevant provisions are required to be noted. In this regard, Sections 35, 37, 41(5) and 55 of Act, 1963 which are relevant have been brought to the notice of this Court which read as hereunder: “35. Nature of warranty.—(1) A warranty, in the following sections relating to warranties, means a promissory warranty, that is to say a warranty by which the assured undertakes that some particular thing shall or shall not be done, or that some condition shall be fulfi lled, or whereby he affi rms or negatives the existence HIND OFFSHORE PVT. LTD. v. IFFCO – TOKIO GENERAL 971 INSURANCE CO. LTD. [A. S. BOPANNA, J.] of a particular state of facts. (2) A warranty may be express or implied. (3) A warranty, as above defi ned, is a condition which must be exactly complied with, whether it be material to the risk or not. If it be not so complied with, then, subject to any express provision in the policy, the insurer is discharged from liability as from the date of the breach of warranty, but without prejudice to any liability incurred by him before that date. 37. Express warranties.—(1) An express warranty may be in any form of words from which the intention to warrant is to be inferred. (2) An express warranty must be included in, or written upon, the policy, or must be contained in some document incorporated by reference into the policy. (3) An express warranty does not exclude implied warranty, unless it be inconsistent therewith.