The accused was required to be apprised of his right conferred under Section 50 giving him the option to search being made in presence of a gazetted offi cer or the Magistrate. The accused is not shown to have been apprised of his right nor any option off ered to him for search being conducted in the presence of the Magistrate. 6. We are of the fi rm opinion that the provision of sub-section (2) of Section 42 and the mandate of Section 50 were not complied with by the prosecution, which rendered the case as not established. In view of the violation of the mandatory provision of the Act, the appellant was entitled to be acquitted. …” (Emphasis supplied) RANJAN KUMAR CHADHA v. 339 STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 73. In Madan Lal v. State of Himachal Pradesh reported in (2003) 7 SCC 465, the recovery was eff ected from the search of a bag placed inside the accused person’s car. This Court, while diff erentiating between the search of a person and a vehicle in terms of the applicability of Section 50, held as under:- “16. A bare reading of Section 50 shows that it only applies in case of personal search of a person. It does not extend to search of a vehicle or a container or a bag or premises (See Kalema Tumba vs. State of Maharashtra and Anr., State of Punjab vs. Baldev Singh, Gurbax Singh vs. State of Haryana). The language of section is implicitly clear that the search has to be in relation to a person as contrast to search of premises, vehicles, or articles. This position was settled beyond doubt by the Constitution Bench in Baldev Singh’s case (supra). Above being the position, the contention regarding non-compliance of Section 50 of the Act is also without any substance.” (Emphasis supplied) 74. In State of Punjab v. Makhan Chand reported in (2004) 3 SCC 453, the accused was apprehended from a bus with a tin box in his hand from which the contraband was recovered. The High Court therein had acquitted the accused on the ground of non-compliance of Section 50. On the fi nding that Section 50 would apply to the case, the of the High Court was reversed and the accused was convicted. It was held that:- “7. Apart from the aforesaid question, we are also of the view that Section 50 of the Act would not apply to a situation where the search undertaken is not of the person of the accused but of something carried in his hand. …” (Emphasis supplied) 75. In another decision of this Court in Saikou Jabbi v. State of Maharashtra reported in (2004) 2 SCC 186, the contraband was recovered from the accused’s suitcase after its screening. This Court held that when the suitcase was searched during the screening, the same cannot be considered to be a personal search of the accused, and held as under:- “11. A bare reading of Section 50 shows that it only applies in case of personal search of a person.