The accused has shown the place of incident occurred. He took us to the place and showed the place my father was sleeping. Later he showed us the place where the dead body was buried. Then, before the presence of Tahasildar, the dead body was exhumed.” H 422 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A PW-10:”On 21.01.2012, A Dafedar namely sundar told me that he wants someone who knew Malayalam and requested to go with him in to do translation form Malayalam language. I went to Sagar Rural station. I was taken to the station and Dy.S.P was there in the station. The accused was shown to me and asked whether I have the acquaintance of the accused and I identified B the accused and stated that he was working in the garden land of Kafan. The Police showed the accused and told me that he does not know Kannada and told me to ask him about Jose Kafan. I used to ask the accused in Malayalam in the manner in which the police wanted to ask and the reply given by the accused is translated C into Tamil (Translator’s note: In the original document it is written Tamil and the word is underlined.) and informed to the police. The accused stated that “on 02.12.2011 when Kafan was sleeping at 6-6:30 in his house in the garden land, I killed him by assaulting on his head with an iron rod. Half an hour later when I lifted his hand and dropped, it fell downwards and later I got confirmed D that he is dead and then wrapped his dead body using bed sheet and buried”. He has stated that there was a compost pit behind the house and he has buried the dead body in that compost pit only. He told that after burying the dead body he was residing there only. He stated that he murdered in to gain money by E selling the equipments. He also told that he even thought of selling the land. The accused told that he would show the place where he has buried the dead body and would show the people to whom he has sold the equipments.” F PW-25: In his statement, he had admitted about committing the offence and stated that he would show the place where the dead body was buried. It is no doubt true that aforesaid confession of PW-25 in its entirety is not admissible in view of Section 25 of the Evidence G Act. However, in the teeth of Section 8 read with Section 27 of the Evidence Act, that part of the confession which led to the recovery of the dead body of the victim would become admissible,apart from other articles of the deceased recovered at the instance of the accused has been identified by several witnesses independently.This has also persuaded the High Court H SIJU KURIAN v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 423 [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] to accept the statement recorded under Ex.P-2 as being admissible A which cannot be construed as highly improbable.