Vide dated 10th December, 2021, the High Court dismissed the review application observing that a court exercising review jurisdiction under section 114 of the CPC read with XLVII Rule 1 thereof has a very narrow and limited scope to interfere and that the and under review did not suff er from any mistake or error apparent on the face of the record warranting interference. 5. Ms. Bhati, learned Additional Solicitor General appearing on behalf of the appellant, while taking exception to the impugned s and s raised the following contentions: a. The Amendment Rules were already on record as Annexure 7 to the Writ Petition fi led before the High Court. As the Amendment Rules had not been taken note of by the High Court during arguments, the and dated 4th April, 2017 suff ered from an error apparent on the face of the record which necessitated the Review Application. In this light, she submitted that the Review Application urged a substantial ground within the framework of XLVII of the CPC which, unfortunately, the High Court failed to consider. Dismissal of the Review Application, in the circumstances, was manifestly erroneous. b. As the Amendment Rules had come into force prior to the commencement of the present selection process in 1995, it was imperative that the educational qualifi cations for appointment on the posts of Postal Assistants conformed to the amended Schedule, i.e., 10+2 standard or 12th class pass from a recognized University or Board, excluding vocational streams; consequently, selection of any candidate possessing vocational qualifi cation would stand 114 2 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. incompatible with the amended Schedule and any appointment in breach of the 1990 Rules, as amended, would be void ab initio. c. The third respondent fell short of the prescribed eligibility qualifi cations for being directly recruited, as specifi ed in the relevant recruitment rules and as a sequel thereto, his selection was by mistake which the appellant had/has a right to rectify. Since the third respondent was sought to be disqualifi ed not based on any executive but based on a true and proper interpretation of recruitment rules framed under Article 309 of the Constitution, the High Court committed grave error in not interfering with the direction of the Tribunal to appoint the applicants before it. 6. Resting on the aforesaid submissions, Ms. Bhati prayed that the s under challenge be set aside and the original application before the Tribunal dismissed. 7. Mr. Yadav, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the third respondent while supporting the impugned s and s, advanced the following submissions: a. Concurrent fi ndings returned by the Tribunal and the High Court should not be interfered with as the letter dated 22nd March, 1996, through which the words “excluding vocational streams”, were made the basis of depriving the third respondent of an appointment is nothing but an executive . b. Rule 1(2) of the Amendment Rules itself provided that the amendment would be enforced after publication of the same in the offi cial gazette and there is no gazette publication in respect of said rules till date.