Power produced in the captive power plants was primarily for use by the respondent assessee in its steel plants. Availability of electricity from the state grid was not adequate to meet the requirements of the assessee. In to ensure uninterrupted power supply which was crucial for attaining operational effi ciency, the captive power generating units were set up by the assessee to meet the power requirements of its manufacturing units. 11.2. It is stated that power generated from the captive power generating units of the assessee were consumed in its manufacturing units. In the event of surplus power being generated, that was supplied to the Madhya Pradesh Electricity Board (later on to the Chhattisgarh State Electricity Board after creation of the State of Chhattisgarh) at the price fi xed for procurement of surplus power from the captive power plants in the State by the State Electricity Board. 11.3. Generation and sale of power was a monopoly of the State. Approval was granted for setting up of captive power plants by the manufacturing units for the purpose of meeting their power requirement subject to the terms and conditions imposed. The surplus power, if any, could be sold under a power purchase agreement entered into between the captive power producer and the State Electricity Board. 494 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 11.4. In terms of the Electricity (Supply) Act, 1948 read with the provisions of the power purchase agreement entered into between the assessee and the State Electricity Board, the surplus power that was not captively consumed could not be sold in the open market to any third party consumer except with the prior permission of the State Electricity Board, that too, subject to technical feasibility and on the terms and conditions imposed by the State Electricity Board. In view of the restrictions imposed by the State Electricity Board, it was not economically viable for any third party consumer to purchase power generated by the captive power plants owned by the assessee. The same necessarily had to be sold to the State Electricity Board. 11.5. It is stated that the assessee had been maintaining separate accounts for both the units. Supply of electricity from the captive power plants to its manufacturing units was made and recorded at the price at which electricity was sold by the State Electricity Board to the manufacturing units owned by the respondent assessee and to other industrial consumers, being the fair market value of electricity in terms of Section 80 IA (8) of the Act. According to the respondent, the determination of profi ts eligible for computation of deduction under Section 80 IA was supported by the following: (a) Computation of profi ts under Section 80 IA with details of captive revenue of the power undertaking; (b) Copy of unitwise profi tability of the Raigarh division; (c) Power purchase agreement entered into with the State Electricity Board; and (d) Copies of electricity bills received from the State Electricity Board for electricity supply to the industrial consumers.