A may be inferred even from the conduct of the parties, but it must originate from an offer and its acceptance. A sale must not be distinguished from a mere agreement to sell. If under the contract of sale, title to goods has not passed, then there is an agreement to sell and not a completed sale. An agreement to sell becomes a sale when the time lapses, or the conditions are fulfilled, subject to which the property in the goods are B transferred. Thus, under the common law as well as the statute law, relating to sale of goods, it is of the essence that there must be an agreement, express or implied, relating to goods, to be completed by passing of title therein and also the agreement and the sale should relate to the same subject-matter. Thus, existence of a contract to sell is sine C qua non for the coming into existence of a sale. 12.3. Therefore, the following elements must be present to constitute a valid contract of sale, namely, - (1) a contract (as required by the Act and the Contract Act); D (2) between two parties, (the one called the “seller” and the other called the “buyer”); (3) to transfer or agree to transfer the property; (4) in goods; E (5) from the seller to the buyer; (6) for a price, that is, money consideration. 12.4. It is also necessary to differentiate a contract of sale from other contracts, as the question whether a given contract is one of sale F or a contract of any other description is one of substance and not of form. It depends on the real meaning and nature of the contract as to whether it is a contract of sale or – (i) a mere guarantee for the price, or (ii) a barter or exchange, or (iii) a bailment on trust, or (iv) a contract of sale or return, or (v) a contract of del credere agency, or (vi) a contract G of sale on commission, or (vii) a contract for loan on security, or (viii) a mere wagering contract, or (ix) a contract for work and materials, or (x) a contract for hiring, or (xi) a contract to do work as an agent, or (xii) a licence to get mineral products from land, or (xiii) a pledge, or (xiv) a gift. H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1311 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 12.5. In State of Madras vs. Gannon Dunkerley and Co. A (Madras) Ltd., 1958 (9) STC 353 SC (Gannon Dunkerley and Co.- I), it was observed that the expression sale of goods in Entry 48, List II of Schedule VII of the Government of India Act, 1935, cannot be construed in its popular sense but must be interpreted in its legal sense and should be given the same meaning which it has in the Act. It was B further observed that in to constitute a sale, it is necessary that there should be an agreement between the parties for the purpose of transferring title in the goods, which presupposes capacity to contract, that it should be supported by money consideration, and that as a result of the transaction property must actually pass in the goods.