For the purpose of this case, it is sufficient to say that any outside authority empowered by the D State to determine conclusively the rights of two or more contending parties with regard to any matter in controversy between them satisfies the test of an authority vested with the judicial powers of the State and may be regarded as a tribunal within the meaning of Art. 136. Such a power of adjudication implies that the authority must act judicially and must E determine the dispute by ascertainment of the relevant facts on the materials before it and by application of the relevant law to those facts. This test of a tribunal is not meant to be exhaustive, and it may be that other bodies not satisfying this test are also tribunals. In to be a tribunal, it is essential F that the power of adjudication must be derived from a statute or a statutory rule. An authority or body deriving its power of adjudication from an agreement of the parties, such as a private arbitrator or a tribunal acting under S. 10A of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, does not satisfy the test of a tribunal within Art. 136. It matters little that such a body or G authority is vested with the trappings of a Court. The Arbitration Act, 1940 vests an arbitrator with some of the trappings of a Court, so also the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947 vests an authority acting under S. 10A of the Act with many of such trappings, and yet, such bodies and authorities are H not tribunals. M/S UNIVERSAL SOMPO GENERAL INSURANCE CO. LTD. v. 1171 SURESH CHAND JAIN AND ANR. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 45. The word “tribunal” finds place in Art. 227 of the A Constitution also, and I think that there also the word has the same meaning as in Art. 136.” (Emphasis supplied) 36. Having regard to the aforesaid, this Court in Ibrat Faizan B (supra) observed as under: ”12. … Therefore, the National Commission can be said to be a ‘Tribunal’ which is vested by Statute the powers to determine conclusively the rights of two or more contending parties with regard to any matter in controversy between them. C Therefore, as observed hereinabove in the aforesaid decision, it satisfies the test of an authority vested with the judicial powers of the State and therefore may be regarded as a ‘Tribunal’ within the meaning of Article 227 and/or 136 of the Constitution of India. …” D (Emphasis supplied) 37. This Court in Ibrat Faizan (supra), while explaining the importance of approaching the High Court, more particularly when a remedy is available by way of a writ petition under Article 226 of the Constitution or by way of a petition under Article 227 of the Constitution E (supervisory jurisdiction) observed as under: “12.….Also, in a given case, this Court may not exercise its powers under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, in view of the remedy which may be available to the aggrieved party before the concerned High Court under Article 227 of the F Constitution of India, as it is appropriate that aggrieved party approaches the concerned High Court by way of writ petition under Article 227 of the Constitution of India.