18.1 The first principle which is of relevance to the controversy at hand is that, where a power is given to do a certain thing in a certain way, the thing must be done in that way or not B at all and other methods of performance are necessarily forbidden vide, Taylor vs. Taylor (1875) 1 Ch D 426. Hence, when a statute requires a particular thing to be done in a particular manner, it must be done in that manner or not at all and other methods of performance are necessarily C forbidden, vide Nazir Ahmed vs. King Emperor (1936) L.R. 63 I.A. 372. 18.2 This Court too, has applied this maxim in the following cases: (i) Parbhani Transport Co-operative Society Ltd. vs. The Regional Transport Authority, Aurangabad D (1960) (3) S.C.R. 177: AIR 1960 SC 801, wherein it was observed that the rule provides that an expressly laid down mode of doing something necessarily implies a prohibition of doing it in any other way. E (ii) In Dipak Babaria vs. State of Gujarat AIR 2014 SC 1972, this Court set aside the sale of agricultural land, on the ground that the sale was not in compliance with the statutory procedure prescribed in that regard under the Bombay Tenancy and Agricultural Lands (Vidarbha Region) Act, 1958. The matter was F examined on the anvil of the aforestated maxim and it was held that alienation of agricultural land by adopting any alternate procedure to the one prescribed under the Act, was necessarily forbidden. (iii) In KamengDolo vs. Atum Welly AIR 2017 G SC 2859, election of an unopposed candidate was declared as invalid on the ground that the nomination of his opponent was not withdrawn as per the procedure statutorily mandated. That the nomination of the opposite candidate ought to have been withdrawn in the manner provided for under the H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 219 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] relevant statute and withdrawing the same in any A other manner was necessarily forbidden. That withdrawal of the nomination, not carried out in accordance with the procedure established under the relevant statute, enabled the successful candidate to win unopposed. Hence, his election was declared as B void. (iv) Similarly, in The Tahsildar, Taluk Office, Thanjore vs. G. Thambidurai AIR 2017 SC 2791, assignment of land was cancelled on the ground that statutory requirements were not followed in assigning the land. It was held that when a statute prescribes that a C certain Act is to be carried out in a given manner, the said Act could not be carried out through any mode other than the one statutorily prescribed. (v) It may also be apposite to refer to the decision of this Court in Union of India vs. Charanjit S. Gill (2000) D 5 SCC 742, wherein this Court held that any provisions introduced by way of “Notes” appended to the Sections of the Army Act, 1950, could not be read as a part of the Act and therefore such notes could not take away any right vested under the said E Act.