5.4 It is submitted that in the case of Priyanka Srivastava (supra), in paragraphs 29 & 30, it was observed that Magistrates were issuing process directing lodging of FIR in a stereotype and routine manner and C therefore this Court observed and held that “to curb litigants from filing frivolous petitions, there should be prior applications under Sections 154(1) and 154(3) and that the petition under Section 156(3) should be supported by an affidavit”. It is submitted that the observations in paragraph 30, viz, in appropriate cases, the Magistrate could verify the truth and also D verify the veracity of the allegations has to be read with the observations in earlier paragraphs wherein it was held that a Magistrate should take note of the allegations in entirety; the date of the incident and whether any cognizable case is remotely made out. It is submitted that therefore reliance placed by the learned Senior Advocates on behalf of the appellants on Priyanka Srivastava(supra) to contend that the E is an authority for the proposition that a Magistrate may verify the veracity of the allegations and thereby conduct a mini trial is wholly misplaced. It is submitted that at that stage the preliminary judicial act is to ensure whether any cognizable offence is remotely made out/disclosed. It is submitted that therefore decisions of this Court in the cases of Lalita F Kumari (supra) and Priyanka Srivastava (supra) have to be harmoniously construed and read. 5.5 It is further submitted that noting the rise of crime against women, the Criminal Amendment Act (13 of 2013) was promulgated amending Section 154(1) Cr.P.C, Section 173(1A) Cr.P.C and Section G 166A, IPC. It is submitted that the procedural requirement to compulsorily register an FIR was already existing in Section 154 Cr.P.C. but required the judicial interpretation in Lalita Kumari (supra) to be a mandate. The insertion of section 166A to the IPC has made the non-registration of complaint as FIR containing a cognizable offence, liable to penal consequences against the public servant (police). It is submitted that H KAILASH VIJAYVARGIYA v. RAJLAKSHMI CHAUDHURI 155 AND OTHERS [M. R. SHAH, J.] therefore it is the duty of the police to register the FIR on the basis of the A complaint disclosing commission of a cognizable offence and non- registration of a complaint as FIR is now offence. 5.6 It is submitted that even in complaint cases, it is only the prima facie satisfaction which is to be recorded and the scope of enquiry under Section 202 Cr.P.C. is restricted only to finding out the truth of the B allegations in to determine whether process should be issued or not and the inquiry even at that stage does not partake the character of a full-dress trial which can take place only after process is issued. Reliance is placed on paragraphs 40 & 41 of the decision of this Court in the case of Anju Chaudhary (supra). C 5.7 It is further submitted by the learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the complainant that in the present case the primary reason for not entertaining the petition under Section 156(3) was delay.