In H 94 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A view of the aforesaid, the Court stated that confiscation of contraband gold by customs authorities cannot be said to be a trading or commercial loss connected with or incidental to assessee’s business. The High Court further relied on Haji Aziz (supra) and various other s to state that such confiscation of smuggled/contraband goods which results in infraction of law and has no incidence/connection to the business of B assessee, cannot be allowed as a business loss. Thus, the aforesaid case which has been referred to and distinguished in Piara Singh (supra), squarely applies to the facts of the present case herein. Similarly, the case of JS Parkar (supra) would also be applicable to the present case as in the former case, the assessee not only claimed the value of the C gold confiscated as a trading loss but also set off of the said loss against his assumed and assessed income from undisclosed sources. Furthermore, the value of gold was sought to be taxed U/s.69/69A by the tax authorities. However, in this case also the Bombay High Court rejected the contention that Section 110 of the Evidence Act (where a person found in possession of anything, the onus of proving that he was not the owner is on the D person who affirmed that he was not owner) was inapplicable to taxation proceedings and agreed that tax authorities had rightly inferred assessee to be owner of seized gold based on circumstantial evidence and assessee was not entitled to claim value of such gold as a trading loss. 3.3 Shri Balbir Singh, learned ASG has further relied upon the E decisions of this Court in the case of Chuharmal v. CIT, (1988) 3 SCC 588 and CIT v. K Chinnathamban, (2007) 7 SCC 390, on onus of proving ownership being on the person who denies ownership and who is in possession. It is submitted that ownership of confiscated silver fell on the Respondent-Assessee in the present case which he failed to F discharge and which accordingly rendered the tax authorities’ concurrent findings on his ownership to be valid. It is submitted that when the assessee has been unable to deny possession and ownership and in fact admitted the same before the Settlement Commission as well as the High Court, and further claimed the value of confiscated silver as a trading loss before AO, CIT(A) and ITAT, to alternatively argue to the contrary and G deny ownership in to state that Section 69A cannot be applied in his case may not be accepted. 3.4 It is submitted by learned ASG that assessee shall also not be permitted to claim such loss as a business expenditure in view of the express prohibition under Explanation 1 to Section 37(1) of the Act which H THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX JAIPUR v. PRAKASH 95 CHAND LUNIA (D) THR. LRS. & ANR. [M. R. SHAH, J.] was added w.e.f.01.04.1962. Reliance is placed on the decisions of this A Court in the case of TA Quereshi (Dr.) v. CIT, (2007) 2 SCC 759 as well as Apex Laboratories (P) Ltd. v. CIT, (2022) 7 SCC 98.