10. P.W.1 has made a categorical statement that P.W.13, Bacchu, F along with others went during the nighttime to report the incident to the police personnel. He brought them back to the place of occurrence. Of course, she retracted the statement to the effect that it is not correct to state that all the five victims were in a state of unconsciousness, and they gave their statements, except Kishori. G P.W.4: 11. Even this witness has identified the accused by their faces only in the Court as she did not know their names. She could not even identify one of the accused whom she was asked to identify. Like P.W.1, her presence was also not recorded by the deceased, Hukum Singh. H 848 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A Claiming to be an eye witness, she narrated the incident. She also improved the prosecution version by placing certain facts which were not available. However, she has stated that the deceased was found lying at the door of the accused when the police party came. A statement has been made to the effect that both the deceased and the injured were lying unconscious. She has clearly stated that the police party arrived B between 6.00 to 7.00 a.m. on 26.07.1992. The above deposition of P.W.4 is intrinsically contrary to the very case projected by the prosecution starting from the alleged dying declaration of the deceased, Hukum Singh. P.W.12: C 12. This witness is the eye witness even as per the Dehati Nalishi. He is also an injured witness. Strangely, he has not lodged any report of the incident, though his statement is stated to be recorded as per the prosecution version. He has stated on more than one occasion that his statement was not recorded by the police, and that he has come to depose in the court for the first time. He had also not narrated the incident to D anybody from the date of the incident till his deposition. This witness again makes a clear statement that on the date of incident there were about 50 to 100 persons on the side of the accused. All of them were involved in the incident of assault. He could not clearly identify any of them, while attributing a specific overt act amongst the aforesaid persons. E The entire crowd attacked the deceased. He did not tell the police that the named accused, tried to assault him. It is interesting to note that this witness did not speak about the presence of the other witnesses. Furthermore, reportedly he had seen the occurrence from a distance of one furlong, which is about 200 meters. 13. From the aforesaid narration, one cannot rely on the evidence F recorded from P.W.12, as is the case of the other two witnesses discussed. It is also apparent that even this witness speaks about the presence of scores of others, gathered to assault the deceased. P.W.13: G 14. This witness also claims to be an eye witness to the occurrence.