iii. Any contravention of Section 4 of the Telegraph Act, or of conditions of the licence issued under Section 4, would invite imprisonment and/or imposition of fi ne. 13. We shall now refer to the terms of the Licence Agreement entered into under the Policy of 1994 and the terms of migration of the existing licencees to the New Telecom Policy, 1999 regime, with a view to examine whether the nature and character of the licence fee was changed in light of migration. 13.1. For ready reference, a specimen licence agreement dated 29 November, 1994, in favour of Bharti Cellular Ltd. is extracted hereinunder. It is to be clarifi ed at this juncture that the date of agreement with each respondents may be diff erent but the terms are identical: “Licence Agreement under the Indian Telegraph Act This Agreement made the 29th day of November, 1994 between the President of India acting through the Director (TM-IX), Department of Telecommunications (called the Licenser) of the ONE PART and M/s. Bharti Cellular Ltd., registered under The Companies Act 1956 and having its registered offi ce at 15th Floor, Devika Tower, 6 Nehru Place, New Delhi-110 019. (hereinafter called the Licensee which expression shall unless excluded by repugnant to this context be deemed to include its successor in business) of the OTHER PART. Whereas in exercise of the powers of the Central Government under Sub Section 2 of Section 4 of the Indian Telegraph Act 1885, the Central Government delegated its powers to Telegraph Authority (hereinafter referred to as Authority) by GSR 806 Gazette of India, Part II, Section 3(i) dated 24th August 1985. 412 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. And whereas pursuant to the request of the Licensee the Authority has agreed to grant licence to the Licensee on the terms and conditions appearing hereinafter to establish, maintain and operate Cellular Mobile Telephone Service upto the subscriber’s terminal connection (hereinafter called the Service) in the areas given in Schedule “A” annexed hereto and the Licensee has agreed to accept the same on the terms and conditions appearing hereinafter. Now this Agreement witnesseth as follows: 1. In consideration of mutual covenants as well as the licence fee payable in advance in terms of schedule ‘C’ and observations and/ or due performance of all the terms and conditions to be observed/ performed on the part of the licensee, the Licenser does hereby grant licence to the Licensee to establish, maintain and operate Cellular Mobile Telephone Service upto the subscriber’s terminal connection in the areas given in Schedule “A” annexed hereto on the terms and conditions mentioned in Schedule “C” annexed hereto. 2. The licence is granted initially for a period of 10 years extendible for one year or more at a time at the discretion of the authority, on such terms and conditions as the Authority may, at his sole discretion, agree provided that the Licensee is not in default or has committed/ any breach of any terms and conditions of the Licence.