E 4. M/s Victory Iron Works Ltd.5 which is the appellant in CA No.1743 of 2021, claims to be in possession of the property in entirety, partly by virtue of a Leave and License Agreement and partly by virtue of an oral understanding. Brief facts leading to the above appeals F 5. A financial creditor by name M/s Sesa International Limited filed an application under Section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 20166, against Avani Towers Private Limited which is the Corporate Debtor herein. The company petition was admitted by the Adjudicating Authority on 15.10.2019. G 1 For short, “NCLAT” 2 For short, “NCLT” 3 For short, “CIRP” 4 For short, “Energy Properties” 5 For short, “Victory” H 6 For short, “IBC” or “the Code”, as the case may be. VICTORY IRON WORKS LTD. v. JITENDRA LOHIA & ANR. 1027 [V. RAMASUBRAMANIAN, J.] 6. The first meeting of the Committee of Creditors was held on A 14.11.2019. Thereafter, the suspended Board of Directors of the Corporate Debtor informed the Resolution Professional that Energy Properties were forcefully removing the security guards from the property. Therefore, the Resolution Professional filed an application in CA (IB) No.1807/KB/2019 (RP Application) before the Adjudicating Authority B under Section 25 of IBC read with Regulation 30 of IBBI (Insolvency Resolution Process for Corporate Persons) Regulations, 20167, praying (i)for a direction to Energy Properties & Others (including Victory) not to obstruct the sole and exclusive possession of the property; and (ii) also for the issuance of direction to the local district administration to give proper assistance to the Resolution Professional in taking possession C of the property so as to discharge his duties under the Code. 7. The said application was hotly contested both by Energy Properties (ostensible owner) and Victory (licensee) on the ground that an of eviction cannot be passed by the Adjudicating Authority under the Code and that the relationship was not amenable to the D jurisdiction of the Adjudicating Authority. 8. Curiously, even while questioning the jurisdiction of NCLT to entertain an application of the nature described above, Victory also filed an independent application in CA (IB) No.146/KB/2020, seeking an injunction restraining the Resolution Professional from interfering or E disturbing or intermeddling in the day-to-day business of Victory. We do not know how such an application was maintainable at the instance of Victory, when they had questioned the jurisdiction of NCLT to adjudicate the dispute between the Licensor and Licensee. 9. By an dated 12.02.2020, the Adjudicating Authority F directed Victory and Energy Properties not to obstruct the possession and activities of the Resolution Professional and also holding at the same time that the will not prevent Victory from carrying on their activities in the portion of the land given to them under the Leave and License Agreement. The operative portion of the of the Adjudicating Authority reads as follows:- G “The respondents (or any other person acting through them in CA(IB) No. 1807/KB/2019) shall not obstruct RP’s possession and his activities relating to CIRP of the corporate 7 For short, “the Regulations” H 1028 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R.