Clause 8.12.1 provides that penal provisions as applicable to wilful defaulters would apply to fraudulent C borrowers, including the promoters and directors of the borrower company. The consequences that apply to a wilful defaulter under the Master Circular on Wilful Defaulters have been culled out in Jah Developers (supra): “9. […] serious consequences follow after a person has been D classified as a wilful defaulter. These consequences are as follows: (a) No additional facilities to be granted by any bank/financial institution [para 2.5(a)]. (b) Entrepreneurs/Promoters would be barred from institutional E finance for a period of 5 years [para 2.5(a)]. (c) Any legal proceedings can be initiated, including criminal complaints [para 2.5(b)]. (d) Banks and financial institutions to adopt proactive approach in changing the management of the wilful defaulter [para 2.5(c)]. F (e) Promoter/Director of wilful defaulter shall not be inducted by another borrowing company [para 2.5(d)]. (f) As per Section 29-A of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016, a wilful defaulter cannot be a resolution applicant.” G 40. In addition to the above consequences, borrowers are also liable to suffer the following consequences under the Master Directions on Frauds: a) No restructuring may be made in the case of an RFA or fraud accounts (clause 8.12.2) H STATE BANK OF INDIA & ORS v. RAJESH AGARWAL & ORS 507 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] b) No compromise on settlement involving a fraudulent A borrower is allowed unless the conditions stipulate that the criminal complaint will be continued (clause 8.12.3) The above consequences show that the classification of a borrower’s account as fraud under the Master Directions on Frauds has difficult civil consequences for the borrower. The classification of an B account as fraud not only results in reporting the fact to investigating agencies, but has other penal and civil consequences as specified in Clauses 8.12.1 and 8.12.3. The borrowers have placed reliance on Jah Developers (supra) to submit that debarring them from accessing institutional finance under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master Directions affects C the fundamental right of the borrower to carry on business. On the other hand, the RBI and lender banks have argued that reliance on the observations in Jah Developers (supra) is misplaced because the decision dealt with the classification of a borrower as wilful defaulter, whereas the present batch of appeals deal with the classification of a borrower’s account as fraud. D 41. The question in Jah Developers (supra) was whether a person who is declared to be a wilful defaulter according to the procedure laid down in the Master Circular on Wilful Defaulters is entitled to be represented by a lawyer of their choice before sucha declaration is made. The Court held that a borrower does not have the right to be represented E by a lawyer in the course of in-house proceedings envisaged in Paragraph 3 of the Master Circular on Wilful Defaulters. Paragraph 3 of the Master Circular on Wilful Defaulters provides a two-tier process for identification of a wilful defaulter. At the first stage, a First Committee headed by an Executive Director or equivalent and consisting of two other senior F officers of the bank must, after examining the evidence of wilful default and concluding that wilful default has occurred, issue a show-cause notice to the concerned borrowers and promoters/ whole-time directors calling for their submissions.