Ka – 2) was accordingly prepared and signed. He then took plain and blood-stained mud from the spot in the presence of the said witnesses. The recovery memo for the same was prepared and kept sealed in two separate containers (Ext. Ka-3). He also collected plain and blood-stained mud from where the bodies of Rizwan, Rihan and Ram Kishan were lying and a recovery memo (Ext. Ka – 6) was prepared to that eff ect. Further, empty cartridges of 12 bore 9 mm, 5 bullets along with another such bullet were recovered and taken into custody which were then sealed in the presence of the witnesses. However, Raghunandan Singh Bhadauria (PW-24) could not recover the blood-stained mud from the place where Masooq Ali, Rizwan and Rihan fell down and were subsequently taken to the hospital due to the movement of persons at the place of occurrence. 2.6 The Investigating Offi cer then recorded the statement of other witnesses after which he inspected the place of the incident and prepared the site plan. After panchayatnama of the dead bodies, the same were sent for post-mortem examination through Head Constable Surendra Singh, Head Constable Ram Kumar, Constable Yashpal and Constable Satya Prakash. After Raghunandan Singh Bhadauria (PW-24) was transferred, the investigation was taken over by Surajpal Singh (PW-23), SHO on 18th October 2003. He took steps to execute non-bailable warrants issued against the accused persons and also took steps to initiate proceedings under Sections 82-83 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (hereinafter referred to as “Cr.P.C.”). After the copies of the post-mortem report were obtained, the same were noted and enclosed with the C.D. of the deceased Ram Kishan, Masooq Ali, Rizwan, Rihan, Satendra and Sunil. Statements of witnesses Sudhir (PW-11), Harpal Singh (PW-10), Mahesh Pal (PW-4), and Mahipal were recorded at village Butrada. Surajpal Singh (PW-23) also recorded the statements of Rashid Sachdev and Ram Mehar, who were the witnesses of the panchayatnama. During investigation, Surajpal Singh (PW-23) received information that one co-accused, who was involved along with the accused persons named in the FIR had died in the same incident and his body was taken away by the accused persons and the same was found and recovered MADAN v. STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH 773 [B. R. GAVAI, J.] from the jungle (agricultural fi eld) of village Pinana regarding which, Case Crime No. 799 of 2003 was registered at P.S. Kotwali, for off ences punishable under Sections 302 and 201 of IPC. Surajpal Singh (PW-23) thereafter recorded the statements of other witnesses and also raided the house of the accused persons. 2.7 Thereafter, investigation was transferred and taken over on 21st December 2003 by Inspector Adesh Kumar Sharma (PW-20), EOW, Meerut. Accused persons Ishwar and Kunwar Pal were taken in police remand. He then proceeded to the place of the incident along with police personnel for the recovery of weapon; whereupon, a country-made pistol and the gun used in the incident were recovered at the instance of accused persons Ishwar and Kanwar Pal.