In that decision, while analysing the provisions of the Section 67 of the NDPS Act, the Court noted that the statement recorded under Section 67 of that Act was to be held as inadmissible in all situations. That renders Section 53A of the same Act otiose. Section 53A of the NDPS Act is about relevancy of statement made under certain circumstances. Realising the conflicting position emerging in the two provisions, the issue came to be answered.” (emphasis supplied) 884 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 48. Otherwise, an arrest will be termed as a punishment, which power can never be under Section 19 of the PMLA, 2002. This position being as clear as day light, the proviso to Section 44(1)(b) of the PMLA, 2002 throws further insight into it. Section 44 “44. Off ences triable by Special Courts.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974),— ××× ××× ××× (b) a Special Court may, upon a complaint made by an authority authorised in this behalf under this Act take cognizance of off ence under Section 3, without the accused being committed to it for trial: Provided that after conclusion of investigation, if no off ence of money-laundering is made out requiring fi ling of such complaint, the said authority shall submit a closure report before the Special Court; or…” 49. Therefore, the power under Section 19(1) of the PMLA, 2002 can only be exercised during investigation and it is well open to the authority to fi le a closure report before the Special Court after conclusion, if it fi nds that there are no suffi cient materials to proceed further. SECTION 167 OF CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE, 1973: “Justice, though due to the accused, is due to the accuser too” - Justice Benzamin N. Cardozo of U.S. Supreme Court Section 167 “167. Procedure when investigation cannot be completed in twenty- four hours.—(1) Whenever any person is arrested and detained in custody, and it appears that the investigation cannot be completed within the period of twenty-four hours fi xed by Section 57, and there are grounds for believing that the accusation or information is well- founded, the offi cer in charge of the police station or the police offi cer making the investigation, if he is not below the rank of sub-inspector, V. SENTHIL BALAJI v. THE STATE REPRESENTED BY 885 DEPUTY DIRECTOR AND ORS. [M. M. SUNDRESH, J.] shall forthwith transmit to the nearest Judicial Magistrate a copy of the entries in the diary hereinafter prescribed relating to the case, and shall at the same time forward the accused to such Magistrate. (2) The Magistrate to whom an accused person is forwarded under this section may, whether he has or has not jurisdiction to try the case, from time to time, authorise the detention of the accused in such custody as such Magistrate thinks fi t, for a term not exceeding fi fteen days in the whole; and if he has no jurisdiction to try the case or commit it for trial, and considers further detention unnecessary, he may the accused to be forwarded to a Magistrate having such jurisdiction: Provided that— (a) the Magistrate may authorise the detention of the accused person, otherwise than in the custody of the police, beyond the period of fi fteen days, if he is satisfi ed that adequate grounds exist for doing so, but no Magistrate shall authorise the detention of the accused person in custody under this paragraph for a total period exceeding,— (i) ninety days, where the investigation relates to an off ence punishable with death, imprisonment for life or imprisonment for a term of not less than ten years; (ii) sixty days, where the investigation relates to any other off ence, and, on the expiry of the said period of ninety days, or sixty days, as the case may be, the accused person shall be released on bail if he is prepared to and does furnish bail, and every person released on bail under this sub-section shall be deemed to be so released under the provisions of Chapter XXXIII for the purposes of that Chapter; (b) no Magistrate shall authorise detention of the accused in custody of the police under this section unless the accused is produced before him in person for the fi rst time and subsequently every time till the accused remains in the custody of the police, but the Magistrate may extend further detention in judicial custody on production of the accused either in person or through the medium of electronic video linkage; 886 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R.