4.3 The investigation having been conducted by SI Sahid Ali (PW-19) revealing the complicity of all 11 accused persons, challan was presented before the Court concerned for trial. 5. The Trial Court, based on the evidence led by the prosecution and the accused endeavoring to establish their plea of alibi, fi nding the evidence led by the prosecution to be reliable; the witnesses to have established the prosecution case beyond reasonable doubt; the witnesses’ testimonies being of sterling quality and their credit, unimpeachable, convicted 9 of the 11 accused persons. 6. In an appeal preferred by the convicts, the fi ndings of fact, reasoning adopted, and the of conviction and consequent sentence imposed, stands affi rmed. The High Court in the impugned records as follows: “(21.) After due appreciation of these witnesses, it comes that fi rstly two accused persons namely Anandram and Kamal threw bombs on 814 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. the deceased and thereafter the other accused persons started assaulting the deceased by lathis and tabbal while he fell down on the ground. If we examine the conduct of each accused it would appear that they had an intention to commit murder of the deceased and for that they had made preparation by forming an unlawful assembly which is evident from the series of events which took place in a sequence when firstly two accused threw bombs on the deceased and when the. Deceased fell down, all of them attack over him with deadly weapons like lathis and tabbal and caused multiple injuries to him.” 7. Counsel for the appellants contended before the High Court that since most of the witnesses were close relatives or interested witness, hence their testimonies could not be relied upon, which contention was not accepted, not only in view of the unimpeachable creditworthiness of the witnesses, fully inspiring in confidence, but also in the light of principles of law enunciated by this Court. On facts, the Court also observed that PW-3, is not a relative at all, and Khorbahrin Bai (PW- 16) although is a relative of the deceased but is not a close relative. Also, even though PW-17 is the wife of the deceased, nothing elicited prompting her testimony to be unbelievable. THE PRESENT APPEAL 8. Before us, the aforesaid convict-appellants have assailed the impugned on four fronts- (a) Inordinate delay in filing of the First Information Report (F.I.R.) (Ex.15) introduces to the case, the possibility of improvements thereby casting doubt on the version of the prosecution; (b) the testimonies of the witnesses of the prosecution being contradictory, hence unreliable; (c) the deceased being a history-sheeter, having numerous cases pending against him, hence equal probability that someone other than the convict(s)-appellant(s) favouring and wanting, his elimination; and (d) that the accused persons were, in fact, not at the scene of the crime and their plea of alibi is probable. 9. The case of the prosecution rests primarily on the testimonies of three witnesses, namely, Choubisram PW-3; Khorbahrin Bai PW-16 and Jugbai PW-17.