on 24-5- 1988 the appellant was above 16 years of age. He was, therefore, not a juvenile under the 1986 Act that covered C the field at that point of time, nor did the 1986 Act deprive the trial court of its jurisdiction to try the appellant for the offence he was charged with. The repeal of the 1986 Act by the 2000 Act raised the age of juvenility to 18 years. Parliament provided for cases which were either pending D trial or were, after conclusion of the trial, pending before an appellate or a revisional court by enacting Section 20 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000 which is to the following effect: “20.Special provision in respect of pending cases.— E Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, all proceedings in respect of a juvenile pending in any court in any area on the date on which this Act comes into force in that area, shall be continued in that court as if this Act had not been passed and if the court finds that the juvenile has committed an offence, it shall record F such finding and instead of passing any sentence in respect of the juvenile, forward the juvenile to the Board which shall pass s in respect of that juvenile in accordance with the provisions of this Act as if it had been satisfied on inquiry under this Act that a juvenile G has committed the offence: Provided that the Board may, for any adequate and special reason to be mentioned in the , review the case and pass appropriate in the interest of such juvenile. H NARAYAN CHETANRAM CHAUDHARY v. THE STATE OF 1111 MAHARASHTRA [ANIRUDDHA BOSE, J.] Explanation.—In all pending cases including trial, A revision, appeal or any other criminal proceedings in respect of a juvenile in conflict with law, in any court, the determination of juvenility of such a juvenile shall be in terms of clause (l) of Section 2, even if the juvenile ceases to be so on or before the date of commencement B of this Act and the provisions of this Act shall apply as if the said provisions had been in force, for all purposes and at all material times when the alleged offence was committed.” In Dharambir -vs- State (NCT of Delhi) and Another [(2010) C 5 SCC 344] and Mahesh Jogi -vs- State of Rajashthan [(2014) 15 SCC 184], similar view has been taken by this Court. In Satya Deo alias Bhoorey -vs- State of Uttar Pradesh [(2020) 10 SCC 555], it was observed by a two-Judge Bench of this Court that in light of Section 6 of the General Clauses Act, 1897 read with Section 25 of the 2015 Act, an accused cannot be denied his right to be treated as a juvenile D when he was less than 18 years of age at the time of commission of offence. The reasoning of the Court was that such right stood acquired and fructified under the 2000 Act, even if the offence was committed prior to enforcement of the 2000 Act on 1st April 2001.