2-5, A. No. 25, 26, 27, 28, 29 situated at Chowk, City Ballia, Pargana and District Ballia. The Plaintiffs claim to be the lawful owners of the suit property. It is the case of the Defendant that F the father of the Plaintiffs had executed a mortgage deed in favour of the father of the Defendant in respect of 1/3rd portion of the suit property described above and was put in possession of the shop. Thus, according to the Defendant, the father of the Plaintiffs was the mortgagor and his father was the mortgagee. The said registered mortgage deed is said to have been executed on 12.02.1957. G 5. From 1957 till 2005, the mortgagee continued to remain in possession of the suit property as neither the mortgage money was paid nor the mortgage was redeemed and upon lapse of 30 years’ time period, the mortgagor’s right in the mortgaged property stood extinguished in terms of Article 61A of the Schedule to the Limitation Act, 1963 (for H GANESH PRASAD v. RAJESHWAR PRASAD AND ORS. 899 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] short, ‘Act, 1963’). Sometime in the year 2005, the father of the A Defendant i.e., the mortgagee, namely, Shree Gulab Chand died. 6. On 15.03.2007, the Plaintiffs instituted, the Small Cause Suit No. 3 of 2007 against the Appellant Defendant herein and four others in the Court of Small Causes Judge (Senior Division) for a declaration that the Plaintiffs are the lawful owners of the suit property i.e., the shop and B the same had been let out to the father of the Appellant Defendant herein and after the demise of the father of the Defendant, he stopped paying the rent to the Plaintiffs and illegally inducted defendant Nos. 2 to 5 resply as sub- tenants in the shop in question. Thus, the Plaintiffs prayed for a decree of possession of the shop. C 7. The following reliefs were prayed for in the Small Cause Suit No. 3 of 2007 instituted by the Plaintiffs: “A. Decree for eviction from the said shop as given in detail below boundary in favour of Plaintiffs against the Defendants may be passed and if they do not vacate within period ed D by the Court then it may be vacated through Court and possession thereof may be given to us the Plaintiffs. B. Decree for payment of 4500/- Rupees as given in detail below against Defendants and in favour of Plaintiffs may be passed. E C. That 500/- Rupees damages decree during pendency of suit may be passed against the Defendants and in favour of the Plaintiffs. D. Costs of the suit may be directed to be paid by the Defendants to us the Plaintiffs. Apart from these reliefs if F Plaintiffs are entitled to any other relief in the Court’s opinion that may also be decreased in favour of the Plaintiffs against the Defendants.” 8. In the aforesaid Suit No. 3 of 2007, the Appellant Defendant filed his written statement denying the entire case put up by the Plaintiffs G and further stating that the father of the Plaintiffs had executed a mortgage deed dated 12.02.1957 in respect of the suit property and i.e., how the father of the Defendant was put into possession of the suit property.