The reasons and grounds for winding up under Section 271 of the Companies Act, 2013 are vastly different from the reasons and grounds for the revival and rehabilitation scheme as envisaged B under the Code. The two enactments deal with two distinct situations and they cannot be equated when it is examined whether there is discrimination or violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of India. The workmen also have a stake and benefit from the revival of the company, and therefore unless it is found that the sacrifices envisaged for the workmen, which certainly C form a separate class, are onerous and burdensome so as to be manifestly unjust and arbitrary, the legislation will not be set aside, solely on the ground that some or marginal sacrifice is to be made by the workers. The submission is rejected that to find out whether there was a violation of Article 14 of the Constitution of D India or whether the right to life under Article 21 Constitution of India was infringed, this Court must word by word examine the waterfall mechanism envisaged under the Companies Act, 2013, where the company is wound up in terms of grounds (a) to (e) of Section 271 of the Companies Act, 2013; and the rights of the workmen when the insolvent company is sought to be revived, E rehabilitated or wound up under the Code. The grounds and situations in the context of the objective and purpose of the two enactments are entirely different. [Para 9][123-A-G] 1.8 Section 53 of the Code which begins with a non-obstante clause and states that notwithstanding anything to the contrary F contained in any law enacted by the Parliament or any State Legislature for the time being in force, the proceeds from the sale of liquidation assets shall be distributed in the of priority, which is stipulated, and within such period and such manner as may be specified. The consequence of sub-section (1) G to Section 53 of the Code is that it will override the rights of parties, including the secured creditor, when the said provision applies. Section 53 of the Code is the complete and comprehensive code which ensures collection of assets and then provides the manner in which the creditors are to be paid. Even H 90 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A the rights of the secured creditor falling under Section 53 of the Code to enforce, realise, settle, compromise or deal with the secured assets as applicable to the security interest are diluted and compromised. [Para 15][131-C-E] 1.9 Clause (a) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 deals with B insolvency resolution process costs and the liquidation costs which are to be paid in full. No grievance or issue can be raised in respect of the said clause. Clause (b) to sub-section (1) to Section 53 states that the debts due in the form of workmen’s dues for a period of twenty four months preceding the liquidation commencement date and the debts owed to the secured creditor C in the event such secured creditor has relinquished security in the manner set out in Section 52 of the Code shall rank equally between and amongst the workmen and the secured creditors.