assessee as the product in question was oil, used for massage to take A care of the skin, and not to cure the skin and hence, was classifiable under ‘cosmetics’ and not under ‘medicaments’. This Court observed and held as under: - “11. From the aforesaid chapter notes, it is clear that Heading 33.03 would include products whether or not they contain subsidiary B pharmaceutical or antiseptic constituents, or are held out as having subsidiary curative or prophylactic value and Heading 33.04 would inter alia include the products specified therein and other preparations for use in manicure or chiropody and barrier creams to give protection against skin irritants. Therefore, the product, C mainly oil containing some A and D vitamins which is used for massage, even if it prevents ailment of rickets and treats the same cannot be held to be a medicament. 12. Hence, in our view, after verification of the entire evidence and the certificates produced on record as well as the report of D the Chemical Analyser, the Tribunal rightly arrived at the conclusion that the product in question is oil used for massage and would be covered by Heading 33.04. Similar contention was raised in Alpine Industries v. CCE [(2003) 3 SCC 111: JT (2003) 1 SC 130] . The Court observed (at SCC p. 116, para 8) that “medicament” has been defined in Note 2(i) to mean “goods which E are either products comprising two or more constituents which have been mixed or compounded together for therapeutic or prophylactic use”. On a reading of Note 1(d) with Note 2(i) of Chapter 30 under the heading “Pharmaceutical Products”, it is clear that preparations which fall under Chapter 33 even if they F have therapeutic or prophylactic properties are not covered under Heading 30.03 as “medicaments”. The Court thereafter held thus: (SCC p. 115, para 7) “The certificate issued by the Army Authorities and the chemical ingredients of the product are not decisive on the question of classification of the product for levy of excise duty. G It is firmly established that on the question of classification of a product under the Central Excise Tariff Act, ‘commercial parlance theory’ has to be applied. It is true that the entire supply by the appellant of its product ‘Lip Salve’ has been to the Defence Department for use of military personnel but that H 334 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A would also not be determinative of the nature of the product for classifying it. It is not disputed that the product ‘Lip Salve’ is used for the care of the lips. It is a product essentially for ‘care of skin’ and not for ‘cure of skin’. It is, therefore, classifiable as a skin-care cream and not a medicament. From the nature of the product and the use to which it is put, we do B not find that the claim of the appellant is acceptable that it is primarily for therapeutic use.” 13. The same would be the position in the present case.