43. Until now, the precedents pertained to situations where the parties invoked the pre-referral jurisdiction of the courts. In Cheran Properties Ltd v. Kasturi and Sons Ltd,72 the Court was approached at the enforcement stage.73 The Court allowed the enforcement of an arbitral award against a subsequent purchaser of shares under Section 35 of the Act, interpreting the phrase “persons claiming under them”. However, expositions pertaining to the Group of Companies doctrine were observed in the , in response to certain arguments advanced before the Court. In that context, the Court made the following observations: “23. As the law has evolved, it has recognised that modern business transactions are often effectuated through multiple layers and agreements. There may be transactions within a group of companies. 70 The amended Section 8(1) of Arbitration and Conciliation Act 1996 reads as under: “8. Power to refer parties to arbitration where there is an arbitration agreement.— (1) A judicial authority, before which an action is brought in a matter which is the subject of an arbitration agreement shall, if a party to the arbitration agreement or any person claiming through or under him, so applies not later than the date of submitting his fi rst statement on the substance of the dispute, then, notwithstanding any , decree or of the Supreme Court or any Court, refer the parties to arbitration unless it fi nds that prima facie no valid arbitration agreement exists.” 71 (2017) 9 SCC 729 [2017 INSC 1026]. 72 (2018) 16 SCC 413 [2018 INSC 394]. 73 The respondent sold shares of its subsidiary company to one K.C. Palanisamy, who undertook to discharge the outstanding liabilities of this company. Clause 14 of this agreement recognised the right of K.C. Palanisamy to sell or transfer his holdings in the company to any other person of his choice, provided that transferee accepts the terms of the agreement regarding the management and fi nancial aspects of the company. This agreement also contained an arbitration clause. K.C. Palaniswamy nominated the appellant to receive 95% of the shares that were to be transferred to him. Subsequently, disputes arose and an arbitral tribunal directed him to return the share certifi cates and title documents. The appellant was made party to the proceedings fi led by the respondents to enforce the arbitral award. COX AND KINGS LTD. v. SAP INDIA PVT. LTD. & ANR. 737 [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] The circumstances in which they have entered into them may refl ect an intention to bind both signatory and non-signatory entities within the same group. In holding a non-signatory bound by an arbitration agreement, the court approaches the matter by attributing to the transactions a meaning consistent with the business sense which was intended to be ascribed to them. Therefore, factors such as the relationship of a non-signatory to a party which is a signatory to the agreement, the commonality of subject-matter and the composite nature of the transaction weigh in the balance. The group of companies doctrine is essentially intended to facilitate the fulfi lment of a mutually held intent between the parties, where the circumstances indicate that the intent was to bind both signatories and non-signatories.