5.8 It is further submitted that so far as the prayer of the appellant to transfer the investigation to CBI is concerned, as observed and held H by this Court in catena of decisions, transfer of investigation to C.B.I. is ANANT THANUR KARMUSE v. THE STATE OF 65 MAHARASHTRA & ORS. [M. R. SHAH, J.] to be done only in rarest of rare cases. Reliance is placed upon the A decision of this Court in the case of Himanshu Kumar and Ors. Vs. State of Chhattisgarh and Ors., 2022 SCC Online SC 884 (para 44 onwards). It is submitted that as observed and held by this Court in the case of State of West Bengal and Ors. Vs. Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights, West Bengal and Ors., (2010) 3 SCC 571, B the power to transfer investigation must be exercised sparingly, cautiously and in exceptional situations. It is submitted that in the present case as on the basis of the chargesheet, the Trial Court has framed the charges, no exceptional case is made out to transfer the investigation to the C.B.I. now. C 5.9 Now, so far as the change in its stand by the State, now, so taken in the counter affidavit filed before this Hon’ble Court is concerned, it is submitted that as such before the Hon’ble High Court, the State had defended the investigation throughout. It is submitted that just because the political dispensation in the State has changed, now, the State has filed an affidavit before this Hon’ble Court seeking further investigation D in the matter without any substantial evidence and as such the same is impermissible in law. It is submitted that this Hon’ble Court has time and again held that the Governments change but the State remains the same. Reliance is placed upon the decisions of this Court in the case of State of Karnataka and Anr. Vs. All India Manufacturers Organisation E and Ors., (2006) 4 SCC 683 (para 57); State of Tamil Nadu and Ors. Vs. K. Shyam Sunder and Ors., (2011) 8 SCC 737 (para 35) and Jal Mahal Resorts Private Limited Vs. K.P. Sharma and Ors., (2014) 8 SCC 804 (para 89). 5.10 Now, so far as the chart filed in the affidavit of the State F wherein, the State has mentioned previous cases registered against accused No. 13 is concerned, it is submitted that the State is trying to prejudice this Hon’ble court as the correct status of those cases have not been presented before this Court by the State. It is submitted that out of the said 24 cases, 18 cases have either been withdrawn by the State or disposed of by the respective learned Courts. It is further G submitted that in a case filed by a lady, accused No. 13 has been granted anticipatory bail by the learned Court and the lady who registered the FIR against accused No. 13 is herself facing an FIR under IPC and POCSO Act. It is submitted that therefore the allegations made in the counter filed by the State mentioning the previous cases registered against H 66 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.