84. In the aforesaid context, we may only say that the general rule of criminal justice is that “a crime never dies”. The principle is reflected in the well-known maxim nullum tempus aut locus occurrit regi (lapse of time is no bar to Crown in proceeding against offenders). G It is settled law that the criminal offence is considered as a wrong against the State and the Society even though it has been committed against an individual. Normally, in serious offences, prosecution is launched by the State and a Court of law has no power to throw away prosecution solely on the ground of delay. Mere delay in approaching a Court of law would H 182 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A not by itself afford a ground for dismissing the case. Though it may be a relevant circumstance in reaching a final verdict. (See: Japani Sahoo v. Chandra Sekhar Mohanty reported in (2007) 7 SCC 394.) 85. The following observations in Hasanbhai (supra), have been made by this Court in reference to further investigation: B “13. ….if there is necessity for further investigation, the same can certainly be done as prescribed by law. The mere fact that there may be further delay in concluding the trial should not stand in the way of further investigation if that would help the court in arriving at the truth and do real and C substantial as well as effective justice. …” 86. Thus, the assurance of a fair trial is to be the first imperative in the dispensation of justice. [Reference: Commissioner of Police, Delhi and Another v. Registrar, Delhi High Court, New Delhi reported in(1996) 6 SCC 323]. The need for fair investigation has also been emphasized in Vinay Tyagi (supra) where it was observed as under: D “48. What ultimately is the aim or significance of the expression “fair and proper investigation” in criminal jurisprudence? It has a twin purpose: Firstly, the investigation must be unbiased, honest, just and in accordance with law; secondly, the entire emphasis on a fair investigation has to E be to bring out the truth of the case before the court of competent jurisdiction. ….” 87. Reference may also be placed on the decision in Pooja Pal v. Union of Indiaand Others reported in (2016) 3 SCC 135, where the fundamental rights enshrined under Article 21 of the Constitution of India F were discussed in the context of ”speedy trial” juxtaposed to ”fair trial” in the following manner: “83. A “speedy trial”, albeit the essence of the fundamental right to life entrenched in Article 21 of the Constitution of India has a companion in concept in “fair trial”, both being G inalienable constituents of an adjudicative process, to culminate in a judicial decision by a court of law as the final arbiter. There is indeed a qualitative difference between right to speedy trial and fair trial so much so that denial of the former by itself would not be prejudicial to the accused, when H pitted against the imperative of fair trial.