(e) to inspect physical facilities, staff position, Hospital and academic infrastructure of a Medical Institute imparting education and training for Diploma in Medicine and Rural Health Care at the time of starting of such an Institute and H 982 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A to give no objection certificate after the said Institute has completed all formalities and norms and to make periodical inspection to judge compliance of shortcomings pointed out, and to maintain standard of the Institute; 18.3. Section 8 deals with opening of a medical institute. Sub B section (1) of Section 8 begins with a non-obstante clause and states that, notwithstanding anything contained in the Assam Act or any other law for the time in force, no person or organisation other than the State Government of Assam shall establish a Medical Institute without (a) the recommendation of the Authority and (b) prior and expressed permission of the State Government. Sub-section (2) of Section 8 states that any C person or organisation or trust wanting to start a Medical Institute must obtain permission from the State Government by submitting a proposal to the State Government. The State Government shall refer the proposal to the Authority for its scrutiny and recommendations. The Authority can prescribe the minimum standards of the course, the curriculum, the D examination etc. in respect of the course and prescribe the regulation, the terms and conditions and norms to be fulfilled, facilities to be provided by a medical institute for imparting education and training for the course of Diploma in Medicine and Rural Heal Care. The Authority has the power to withdraw recognition, when an Institute does not conform to the standards prescribed by the authority, by making a reference to that E effect to the State Government and the State Government may, on consideration of an explanation from the concerned Medical Institute and on making further enquiry, de-recognise an Institute. 18.4. Section 17 of the Assam Act speaks of State Register of Rural Health Practitioners. That the Authority shall cause to be F maintained in the prescribed manner and form a register of Diploma Holders in Medicine and Rural Health Care to be known as the State Register of Rural Health Practitioners. Every person on successful completion of the course that is, the course of education and training for the Diploma in Medicine and Rural Healthcare, shall be eligible for enrolment in the State Register of Rural Health Practitioners on furnishing G the proof of such qualification and on payment of such fees as may be prescribed. Every person whose name has been enrolled in the State Register of Rural Health Practitioners shall be entitled to have a certificate to be issued by the Authority bearing a Registration Number and shall be eligible to practise Medicine and Rural Health Care in rural areas. The H BAHARUL ISLAM & ORS. v. THE INDIAN MEDICAL 983 ASSOCIATION AND ORS. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] Rural Health Practitioners cannot use the word “Doctor” or “Dr.” before A and after their names.