H 2 the 1988 Act THE STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH v. GOEL BUS SERVICE 895 KULLU ETC. ETC. [VIKRAM NATH, J.] • Reliance is placed upon the of the Supreme A Court in State of West Bengal Vs. Kesoram Industries Ltd. & Others, (2004) 10 SCC 201. • The tax sought to be levied under Section 3A (3) is in the nature of penalty which cannot be done in view of the provisions contained in the 1988 Act. Reliance was B placed upon the following two decisions of the Supreme Court: (i) M.P. AIR Permit Owners Association and Another Vs. State of Madhya Pradesh, (2004) 1 SCC 320, C (ii) Hardev Motor Transport Vs. State of M.P. and Others, (2006) 8 SCC 613. • The impugned does not suffer from any infirmity in holding that the special tax sought to be levied under Section 3A (3) is a penalty. The appeals are, thus, D liable to be dismissed. Relevant Constitutional & Legal provisions: 10. Before proceeding to deal with the submissions advanced, a brief reference to statutory and constitutional provisions may be E noted. 11. Article 246 of the Constitution lays down the subject matters of the laws to be made by the Parliament and by the Legislatures of States. According to it, three lists of the Seventh Schedule would be determining the subjects over which the Parliament may have F exclusive power to make laws (List I also referred to as the Union List), subjects over which the State would have exclusive power to make laws (List II also referred to as the State List) and also the subjects where the Parliament as also the Legislature of States would have power to make laws covered by List III (referred to as the Concurrent List). Additional power is given to the Parliament under G sub- Article 4 to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a State even though such matter is enumerated in the State List. Article 246 is reproduced hereunder: H 896 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A “(1) Notwithstanding anything in clauses (2) and (3), Parliament has exclusive power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List I in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Union List”). (2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (3), Parliament, and, B subject to clause (1), the Legislature of any State also, have power to make laws with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List III in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “Concurrent List”). (3) Subject to clauses (1) and (2), the Legislature of any State C has exclusive power to make laws for such State or any part thereof with respect to any of the matters enumerated in List II in the Seventh Schedule (in this Constitution referred to as the “State List”). (4) Parliament has power to make laws with respect to any matter for any part of the territory of India not included in a D State notwithstanding that such matter is a matter enumerated in the State List.” 12.