In such situations, the Court may have to balance public/ State interest with the requirement of natural justice and arrive at an appropriate decision.” (Emphasis supplied) 58. In the case of State of U.P. v. Harendra Arora and Another reported in (2001) 6 SCC 392, this Court further expanded the applicability of the “Test of Prejudice” to even procedural provisions which are fundamental in nature with the following relevant observations being reproduced below: - “13. The matter may be examined from another viewpoint. There may be cases where there are infractions of statutory provisions, rules and regulations. Can it be said that every such infraction would make the consequent action void and/or invalid? The statute may contain certain substantive provisions, e.g., who is the competent authority to impose a particular punishment on a particular employee. Such provision must be strictly complied with as in these cases the theory of substantial compliance may not be available. For example, where a rule specifi cally provides that the delinquent offi cer shall be given an opportunity to produce evidence in support of his case after the UNION OF INDIA AND OTHERS v. DILIP PAUL 551 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] close of the evidence of the other side and if no such opportunity is given, it would not be possible to say that the enquiry was not vitiated. But in respect of many procedural provisions, it would be possible to apply the theory of substantial compliance or the test of prejudice, as the case may be. Even amongst procedural provisions, there may be some provisions of a fundamental nature which have to be complied with and in whose case the theory of substantial compliance may not be available, but the question of prejudice may be material. In respect of procedural provisions other than of a fundamental nature, the theory of substantial compliance would be available and in such cases objections on this score have to be judged on the touchstone of prejudice. The test would be, whether the delinquent offi cer had or did not have a fair hearing. …” (Emphasis supplied) 59. We now proceed to consider the next question whether the respondent was asked by the Central Complaints Committee whether he pleaded guilty to the allegations levelled in the second complaint. The High Court after referring to the Central Complaints Committee’s report found that, while the respondent was asked whether he pleaded guilty to the allegations made in the fi rst complaint, there was nothing to indicate that the same exercise had been undertaken in respect of the second complaint. 60. In the aforesaid context, we must look into Rule 14 sub-rule (9) of the 1965 CCS Rules. The said provision reads as under: - “14. Procedure for imposing major penalties. (9) If the Government servant who has not admitted any of the articles of charge in his written statement of defence or has not submitted any written statement of defence, appears before the inquiring authority, such authority shall ask him whether he is guilty or has any defence to make and if he pleads guilty to any of the articles of charge, the inquiring authority shall record the plea, sign the record and obtain the signature of the Government servant thereon.” 61.