It is apparently land, which is covered by Section 36, which means land which is required, reserved or designated in a master plan, inter alia. (2) The Planning Authority may apply to the Government for acquiring such land under the Land Acquisition Act. Section 37(2) goes on to provide that if an application is received and if C the Government is satisfied that the land is needed for the public purpose, the Government may make a declaration in the manner provided in Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act 1894. It will be noticed that what is contemplated under Sections 36 and 37 is that it is in regard to any land, which is required, reserved or designated in a plan that the question of D acquiring such a land arises. In other words, if the property is needed under the plan and it is shown as required, reserved or designated, as such, in the plan, then, it is open to the Authority acting in coordination with the Government to acquire such land so that the lofty goal of planned and ly development, contemplated in the plan, is achieved. In this connection, it is relevant to notice that Section 37 kicks in immediately E upon the publication of a notice for the preparation of the plan. The notice is published under Section 26 or Section 27. Such notice is published after the consent of the Government is received under Section 25. It is next relevant to notice Section 38. Section 38 allows the period of three years from the date of publication of the notice under Section 26 or F Section 27 for the Government to publish the declaration contemplated under Section 37, which, no doubt, amounts to a declaration under Section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act. Section 38 provides that if the declaration is not made under Section 37 of the Act, the land shall be deemed to be released from such reservation, allotment or designation. The time limit of three years, not being observed for acquiring the land by way of G purchase, also has the same result, viz., the land, which in the plan, is shown as reserved, allotted or designated, shall be freed from such reservation, allotment or designation. 58. We are, in these cases, dealing with the reservation of land by a person, who applies for development of the land and, more specifically, H 1084 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A for the purpose of group development. The person, who applies, becomes obliged under Rule 19(b) to reserve 10 per cent of his land excluding roads, for communal and recreational purposes. This is a reservation to be made by a person applying for planning permission on the basis of the extent of the layout. It is, no doubt, premised on the land being in excess of a certain threshold becoming subject matter of the planning permission. B The land so reserved is to be freed from any construction by the owner/ promoter/developer. The land for communal and recreational purposes, is to be restricted at ground level in a shape and location to be specified by the CMDA (See Clause (3) of the Explanation in Rules.).