In the cross-examination, the witness volunteered that the accused present in the Court had murdered his mother and they were drunk. However, he accepted that the allegation that the accused were drunk was not recorded in his statement recorded by the police. The incident had taken place E after midnight. In the cross -examination, the witness stated that the accused, before coming to his house, had disconnected the electric supply. He denied the correctness of the suggestion that due to darkness; he did not recognise the assailant who assaulted his mother. He came out with the improved version in the cross F -examination that accused no.1 had lit a matchstick and in the light of the matchstick, he recognised the assailants. It is very difficult to accept that accused no.1 who gave 6 to 7 blows by his knife on the person of the deceased, would light a matchstick while assaulting the deceased. PW-6, uncle of PW-1. He claims that on 31st December 2002 when he had gone to the cattle shed G at about 5 am, he heard from milkman that S’s wife has been done to death. He claims that he rushed to the house of the deceased. As PW-1 did not open the door, he jumped over the wall and entered the house. PW-1 stated that PW-6 did not enter by jumping over the wall as he opened the door to facilitate the H 1024 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A entry of PW-6. However, PW-6 claims that intimation was given to police only after his brother (husband of the deceased) arrived. PW-6 is not an eyewitness. [Paras 10-13][1029-D-E; G-H; 1030-A-G] 1.3 According to the prosecution’s case till 5 am, PW-1 was B hiding in his house and only when the milkman came at 5 am, he disclosed the incident to the said milkman. In fact, even PW-6 stated that he became aware of the incident from the said milkman. The prosecution has not explained why the milkman was not examined as a witness, though he was available. He was a very important witness who was the first person to whom PW- 1 C disclosed what he had allegedly seen. Till the milkman came, there was no one who could have tutored PW-1. Therefore, what the witness conveyed to the milkman would have been crucial in the context of the allegation of tutoring. He was a very important witness available whose examination could have ruled out the D possibility of the witness being tutored as he was the first person to meet the minor witness after the accident. Afterwards, the minor was in the company of his uncle (PW-6) and his father and according to the prosecution’s case, there was some dispute between the family of PW-1 and the accused over property. His statement was recorded in the hospital in presence of his father. E PW-6, in the cross-examination, stated that the milkman was present outside the Court when his evidence was recorded. His evidence was recorded on 22nd December 2003.