4.7 It is submitted that in the case of Liberty India (supra), this B Court has considered in detail, deduction in respect of profits and gains “derived from”. That in the said decision, this Court has discussed the DEPB and Duty Drawback and thereafter has held that the Duty Drawback and DEPB benefits cannot be credited against the cost of manufacture of goods debited in the profit and loss account for the purpose of Section 80-IB as such remissions would constitute independent source C of income, beyond the first degree nexus between profits and the industrial undertaking. 4.8 Insofar as the reliance placed by the assessee upon the decision of this Court in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra) is concerned, it is submitted that the question in Meghalaya Steels Limited D (supra) pertained to three subsidies, namely, a) Transport Subsidy, b) Interest Subsidy and c) Power Subsidy. That this Court held that since these subsidies directly affect the cost of manufacturing, they have a direct nexus between the profits and gains of the undertaking. Since these subsidies have a direct nexus, they can be said to be derived from E the industrial undertaking. It is submitted that though in the said decision, this Court has not held the decision in the case of Liberty India (supra) to be bad in law, in para 20, this Court has also observed that since if there is no export, there is no DEPB entitlement. Therefore, its relation to manufacture of a product and/or sale within India is not proximate or direct but is one step removed. That it is observed that the object behind F the DEPB entitlement, as has been held by this Court, is to neutralise the incidence of customs duty payment on the import content of the export product. In such a scenario, it cannot be said that such duty exemption scheme is derived from profits and gains made by the industrial undertaking or business itself. It is submitted that, therefore, in light of G the above, the decision in the case of Meghalaya Steels Limited (supra) shall not be applicable to the present matter as it pertains to the above- mentioned subsidies only. It is next submitted that though binding, the ITAT did not follow the decisions of this Court in the case of Liberty India (supra) and Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra), and, therefore, the High Court has rightly set aside the passed by the ITAT following H M/S. SARAF EXPORTS v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 347 JAIPUR-III [M. R. SHAH, J.] the decisions of this Court in the case of Liberty India (supra) and A Sterling Foods, Mangalore (supra). It is submitted that therefore, the impugned and passed by the High Court is not required to be interfered with. 4.9 Making above submissions, it is prayed that the present appeal be dismissed. B 5. Heard the learned counsel for the respective parties at length. 6. The short question, which is posed for consideration of this Court is:- Whether on the income amount received/profit from DEPB and C Duty Drawback Schemes, the assessee is entitled to deduction under Section 80-IB of the Income Tax Act, 1961 and whether such an income can be said to be an income “derived from” industrial undertaking?