This, in our view, would be the correct and proper interpretation of the Explanation to Section 6 which REVANASIDDAPPA & ANR. v. MALLIKARJUN & ORS. 359 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] mandates the assumption of a notional state of aff airs namely, a partition immediately before the death of the Hindu male coparcener. 44. It has been submitted before us that the child who is conferred with legitimacy under Sections 16(1) and Section 16(2), would not have a share in the partition of the ‘larger coparcenary’ but would have a share in the coparcenary that comprises of the child’s father and the father’s legitimate children. It has been urged that the latter coparcenary, this child would be at par with the other children of the father born out of a valid marriage, and that such parity of treatment for the purpose of coparcenary property is the purpose of the law45. We must clarify that it is true that the Hindu Law recognises a branch of the family as a subordinate corporate entity, within the fold of the larger coparcenary comprising many such branches. However, even such branches can acquire, hold and dispose of family property subject to certain limitations. The nature of property held by such a branch, until partitioned among the members of the branch does not cease to be that of a joint family property of all the coparceners of the branch. Now, since the child conferred with legitimacy under Section 16 is not a coparcener, the branch comprises the father and his children born out of the valid marriage. As such, the property, once partitioned from the larger coparcenary, and in the hands of the father, for his own branch, is not the father’s separate property, until the partition happens within the branch. It continues to be the coparcenary property in which the children from his valid marriage have joint ownership. Thus, in view of the restriction in Section 16(3), in this property- not being the exclusive property of the father- a child covered by Section 16(1) and 16(2) is not entitled.46 45 Written Synopsis on behalf of appellant in Revanasiddappa & Anr. vs. Mallikarjun & Ors. by Kiran Suri, Sr. Advocate, page 4. 46 Vineeta Sharma vs Rakesh Sharma (2020) 9 SCC 1, 39 (para 36) - “In Bhagwan Dayal vs Reoti Devi, it was held that coparcenary is a creature of law and branch of the family was a subordinate corporate body and discussed the proposition thus: “47. …. Coparcenary is a creature of Hindu law and cannot be created by agreement of parties except in the case of reunion. It is a corporate body or a family unit. The law also recognises a branch of the family as a subordinate corporate body. The said family unit, whether the larger one or the subordinate one, can acquire, hold and dispose of family property subject to the limitations laid down by law. Ordinarily, the manager, 360 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. 45. The above legal position is supported by a conjoint reading of Section 6, HSA and Section 16, HMA as well.