[VIKRAM NATH, J.] however, that the Corporation shall not be required to do A anything which is not practicable at a reasonable cost or to provide such a supply to any part of 1[Kolkata] where such a supply is already available at such point or points aforesaid: [Provided that the Corporation may, at any time, levy an annual fee at such rate as may be fixed by regulations, or as stated B in the budget estimate under sub-section (3) of section 131, in this behalf, on the owner or the occupier of, or on the person liable to pay 2 [property tax] on, any house to which such supply of wholesome water is made: 2[Provided further that the Corporation may levy annual fee C on the basis of annual valuation of buildings or premises in a graded manner, at such rates, as may be determined by the Corporation by regulations, but such rate shall not exceed ten per cent of the annual valuation as may be so determined or seperately calculated in respect of the premises or building D or portion thereof.].] [Explanation I--.- Supply of water shall include supply through service mains of the Corporation or through tubewell allowed to be sunk within the premises or both or procured from any other municipal source. E Explanation II.- “House” includes a building, flat as defined in the West Bengal Building (Regulation of Promotion of Construction and Transfer by Promoters) Act, 1993 (West Ben, Act XX of 1993), or apartment as defined in the West Bengal Apartment Ownership Act, 1972 (West Ben. Act XVI of 1972);] F (c) for providing, as far as possible, a supply of wholesome water otherwise than in pipes to every part of 1[Kolkata] in which there are houses, for domestic purposes of the occupants thereof and to which it is not practicable to provide a supply in pipes at a reasonable cost, and in which danger to health arises from the insufficiency or unwholesomeness G of the existing supply and a public supply is required and can be provided at a reasonable cost, and for securing that such supply is available within a reasonable distance of every house in that part. H 834 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 10 S.C.R. A 7. Section 234(A) of the Act gives a right to the owner of a building to recover fee for supply of water from the occupier thereof, who uses the same for residential purpose or otherwise. The proviso thereto further permits that amount may be apportioned in case there are more than one occupier. The aforesaid Section is reproduced hereunder: B “234A. Recovery of fee for supply of water by owner from occupier:- The owner of a part or flat of a building for which fee for supply of water is charged may recover the entire amount of such fee from the occupier thereof who uses it for residential C purpose or otherwise: Provided that if there is more than one such occupier, the amount of fee for supply of water may be apportioned or recovered from each such occupier in such proportion as the annual value of the portion occupied by him bears to the total annual value of the building comprising such part or D flat.” 8.