Therefore, it is not necessary for the ‘Committee of Creditors’ to fi nd out whether the ‘Resolution Applicant’ is ineligible in terms of Section 29A or not. 20. The ‘Committee of Creditors’ is to consider the feasibility, viability and such other requirements as has been specifi ed by the Board. If it proposes maximisation of the assets and is found to be feasible, viable and fulfi l all other requirements as specifi ed by the Board, the company being MSME, it is not necessary for the ‘Committee of Creditors’ to follow all the procedures under the ‘Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process’. For example, if case is settled before, the constitution of the ‘Committee of Creditors’ or in terms of Section 12A on the basis of off er given by Promoter, in such case, all other procedure for calling of application of ‘Resolution Applicant’ etc. are not followed. If the Promoter satisfy all the creditors and is in a position to keep the ‘Corporate Debtor’ as a going concern, it is always open to ‘Committee of Creditors’ to accept the terms of settlement and approve it by 90% of the voting shares. The same principle can be followed in the case of MSME. 21. The Parliament with specifi c intention amended the provisions of the ‘I&B Code’ by allowing the Promoters of ‘MSME’ to fi le ‘Resolution Plan’. The intention of the legislature shows that the Promoters of ‘MSME’ should be encouraged to pay back the amount with the satisfaction of the ‘Committee of Creditors’ to regain the control of the ‘Corporate Debtor’ and entrepreneurship by fi ling 724 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. ‘Resolution Plan’ which is viable, feasible and fulfi ls other criteria as laid down by the ‘Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India’. 22. Therefore, we hold that in exceptional circumstances, if the ‘Corporate Debtor’ is MSME, it is not necessary for the Promoters to compete with other ‘Resolution Applicants’ to regain the control of the ‘Corporate Debtor’.” 9. A reading of the aforesaid shows that it begins with the fundamental principle that the Court envisages maximization of value of assets of the corporate debtor. Thereafter, it proceeds to discuss the scenario of a corporate debtor, which is an MSME, qua the ineligibility in terms of the inapplicability of Section 29A (c) & (h) of the Code to a promoter. 10. The discussion proceeds to the aspect of Committee of Creditors (for short ‘CoCs’) considering the feasibility, viability and such other requirements as have been specifi ed by the Code and observes that if it proposes maximization of assets as feasible, viable and fulfi lls all requirements as specifi ed by the Code, it is not necessary for the CoCs to follow all the procedures under the Corporate Insolvency Resolution process. The example given thereafter is, if a case has been settled before the Constitution of a CoCs or in terms of Section 12A of the Code on the basis of an off er given by the promoter, in such a case, the procedure for calling of applications of the resolution applicants etc.