This undisclosed income was being taxed at a special rate of 60% and that is why, such income D was being identified separately as against the regular income for each of the assessment year. The above concept was given a go- by on introducing this new scheme of assessment under section 153A which provided that assessment will be made for each of the assessment year separately and the income found undisclosed during the search will be taxed at the normal rate. Hence, in section E 153A, it has been stated that ‘total income’ will be assessed. This means that while computing tax liability, income disclosed as well as undisclosed income found during the course of search will be clubbed to determine the ‘total income’ and tax to be computed on the basis of such ‘total income’. Thus, on the basis of the F expression ‘total income’ in section 153A, the contention of the Revenue that the AO gets power to assess ‘total income’ which will include even income without there being any incriminating material found during the search in respect of assessments which have not abated is not tenable. It is submitted that the meaning of the expression ‘total income’ here will be income originally G assessed and the income found during the course of the search. On the basis of this expression ‘total income’, the AO cannot get jurisdiction to make an assessment in respect of other material available on record despite no incriminating material being found H 924 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 7 S.C.R. A during the course of the search. It is submitted that therefore when the purpose of the search is to collect information and in case no material is found in the search for the particular assessment year, there is no justification for tinkering with the unabated assessment. It is submitted that therefore in case no incriminating material is found during the search, that jurisdiction comes to an B end and AO cannot use that opportunity to bring to tax income on the basis of the material available on record. xvi) It is submitted that further as per sub-section (2) of section 153A of the if any proceeding or any of assessment or reassessment made under sub-section (1) is annulled in appeal or C any other legal provision, then the assessment or reassessment relating to any assessment year which had abated under the second proviso would stand revived. It is submitted that only the proceedings that have been abated shall be revived. The proceedings for other assessment years are not revived even if D there is any income that has escaped assessment. Meaning thereby, that intention of the legislation is to only give power to AO for making assessments, which he was earlier having in respect of assessments, which were pending as on date of search and not the other assessments. It is submitted that had the intention of legislature as is being contended On behalf of the Revenue that E AO has power to make additions in those assessment years where there is no incriminating material, the legislature would have provided that in case of annulled assessments, in the case of unabated assessments, the AO shall on the basis of the additions made earlier will be empowered to reframe those assessments as F well.