It was contended in the written statement that the appellant had fi led a suit in collusion with his brother Jayarama. 5. A counter-claim was made by the respondents claiming a declaration that they have perfected their title to the suit property by way of adverse possession. They also claimed that the family settlement dated 25th April 1993, relied upon by the appellant was void and non-est. AMENDMENT OF PLAINT 6. The appellant applied on 11th November 1997, to amend the plaint for incorporating paragraph 4(a) and a prayer for declaration of ownership and possession. The Trial Court allowed the amendment by the dated 04th June 1998. After the amendment was allowed, the respondents fi led an additional written statement, contending that the appellant could not improve his case by amendment. FINDINGS OF THE COURTS 7. The Trial Court dismissed the suit and decreed the counter-claim. In an appeal preferred by the appellant, the District Court interfered and 214 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. decreed the suit fi led by the appellant. In a second appeal preferred by the fi rst respondent, the High Court interfered by holding that the amendment incorporating the prayer for declaration was barred by limitation and that the same would not relate back to the date of institution of the suit. Hence, the High Court dismissed the suit. The High Court did not consider any other issue. SUBMISSIONS 8. The submission of the learned counsel for the appellant was that all the material particulars regarding the appellant’s title were already incorporated in the plaint as originally fi led, and only by way of abundant caution was the amendment made to include a prayer for declaration of title. His submission is that the prayer was already implicit in the plaint as originally fi led. He submitted that though the respondents admitted the appellant’s title, without examining whether the respondents had established their plea of adverse possession, the High Court had erroneously interfered with the decree of the fi rst appellate Court by dismissing the suit. 9. The learned counsel appearing for the respondents urged that the cause of action pleaded in the plaint as fi led initially arose on 18th June 1994. He urged that as there was a serious dispute about the appellant’s title, the suit was not maintainable without seeking a declaration of title. He pointed out that the application for amendment was moved on 11th November 1997, after the expiry of the period of limitation provided under Article 58 of the Limitation Act, 1963 (for short, ‘Limitation Act’). He submitted that the suit must fail once the amendment is held as time barred. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 10. We have considered the submissions. As can be seen from the original plaint and the averments made in paragraph 3, the suit was founded on the title, as the appellant has set out on what basis he was claiming absolute ownership. There is an allegation that respondents have no title and no right to interfere with the appellant’s possession.