The manner in which the Explanation has been incorporated may expose a person to a charge of contempt for reporting on a criminal proceeding only after the charge-sheet has been fi led or, as the case may be, cognizance taken or summons/warrant issued. The two hundredth Report of the Law Commission chaired by Justice M Jagannadha Rao, a former Judge of this Court, noted the background of the provision as it arose upon the report of the Bhargava Committee under the auspices of a Joint Committee of Parliament. The Amicus Curiae has adverted to the fact that the report of the Bhargava Committee did not take notice of the decision in A K Gopalan v Noordeen3 which treated the arrest of an accused as the point of commencement for taking cognizance of criminal contempt. The Law Commission in these circumstances made recommendations for remedying the situation. 12. The ambit of these proceedings is confi ned to the pre-trial stage where the investigation has been initiated and is continuing. The Amicus Curiae submitted that any disclosure by the police about an investigation must be cognizant of the fact that the information as disclosed impacts not only upon the victim of the crime and the accused, but on the rule of law. In its decision in Sahara India Real Estate Corporation Limited v Securities and Exchange Board of India4, this Court underscored the 3 (1969) 2 SCC 734 4 (2012) 10 SCC 603 376 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. need to maintain the balance between the right of the accused under Article 21 and the right of the media/public under Article 19(1)(a). 13. During the course of the submissions, the issues which have been raised by the Amicus Curiae in the written note of submissions are as follows: “1. Who can brief the media? 2. At what stage is the briefi ng done? 3. How much information is to be shared at each stage? 4. What information cannot be shared? 5. Is the information to be shared or conveyed verbally or in writing? 6. What safeguards to be followed (no names of victims, no photos of accused who have to stand Test Identifi cation Parade, no opinions/s, no disclosure of line of investigation or technical knowhow, no information in National Security issues) 7. Whether copies of Press Releases are maintained by the police department? 8. Disciplinary action against officers who do not abide by instructions.” 14. A painstaking exercise has been conducted by the Amicus Curiae in preparing a compilation containing: (i) The Media Relations Handbook of the Los Angeles Police Department; (ii) The Press Relations Notice of the New York Police Department; (iii) The Communication’s Advisory of the Association of Chief Police Offi cers, UK; (iv) The Standard Operating Procedure issued by the Metropolitan Police, London in regard to Media Relations in June 2012; (v) The Dorset Police’s Media Relations Guidelines; PEOPLE’S UNION FOR CIVIL LIBERTIES v. THE STATE OF 377 MAHARASHTRA (vi) The instructions prepared by the Central Bureau of Investigation more specifi cally in paragraphs 24.9 to 24.31 of the CBI Manual titled “Policy Division”; and (vii) The Offi ce Memorandum dated 1 April 2010 issued by the Union Ministry of Home Aff airs which contains an advisory on the media policy of the police.