C 29. Section 43 of the Act 1996 provides that the Limitation Act, 1963 would apply to arbitrations as it applies to the proceedings in Court. Section 43 reads thus: “43. Limitations.—(1) The Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), shall apply to arbitrations as it applies to proceedings in court. D (2) For the purposes of this section and the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), an arbitration shall be deemed to have commenced on the date referred to in section 21. (3) Where an arbitration agreement to submit future disputes to arbitration provides that any claim to which the agreement E applies shall be barred unless some step to commence arbitral proceedings is taken within a time fixed by the agreement, and a dispute arises to which the agreement applies, the Court, if it is of opinion that in the circumstances of the case undue hardship would otherwise be caused, and notwithstanding F that the time so fixed has expired, may on such terms, if any, as the justice of the case may require, extend the time for such period as it thinks proper. (4) Where the Court s that an arbitral award be set aside, the period between the commencement of the arbitration and G the date of the of the Court shall be excluded in computing the time prescribed by the Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963), for the commencement of the proceedings (including arbitration) with respect to the dispute so submitted.” H M/S B AND T AG v. MINISTRY OF DEFENCE 615 [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] 30. In context with Section 43 of the Act 1996 referred to above, A we may refer to a decision of this Court in the case of Consolidated Engineering Enterprises v. Principal Secretary, Irrigation Department and Others, reported in (2008) 7 SCC 169. In the said case, it was contended on behalf of the appellant therein that Section 43 of the Act 1996 makes the provisions of the Act 1963 applicable only to B arbitrations and not to any proceedings relating to arbitration in a Court. Such contention canvassed on behalf of the appellant therein, was negatived by this Court observing as under: “45. Learned counsel for the appellant contended that Section 43 of the AC Act makes applicable the provisions of the C Limitation Act only to arbitrations, thereby expressing an intent to exclude the application to any proceedings relating to arbitration in a court. The contention of the appellant ignores and overlooks Section 29(2) of the Limitation Act and Section 43(1) of the AC Act. Sub-section (1) of Section 43 of the Act provides that the Limitation Act shall apply to arbitrations as D it applies to proceedings in court. The purpose of Section 43 of the AC Act is not to make the Limitation Act inapplicable to proceedings before court, but on the other hand, make the Limitation Act applicable to arbitrations. As already noticed, the Limitation Act applies only to proceedings in court, and E but for the express provision in Section 43, the Limitation Act would not have applied to arbitration, as arbitrators are private tribunals and not courts.