e. In terms of Clause 34, the Governing Body had decided to fi x the age of superannuation to be 60 years on 01.12.1998. The said decision was ratifi ed on 27.01.2000 in the 14th Meeting of the Governing Body of CCRAS as Agenda Item No. GB 14.4. f. The decision of the Governing Body as aforementioned applied on 30.04.2018 i.e. the date of superannuation of the Respondent. g. No reference has been made by the respondent No. 1 to the aforementioned decision of the governing body in his representation. In fact, the Respondent relied on Clause 34 of the Bye-Laws which on its terms indicates that the rules governing the retirement of employees of Government of India will not apply in the instant case. h. Reliance placed by the respondent No. 1 in its representation on the case of Salma Khatoon is equally inapt as the relevant rule in the said case was diff erent from the Clause 34 of Bye-Laws herein. The said case pertained to the Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine (‘CCRUM’) which is governed by its own rules and regulation and the applicable rule in that case was worded diff erently. Moreover, the said case is still pending before the High Court of Delhi. The interim in favour of Salma Khatoon was vacated by this Court in the case of Central Council for Research in Unani Medicine v. Dr. Salma Khatoon and Others reported as 2020 SCC OnLine SC 1332. i. The Central Administrative Tribunal, Cuttack Bench (‘CAT’) rightly held that the assumption of the respondent No. 1 that FR 56 is automatically applicable is not correct as it is subject to Clause 34 of the Bye-Laws of CCRAS. j. The very same grounds as aforesaid were urged by the Appellants in the Counter Affi davit fi led by them before the High Court of Orissa. CENTRAL COUNCIL FOR RESEARCH IN AYURVEDIC 751 SCIENCES v. BIKARTAN DAS [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] k. While passing the impugned , the High Court acknowledges that the respondent No. 1 was working as a Researcher and his service conditions were covered by a diff erent clause. Strangely, however, the High Court makes no reference to Clause 34 of the Bye-Laws. This is despite the fact that the appellants had clearly pleaded that the respondent was not entitled to relief in terms of Clause 34 and that FR 56 was not applicable to him. Pertinently, this submission has been recorded by the High Court itself as also the clarifi cation of 31.10.2017 and the separate method of recruitment. These factors were not considered while passing the impugned . l. The impugned of the High Court is unsustainable as it is against the following settled propositions of law: (i) Even a Constitutional Court cannot substitute the existing service conditions of an employee. V.M. Gadre v. M.G. Diwan and Others, (1996) 3 SCC 454 para 10 at page 459. (ii) A writ in the nature of mandamus cannot be issued to frame a policy in a particular manner.