H 180 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A (iv) As an absolute owner, he executed registered sale deed in favour of his wife Geeta Rani Saha on account of an earlier loan taken by him for Rs.20,000/- and in lieu of repayment thereof. 21. On a conjoint reading of the aforesaid two documents, namely B sale deeds, it is established that the initial sale deed dated 03rd September, 1968 by plaintiff No.2 Sri Dhirendra Chandra Saha is as a power of attorney holder of Braja Mohan Dey, to himself as a buyer. The power of attorney is dated 01st August, 1968, the details of which are referred to in the said sale deed inasmuch as the power of attorney was executed by the original owner Sri Braja Mohan Dey before the 1st Class C Magistrate, Komilla, East Pakistan, which is evident on a reading of both the documents. Thereafter, plaintiff No.2 executed a sale deed dated 29th October, 1968 in favour of the plaintiff No.1 as the absolute owner of the suit schedule property. Therefore, there is compliance of Section 33(1)(c) of the Registration Act, 1908 inasmuch as the power of attorney D has been executed before the 1st Class Magistrate, Komilla, East Pakistan. Hence there is no substance in the contention of the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the appellants-defendants that the requirements of Section 33(1) (c) of the Registration Act, 1908, had not been complied with while executing the power of attorney dated 01st August, 1968 and therefore, no validity could be attached to the said document. E 22. It is also required to be noted at this juncture that as per Section 18 of the Registration Act, registration of deed of attorney is optional. Further, Section 32 deals with the categories of persons who can present documents for registration. The following three categories of persons are mentioned therein: F (a) by some person executing or claiming under the same, or, in the case of a copy of a decree or , claiming under the decree or , or (b) by the representative or assign of such a person, or G (c) by the agent of such a person, representative or assign, duly authorised by power-of-attorney executed and authenticated in manner mentioned therein. Therefore, it is evident that plaintiff no. 2, had the authority as per Section 32 (c) to present a document for registration in his capacity as the attorney of Braja Mohan Dey, the original owner of the suit property. H MANIK MAJUMDER AND OTHERS v. DIPAK KUMAR SAHA 181 (DEAD) THROUGH LRS. & OTHERS [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 23. Further, non- production of the power of attorney in the suit is A also not fatal to the case of the plaintiffs. In this regard, reliance may be placed on a recent of this Court in Amar Nath vs. Gian Chand and Anr., 2022 SCC OnLine SC 102. The facts of the said case are that the Plaintiff therein had executed a power of attorney in favour of the second defendant therein and on the strength of such power of B attorney, the second defendant executed a sale deed in favour of the first defendant.