652 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. 12. PW 7 is the purohit who is stated to have performed the adoption ceremonies. He stated that his native place was Berhampur and he was doing pourohityam since about 12 years. He stated that he was the purohit for the family of P. Panduranga Rao (PW 2). He further stated that he knew Venkubayamma as she used to visit her parents’ house. He stated that he had performed pourohityam at the time of the adoption. He claimed that the adoption ceremony took place in Raghunadha Swamy Temple and datta homam was also performed. He further claimed that after the datta homam, the child was physically handed over to the adoptive mother by the parents and photos were taken on that occasion. He identifi ed himself along with the adoptive mother, the natural parents and the child in Ex. A2 and Ex. A3 photographs. He further stated that after the offi cial adoption was over at the temple, they worshipped their personal deity at home. PW 7 stated in his cross-examination that he used to see Venkubayamma once or twice a year at her parents’ house in Chandramanipeta. He was questioned about certain ceremonies in the context of adoption and stated that he had not performed the same. He denied the suggestion that the woman in Exs. A2 to A4 photographs was not Venkubayamma. He, however, stated that Raghunadha Swamy Temple was in Chandramanipeta and Ramalingeshwara and Mukteshwara Temples were in Bhapur. 13. PW 8 is the Advocate who attested Ex. C1 affi davit. PW9 is the Sub-Registrar at Chodavaram who registered Ex. A19 Will. He stated in his cross-examination that he did not know Venkubayamma personally and that the identifying witnesses told him that the executant was Venkubayamma. He said that the executant also stated her name to him. PW 10 was a Director of the Finger Prints Bureau at Madras. His evidence was that the thumb prints in the Adoption Deed and the Will Deed were identical to the thumb print of Venkubayamma in the Sub-Registrar’s record pertaining to Ex. A19 Will. PW 11 was from the Registration Department at Kurnool and spoke of Venkubayamma affi xing her thumb print in Ex. A10 Will in his presence. However, in his cross-examination, PW 11 admitted that he did not know her personally and relied only on the identifying witnesses. He also could not say what the age of the said executant was, due to lapse of time. PW 12, an Advocate at Srikakulam, stated that he knew Venkubayamma, who was a client of his father and, thereafter, himself. He further stated that he could identify her and claimed that the woman, wearing glasses and holding MOTURU NALINI KANTH v. GAINEDI KALIPRASAD (DEAD, 653 THROUGH LRS.) [SANJAY KUMAR, J.] a child, in Exs. A2 and A3 photographs, was Venkubayamma. He admitted in his cross-examination that, though Venkubayamma was about 70 years of age in 1970, she did not appear to be of that age in the photographs.