The fi rst respondent instituted a writ petition4 under Article 226 of the Constitution before the High Court of Karnataka contending that the award of the contract to the appellant was in breach of the conditions which were imposed in the dated 23 July 2020 of the Union Ministry of Finance. The contention was that the Chinese company which had entered into a consortium agreement with the appellant so as to enable the appellant to fulfi ll the eligibility conditions under the tender fl oated by BHEL was required to be registered with the competent authority, according to the Public Procurement dated 23 July 2020. It was urged that in the absence of such registration, the tender submitted by the appellant did not meet the technical requirements and could not have been considered by BHEL. 13. The Single Judge of the Karnataka High Court dismissed the writ petition by a judgement dated 2 November 2022. The Single Judge held that (i) Entering into a consortium agreement was permissible under the terms of the tender; (ii) The submission of the tender by the appellant, along with the copy of the agreement, was proper; 4 Writ Petition No 20333 of 2022 (GM-TEN) BTL EPC LTD. v. MACAWBER BEEKAY PVT LTD AND 161 OTHERS [DR DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] (iii) On the issue of mandatory registration under the Public Procurement , a clarifi cation dated 8 February 2021 stated that a bidder can procure raw material, as opposed to fi nished goods, from an entity such as the fourth respondent even if the latter was not registered with the competent authority; (iv) Since the appellant was not even procuring raw materials but only sought support for design, erection and commissioning requirements, the bid did not violate the procurement ; (v) The Court’s scrutiny was limited to the decision-making process; (vi) The fi nancial bid of the appellant was Rs 58 crores lower in value than the fi nancial bid submitted by the fi rst respondent; and (vii) The decision-making process was not arbitrary and did not merit interference, in line with the principle of limited judicial scrutiny of the discretion vested in a tendering authority. 14. The of the Single Judge was carried in appeal. 15. The Division Bench of the High Court reversed the decision of the Single Judge and allowed the writ appeal. The respondent (who was the appellant before the Division Bench) argued that (i) The consortium agreement between the appellant and the Chinese entity was meant to confer eligibility on the appellant, which did not possess the requisite qualifi cations on its own; (ii) Thus, by way of the consortium agreement, a bidding consortium was created where the Chinese entity was a joint bidder; (iii) As such, according to the Public Procurement the Chinese company was required to register with the competent authority in to participate in the tender process; and (iv) In the absence of registration, the bidding consortium comprising the appellant and the Chinese Company did not meet the technical criteria of the tender.