The word conveys the idea of sacredness or of Authority. The Law Lexicon by Ramanath Iyer: Prior approval or ratifi cation.” 43. In 78 Corpus Juris Secundum at Page 579 diff erent meanings have been given to the word as a noun and as a verb. As a noun it means penalty or punishment provided as a means of enforcing obedience to a law and in a wider sense an authorisation of any thing and it may convey the idea of authority. As a verb ‘sanction’ is defi ned as meaning to assent, concur, confi rm or ratify. In U.S. v. Tillinghast D.G., reported in 55 F.2d 279, it was held that where legal rights are involved it is doubtful whether it should be construed as requiring less than an unmistakable expression of approval. In Section 197 of the CrPC, the word ‘sanction’ has been used as a verb and, therefore, it will mean to assent, to concur or approval. 950 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. 44. The legislature has given great importance to sanction as is evident from the Scheme of the CrPC. Section 216 of the CrPC gives power to the Court to alter or add to any charge at any time before is pronounced but sub-section (5) thereof provides that if the off ence stated in the altered or added charge is one for the prosecution of which previous sanction is necessary, the case shall not be proceeded with until such sanction is obtained, unless sanction has been already obtained for a prosecution on the same facts as those on which the altered or added charge is founded. This was also emphasised by the Privy Council in the leading case of Gokulchand Dwarka Das Morarka v. King, reported in AIR 1948 PC 82, where in para 9 it was observed as follows at Page 85:— “… The sanction to prosecute is an important matter; it constitutes a condition precedent to the institution of the prosecution and the Government have an absolute discretion to grant or withhold their sanction. They are not, as the High Court seem to have thought, concerned merely to see that the evidence discloses a prima facie case against the person sought to be prosecuted. …” 45. The appellant was serving as an Assistant General Manager, State Bank of India, Overseas Bank at Hyderabad. State Bank of India is a Nationalised Bank. Although a person working in a Nationalised Bank is a public servant, yet the provisions of Section 197 of the CrPC would not be attracted at all as Section 197 is attracted only in cases where the public servant is such who is not removable from his service save by or with the sanction of the Government. It is not disputed that the appellant is not holding a post where he could not be removed from service except by or with the sanction of the Government. In this view of the matter, even if it is alleged that the appellant herein is a public servant, still the provisions of Section 197 of the CrPC are not attracted at all.