Sub-section (2) of Section 464 specifi es the modes which can be adopted by the court of appeal, confi rmation or revision, if such court is of the opinion that a failure of justice has been occasioned on account of non-framing of charge or any error, omission or irregularity in the framing of charge.” 24. In the light of aforesaid analysis, the question that would arise is: whether the accused in the instant case can be convicted for the off ence punishable under Section 306 IPC? Section 306 reads as under: “306. Abetment of suicide. —If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fi ne.” The basic ingredients of an off ence under Section 306 is suicidal death and its abetment thereof. To attract the ingredients of abetment, the intention of the accused to aid or instigate or abet the deceased to commit suicide would be necessary. 25. It would be necessary at this juncture itself to note the statement made by the deceased in her dying declaration Ex.P-45 which is to the following eff ect: “I have been given in marriage xxx for the dowry all of them were harassing me by saying my father had given less dowry and customary gifts to the groom. As I couldn’t tolerate the torture, I have set fi re to myself by pouring on me at the shade situated in our land on 20.12.2010 in early morning at about 6:30 to 7:00. My husband xxx Bagalkot city.” (Emphasis supplied by us) 944 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 26. The court below had formulated point No.1 for its adjudication which is to the eff ect: whether the deceased Akkamahadevi died suicidal death? and, answered the same in the affi rmative by opining that deceased died due to burn injuries which she had suff ered on account of self- immolation. The act of cruelty has been spelt out by none else than the victim herself in her dying declaration Ex.P-45. She has in clear words stated all the accused were harassing her by stating that her father had given less dowry and customary gifts to her husband and being unable to tolerate this mental torture, she had set fi re to herself on the fateful day. The accused being the husband, father-in-law & mother-in-law are said to have harassed the deceased, subjected her to cruelty and the deceased has in clear terms stated in her dying declaration that she could not tolerate the same. Thus, the torture which has taken place within the four walls is supported by the statement of the victim and stands proved by virtue of dying declaration having been accepted by us. It is this act of torture which led the deceased to commit suicide and these acts have forced the deceased to commit suicide. 27. Omission to frame charge does not disable the court from convicting the accused for the off ence which is found to have been proved on the evidence on record.