The arbitration suit B under Section 34 of the Act was dismissed. 10. By the impugned in an appeal carried by the first respondent, the High Court has set aside the award as also the passed by the court under Section 34. Still further, the High Court directed that the first respondent shall be restored the dealership within three C months from the date of the receipt of the certified copy of the failing which the first respondent was held entitled to seek execution of the and also seek necessary damages from IOC and its officers. 11. It is this which has led to the filing of the two appeals. Apart from the IOC and its officers, impugning the of the High D Court the new dealer, namely, M.P. Parvati has filed the other appeal. 12. We heard Shri Vikram Mehta, learned counsel appearing on behalf of the appeal filed by the IOC. We also heard Shri Devadatt Kamath, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the new Dealer. Next, we heard Shri Shailash Madiyal, learned counsel on behalf of the E first respondent. 13. Shri Vikram Mehta, learned counsel for the IOC would submit that the High Court has overstepped the well settled limits set by a catena of decisions in the matter of overturning an arbitration award. He took us to the correspondence and also the conduct of the first respondent to contend that the first respondent wanted to terminate the contract as is F self-evident by sending the notice dated 25.09.2006. Upon being told that the communication must be notarised, it was got notarised on 03.10.2006 and it was received by the second appellant on 16.11.2006. The same was accepted on 18.11.2006. The Arbitrator has entered findings on the above lines. It is a plausible view. The District Judge in G proceedings under Section 34 had found the award invulnerable. Therefore, even on a different view being possible, the High Court acted illegally in interfering with the award. He would, in fact, submit that the view taken by the arbitrator was in fact, the right view. The expression of words conveying the best wishes for the partners of the first respondent H 694 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A apart from the penultimate paragraph in letter 18.11.2006 is harped upon. The High Court, it is pointed out, has proceeded to apply principles of law which may not be apposite in the context. He would submit that the findings of the arbitrator cannot certainly be described as perverse. He would also submit that the High Court has clearly acted illegally in not merely setting aside the award but even proceeding to modify the award B which is wholly beyond its power. In other words, he would point out the direction by the High Court to restore the dealership to the first respondent as being palpably illegal. 14. Shri Devadatt Kamat, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the new dealer would submit that the conduct and C correspondence resorted to by the first respondent would reveal that it was carefully thought out.