h. Although the decision in Mathew Varghese (supra) was prior to the 2016 amendment to the SARFAESI Act, yet its applicability has been held valid even after the amendment of the said Act. A Division Bench of the High Court of Telangana in the case of Concern Readymix, rep. by its Proprietor, Smt. Y. Sunitha v. Authorised Offi cer, Corporation Bank and Anr., reported in 2018 SCC OnLine Hyd 783 has held after juxtaposing the amended and unamended provisions of Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act, with respect to the right of redemption available to the Mortgagor that the amended Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act only puts a restriction on the right of the mortgagee to deal with the property and does not speak in express terms about the equity of redemption available to the mortgagor. It was further held that the danger of interpreting Section 13(8) as though CELIR LLP v. BAFNA MOTORS (MUMBAI) PVT. 71 LTD. & ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] it relates to the right of redemption is if the payments are not made in accordance with Section 13(8), the right of redemption may get lost even before the sale is complete in all respects and that holding that the right of redemption would be extinguished at the stage of issue of notice under Rule 9(1) would tantamount to annulling the relevant provision of the Act 1882 which do not stand expressly excluded insofar as the question of redemption is concerned. The said of the Telangana High Court was challenged before this Court vide SLP(C) D. No. 28967 of 2019 and the same came to be dismissed. i. The view expressed in Concern Readymix (supra) was echoed by a Division Bench of the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in the case of M/s Pal Alloys and Metal India Private Limited & Ors. v. Allahabad Bank & Ors., reported in 2021 SCC OnLine P&H 2733, wherein the High Court, inter alia, considered the specifi c issue “(a) till what time and date can the right of redemption of the Mortgage can be exercised by the Mortgagors / Borrowers in the light of the amendment to Section 13(8) of the SARFAESI Act”. j. While answering the aforesaid question, the Court considered the report of the Joint Committee on the Enforcement of Security Interest and Recovery of Debts Laws and Miscellaneous Provisions (Amendment) Bill, 2016 (the Report) as well as the law laid down by this Court in Mathew Varghese (supra) and the in Concern Readymix (supra), in to determine whether the said right of redemption was available up to the date of transfer of the asset or only up to the date of publication of the sale notice. On a consideration of Section 60 of the Act 1882 as well as the in Narandas Karsondas (supra), it was observed that: “62. Thus even if the sale of secured assets is under a special statute like State Financial Corporations Act, there is no deviation from the general principle that the mortgagor’s right of redemption is not extinguished till the execution of conveyance.” k. It was ultimately held as below:- “96.