The contribution, alongwith compensation which may be collected may be credited to a separate environment restoration account for C restoration of environment and relief to the victims of damage to the environment in such manner as may be found necessary by the Mission. Any victim or aggrieved party will be free to approach the Mission for providing such relief. The Mission may also consider the safeguards laid down in the Notification dated 31.12.2021, particularly for safety audits of sh dykes which should be conducted D particularly for structural stability, as far as possible within six months. Advisory issued by the Ministry of Power dated 22.9.2021 will not be enforced being against the spirit of notification dated 31. 12.2021 and obstructing much needed speedy utilisation/ disposal of legacy flyash. The Mission may evolve mechanism E for interaction with stake holders, including associations of brick kiln owners. Guidelines be also issued for siting, design and engineering standards for the location, disposal, maintenance and regulation of Ash Ponds as breach of a fly ash pond result in great disaster. Public health and risk impact assessment in the areas of operation of TPPs and generators of fly ash may be got conducted. F The Mission may also monitor scientific management and utilization of fly ash by power projects outside Singrauli and Sonebhadra, in coordination with Chief Secretaries of concerned States and adopting safety measures for ash dykes, installing devices to control air pollution, (including FGDs, OCEMS) in a time bound manner G and restoration of environment and public health. The Mission may also consider use of beneficiated coal. It may in particular consider on-site and off-site crisis management plans with regard to fly ash ponds and dykes. As noted earlier, legacy fly ash is 1670.602 Million Tonnes as on.31.12.2021 and data of ash generation and utilization of legacy fly ash is as follows: H SINGRAULI SUPER THERMAL POWER STATION v. 445 ASHWANI KUMAR DUBEY & ORS. [B.V. NAGARATHNA, J.] “Summary of of Ash Generation and Utilization during year 2020- A 21 B C The Committee of Secretaries, in coordination with PPs and statutory regulators, may draw a road map for utilization and disposal of entire legacy fly ash for Sonebhadra and Singrauli areas as well as for all the Power Plants located in clusters or standalone with tagging the sources to utilize fly ash on voluntary D and compulsion mode for which required mechanism be laid down. ii. With regard to past violations, the PPs remain liable and the Joint Committee of CPCB, State PCB and jurisdictional District Magistrates may determine compensation following due process, on the principles laid down inter alia in M.C. Mehta, (1987) 1 sec E 395, Sterlite (2013) 4 sec 575 and Goel Ganga (2018) 18 SCC 257, having regard to the period of violation and financial capacity of the unit. The PPs may take remedial measures as per recommendations of the Committee and as per law, failing with coercive measures for continuing or future violations be taken by concerned authorities.