The of the Trial Judge was set aside in First Appeal against which proceedings under Article 227 were instituted by the original defendants before the High Court. In those proceedings, there was a stay of the proceedings in the suit. In this backdrop, when the Trial judge allowed an application for a survey by the ASI, the was stayed by the High Court during the pendency of the proceedings. 13. XXVI Rule 10A stipulates that where any issue in a suit involves any scientifi c investigation which cannot in the opinion of the Court be conveniently conducted before the court, the court may, if it thinks necessary or expedient in the interest of justice so to do, issue a commission to such person as it thinks fi t directing them to inquire into such question and report thereon to the court. Under sub-rule (2) of Rule 10A, the provisions of Rule 10 of the shall, as far as may be, apply in relation to a Commissioner appointed under the rule as they apply to a Commissioner appointed under Rule 9. Rules 9 and 10 of XXVI therefore assume relevance and are extracted below: “9. Commissions to make local investigations.—In any suit in which the Court deems a local investigation to be requisite or proper for the purpose of elucidating any matter in dispute, or of ascertaining the market-value of any property, or the amount of any mesne profi ts or damages or annual net profi ts, the Court may issue a commission to such person as it thinks fi t directing him to make such investigation and to report thereon to the Court: Provided that, where the State Government has made rules as to the persons to whom such commission shall be issued, the Court shall be bound by such rules. 10. Procedure of Commissioner.—(1) The Commissioner, after such local inspection as he deems necessary and after reducing to writing the 118 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. evidence taken by him, shall return such evidence, together with his report in writing signed by him, to the Court. (2) Report and depositions to be evidence in suit.—The report of the Commissioner and the evidence taken by him (but not the evidence without the report) shall be evidence in the suit and shall form part of the record; but the Court or, with the permission of the Court, any of the parties to the suit may examine the Commissioner personally in open Court touching any of the matters referred to him or mentioned in his report, or as to his report, or as to the manner in which he has made the investigation. (3) Commissioner may be examined in person.—Where the Court is for any reason dissatisfi ed with the proceedings of the Commissioner, it may direct such further inquiry to be made as it shall think fi t. 10-A. Commission for scientifi c investigation.—(1) Where any question arising in a suit involves any scientifi c investigation which cannot, in the opinion of the Court, be conveniently conducted before the Court the Court may, if it thinks it necessary or expedient in the interests of justice so to do, issue a commission to such person as it thinks fi t, directing him to inquire into such question and report thereon to the Court.