To sum up the legal and constitutional position which emerges from the aforesaid discussion, it can be stated that: 1. The jurisdiction of the Election Commission is wide enough to include all powers necessary for smooth conduct of elections and the word “elections” is used in a wide sense to include the entire C process of election which consists of several stages and embraces many steps. 2. The limitation on plenary character of power is when Parliament or State Legislature has made a valid law relating to or in connection with elections, the Commission is required to act in D conformity with the said provisions. In case where law is silent, Article 324 is a reservoir of power to act for the avowed purpose of having free and fair election. The Constitution has taken care of leaving scope for exercise of residuary power by the Commission in its own right as a creature of the Constitution in the infinite variety of situations that may emerge from time to E time in a large democracy, as every contingency could not be foreseen or anticipated by the enacted laws or the rules. By issuing necessary directions, the Commission can fill the vacuum till there is legislation on the subject. In Kanhiya Lal Omar case [(1985) 4 SCC 628] the Court construed the expression “superintendence, F direction and control” in Article 324(1) and held that a direction may mean an issued to a particular individual or a precept which many may have to follow and it may be a specific or a general and such phrase should be construed liberally empowering the Election Commission to issue such s. G 3. …. 4. To maintain the purity of elections and in particular to bring transparency in the process of election, the Commission can ask the candidates about the expenditure incurred by the political parties and this transparency in the process of election would include H 814 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A transparency of a candidate who seeks election or re-election. In a democracy, the electoral process has a strategic role. The little man of this country would have basic elementary right to know full particulars of a candidate who is to represent him in Parliament where laws to bind his liberty and property may be enacted.” B 21. It is also pertinent to note that the insertion of Rule-4A and Form-26 appended to the said Rules is also culmination of the said observations made this Court in the aforesaid case, which require the candidate to disclose the information and particulars in the form of affidavit to be submitted along with the nomination paper. C 22. The respondent-Election petitioner in this case has challenged election of the appellant-returned candidate under Section 100(1)(d)(iv) on the ground of non-compliance of the said Rule-4A and the Form-26. However, the appellant had filed the applications seeking dismissal of the Election petition in limine, for the non-compliance of the provisions of Section 83(1)(a) of the said Act, read with VII, Rule 11 of D CPC.