), and the unreported decision dated January 31, 2019 in APO 508 of 2017 (Sri Ami yo Bhusan Das vs. United Bank of India & Ors.) rendered by me. 41. The objector and the appellants shall be heard within four weeks from date of receipt of a copy of this and . The Registrar shall, immediately after hearing is closed, proceed to consider the contentious issues and render his decision within a further period of a month thereafter. Needless to observe, the Registrar ought to decide in the light of the observations made in this and whatever decision is taken by him must have the support of reasons. 42. The reference is answered accordingly and the writ appeal stands disposed of, without costs.” 11. On the point of power of the Registrar to cancel his own , the Referee Judge, whose is under appeal, has cited the provisions of Section 22 of the Bengal General Clauses Act, 1899 which stipulates:- “22. Power to issue to include power to add to, amend, vary or rescind s etc.— Where, by any Bengal Act or West Bengal Act, a power to issue s, rules, bye-laws, or notifi cations is conferred, 316 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. then, that power includes a power, exercisable in the like manner and subject to the like sanction and conditions (if any), to add to, amend, vary or rescind any s, rules, bye-laws or notifi cations so issued.” 12. Citing the s of this Court in the cases of Grindlays Bank Ltd. -vs- Central Government Industrial Tribunal and Others [1980 (Supp) SCC 420] and Kapra Mazdoor Ekta Union -vs- Birla Cotton Spinning and Weaving Mills Ltd. and Another [(2005) 13 SCC 777], and also a decision of the same High Court in the case of Rina Mukherjee and Another -vs- New India Assurance Co. Ltd. and Another [ (2008) ACJ 1248], the Referee Judge opined that the Registrar had proceeded to exercise his power of substantive review and that too without reference to the application for registration that succeeded. This has been recorded in paragraph 38 of the impugned, which we have reproduced above. 13. One of the points raised on behalf of the appellant before us is that the of the Division Bench delivered on 14.01.2016 not having been appealed against, has attained fi nality and it was not permissible for the Division Bench, and subsequently by the Referee Judge to re-examine the question as to the manner in which the Registrar had exercised his power. But we fi nd that the Referee Judge has not addressed any issue already covered by the decision of the Division Bench delivered on 14.01.2016. The Division Bench has explained the position of law on the aspect of power of substantive review and procedural review. The Referee Judge has only applied the same principle to test the of the Registrar. Thus, we do not think the principle of constructive res judicata applied against the respondents so far as this point is concerned.