or such display would only be information to the potential customer so as to make aware about the type of product, goods or services dealt with by the business establishment that is available in the premises of such business establishment? To answer this, it would be apt and appropriate to note the meaning of the expression “advertisement” assigned under various dictionaries. They read as under: (a) “BLACK’S LAW DICTIONARY, 8TH EDITION Advertising: 1. The action of drawing the public’s attention to something to promote its sale. 2. The business of producing and circulating advertisements (b) LAW AND COMMERCIAL DICTIONARY Advertisement: Notice given in a manner designed to attract public attention. Edwards v. Lubbock Country, Tex Civ. App., 33 S.W.2d 482. Information communicated to the public, or to an individual concerned, as by handbills, newspaper, television, bill-boards, radio. First Nat. Corporation v. Perrine, 99 Mont 454: 43 P.2d 1073 (c) THE NEW ENCYCLOPAEDIA BRITTANICA VOLUME-I Advertising, the techniques used to bring products, services, opinions, or causes to public notice for the purpose of persuading the public to M/S HARSH AUTOMOBILES PRIVATE LIMITED v. INDORE 39 MUNICIPAL CORPORATION [ARAVIND KUMAR, J.] respond in a certain way toward what is advertised. Most advertising involves promoting a good that is for sale, but similar methods are used to encourage people to drive safely, to support various charities, or to vote for political candidates, among many other examples. (d) COLLINS DICTIONARY OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE Advertisement any public notice, as a printed display in a newspaper, short fi lm on television, announcement on radio, etc., designed to sell goods, publicize an event, etc. Advertising 1) the action or practice of drawing public attention to goods, services, events etc., as by the distribution of printed notices, broadcasting, etc. 2) the business that specializes in creating such publicity, 3) advertisements collectively; publicity. (e) THE CHAMBERS DICTIONARY Advertisement - the act of advertising; a public notice with the purpose of informing and/or changing public attitudes and behavior; a short performance recorded for radio, T.V. etc. to advertise goods or services; news. 16. This Court in the case of ICICI Bank and Another Vs. Municipal Corporation of Greater Bombay (2005) 6 SCC 404 has held that advertisement should have some commercial exposition or the soliciting customers to the product or service prominently shown in the advertisement. Primarily, it should have a commercial purpose and should be indicative of business activity of the displayer with a view to attract the attention of people to its business it has been further held: “15. An advertisement is a matter that draws attention of the public or segment of public to a product, service, person, organisation or line of conduct in a manner calculated to promote or oppose directly or indirectly that product, service, person, organisation or line of conduct intended to promote sale or use of product or range of products. An advertisement is an information that the producer provides about its products or services. An advertisement tries to get consumers to buy a product or a service.