Such return of cheque by the respondent and acceptance by the appellants is not decisive of the matter. The relevant aspect of the matter is that the appellants indeed attempted to refund the said sum of E Rs. 10,68,031/- on 08.11.2005. Even if the respondent was within her right to decline the offer, in our view, if at all compounding of interest was to be allowed, that could not have run beyond 08.11.2005, at least in regard to the said sum of Rs. 10,68,031/-. Put in other words, even when we may not find fault with stance of the respondent in refusing to accept such an offer of refund, particularly when she was desirous of the flats F rather than money refund, the appellants cannot be saddled with any liability to pay compound interest over the amount offered by them beyond the date of their offer. The Consumer Fora have failed to consider that when the appellants had indeed offered to pay the money and sent the cheque on 08.11.2005, it would be bringing about negative imbalance if G such an effort on the part of the appellants was to be ignored altogether and compounding of interest was continued beyond 08.11.2005. 27.2. When the amount payable by the appellants with reference to the principles and propositions aforesaid is calculated, in our view, it does not exceed the amount of Rs. 2,48,52,000/- together with accrued interest, which has already been received by the respondent pursuant to H M/S SUNEJA TOWERS PRIVATE LIMITED & ANR. v. ANITA 1151 MERCHANT [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] the passed by this Court on 09.05.2022. Keeping in view the peculiar A circumstances of this case, as an extraordinary measure, we propose to allow the respondent to retain the amount so received. 27.3. However, we would hasten to observe that the respondent is being allowed to retain the sum of money already received by her only because of peculiar circumstances of this case and else, this relaxation B for the respondent is in no manner to be read as approval of the s impugned or approval of the proposition of awarding compound interest in these matters. As said and iterated hereinbefore, such a proposition of awarding compound interest in these matters by the Fora exercising jurisdiction under the Act of 1986 stands disapproved. C Conclusion 28. Accordingly and in view of the above, these appeals succeed and are allowed. The impugned s passed by the State Commission and National Commission are disapproved. Having regard to the peculiar circumstances of this case, the amount already received by the respondent D in the sum of Rs. 2,48,52,000/- together with accrued interest is allowed to be retained by her but, we make it clear that the appellants shall not be required to make any further payment to the respondent, whether towards refund or towards compensation or towards interest. The parties are left to bear their own costs of these appeals. E Nidhi Jain Appeals allowed. (Assisted by : Rakhi, LCRA) F G H