For an FIR registered on 13.08.2004 at 4.45 p.m. was immediately forwarded and received at 1.15 a.m. 21. Merely because no recovery was made from anyone apart F from accused Nos.2 and 4 would not mean that others were not present at the scene of the crime; simply because a number of witnesses had turned hostile, does not on its own give a ground to reject the evidence of PW-1; and that PW-1 being the brother of the deceased and therefore, is an interested as well a chance witness, are untenable submissions. It G is in the backdrop that we do not find favour with the submissions of Mr. Nagamuthu S., and Dr. K. Radhakrishnan, learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants that the conviction of eight persons based on solitary evidence is not justified, particularly when there is no vagueness in his testimony with respect to the role ascribed to each one of the accused. H RAVASAHEB @ RAVASAHEBGOUDA ETC. v. STATE OF 979 KARNATAKA [SANJAY KAROL J.] 22. The role of PW-24 in drafting the complaint cannot be taken A as negative simply because he was an advocate and so he paid attention to detail. PW-1 has stated in his complaint that he does not know how to read and write. The person to whom the role of summoning PW-24 to write the complaint may be attributed or the discrepancy in drafting either on the instructions of PW-1 or on the basis of the notes prepared B by the police is not so stark, keeping in view the limited span of time within which all these activities took place for it to lend credence to the grounds urged in these appeals by special leave petitions with respect to the approach of the learned Sessions Judge being entirely erroneous or illegal. The genesis of the prosecution case cannot be said to have been shaken or rendered doubtful. The complaint was alleged to have been C drafted by an advocate (PW-24), and not by the petitioner with the help of the police personnel. Does it cast doubt on the prosecution case? In our considered view, none. For, as we have noticed the defence to have admitted their presence on the spot and the independent witnesses ascribed a specific role to each of the accused. D That a murder has been committed, has been unequivocally and concurrently held by both the courts below. It is then for the appellants before us to establish the existence of special circumstances or any equally probable version of facts opposite to the one taken by the courts, they seek to challenge. E 23. The primary submission led was that reliance on a solitary witness to convict as many as eight people (now six, with proceedings against two having abated on their death) is excessive. On a specific query by the Court as to what the learned counsel can point to, to impeach the veracity of PW-1’s testimony the answer was to say that looking at F a number of external factors as also the testimonies of other witnesses, the elements to demolish the credibility are present – which to our mind does not merit interference.