While bringing them under the rubric of one constitutional pairing, there is an unmistakable distinction created between them by the Constitution… B 388. Delhi presents a special constitutional status Under Article 239AA. This is fortified when those provisions are read in contrast with Articles 239A and 240. Article 239AA does not incorporate the language or scheme of Article 240(1), which enables the President to frame Regulations for peace, progress C and good government of the Union territories referred to in Article 240(1). This proviso to Article 240(1) indicates that once a Parliamentary law has been framed, the President shall not frame Regulations for Puducherry. In the case of Delhi, Article 239AA does not leave the constitution of a legislature or the Council of D Ministers to a law to be framed by Parliament in future. Article 239AA mandates that there shall be a legislative assembly for the NCT and there shall be a Council of Ministers, with the function of tendering aid and advice to the Lieutenant Governor. The “there shall be” formulation is indicative of a constitutional mandate. Bringing into being a legislative assembly and a Council E of Ministers for the NCT was not relegated by Parliament (in its constituent power) to its legislative wisdom at a future date upon the enactment of enabling legislation. Clause 7(a) of Article 239AA enables Parliament by law to make provisions to give effect to or to supplement the provisions contained in that Article. Parliament’s F power is to enforce, implement and fortify Article 239AA and its defining norms. 389. The above analysis would indicate that while Part VIII brings together a common grouping of all Union territories, the Constitution evidently did not intend to use the same brush to paint the details of their position, the institutions G of governance (legislative or executive), the nature of democratic participation or the extent of accountability of those entrusted with governance to their elected representatives…” (emphasis supplied) H 516 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 16. Thus, it is evident from the 2018 Constitution Bench that the constitutional status of NCTD is not similar to other Union Territories, which are covered under Part VIII of the Constitution. 17. The of the majority in the 2018 Constitution Bench decision underscores the importance of interpreting the Constitution to B further democratic ideals. It was held: “284.1. While interpreting the provisions of the Constitution, the safe and most sound approach for the constitutional courts to adopt is to read the words of the Constitution in the light of the spirit of the Constitution so that the quintessential democratic nature C of our Constitution and the paradigm of representative participation by way of citizenry engagement are not annihilated. The courts must adopt such an interpretation which glorifies the democratic spirit of the Constitution.” (emphasis supplied) D Therefore, in adjudicating the present dispute, it becomes imperative to adopt an interpretation which upholds the spirit of the unique constitutional democratic mandate provided to the Government of NCTD by the inclusion of Article 239AA.