M/S. IFCI LIMITED v. SUTANU SINHA & ORS. 285 [SANJAY KISHAN KAUL, J.] d. All repayment obligations under the DSA are that of IVRCL Limited and not of ICTL/Corporate Debtor. e. The notes to the balance sheets of ICTL/Corporate Debtor also clarify that the repayment obligations are that of IVRCL Limited and not ICTL/Corporate Debtor. f. The CDs were mandatorily convertible to equity in December, 2017, and only corporate actions for the conversion was pending.” 6. It will be noticed from the aforesaid that the fundamental principal for rejecting the debt claim was that in view of the appellant having invested the amount as per the CCDs, the same was to be treated as equity. The CCDs had been approved as equity under the fi nancial package for the Concession Agreement dated 25.03.2010 and were towards the part of equity of the project cost approved by the NHAI having a debt equity ratio. There was never any re-categorization of CCDs from equity to debt. The lenders’ consortium had also approved the term of CCDs as equity. The endeavour of the appellant to challenge the position of the Resolution Professional vide IA No.1465/2022 did not succeed in terms of an dated 14.03.2023, the said relied upon the of this Court in Narendra Kumar Maheshwari v. Union of India & Ors.2 It would be useful to extract that part of the which has also been extracted in the impugned of National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) as under: “A Compulsory Convertible Debenture does not postulate any repayment of the principle. The question of security becomes relevant for the purpose of payment of interest on these debentures and the payment of principle only in the unlikely event of winding up. Therefore, it does not constitute a ‘debenture’ in its classic sense. Even a debenture, which is only convertible at option has been regarded as a ‘hybrid’ debenture. Any instrument which is compulsorily convertible into shares is regarded as an “equity” and not a loan or debt.” (emphasis supplied) 2 (1990) Suppl. SCC 440 286 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 7. We may note that the aforesaid of the National Company Law Tribunal was further assailed before the NCLAT which dismissed the appeal as per the impugned dated 05.06.2023. In the meantime, the Committee of Creditors (CoC) granted its approval on 08.03.2023 which was followed by the Adjudicating Authority accepting the resolution plan on 01.05.2023. This has not been specifi cally assailed by the appellant. 8. The very substratum of the submissions of the learned counsel for the appellant is that the appellant has been left high and dry. If its investment is to be treated as equity, under the waterfall principle nothing will come its way. Thus, the other creditors benefi t but not the appellant. It is learned senior counsel’s say that even after the relevant date when the CCDs matured, it was really treated as a debt on account of the fi nancial diffi culty of ICTL. 9. He submits that the principle issue is whether the CCDs along with the other documents can be said to be really a debt and not an equity despite the wording of the CCDs which must be read along with the other documents and communications inter se the parties.