11. The Fifth Schedule contains provisions for the administration and control of Scheduled Areas and Scheduled Tribes. Paragraph 3 of the Fifth Schedule, inter alia, provides that the Governor of each State having Scheduled Areas shall annually or whenever so required by the President make a report to the President regarding the administration of the Scheduled Areas in the State and the executive power of the Union shall extend to the giving of directions to the State as to the administration of the said areas. Paragraph 5 of the Fifth Schedule is in the following terms : “5. Law applicable to Scheduled Areas.—(1) Notwithstanding anything in this Constitution, the Governor may by public notifi cation direct that any particular Act of Parliament or of the Legislature of the State shall not apply to a Scheduled Area or any part thereof in the State or shall apply to a Scheduled Area or any part thereof in the State subject to such exceptions and modifi cations as he may specify in the notifi cation and any direction given under this sub-paragraph may be given so as to have retrospective eff ect. 772 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 12 S.C.R. (2) The Governor may make regulations for the peace and good government of any area in a State which is for the time being a Scheduled Area. In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such regulations may— (a) prohibit or restrict the transfer of land by or among members of the Scheduled Tribes in such area; (b) regulate the allotment of land to members of the Scheduled Tribes in such area; (c) regulate the carrying on of business as money-lender by persons who lend money to members of the Scheduled Tribes in such area. (3) In making any such regulation as is referred to in sub-paragraph (2) of this paragraph, the Governor may repeal or amend any Act of Parliament or of the Legislature of the State or any existing law which is for the time being applicable to the area in question. (4) All regulations made under this paragraph shall be submitted forthwith to the President and, until assented to by him, shall have no eff ect. (5) No regulation shall be made under this paragraph unless the Governor making the regulation has, in the case where there is a Tribes Advisory Council for the State, consulted such Council.” 12. Paragraph 5 of the Fifth Schedule commences with a non obstante provision. It empowers the Governor to direct that any Act of Parliament or of the Legislature of the State shall not apply to a Scheduled Area or a part of it in the State. The second component of clause (1) of Paragraph 5 empowers the Governor to direct that an Act of Parliament or of the State Legislature shall apply to a Scheduled Area or any part in the State subject to such exceptions and modifi cations as he may specify in the notifi cation. 13. The High Court in the present case has observed that the appellant did not produce any notifi cation indicating that the statutes in question would not apply to the Scheduled Areas in the State of Madhya Pradesh or that their provisions would apply with exceptions and modifi cations disabling SOUTH EASTERN COALFIELDS LTD. v. STATE OF 773 MADHYA PRADESH & ORS.