58. While deciding the challenge to the FIR, the High Court – E unwittingly, we presume – did not bear in mind the note of caution in Bhajan Lal (supra) to the effect that the power of quashing a criminal proceeding should be exercised very sparingly and with circumspection and that too in the rarest of rare cases; further that, the court will not be justified in embarking upon an enquiry as to the reliability or genuineness F or otherwise of the allegations made in the FIR or the complaint; and also that, the extraordinary or inherent powers do not confer an arbitrary jurisdiction on the court to act according to its whim or caprice. 59. It seems that such note of caution did not have the desired effect in all cases resulting in this Court, in its subsequent decisions, reemphasizing the need for the high courts to bear in mind the settled G principle of law that whenever its powers are invoked either under Article 226 of the Constitution or section 482, Cr. P.C. for quashing a first information report/complaint, the courts would not be justified in embarking upon an enquiry as to the probability, reliability or genuineness of the allegations made therein (emphasis ours). We may, in this regard, H 158 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A profitably refer to the decision of this Court while dealing with a case under the P.C. Act in State of Maharashtra Vs. Ishwar Piraji Kalpatri9. 60. Very strong reliance has been placed by Mr. Sibal on the decision in Tapan Kumar Singh (supra). There, this Court ruled that: “20. *** The information given disclosing the commission of a B cognizable offence only sets in motion the investigative machinery, with a view to collect all necessary evidence, and thereafter to take action in accordance with law. The true test is whether the information furnished provides a reason to suspect the commission of an offence, which the police officer concerned is empowered C under Section 156 of the Code to investigate. If it does, he has no option but to record the information and proceed to investigate the case either himself or depute any other competent officer to conduct the investigation. The question as to whether the report is true, whether it discloses full details regarding the manner of occurrence, whether the accused is named, and whether there is D sufficient evidence to support the allegations are all matters which are alien to the consideration of the question whether the report discloses the commission of a cognizable offence. Even if the information does not give full details regarding these matters, the investigating officer is not absolved of his duty to investigate the E case and discover the true facts, if he can.” 61. Thus, it being the settled principle of law that when an investigation is yet to start, there should be no scrutiny to what extent the allegations in a first information report are probable, reliable or genuine and also that a first information report can be registered merely on suspicion, the High Court ought to have realized that the FIR which, F according to it, was based on “probabilities” ought not to have been interdicted.