Further, such matters being commercial in nature keeping these matters pending for long, frustrates the very object of IBC. [Para 25][609-E-G] 1.2 The intervenors have vehemently contended that after D 01.03.2021, once the NCLT has admitted the petition and had issued restraint , section 14 of IBC had come into play; the transactions made in the accounts of the CD would be unlawful and illegal as such payment of the settlement amount from the funds of the CD transferred to the account of the suspended E Director after 01.03.2021 ought to be rejected and no discretion should be exercised permitting withdrawal of the proceedings. Even the NCLT was not satisfied with the submission of the IRP and has not approved the same. Secondly, even if there was any transaction from the account of the CD, the same may at best be held to be a wrongful transaction and in any other proceedings F where CIRP is initiated the amount so transferred could be recovered under section 66 of IBC by the IRP or the RP subject to establishing that the said transactions would be hit by the said provision. [Para 26][609-G-H; 610-A-C] 1.3 Other creditors would have their own right to avail such G legal remedies as may be available to them under law with respect to their claims. The rights of the creditors for their respective claims do not get whittled down or adversely affected if the settlement with the OC in the instant case is accepted and the proceedings allowed to be withdrawn. [Para 27][610-D] H 598 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 4 S.C.R. A 1.4 Any amount spent by the IRP legally admissible to him could always be recovered in the same proceedings and the NCLT or the Adjudicating Authority would be well within its power to get the same cleared under Clause 7 of Regulation 30A of IBBI Regulations. [Para 28] B 1.5 The NCLT committed an error in holding that the Regulation 30A would have no binding effect. This would amount to defeating the very purpose of substituting Regulation 30A in IBBI Regulations on 25.07.2019 after the of Swiss Ribbons’s case which was dated 25.01.2019. Section 12A of IBC permits the withdrawal of applications admitted under sections C 7, 9, and 10 of IBC. The withdrawal of such an application is with the approval of 90 percent voting of the CoC. Section 12A did not provide particularly for a situation wherein the CoC has not been constituted but, the Court held that Section 12A does not debar entertaining applications for withdrawal of CIRP even prior D to the Constitution of CoC. Therefore, the application u/s 12 A for withdrawal cannot be said to be kept pending for the constitution of the CoC, even where such an application was filed before the constitution of the CoC. The substituted Regulation 30A of IBC as it stands today clearly provided for withdrawal applications being entertained before the constitution of CoC. It E does not in any way conflicts or is in violation of section 12A of IBC.