The PW-18 Dr. A.K. Shukla who carried out the post-mortem of the deceased on 24.07.2003 had also not given any opinion on the cause of death. He had stated in the Post-mortem report (Ex. P/13) that the cause of death could be decided only after the Chemical examination of the preserved parts was received. The Chemical examination report of the Senior Scientifi c Offi cer, FSL Raipur (Ex. P/14) stated that the Viscera of the deceased contained Organophosphorous insecticide and Quinolphos. After the receipt of the said report of the Chemical examiner, the investigating offi cer had failed to obtain any opinion either from the doctor who carried out the post-mortem or from any other doctor about the actual cause of death of the deceased. There is nothing on record to suggest about the eff ect of mixture of liquor with Organophosphorous insecticide and Quinolphos, the substances found contained in the Viscera of the deceased. Under the circumstances, the Court is of the opinion that the prosecution had failed to conclusively prove that the substances found in the Viscera of the deceased were poisonous and the fi nal cause of death of the deceased was due to the administration of poison to the deceased. Though it may be a matter of common knowledge that the Organophosphorous insecticides and Quinolphos are considered to be poisonous substances, nonetheless the Court would be loathe in imputing personal knowledge and conclude that such poisonous substances found in the Viscera of the deceased was the cause of death of the deceased, more so when the said opinion of Chemical analyzer was received after more than one year of sending the Viscera of the deceased to the FSL, Raipur. In absence of fi nal opinion obtained from any medical expert, on the report of Chemical analyzer as to the cause of death, it could not be said that prosecution had proved beyond reasonable doubt that the cause of death of the deceased was due to administration of poison. 25. If the versions of the PW-2 Ganeshi Bai and Others, who were present at the house of the deceased in the morning hours on 23.07.2003 are believed, it may be presumed that the deceased Bisahu Singh had told them 228 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. that the appellant Hari Prasad had made him to drink two glasses of liquor and in the third glass he had mixed some jadi-buti i.e. herb to subside the eff ect of liquor, however the prosecution had failed to bring on record as to which jadi-buti was mixed in the liquor and had failed to show whether the said jadi-buti or herb was poisonous. Of course, since the investigation had started after one year of the alleged incident, there was no possibility of any such jadi-buti or substance being found from the house of the accused. A faint attempt was made by the prosecution by examining PW-12 Assistant Sub Inspector, Rama Pratap Singh who had stated that an information was sought from CIMS, Bilaspur through the memorandum (Ex.