Such a procedure requiring the claimant to issue an undated receipt (acknowledging receipt of a sum smaller than his claim) in full and final settlement, as a condition for releasing an admitted lesser amount, is unfair, irregular and illegal and requires to be deprecated. H 818 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A 50. Let us consider what a civil court would have done in a case where the defendant puts forth the defence of accord and satisfaction on the basis of a full and final discharge voucher issued by the plaintiff, and the plaintiff alleges that it was obtained by fraud/coercion/undue influence and therefore not valid. It would consider the evidence as to whether there was any fraud, coercion B or undue influence. If it found that there was none, it will accept the voucher as being in discharge of the contract and reject the claim without examining the claim on merits. On the other hand, if it found that the discharge voucher had been obtained by fraud/ undue influence/coercion, it will ignore the same, examine whether C the plaintiff had made out the claim on merits and decide the matter accordingly. The position will be the same even when there is a provision for arbitration.” 15. Before we proceed to finally rule on the issues which have been raised, we must notice the rationale of the High Court in the D impugned . We deem it appropriate to set down the following reasoning in this regard. After referring to the clauses which we have already extracted viz., clauses 65 and 65A, we find the following: “The contract terms and conditions require submission of the final bill within three months of physical completion of the works to the E satisfaction of the Engineer-in-Charge. There is no dispute that the final bill was presented within the time prescribed. Clauses 65 and 65-A, though set a boundary on the Contractor to submit its bill, but does not speak of the time within which the final bill is to be discharged by the employer. Admittedly, when the dispute was referred to Arbitration, the Contractor made further claims before F the arbitrator which were adjudicated in arbitral proceedings after hearing the employer and the claims were by and large allowed. If the final bill was presented on 13.2.2002, and payment of the same was made belatedly on 25.11.2003 to the pecuniary disadvantage of the Contractor, then it would appear not to lie in G the mouth of the Engineer-in-Charge/employer to invoke an exclusionary clause as is found embedded in Clause 65-A. If such a clause were to operate, then it would even take away the Arbitrator’s discretion and jurisdiction to award interest pendente lite and future interest etc. which the law permits and such a claim would also constitute a valid claim which can be awarded. H In any case, such a clause I am inclined to think would be opposed UNION OF INDIA & ORS. v. M/S. BHARAT ENTERPRISE 819 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]