The defence could be said to have admitted the presence of PW Asgar Shaikh. When the aforesaid part of the cross- examination of PW1 Asgar Shaikh was brought to the notice of the defence counsel, he submitted that a suggestion put by defence counsel to a witness in his cross-examination has no evidentiary value and even C if the same is incriminating in any manner would not bind the accused as the defence counsel has no implied authority to admit the guilt of the facts incriminating the accused. 34. According to the learned counsel such suggestions could be a part of the defence strategy to impeach the credibility of the witness. D The proof of guilt required of the prosecution does not depend on the satisfaction made to a witness. 35. In Tarun Bora alias Alok Hazarika v. State of Assam reported in 2002 Cri. LJ 4076, a three Judge Bench of this Court was dealing with an appeal against the passed by the Designated Court, E Guwahati, in TADA Sessions case wherein the appellant was convicted under Section 365 of the IPC read with Section 3(1) and 3(5) of the Terrorists and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act, 1987. 36. In the aforesaid case, this Court, while considering the evidence on record took note of a suggestion which was put to one of the witnesses F and considering the reply given by the witness to the suggestion put by the accused, arrived at the conclusion that the presence of the accused was admitted. We quote with profit the following observations made by this Court in paragraphs 15, 16 and 17 resply as under: “15. The witness further stated that during the assault, the G assailant accused him of giving information to the army about the United Liberation Front of Assam (ULFA). He further stated that on the third night he was carried away blind-folded on a bicycle to a different place and when his eyes were unfolded, he could see his younger brother-Kumud Kakati H 872 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A (P.W.-2) and his wife Smt. Prema Kakati (P.W.-3). The place was Duliapather, which is about 6-7 kms. away from his village Sakrahi. The witness identified the appellant-Tarun Bora and stated that it is he who took him in an ambassador car from the residence of Nandeswar Bora on the date of the incident. B 16. In cross-examination the witness stated as under: “Accused-Tarun Bora did not blind my eyes nor he assaulted me.” 17. This part of cross-examination is suggestive of the presence of accused-Tarun Bora in the whole episode. This will clearly C suggest the presence of the accused-Tarun Bora as admitted. The only denial is the accused did not participate in blind- folding the eyes of the witness nor assaulted him.” 37. In Rakesh Kumar alias Babli v. State of Haryana reported in (1987) 2 SCC 34, this Court was dealing with an appeal against the of the High Court affirming the of the Sessions Judge D whereby the appellant and three other persons were convicted under Section 302 read with Section 34 of the IPC.