16. As already found the nature of exercise of power under Section F 11 (6) is ‘judicial’ and therefore, it was thought only fit to permit to exercise such power only on the original instrument or else, on its certified copy, to be understood with reference to Section 63 (1) read with Section 74 and 76 of the Evidence Act. When once the intention behind paragraph 2(a) of the scheme is understood in that manner with reference to the G provisions under Section 63 (1), 74, 76 and 79 of the Evidence Act, the expression ‘certified copy’ employed in paragraph 2(a) of the scheme framed under Section 11(10) of the Act cannot be interpreted to mean any other kind of copies provided under Section 63 of the Evidence Act other than under Section 63 (1) of the Evidence Act. H 384 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A 17. Learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, after explaining as to how the expression ‘certified copy’ must be understood, held that the Court exercising the power under Section 11 (6) has to exercise the power under Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act when the original is produced before the Court. In other words, according to me, it is rightfully held that when the original document carrying the arbitration clause is B produced and if it is found that it is unstamped or insufficiently stamped, the Court acting under Section 11 is duty bound to act under Section 33 of the Indian Stamp Act as held in the draft . 18. I am also concurring with the view that what is permissible to be produced as secondary evidence i.e., other than the original document C in terms of Section 2(a) of the scheme framed under Section 11(10) of the Act, is nothing but certified copy as mentioned earlier. But such a certified copy, would not be available to be proceeded with under Section 33 of the Stamp Act if it is unstamped or insufficiently stamped. In such circumstances, such certified copy shall not be acted upon. D 19. In the contextual situation, to understand the difference between ‘certified copy’ and ‘a copy certified to be true copy’, it is only appropriate to refer to Rule 1 of VIII of the Supreme Court Rules, 2013, framed invoking the power conferred by Article 145 of the Constitution of India. Rule 1 of VIII reads thus: - E “1. The officers of the Court shall not receive any pleading, petition, affidavit or other document, except original exhibits and certified copies of public documents, unless it is fairly and legibly written, type-written or lithographed in double- line spacing, on one side of standard petition paper, demy- F foolscap size, or of the size of 29.7 cm x 21 cm, or paper which is ordinarily used in the High Courts for the purpose. Copies filed for the use of the Courts shall be neat and legible, and shall be certified to be true copies by the advocate-on- record, or by the party in person, as the case may be.” G (Emphasis added) 20.