I consider it my privilege to propose the name of Dr. Gopinath Raveendran, the present incumbent Vice Chancellor to be re-appointed as Vice Chancellor of Kannur University for a second continuous term beginning from 24.11.2021. Thank you, Sincerely, Dr. R. Bindu Pro-Chancellor, Kannur University Minister for Higher Education Sri Arif Mohammed Khan His Excellency, The Governor of Kerala Chancellor, Kannur University.” 8. Ultimately the fi nal notifi cation came to be issued dated 23.11.2021 by of the Governor/Chancellor reappointing the respondent No. 4 herein as Vice-Chancellor of the Kannur University for a period of four years w.e.f. 24.11.2021. The Notifi cation dated 23.01.2021 reads thus: “GOVERNMENT’S SECRETARIAT KERALA RAJ BHAVAN NOTIFICATION No.GS3.1283/2021(3) Dated: Thiruvananthapuram 23rd November, 2021 In exercise of the powers conferred under the Kannur University Act, 1996 and the UGC Regulations, 2018, the Chancellor of the University is pleased to re-appoint Dr. Gopinath Ravindran (Professor, Department of History, Jamia Millia Islamia, New Delhi) as the Vice Chancellor of the Kannur University, for a period of four years, with eff ect from 24th November, 2021. 392 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. By of the Government/Chancellor (Dr. Davendra Kumar Dhodawat, IAS) Principal Secretary to Government/Chancellor.” 9. The above referred Notifi cation dated 23.11.2021 was made the subject matter of challenge by the appellants herein before a learned Single Judge of the High Court. The challenge to the notifi cation referred to above, reappointing the respondent No. 4 as the Vice-Chancellor for a further term of four years was essentially on two grounds. First, in view of Section 10(9) of the Act 1996, no person who is more than sixty years of age can be appointed as Vice-Chancellor. In other words, the outer age limit for being appointed as the Vice-Chancellor of the University being sixty years, the respondent No. 4 could not have been reappointed as the Vice-Chancellor having crossed the age of sixty years. Secondly, even for the purpose of reappointment, the entire procedure necessary for being appointed as the Vice-Chancellor for the fi rst time should have been undertaken. In other words, the procedure prescribed in Section 10 of the Act 1996 ought to have been followed even at the time of reappointment. B. RELEVANT OBSERVATIONS MADE BY THE LD. SINGLE JUDGE 10. As noted above, the challenge before the learned Single Judge failed. The writ petition came to be dismissed by the learned Single Judge holding as under: “6. From the perusal of the provisions of Section 10, it is evident that Vice-Chancellor can be appointed by Chancellor on the recommendation of the committee appointed by him which consists of three members with one elected by Senate, another by Chairman of the University Grants Commission and third by the Chancellor. The chancellor shall appoint one of the members of the committee to his convenience and committee shall make its recommendation within a period of three months of appointment. University is not precluded to unanimously recommend the name of only one person and in that process, Chancellor shall appoint that person to be Vice- Chancellor, but, it may submit a panel of three names within the period and the Vice- DR. PREMACHANDRAN KEEZHOTH & ANR.