25. Regulation 7.3 of the UGC Regulations deals with Vice-Chancellors and reads as follows: “7.3. VICE CHANCELLOR: A person possessing the highest level of competence, integrity, morals and institutional commitment is to be appointed as Vice-Chancellor. The person to be appointed as a Vice-Chancellor should be a distinguished academician, with a minimum of ten years’ of experience as Professor in a University or ten years’ of experience in a reputed research and / or academic administrative organisation with proof of having demonstrated academic leadership. ii. The selection for the post of Vice-Chancellor should be through proper identifi cation by a Panel of 3-5 persons by a Search-cum- Selection-Committee, through a public notifi cation or nomination or a talent search process or a combination thereof. The members of such Search-cum-Selection Committee shall be persons’ of eminence in the sphere of higher education and shall not be connected in any manner with the University concerned or its colleges. While preparing the panel, the Search cum-Selection Committee shall give proper weightage to the academic excellence, exposure to the higher education system in the country and abroad, and adequate experience in academic and administrative governance, to be given in writing along with the panel to be submitted to the Visitor/Chancellor. One member of the Search cum Selection Committee shall be nominated by the Chairman, University Grants Commission, for selection of Vice Chancellors of State, Private and Deemed to be Universities. 412 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. iii. The Visitor/Chancellor shall appoint the Vice Chancellor out of the Panel of names recommended by the Search-cum-Selection Committee. iv. The term of offi ce of the Vice-Chancellor shall form part of the service period of the incumbent making him/her eligible for all service related benefi ts.” (Emphasis supplied) 26. Few salient features of the Regulation 7.3 of the UGC Regulations referred to above are thus: (a) The selection of the Vice-Chancellor should be through proper identifi cation by a panel of 3-5 persons by constituting a Search- cum-Selection Committee through a public notification or nomination or a talent search process or a combination of all the four. (b) The members of the Search-cum-Selection Committee should be persons of eminence in the fi eld of higher education and they shall not be connected in any manner with the university concerned or its colleges. (c) The Selection Committee for the purpose of preparing the panel shall give proper weightage to the academic excellence, exposure to the higher education system in the country and abroad and adequate experience in academic and administrative governance. The panel shall place its recommendation before the Chancellor. (d) One member of the Selection Committee would be nominated by the Chairman, UGC. J. WRIT OF QUO WARRANTO 27. Quo warranto is a judicial remedy against an intruder or usurper of an independent substantive public offi ce or franchise or liberty. The usurper is asked ‘by what authority’ (quo warranto) he is in such offi ce, franchise, or liberty. A writ of quo warranto thus poses a question to the holder or occupier of a public offi ce, and that question is: “Where is your warrant of appointment by which you are holding this offi ce?” If the answer is not satisfactory, the usurper can be ousted by this writ.