Interpretation of Statutes – Words of a statute – Word “any” – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. B Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: Word “any” will have to be construed in its context, taking into consideration the scheme and the purpose of the enactment – What is the meaning which the legislature intended to give to a particular statutory provision has to be decided by the Court on a consideration of the context in which the word(s) appear(s) and in particular, the scheme and object C of the legislation. Interpretation of Statutes – Textual interpretation v/ contextual interpretation – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: An interpretation which makes the textual interpretation match the D contextual has to be preferred – No part of a statute and no word of a statute can be construed in isolation. Interpretation of Statutes – Construction having regard to legislative intent – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: A statute E must be construed having regard to the legislative intent – It has to be meaningful – A construction which leads to manifest absurdity must not be preferred to a construction which would fulfil the object and purport of the legislative intent. Interpretation of Statutes – Modern approach of interpretation F – Is pragmatic, and not pedantic – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: An interpretation which advances the purpose of the Act and which ensures its smooth and harmonious working must be chosen and the other which leads to absurdity, or confusion, or friction, or contradiction and conflict between its various provisions, or G undermines, or tends to defeat or destroy the basic scheme and purpose of the enactment must be eschewed. Interpretation of Statutes – Purposive Interpretation – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: An interpretation which, in effect, H 4 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A nullifies the purpose for which a power is to be exercised, would be opposed to the principle of purposive interpretation – Such an interpretation rather than advancing the object of the enactment, would defeat the same. Interpretation of Statutes – Purposive Interpretation in respect B of intention of Legislature in governing the relation between Central Government and RBI – Held [per B.R. Gavai, J. (for himself and for S. Abdul Nazeer, A.S. Bopanna, and V. Ramasubramanian, JJ. )]: When the legislature itself has provided that the Central Government would take a decision after considering the recommendation of the Central Board of the RBI, which has been assigned a primary role in matters C with regard to monetary policy and management and regulation of currency, the legislature could not have intended to give a restricted power under sub-section (2) of s.26 of the RBI Act – Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934 – s.26.