and the applicant is apprehending his arrest, since the earlier operating in his favour, has been cancelled. Looking to the star variations in the narration of the prosecutrix, without judging it’s truthfulness, at this stage, these variations itself persuade me to protect the applicant by way of an interim . G Subject to his co- operation in the investigation and the material that would come up before the Investigating Officer, further course of action as to whether his custodial interrogation is necessary, would be ascertained. Hence, the following : H 1122 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A :: (a) In the event of arrest in connection with C.R.No.915 of 2022 registered with MIDC Police Station, applicant-Jignesh Jashwantrai Mehta shall be released on bail on furnishing P.R. Bond to the extent of Rs.25,000/- with one or two sureties in the B like amount. (b) The applicant shall report to the concerned police station from 27th to 30th September, 2022 between 2.00 p.m. to, 5.00 p.m. (c) The applicant shall not directly or indirectly make any inducement, threat or promise to any person acquainted with the C facts of the case so as to dissuade him from disclosing the facts to Court or any Police Officer and shall not tamper with evidence. List the application on 07/10/2022.” 6.1. On coming to know of the passing of the aforesaid , the appellant/prosecutrix filed an application for intervention11 before the D High Court. By the second impugned dated 7th October 2022, the Bail application moved by the respondent No.2/accused was allowed with the following :- “2. Considering the improvement in the version of the prosecutrix and that too coming after a period of more than one month, the E applicant was protected by interim he was directed to report to the Investigating Officer. Accordingly, he has reported to the Investigating Officer, his medical is conducted and the mobile phone is seized. 3. In the wake of the above, since the applicant has rendered his F co- operation in the investigation, dated 21/09/2022 is made absolute.” 7. Aggrieved by the aforesaid two s, the appellant/prosecutrix has preferred the present appeals wherein notice was issued on 18th November, 2022. Appearance was entered on behalf of the respondent G No. 1 – State and the respondent No. 2/accused before the next date of hearing and time was granted to file counter affidavits. Counter affidavits have been filed by the counsel for the respondent No. 1/State and the respondent No. 2/accused. 11 Intervention Application No.17150 of 2022 in Anticipatory Bail Application H No.2594 of 2022 dated 06.10.2022 MS. X v. THE STATE OF MAHARASHTRA AND ANOTHER 1123 [HIMA KOHLI, J.] ARGUMENTS ADVANCED BY THE LEARNED A COUNSEL FOR THE PARTIES: A. COUNSEL FOR THE APPELLANT/PROSECUTRIX 8. Mr. R. Basant, learned Senior Counsel appearing on behalf of the appellant/ prosecutrix has urged that while granting anticipatory bail, B the High Court has failed to take notice of the nature and gravity of the allegations levelled against the respondent No.2/accused; that while making the observation in the first impugned that “star variations in the narration of the prosecutrix, …….itself persuade me to protect the applicant by way of an interim ”, the High Court failed to appreciate that the allegations recorded in the FIR itself were sufficient C to demonstrate commission of offence under Section 376 IPC; that the High Court ignored the observations made by the learned Additional Sessions Judge, Borivalli in the dated 17th September, 2022, while rejecting the anticipatory bail application of the respondent No.2/accused to the effect that even if the contents in the supplementary statements D are overlooked, the averments made in the FIR prima facie make out a case under Section 376 IPC; that despite an intervention application12 filed by the appellant/prosecutrix in the application for anticipatory bail13 filed by the respondent No.