Such a contention is wholly untenable having regard to the overall scheme of the Regulations. No reasons were assigned by the Liquidator while cancelling the auction process. The cancelling the auction being devoid of any reasons does not indicate application of mind by the Liquidator. 7.4. Appellant has asserted that the Liquidator i.e. Respondent No.2 had accepted the decision of the Tribunal by not fi ling any appeal against the dated 12.8.2021. Therefore, it is not open to the Liquidator to contest the claim of the appellant. 8. As noticed above, one Mr. Harish Bagla has fi led an application seeking intervention which we have allowed. 9. In addition to narrating the facts and commenting thereupon, the intervenor has averred that the principal person in control of the appellant is one Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia who is a director and principal shareholder of the appellant. Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia was also one of the promoter directors and principal shareholders of the corporate debtor. Sale of any asset of the corporate debtor could not have been conducted in favour of a related party of the corporate debtor in view of the specifi c bar under Section 29A of the Code. As a matter of fact, Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia is also the maternal uncle of the intervenor who is the ex-managing director of the corporate debtor. Mr. Vijay Kumar Ghidia therefore comes within the meaning of ‘related party’ as defi ned under Sections 5(24) and 5(24A) of the Code. Therefore, the auction sale in favour of the appellant is bad in law and cannot be sustained. 9.1. This aspect was also brought to the notice of Respondent No.2 i.e. the Liquidator. 9.2. It is stated that the intervenor had fi led an appeal before the Appellate Tribunal being Company Appeal (AD) (Insolvency) No.789 of 2021. In the said appeal, an interim was passed on 27.09.2021 directing the parties to maintain status quo. Before the appeal of the intervenor could be heard, the Appellate Tribunal had passed the dated 30.11.2021 allowing the appeal of Respondent No.1 by setting aside the of the EVA AGRO FEEDS PRIVATE LIMITED v. PUNJAB NATIONAL 875 BANK AND ANR. [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] Tribunal dated 12.08.2021. Therefore, when the appeal of the intervenor came up for hearing before the Appellate Tribunal, the same was disposed of vide dated 09.12.2021 as having been rendered infructuous. When the intervenor came to know that the appellant has fi led the present appeal, it had fi led the intervention application. 10. We have heard Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel for the appellant; Mr. Rajesh Kumar Gautam, learned counsel for Respondent No.1; Mr. Krishnaraj Thakker, learned counsel for Respondent No.2; and Mr. Siddharth Bhatnagar, learned senior counsel for the intervenor - Mr. Harish Bagla. 11. Mr. Neeraj Kishan Kaul, learned senior counsel for the appellant at the outset submits that Appellate Tribunal fell in complete error in setting aside the of the Tribunal and restoring the of the Liquidator. Adverting to the of the Liquidator cancelling the auction sale, he submits that the same is devoid of any reasons.