Where there is transfer E of property by the dealer to the customer while acting under a warranty and the dealer being paid by the manufacturer, when viewed in the aforesaid prism, the credit note shown in the account of the dealer is a valuable consideration pursuant to the sale that has taken place of a spare part from his stock. The aforesaid transaction may be juxtaposed F with the transaction of sale which the customer who would buy a spare part de hors a warranty. In such an event, the dealer would have collected the sales tax along with the price of the spare part and would have remitted the same to the revenue. Merely because the dealer is acting as an intermediary or on behalf of the manufacturer pursuant to a warranty and receives a recompense in the form of a credit note, the G same cannot escape liability of tax under the Sales Tax Acts under consideration. 49. The assessees herein have placed reliance on the decision of Constitution Bench of this Court Devi Dass Gopal Krishnan. This Court in the said case considered amendments to various sections of the Punjab H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1337 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] General Sales Tax Act, 1948 and interpreted the expression ‘other A valuable consideration’, included in section 2(ff) defining purchase and section 2(h), defining sale, to have a wider connotation than cash and deferred payment. In para 25 of its decision, the court reasoned that the said expression takes colour from the preceding expression “cash or deferred payment.” It was reiterated that ‘other valuable consideration’ B has to be monetary in nature. The nature of consideration in the form of a credit note is also monetary in nature. Thus, the definition of price includes consideration paid by way of credit note. Therefore, payment of consideration through the mode of credit note signifies ‘other monetary payment in the nature of a valuable consideration.’ This decision is hence of no assistance to the assessees in the present case. C 50. Our attention was also drawn to this Court’s decision in CIT vs. Motors and General Stores (P) Ltd., (1967) 3 SCR 876. This Court, in that case, adjudicated the exigibility of the profits emanating from the sale of assets by way of transfer of 5% tax-free cumulative preference shares under the Income Tax Act. This Court noted that the D transaction was one of exchange and the value of shares, as well as immovable properties, were recorded solely for the purpose of computing stamp duty. Due to the sheer variance of facts in the above case to the present cases, we find the above decision to be of no assistance. 51. We, however, clarify that the of this Court in Mohd. E Ekram Khan must be read in the context of a case where a dealer is utilising a spare part from his stock to replace a defective part under a warranty and receiving a recompense in the form of a credit note from the manufacturer.