The High Court was of the view that the obligation with regard to the demarcation of the property was not performed by either the deceased G. Venugopala Rao or his legal heirs (Defendants in the suit, including the Appellants herein) thereafter, while G the Plaintiff had established that she was always ready and willing to perform her part of contract by paying the balance sale consideration which is the primary requirement as per Section 16 (c) of the Act. It was held that these aspects were not considered by the Trial Court and there was no appreciation of evidence with reference to Section 16 (c) of the Act. H GADDIPATI DIVIJA & ANR. v. PATHURI SAMRAJYAM & 815 ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] 27. In Syed Dastagir vs T.R. Gopalakrishna Setty8, it was A held, “the language in Section 16 (c) does not require any specific phraseology but only that the plaintiff must aver that he has performed or has always been and is willing to perform his part of the contract. So, the compliance of “readiness and willingness” has to be in spirit and substance and not in letter and form.” B 28. In Aniglase Yohannan vs Ramlatha & Ors.9, this Court held:- “11. Lord Campbell in Cort v. Ambergate, Nottingham and Boston and Eastern Junction Rly. Co. [(1851) 117 ER 1229 : 17 QB 127] observed that in common sense the meaning of C such an averment of readiness and willingness must be that the non-completion of the contract was not the fault of the plaintiffs, and that they were disposed and able to complete it, had it not been renounced by the defendant. 12. The basic principle behind Section 16(c) read with D Explanation (ii) is that any person seeking benefit of the specific performance of contract must manifest that his conduct has been blemishless throughout entitling him to the specific relief. The provision imposes a personal bar. The Court is to grant relief on the basis of the conduct of the person E seeking relief. If the pleadings manifest that the conduct of the plaintiff entitles him to get the relief on perusal of the plaint he should not be denied the relief.” 29. In our view, the High Court has rightly held that the deceased G. Venugopala Rao or his legal heirs (Defendants in the suit, including the Appellants herein) failed to perform their obligation with regard to F the demarcation of the property, while the Plaintiff had established that she was always ready and willing to perform her part of contract by paying the balance sale consideration which is the primary requirement as per Section 16 (c) of the Act. 30. In light of the aforementioned Aniglase Yohannan G (supra), and as held by the High Court, the primary requirement to seek relief under Section 16 (c) of the Act is that the Plaintiff was ever ready and willing to perform his part of the contract. It is clear from the facts 8 (1999) 6 SCC 337 9 (2005) 7 SCC 534 H 816 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R.