The Tenth Schedule, as it currently stands, specifies five defences which a member may take recourse to, to shield themselves from the consequences of the anti-defection law: G a. A member will not be disqualified under Paragraph 2(1)(b) if they have obtained the prior permission of their political party to vote or abstain from voting contrary to the directions issued by such political party;55 54 SLP(C) No. 3997 of 2023 55 Paragraph 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution H 950 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 8 S.C.R. A b. A member is protected from being disqualified under Paragraph 2(1)(b) if the political party to which they belong has condoned their actions in voting or abstaining from voting contrary to the directions issued by such political party, within fifteen days from such voting or abstention;56 B c. In terms of Paragraph 4, a member will not be disqualified either under Paragraph 2(1)(a) or under Paragraph 2(1)(b) where their original political party merges with another political party and they claim that they and any other members of their original political party have become members of such other political party or of a new political C party formed by the merger.57 This defence is made out only if not less than two-thirds of the members of the legislature party concerned have agreed to the merger;58 d. In cases where the original political party of a member is found to have merged with another political party under D Paragraph 4(1)(a), members of the original political party are protected from being disqualified if they have not accepted such merger and have opted to function as a separate group;59 and e. Members who have been elected to the office of the E Speaker or the Deputy Speaker (or the Chairman or the Deputy Chairman as the case may be) in Parliament or in the Legislative Assemblies of States are exempted from disqualification under the Tenth Schedule if they voluntarily give up the membership of their political party by reason of their election to such office and do not re-join the political F party or become a member of another political party so long as they continue to hold such office. Further, they are not disqualified if they re-join the political party which they gave up membership of, after ceasing to hold office.60 162. Prior to 2003, a sixth defence under Paragraph 3 was available G to members against whom disqualification petitions were filed. Paragraph 56 Paragraph 2(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution 57 Paragraph 4(1)(a) of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution 58 Paragraph 4(2) of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution 59 Paragraph 4(1)(b) of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution H 60 Paragraph 5 of the Tenth Schedule to the Constitution SUBHASH DESAI v. PRINCIPAL SECRETARY, GOVERNOR OF 951 MAHARASHTRA [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI ] 3 stipulated that a member of the House would not be subject to A disqualification if there was a split in their original political party.