In the interest of the children whom they have brought into existence and who are innocent, every husband and wife should try to compose their diff erences. Even when any husband and wife are not in a position to reconcile their diff erences and are compelled to part, they should part in a way as will cause least possible mischief to the children. (emphasis supplied) 16. We have very little to say on facts, especially upon hearing the learned counsels at the Bar. They do speak for themselves. The marriage was solemnized in the year 2002. It fell into rough weather after the birth of their child. Disputes started between the parties from 2006 onwards. The appellant–Wife registered a complaint under Section 498A of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961. The respondent-Husband had questioned the character of the appellant-Wife. A plea was also taken in the counter affi davit fi led in the petition for divorce. Incidentally, it was contended that it was she who had fl ed the matrimonial home. The respondent-Husband also demanded a medical examination of the appellant–Wife, alleging she was living in adultery and had given birth to a 886 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. child during the period of non-cohabitation. The said request was nullifi ed by the of the High Court. 17. For a decade and half, the parties have been living separately. As fairly stated at the Bar, the marriage does not survive any longer, and the relationship was terminated otherwise except by a formal decree of divorce. The status quo continues, awaiting an approval from this Court. 18. The aforesaid facts would certainly make out a case for divorce and thus, the ratio laid down by a Constitution Bench of this Court in Shilpa Sailesh v. Varun Sreenivasan, 2023 (6) SCALE 402 would be applicable on all fours: “26. V. Bhagat v. D. Bhagat [(1994) 1 SCC 337], which was pronounced in 1993, 18 years after the decision in N.G. Dastane [(1975) 2 SCC 326], gives a life-like expansion to the term ‘cruelty’. This case was between a husband who was practicing as an Advocate, aged about 55 years, and the wife, who was the Vice President in a public sector undertaking, aged about 50 years, having two adult children - a doctor by profession and an MBA degree holder working abroad, respectively. Allegations of an adulterous course of life, lack of mental equilibrium and pathologically suspicious character were made against each other. This Court noticed that the divorce petition had remained pending for more than eight years, and in spite of the directions given by this Court, not much progress had been made. It was highlighted that cruelty contemplated under Section 13(1) (i-a) of the Hindu Marriage Act is both mental and physical, albeit a comprehensive defi nition of what constitutes cruelty would be most diffi cult. Much depends upon the knowledge and intention of the defending spouse, the nature of their conduct, the character and physical or mental weakness of the spouses, etc.