36. The constitutional emphasis on dignity is not without a reason. Ambedkar, and several of our constitution framers, meticulously sought to carve out of the remnants of a socially repressive, hierarchical, and unequal society a modern constitution, refl ecting the aspirations of a confi dent people, in a vibrant democracy. The society which our constitution created was to emerge out of darkness of caste and other forms of social prejudice and oppression, into the light of the rule of law, social justice, and egalitarianism. To Ambedkar and other constitution makers, political freedom (swaraj) meant precisely the freedom to make the self, to make choices with dignity, to break from historical suff ering and humiliation. The drafting history of the equality code (Articles 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18) bear poignant testimony to this aspect. 37. Dignity has both an internal and external aspect. In its internal context, dignity and privacy are intrinsically twined. In its external context, dignity is multidimensional: it is a right to be treated as a fellow human, with all attributes of a human personality, which is, the right and expectation 33 State Of Gujarat And Another v. Shri Ambica Mills Ltd 1974 (3) SCR 760 34 This formulation was followed in X v. The Principal Secretary (supra). In Navtej Johar (supra), Dipak Misra, J, said that “[t]his is the essence of dignity and we say, without any inhibition, that it is our constitutional duty to allow the individual to behave and conduct himself/herself as he/she desires and allow him/her to express himself/herself, of course, with the consent of the other. That is the right to choose without fear. It has to be ingrained as a necessary prerequisite that consent is the real fulcrum of any sexual relationship.”. 35 (2014) 5 SCR 119 145 0 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. to be accorded due respect, treated with dignity and equal worth. Denial of these, has a disproportionate impact on the individual: they are diminished in their own eyes, and the rest of the world, resulting in a loss of one’s self worth and moral worth. This is the vision of equality, social justice, welfare and dignity which our Constitution articulates. iii. Equality, non-discrimination and non-exclusion 38. The equality code - Articles 14, 15, 16, and 17 (and Articles 23 and 24), so referred to in various previous decisions of this Court - for instance as the constitution’s “identity” in M. Nagaraj v. Union of India (hereafter, “M. Nagaraj”)36 is not a “wooden” equality before law and equal protection of law. It contains specifi c injunctions prohibiting the state from discriminating on specifi cally forbidden grounds [such as caste, race, sex, place of birth, religion, or any of them, in Article 15; and caste, sex, religion, place of residence, descent, place of birth, or any of them, in Article 16]. The rooting of such explicit issues - commanding the state against discriminating on such specifi c heads, is therefore, as much a part of the equality code, as the principle of equality indorsed in Article 14.