8 and 11, which as such is not permissible. 4.4 It is further submitted by Ms. Makhija, learned Senior Advocate appearing on behalf of the appellant that in fact it is not a case of further investigation but it is a case of reinvestigation and therefore, for D reinvestigation the prior approval of the Magistrate is must. It is submitted that in the present case, the Secretary (Home) first took a decision and passed the to transfer the investigation to CBCID and thereafter, the IO only intimated the learned Magistrate about transfer of investigation, which cannot be said to be following due procedure as required by law, more particularly, Section 173(8) of the Cr.PC. E 4.5 It is further submitted that even on facts also, the High Court has materially erred in observing that the directing further investigation was passed with the concurrence of the concerned Magistrate. It is submitted that even learned counsel for respondent No. 8 was wrong in making the submission before the High Court that the F passed by the Secretary (Home) of further investigation was passed after taking leave of the Magistrate competent to do so. It is submitted that nothing is on record that any leave was sought and granted by the learned Magistrate. It is submitted that what is there on record is only the intimation to the learned Magistrate and nothing more than that. G 4.6 It is further submitted that the High Court has not properly appreciated and considered the fact that respondent Nos. 8 and 11 were chargesheeted pursuant to supplementary chargesheet dated 02.12.2016 of which the learned Magistrate took cognizance on 21.12.2016 and that thereafter, respondent No. 8 prayed for quashing of the entire criminal proceedings including the chargesheet and respondent No. 8 failed up to H 650 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A this Court and only thereafter, when the non-bailable warrant was issued, on his behalf an application was moved for transfer of investigation. It is submitted that once the chargesheet was filed and even the quashing petition came to be dismissed up to this Court, thereafter, it was not open for the accused or on his behalf to move an application for further investigation/reinvestigation. B 4.7 Making the above submissions, it is prayed to allow the present appeal and quash and set aside the passed by the Secretary (Home) transferring the investigation to CBCID. 5. While opposing the present appeal Shri Ardhendumauli Kumar C Prasad, learned AAG appearing on behalf of the State has vehemently submitted that having being satisfied that a case is made out for further investigation and to do the complete justice to the parties including the accused, no error has been committed by the Secretary (Home) in ing further investigation by CBCID. It is submitted that the passed by the Secretary (Home) being the head of the department was on D administrative side and thereafter, the concerned IO intimated to the learned Magistrate about transfer of investigation/further investigation which is the requirement under the law.