No doubt, on the facts of the present case, on some aspects of the charge, the proof may have been found wanting. However, since the law laid down by this Court is that unless punishment imposed is only co-relatable to any of those charges found not proved, the penalty cannot be set aside. In this case, the punishment can be sustained even if the charges held not proved are severed. [See State of Orissa vs. Bidyabhushan Mohapatra [1963] Supp. 1 SCR 648 and Deputy General Manager (Appellate Authority) and Others. vs. Ajai Kumar Srivastava, (2021) 2 SCC 612]. 40. Then the only question is does the penalty imposed shock the conscience of the Court? In the oral arguments as well as in the written submissions, the respondent contended that there was no charge of fi nancial misappropriation or of causing any fi nancial loss to the Bank. STATE BANK OF INDIA v. A.G.D. REDDY 673 [K. V. VISWANATHAN, J.] This submission was countered by the appellant by placing reliance on the of this Court in Disciplinary Authority-cum-Regional Manager and Others vs. Nikunja Bihari Patnaik, (1996) 9 SCC 69, particularly, the holding of the Court in para seven thereof to contend that the test is really not of loss having been resulted or profi t having been made. The test is whether the delinquent employee, has observed the prescribed norms of the Bank. The penalty imposed in this case is “reduction in basic pay to the lowest stage in Scale-I” as envisaged under Rule 49 (e) of the State Bank of India (Supervising Staff ) Service Rules and further, to treat the period spent by the delinquent offi cer under suspension from 18.08.1990 till the date of his reinstatement as suspension only. Since the charge of not conducting periodical inspection and the failure to complete the formalities for creating equitable mortgage with regard to M/s Saraswathi Fabricators are supported by evidence, we do not think that the penalty as imposed is disproportionate so as to shock the conscience of the Court. We maintain the penalty as imposed in the of the Appointing Authority dated 31.01.1995 and as confi rmed by the Appellate Authority. 41. For the reasons stated above, we have no hesitation in holding that both the learned Single Judge and the Division Bench were in error in allowing the writ petition and interfering with the fi ndings of the Enquiry Offi cer, the decision of the Disciplinary Authority, the of the Appointing Authority and the decision of the Appellate Authority. We, therefore, set aside the of the learned Single Judge and that of the Division Bench and dismiss the Writ Petition No. 29547 of 1997 fi led by the respondent. Accordingly, the Appeal is allowed, with no as to costs. Headnotes prepared by : Appeal allowed. Nidhi Jain