Since the appointment itself was not approved D it was not necessary for the Managing Committee of the school to get consent of the authority concerned for the termination of her services as a Principal.” (emphasis supplied) 21. In view of the clear statutory mandate under Section 16-FF(3) E of the Act, we are of the opinion that the High Court has committed an error in coming to the conclusion that the Respondent nos. 1 to 3 have acquired a vested right to be appointed. Re issue no. 2: Whether the Act, read with the Rules and Regulations made thereunder, contemplates ‘deemed F appointment’ if the approval of the DIOS is not given within a period of 15 days? 22. Respondents have relied on Regulation 1815 to argue that if the DIOS fails to grant his approval within 15 days of the proposal made by the Management, the proposed candidates shall be deemed to have G been appointed. Regulation 18, is as under: “(1) Within fifteen days of the receipt of the recommendation of the Selection Committee constituted under sub-section (1) 15 Regulations under the Intermediate Education Act, 1921, Chapter II, Regulation 18; H hereinafter ‘Regulation 18’. THE STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH & ORS. v. RACHNA HILLS 981 & ORS. [PAMIDIGHANTAM SRI NARASIMHA, J.] or (2) of Section 16-F, and in case of an institution referred A to in Section 16-FF, the approval of the authority specified therein, the Manager shall, on authorisation under resolution of the Committee of Management, issue an of appointment by Registered Post to the candidate in the form given in Appendix ‘B’ requiring the candidate to join duty B within ten days of the receipt of such , failing which the appointment of the candidate will be liable to cancellation. (2) In case of promotions and ad hoc appointments also a formal of promotion or appointment in the form as near as possible to the form referred to in Clause C (1) shall be issued to the person concerned under the signature of the Manager. (3) A copy of every referred to in Clauses (1) and (2) shall be sent to the Inspector and in case of appointment of the head of institution, a copy thereof shall D also be sent to the Regional Deputy Director of Education.” 23. We have noticed that appointments are to be made under Section 16-E of the Act. Section 16-F of the Act provides for the constitution and recommendation of Selection Committees and Section 16-FF therein specifically relates to minority institutions. Regulation 18(1) E provides for the time within which an of appointment is to be issued by a Manager to the selected candidate. According to which, where the recommendation is made by a Selection Committee constituted under sub-section (1) or (2) of Section 16-F of the Act, an of appointment is to be issued within 15 days of the receipt of the F recommendation of the Selection Committee. Whereas, in the case of an institution referred to in Section 16-FF of the Act, i.e., a minority institution, as in the instant case, it is to be issued within 15 days of the receipt of the approval of the authority specified therein.