In no case the transferred quantity to a plant together with the quantity supplied under the applicable FSA shall exceed the ACQ of the Transferee Plant for D a particular year which is proportional to the long term PPA with DISCOMS. Transfer of coal will not be allowed to those plants who are allotted coal blocks under this arrangement. In case of change in the ownership and no environmental clearance of the plant, this facility shall stand withdrawn. It could thus be seen E that the said communication reflects the decision of CIL. The CIL is an instrumentality of the Government of India. As such, APTEL erred in holding the said communication dated 19th June 2013 not to amount to ‘Change in Law’. [Paras 26, 27][1105-B- F] F 1.3 APTEL held that the said communication is an administrative instruction addressed to all the subsidiaries. APTEL failed to take into consideration that CERC had not decided the said issue, inasmuch as the decision on the said issue would have affected the other two DISCOMS, i.e., MSEDCL and Rajasthan DISCOMS. It would be relevant to note that the very G same tribunal, immediately after three months, in the case of Rattan India Power Limited v. Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory Commission and Another, took a totally contrary view. Vide in Civil Appeal Nos. 5005 of 2022 and 4089 of 2022, the concurrent view of Maharashtra Electricity Regulatory H UTTAR HARYANA BIJLI VITRAN NIGAM LTD. v. ADANI 1097 POWER (MUNDRA) LTD. Commission and APTEL holding the said EFC to be ‘Change in A Law’ is upheld. In that view of the matter, the finding of APTEL that the communication dated 19th June 2013 permitting IPT is not a ‘Change in Law’ would not be sustainable. [Paras 28- 31][1105-F; 1106-D-E; 1107-B] 1.4 While submitting the bid, AP(M)L must have factored B in the cost of transportation of linkage coal from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to its plant at Mundra. As per the details given in the PPA, the mode of transportation is through railway. As such, prior to the IPT being permitted, AP(M)L was bound to utilize the linkage coal from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher, only for the purpose C of its original power plant, i.e., AP(M)L. Only on account of the IPT would it be in a position to utilize the coal from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher either for its plant in Maharashtra or in Rajasthan. Similarly, it would be entitled to utilize the coal linkages for its plant in Maharashtra or in Rajasthan for production of energy in its other power plants. As such, there is bound to be a variance D in the cost of transportation by railways. If the coal is to be transported from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to AP(M)L, the cost of railway transportation would be higher as compared to the cost of railway transportation from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to Tiroda TPS. The savings made in the cost of transportation, i.e., the E cost which would have been incurred for transporting the coal from MCL Coal Mine, Talcher to ‘X’ plant minus the actual cost of transportation has to be passed on to the DISCOMS, which, in turn, has to be passed on to the end consumers.