The recruitment and conditions of service of the officers and servants of the State Government may also be regulated by statute, rules or executive s. The administration of a service under a State involves broadly the following functions: (i) the organisation of the D Civil Service and the determination of the remuneration, conditions of service, expenses and allowances of persons serving in it; (ii) the manner of admitting persons to civil service; (iii) exercise of disciplinary control over members of the service and power to transfer, suspend, remove or E dismiss them in the public interest as and when occasion to do so arises. […]” (emphasis supplied) 150. Thus, to determine whether the power to enact a legislation is traceable to Entry 41 of the State List, it is necessary to examine F whether that legislation contains provisions regulating the recruitment, conditions of service, and exercise of control including power to transfer, and suspend. It is with this approach in mind that we need to examine the Delhi Fire Service Act 2007. 151. The Delhi Fire Service Act 200749 was enacted by the G Legislative Assembly of NCTD to provide for “maintenance of a fire service and to make more effective provisions for the fire safety prevention and fire safety measures in certain buildings and premises in the National Capital Territory of Delhi and the matters connected H 49 Delhi Fire Service Act 2007, Delhi Act 2 of 2009 GOVERNMENT OF NCT OF DELHI v. UNION OF INDIA 577 [DR. DHANANJAYA Y CHANDRACHUD, CJI] therewith.” The Delhi Fire Service Act 2007 is a comprehensive Act A which replaced three legislations or, as the case may be, rules which operated in NCTD: a. The United Provinces Fire Safety Act 1944, as extended to Delhi. The Act was notified by the Governor of the United Provinces in exercise of the powers assumed by him under B a Proclamation issued under Section 93 of the Government of India Act 1935. The Act was enacted to constitute and maintain a provincial fire service in the United Provinces for staffing and operating the fire brigades; b. The Delhi Fire Service (Subordinate Services) Rules 1945 C framed under Section 241(1)(b) and Section 241(2)(b) of the Government of India Act 193550; and c. The Delhi Fire Prevention and Fire Safety Act 1986. The Act which was enacted by Parliament focused on making effective provisions for fire prevention and fire safety D measures in the Union Territory of Delhi. It did not contain any provision related to maintenance of a ‘fire service’. 152. The purpose of the Delhi Fire Service Act 2007 is to provide for “maintenance of a fire service”. Section 2(l) defines ‘Fire Service’ to mean the Delhi Fire Service constituted under Section 5 of the Act. E Section 5 stipulates the constitution of a fire service. In terms of Section 5(a), the Fire Service shall consist of such numbers in several ranks and have such organization and such powers, functions and duties as the Government may determine.