The Court held, inter alia, as follows: - “14. These provisions, in effect, embody the English common law B rule as to the liability of the bailee. Under the English common law rule, the measure of care required of the person to whom the goods were bailed, was the same as a man of ordinary prudence would take of his own goods. In other words, it was a mere matter of negligence on which the liability was founded. If a person was negligent and did not take as much care as he would have taken C of his own goods, he would be liable in damages. These principles of the English common law rule were also applied in this country as indicated in the decision of the Privy Council in Irrawaddy Flotilla Co. Ltd. v. Bugwandass in which, it was, inter alia, observed as under: D “For the present purpose it is not material to inquire how it was that the common law of England came to govern the duties and liabilities of common carriers throughout India. The fact itself is beyond dispute. It is recognised by the Indian Legislature in the Carriers Act, 1865, an Act framed on the lines of the E English Carriers Act of 1830.” “15. In the meantime, Parliament intervened and the Carriers Act, 1865 was enacted with the result that the liability of a common carrier came to be considered in the light of the provisions contained in that Act. It is true that Section 158 of the Indian Contract Act speaks of bailment of the goods for being carried on F behalf of that bailor, but it is also to be noticed that the bailment spoken of in that section is gratuitous as it is specifically provided “bailment” as set out in Section 148 of the Indian Contract Act may be said to be wide enough so as to cover “entrustment of goods” to a carrier for carriage. But as pointed out above, with G the enactment of the Carriers Act, 1865, the extent of liability of the carrier has to be found in that Act.” “25. We have already reproduced the provisions of Section 6, 8 and 9 above. Section 6 enables the common carrier to limit his H 10 (2000) 4 SCC 553 M/s. D. N. SINGH v. COMMISSIONER OF INCOME TAX, 557 CENTRAL, PATNA AND ANOTHER [K. M. JOSEPH, J.] liability by a special contract. But the special contract will not A absolve the carrier if the damage or loss to the goods, entrusted to him, has been caused by his own negligence or criminal act or that of his agents or servants. In that situation, the carrier would be liable for the damage to or loss or non-delivery of goods. In this situation, if a suit is filed for recovery of damages, the burden B of proof will not be on the owner or the plaintiff to show that the loss or damage was caused owing to the negligence or criminal act of the carrier as provided by Section 9.