The Standing Policy of the State of Uttar Pradesh as formulated A on 1 August 2018 (as amended in 2021) contained a prohibition on the grant of premature release to convicts who had not completed the age of 60 years. The validity of the restriction was challenged before this Court in a batch of cases under Article 32 of the Constitution which eventually led to the of Rashidul Jafar (supra). In the B subsequent policy dated 27 May 2022, the bar on considering cases for premature release before a convict attains the age of 60 years stand lifted. This Court has hence directed that while, as a general principle, the policy which was in existence on the date of the conviction would govern the consideration of each case for premature release, in the event that a more liberalized policy is instituted subsequently, the case should C be considered on the basis of the more liberalised provision. 7. Despite the of this Court in Rashidul Jafar, cases were being repeatedly brought to this Court under Article 32 of the Constitution where despite the convict having fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for the grant of premature release, cases were not being dealt D with in terms of the policy. 8. On 5 January 2023, while entertaining the present case, this Court issued a direction requiring the Director General of Police to file an affidavit explaining the following : E “(i) The steps which have been taken in pursuance of the decision of this Court in Rashidul Jafar @ Chota (supra) for considering cases for pre-mature release and the institutional arrangements which have been put into place; (ii) How many convicts are eligible for being considered for pre- mature release, district-wise, in the State of Uttar F Pradesh; (iii) How many cases have been considered for pre-mature release since the decision of this Court in Rashidul Jafar @ Chota (supra); G (iv) How many cases remain to be considered; and (v) The time period within which the cases shall be considered.” 9. In pursuance of the above direction, an affidavit has been filed by the Director General of Prisons. Besides adverting to the regime formulated in the State of Uttar Pradesh (as noted in the earlier part of H 416 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 6 S.C.R. A this ), the affidavit sets out District-wise data of convicts eligible for being considered for premature release and the number of cases pending consideration. As of 31 December 2022, there are 1,15,163 prisoners in the State of Uttar Pradesh out of whom 88,429 are under trial prisoners. There are 26,734 convicts of whom 16,262 are undergoing a sentence of life imprisonment. The affidavit states that 2,228 convicted B prisoners have completed 14 years of actual imprisonment (in terms of the Rules of 1938 which were prevalent on the date of the conviction) and are eligible for being considered for premature release. The following statement indicates the stage at which these cases are pending consideration for the grant of premature release.