In the case of a sales tax, the liability to tax arises on the occasion of a sale, and a sale has no necessary connection with manufacture or production.” (emphasis supplied) G 13.8. In Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. vs. Commissioner of Customs and Central Excise, Indore, (2003) 9 SCC 185, the question was, whether, excise duty is payable on the parts which are replaced during the warranty period. It was contended that the replaced part was free of cost during the warranty period and the sale price of the machinery H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1319 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] sold included the price of the part which was subsequently being replaced. A There could not be double levy of excise on the same part. It was observed that the price charge for the machinery may include the element of “complaint reserve”. At that time, it is not known whether there would be any need to replace any part. In many cases, parts are not required to be replaced. When parts are not replaced, the component of “complaint B reserve” is not returned to the customer. Thus, as far as the customer is concerned, the total amount paid, including the component towards “complaint reserve” is the price for the machinery. It was further observed that when a manufacturer offers a warranty to replace a defective part within a particular period and defective part is replaced by another part, the latter is exigible to excise duty. C Pertinent Controversy: Analysis 14. In Mohd. Ekram Khan, this Court distinguished the in Premier Automobiles by holding that the fact situation there was different and the issues in the said case were also different by observing D that one of the issues was, whether, the expenses on account of warranty and statutory bonus were to be excludable while working out the ex- works cost. It was noted therein that car manufacturers furnish warranty covering the cars sold by entering into an agreement with the manufacturers of components providing for a warranty so far as the components supplied are concerned. The whole object behind the E warranty is that the consumer who has to make a heavy investment for the vehicle should be assured of a proper performance of the vehicle in a trouble-free manner for a reasonable length of time. Therefore, entire cost of warranty was to be borne by the manufacturer. 15. Referring to Prem Nath Motors, it was observed in Mohd. F Ekram Khan that the said case dealt with transfer of property in the part or parts replaced in pursuance of a stipulation or a warranty which is a part of the original sale of the car for the price fixed and received from the buyer or consumer. It was observed that the price so fixed and received was a consolidated price for the car and the parts that may G have to be supplied by way of replacement in pursuance of the warranty.