The Union of India also submitted that the suffi ciency of the material or the circumstances which necessitated the exercise of the power under Article 3 lie beyond the realm of judicial review. Finally, it submitted that Parliament possesses the power to convert a State into two Union territories. 473. The submissions of the petitioners require this Court to adjudicate on (a) the scope of the powers of Parliament under Article 3; and (b) whether the procedure contemplated by Article 3 was complied. In the sections below we have highlighted a few aspects which must weigh on Courts while determining the scope of the powers under Article 3. a. The constitutional history of States and Union territories and the reason for the existence of Article 3 474. When the Constitution was adopted, the constituent political units in the country consisted of diff erent types of States (albeit with diff erent structures, powers, and relationships with the Union Government) and not of States and Union territories, as we now understand them. At that time, India consisted of Part A, Part B, and Part C States as detailed in the First Schedule to the Constitution. Part A States consisted of former Governors’ Provinces (prior to Independence) and some princely states. The former were governed by elected legislative bodies as well as a Governor. Part B States consisted largely of the former princely states and were governed by elected legislative bodies and the Rajpramukh. Part C States were formerly the Chief Commissioners’ Provinces312 (and some princely states) which were governed by a Chief Commissioner appointed by the President. Additionally, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands alone found a place in Part D of the First Schedule. A Lieutenant Governor appointed by the Union Government oversaw the administration of this territory. 475. Evidently, the constitutional classifi cation of the constituent units in the country at the time of Independence mirrored their classifi cation by the 312 Under the Government of India Act 1935 272 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. colonial power. This was not intended to be a permanent feature. Accordingly, Article 3 of the Constitution was intended to subserve an arrangement in place until a reclassifi cation which was suited to the needs of the local populace and which was based on a careful evaluation of administrative, cultural, linguistic, fi nancial, and other relevant considerations rather than on the expediency of the colonial government.313 The Constituent Assembly was also cognizant that certain princely states were yet to be integrated into the country and that some segments of society demanded the organisation of states on the basis of language. Article 3 therefore empowered Parliament to reorganise the constituent units of the newly-formed country. 476. Conscious of the imperial basis for the organisation of states and in view of the growing demand for the organisation of states on a linguistic basis, the Union Government appointed the States Reorganisation Commission314 to gauge public opinion and assess the manner in which constituent political units ought to be rationalised.