): The international arbitration law as well as domestic law prioritize the arbitral tribunal by permitting them to initially decide challenges to their authority instead of the courts – The policy consideration behind this approach is twofold: fi rst, to recognize the mutual intention of the parties of choosing the arbitrator to resolve all their disputes about the substantive rights and obligations arising out of contract; and second, to prevent parties from initiating parallel proceedings before courts and delaying the arbitral process – This is the positive aspect of the doctrine of competence-competence – The negative aspect, in contrast, speaks to the national courts – It instructs the courts to limit their interference at the referral stage by deferring to the jurisdiction of the arbitral tribunal in issues pertaining to the existence and validity of an arbitration agreement – Allowing arbitral tribunals to fi rst rule on their own jurisdiction and later allowing the courts to determine if the tribunal exercised its powers properly safeguards both the power and authority of the arbitral tribunal as well as the courts – The negative aspect of the doctrine has been expressly recognized by Indian courts – Considering both the positive and negative facets, the principle can be defi ned as a rule whereby arbitrators must have the fi rst opportunity to hear challenges relating to their jurisdiction, which is subject to subsequent review by courts. [Paras 129, 130] 108 6 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 – Arbitration Act is a legislation enacted to inter alia consolidate the law relating to arbitration in India – It will have primacy over the Stamp Act and the Contract Act in relation to arbitration agreements. [Para 166 in of Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI] Interpretation of Statutes – Harmonious construction – Provisions contained in two statutes must be, if possible, interpreted in a harmonious manner to give full eff ect to both the statutes – In providing a harmonious interpretation, the Court has to be cognizant of the fact that it does not defeat the purpose of the statutes or render them ineff ective. [Para 165 in of Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI] Interpretation of Statutes – Non-obstante clause – Held: Although a non-obstante clause must be allowed to operate with full vigour, its eff ect is limited to the extent intended by the legislature. [Para 77 in of Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI] Words and Phrases – “admissible”. [Para 44 in of Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI] Words and Phrases – Word “shall” – In ss.33 and 35 of the Stamp Act – Meaning and eff ect of. [Para 189 in of Dr. D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI] LIST OF CITATIONS AND OTHER REFERENCES In the of Dr D.Y. Chandrachud, CJI N N Global Mercantile (P) Ltd. v. Indo Unique Flame Ltd. (2023) 7 SCC 1 and SMS Tea Estates (P) Ltd. v. Chandmari Tea Co. (P) Ltd (2011) 14 SCC 66 : [2011] 9 SCR 382 – overruled. Garware Wall Ropes Ltd. v. Coastal Marine Constructions & Engg.