& ORS. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] by way of contempt proceedings. With reference to the second part, in Rama Narang (supra) it was observed that giving of an undertaking is distinct from a consent recording compromise. In the latter case of violation of compromise, no question of contempt arises, but the party can enforce the of compromise either by execution or injunction from a Court. However, in the former case, when there is wilful disobedience, contempt application and proceedings would be maintainable. [See: Suman Chadha and Another v. Central Bank of India reported in 2018 SCC OnLine Del 11536] 63. As held by the Delhi High Court in Suman Chadha (supra), in case of reasonable doubtit is not fair and reasonable for the Courts to exercise jurisdiction under the Act for the proceedings are quasi-criminal in nature and the standard of proof required in these proceedings is beyond all reasonable doubt and not mere probabilities. Thus, in cases where two interpretations of an are possible and if the action is not contumacious, contempt proceedings are not maintainable and for this purpose the must be read in entirety. The court noted that there is a diff erence between “standard of proof” and “manner of proof” in contempt proceedings. Contempt proceedings are sui generis in the sense that strict law of evidence and Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 are not applicable. However, the procedure adopted in the contempt proceedings must be fair and just. 64. The Delhi High Court decision in Suman Chadha (supra) referred to above, was challenged before this Court. The decision of this Court is reported in Suman Chadha v. Central Bank of India reported in AIR 2021 SC 3709, wherein this Court made important observations in paras 25 and 26 respectively. Paras 25 and 26 read thus: “25. It is true that an undertaking given by a party should be seen in the context in which it was made and (i) the benefi ts that accrued to the undertaking party; and (ii) the detriment/injury suff ered by the counter party. It is also true that normally the question whether a party is guilty of contempt is to be seen in the specifi c context of the disobedience and the wilful nature of the same and not on the basis of the conduct subsequent thereto. While it is open to the court to see whether the subsequent conduct of the alleged contemnor would tantamount to an aggravation of the contempt already committed, the 1108 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. very determination of an act of contempt cannot simply be based upon the subsequent conduct. 26. But the subsequent conduct of the party may throw light upon one important aspect namely whether it was just the inability of the party to honour the commitment or it was part of a larger design to hoodwink the court.” 65. In Rita Markandey v. Surjit Singh Arora reported in (1996) 6 SCC 14, it was observed that even if parties have not fi led an undertaking before the court but if the court was induced to sanction a particular course of action or inaction on the representation made by a party and the court ultimately fi nds that the party never intended to act on the said representation or such representation was false, the party would be guilty of committing contempt.