Separation of powers is part of the basic structure of the Constitution of India. Equally, judicial review has been recognised as forming a part of the basic structure. Judicial review of legislation is expressly provided in Article 13 of the Constitution. A court when it declares a law made by the legislature as unconstitutional, if it be that, it H 92 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A is within its bounds, cannot be accused of transgressing the principle of separation of powers. Declaring even a law made by the Parliament as unconstitutional forms a part of its powers. In view of the enunciation of the doctrine of basic structure in India unlike perhaps in most countries, even an amendment to the Constitution can be declared unconstitutional by the court. Such exercise cannot expose the court to the charge that it B is not observing the limits set by the Constitution. 86. While it may be true that the Constitution is supreme and all disputes must finally attain repose under the aegis of the Constitution, in one sense the final arbiter of what is the law must be the court. While it may be true that by removing the text forming the premise for a judicial C verdict, the lawgiver may revisit the , it is not open to the legislature to don the robes of a Judge and arrogate to itself the judicial function. The theory of separation of powers in an ultimate analysis is meant to prevent tyranny of power flowing from the assumption of excess power in one source. Its value lies in a delicate but skilful and at the D same time legitimate balance being struck by the organs of the State in the exercise of their respective powers. This means that the essential powers which are well understood in law cannot be deliberately encroached upon by any organ of the State. 87. Creative judicial activism has been a subject of both E controversy reaching brickbats as also bouquets to the courts. Under the Constitution which clothes both citizens and persons with fundamental rights besides tasking the State with the achieving of goals declared in the Directive Principles, judicial activism as opposed to a mere passive role may be the much-needed choice. Judicial activism, however, must have a sound juridical underpinning and cannot degenerate into a mere F exercise of subjectivism. 88. The learned Solicitor General is right therefore that judicial restraint may be a virtue in the elevated region of constitutional law. Being the grundnorm, it is indeed a rarefied field where the court must tread wearily (See Divisional Manager, Aravali Golf Club and G Another v. Chander Hass and Another24). This Court indeed has admonished against the court itself running the Government. In Asif Hameed v. State of J & K,25 no doubt this court refers to the following observations of Frankfurter, J. in para 18: 24 (2008) 1 SCC 683 H 25 (1989) Suppl.2 SCC 364 ANOOP BARANWAL v. UNION OF INDIA 93 [K. M. JOSEPH, J.]