We, however, hasten to add that the correspondence/circulars issued by the State Government and RIICO subsequently, which we have reproduced and discussed in paragraphs 12 to 15 of this , unambiguously fortify our construction of both the Government and the 1959 Rules, referred to above. C C-2. Whether the 1979 Rules of RIICO are statutory in nature? 60. The question regarding whether the 1979 Rules formulated by RIICO are of statutory character, is more or less rendered academic as the fate of these appeals does not hinge upon this issue in view of our D holding in Part C-I. Nevertheless, since the High Court has opined on this issue, we propose to answer the question so that there remains no uncertainty in the minds of State authorities, RIICO or the leaseholders. 61. It must be noticed at the outset that RIICO is not a statutory body. The Company was brought into being under the Companies Act, E 1956 by the State of Rajasthan, which holds 100% shares in it. The distinction between companies that are brought into being “by” an Act, and those created “under” an Act, is that a company incorporated under the Companies Act is not a creation of the said Act but it has come into existence in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act. F 62. This was fleshed out further in S.S. Dhanoa v. Municipal Corporation, Delhi & Ors.17which held: “9. Corporation, in its widest sense, may mean any association of individuals entitled to act as an individual. But that certainly is not the sense in which it is used here. Corporation established G by or under an Act of Legislature can only mean a body corporate which owes its existence, and not merely its corporate status, to the Act. For example, a Municipality, a Zilla Parishad or a Gram Panchayat owes its existence and status to an Act of Legislature. On the other hand, an H 17 1981 (3) SCC 431. BISHAMBHAR PRASAD v. M/s. ARFAT PETROCHEMICALS 289 PVT. LTD. AND ORS. [SURYA KANT, J.] association of persons constituting themselves into a Company A under the Companies Act or a Society under the Societies Registration Act owes its existence not to the Act of Legislature but to acts of parties though, it may owe its status as a body corporate to an Act of Legislature.” 63. The importance of this difference in our context was B summarized concisely in Executive Committee of Vaish Degree College v. Lakshmi Narain18: “10…In other words the position seems to be that the institution concerned must owe its very existence to a statute which would be the fountainhead of its powers. The question in such case C to be asked is, if there is no statute, would the institution have any legal existence. If the answer is in the negative, then undoubtedly it is a statutory body, but if the institution has a separate existence of its own without any reference to the statute concerned but is merely governed by the statutory D provisions it cannot be said to be a statutory body…” 64.