c) The suppression of material information and making a false statement in the verification Form relating to arrest, prosecution, conviction etc., has a clear bearing on the character, conduct and antecedents of the employee. If it is G found that the employee had suppressed or given false information in regard to the matters having a bearing on 6 (2021) 10 SCC 136 7 (2019) 17 SCC 696 H 806 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 1 S.C.R. A his fitness or suitability to the post, he can be terminated from service. d) The generalisations about the youth, career prospects and age of the candidates leading to condonation of the offenders’ conduct, should not enter the judicial verdict and B should be avoided. e) The Court should inquire whether the Authority concerned whose action is being challenged acted mala fide. f) Is there any element of bias in the decision of the Authority? C g) Whether the procedure of inquiry adopted by the Authority concerned was fair and reasonable?” 9. Having regard to the guiding principles, laid down in case of Avtar Singh (supra) and in case of Satish Chandra Yadav (supra), this Court has no hesitation in holding that the Single Bench of the High D Court had committed an error in interfering with the passed by the respondents-authorities. The respondents-authorities had after taking into consideration the decision in case of Avtar Singh terminated the services of the petitioner holding inter-alia that while the petitioner was appointed in CISF, a criminal case was pending against him at the time of his E enrolment in the force, but he did not reveal the same and that there was deliberate suppression of facts which was an aggravating circumstance. It was also held that CISF being an armed force of Union of India, is deployed in sensitive sectors such as airports, ports, department of atomic energy, department of space, metro, power and steel, for internal security duty etc., and therefore, the force personnel are required to maintain F discipline of the highest ; and that the involvement of the petitioner in such grave offences debarred him from the appointment. Such a well- reasoned and well considered decision of the respondent-authorities should not have been interfered by the Single Bench in exercise of its powers under Article 226 of the Constitution, more particularly when G there were no allegations of malafides or of non-observance of rules of natural justice or of breach of statutory rules were attributed against the respondent authorities. 10. The Constitution Bench, in case of State of Orissa & Others vs. Bidyabhushan Mohapatra8 had observed way back in 1963 that H 8 AIR 1963 SC 779 EX-CONST/DVR MUKESH KUMAR RAIGAR v. UNION OF 807 INDIA & ORS. [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] having regard to the gravity of the established misconduct, the punishing A authority had the power and jurisdiction to impose punishment. The penalty was not open to review by the High Court under Article 226. A three- judge Bench in case of B.C.