The expression “as expeditiously as possible” coupled with the expression “endeavour may be made” demonstrate that the intent of Parliament is that the period of twelve months for making the E award is not mandatory in the case of an international commercial arbitration. In an international commercial arbitration, the arbitral tribunal is required to endeavour, that is, make an effort to render the arbitral award within a period of twelve months or in a timely manner. In a domestic arbitration, Section 29A(1) stipulates a F mandatory period of twelve months for the arbitrator to render the arbitral award. In contrast, the substantive part of Section 29A(1) clarifies that the period of twelve months would not be mandatory for an international commercial arbitration. Hence, post amendment, the time limit of twelve months as prescribed in Section 29A is applicable to only domestic arbitrations and the G twelve-month period is only directory in nature for an international commercial arbitration. [Para 25][1279-C-G] 1.2 The Committee chaired by Justice B.N. Srikrishna indicated that international arbitration institutions had been H 1270 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A critical of the setting up of timelines for conducting international arbitrations. International arbitral institutions with their own machinery for case management were of the view that they did not require the monitoring of timelines by the intervention of the court. The Committee also noted that in other jurisdictions, timelines for arbitral proceedings are usually agreed by the parties B themselves in accordance with the nature and complexity of the dispute. The intervention of the court in the extension of timelines was criticized by arbitral institutions and eventually led to the formulation of the amended provisions of Section 29A which have expressly kept international commercial arbitrations outside the C purview of the mandatory timelines provided in Section 29A. Hence, in terms of the amended provisions of Section 29A, arbitral tribunals in international commercial arbitrations are only expected to make an endeavor to complete the proceedings within twelve months from the date of completion of pleadings and are not bound to abide by the time limit prescribed for domestic D arbitrations. [Para 29][1282-A-D] 1.3 Procedural law establishes a mechanism for determining rights and liabilities of a party and a machinery for enforcing them. Generally, procedural laws are presumed to be retrospective, unless there is a clear indication that such was not the intention E of the legislature,or the procedural law imposes new obligations qua transactions already concluded or creates new rights or liabilities. [Para 33][1283-G; 1284-A] 1.4 The 2019 Amendment Act does not contain any provision equivalent to Section 26 of Act 3 of 2016 evincing a F legislative intent making the application of the amended provision prospective. The amended provisions of Section 29A, in terms of which the arbitral tribunal has to endeavour to dispose of the proceedings in an international commercial arbitration as expeditiously as possible within a period of twelve months from G the completion of the pleadings are remedial in nature. The amended provision has excepted international commercial arbitrations from the mandate of the twelve month timeline which governs domestic arbitrations.