They are as follows :- 1. Outlay is deemed to be capital when it is made for the initiation of a business, for extension of a business, or for a substantial replacement of equipment : vide Lord Sands in Commissioners of Inland Revenue v. Granite City Steamship Company (1927) 13 T.C. 1, 14). In City of London Contract Corporation v. Styles ((1887) 2 T.C. 239), at page 243, Bowen, L.J. observed as to the capital expenditure as follows : “You do not use it ‘for the purpose of’ your concern, which means, for the purpose of carrying on your concern, but you use it to acquire the concern.” 2. Expenditure may be treated as properly attributable to capital when it is made not only once and for all, but with a view to bringing into existence an asset or an advantage for the enduring benefi t of a trade : vide Viscount Cave, L.C., in Atherton v. British Insulated and Helsby Cables Ltd. ((1925) 10 T.C. 155). If what is got rid of by a lump sum payment is an annual business expense chargeable against revenue, the lump sum payment should equally be regarded as a business expense, but if the lump sum payment brings in a capital asset, then that puts the business on another footing altogether. Thus, if labour saving machinery was acquired, the cost of such acquisition cannot be deducted out of the profi ts by claiming that it relieves the annual labour bill, the business has acquired a new asset, that is, machinery. The expressions ‘enduring benefi t’ or ‘of a permanent character’ were introduced to make it clear that the asset or the right acquired must have enough durability to justify its being treated as a capital asset. C.I.T., DELHI v. BHARTI HEXACOM LTD. 455 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] 3. Whether for the purpose of the expenditure, any capital was withdrawn, or, in other words, whether the object of incurring the expenditure was to employ what was taken in as capital of the business. Again, it is to be seen whether the expenditure incurred was part of the fi xed capital of the business or part of its circulating capital. Fixed capital is what the owner turns to profi t by keeping it in his own possession. Circulating or fl oating capital is what he makes profi t of by parting with it or letting it change masters. Circulating capital is capital which is turned over and in the process of being turned over yields profi t or loss. Fixed capital, on the other hand, is not involved directly in that process and remains unaff ected by it.” 19. It may be useful at this juncture, to attempt to cull out the broad principles/tests that have been forged and adopted by this Court from time to time, while determining whether a given expenditure is capital or revenue in nature: i. Capital expenditure is one met with a view to bring into existence an asset for the enduring benefi t of the trade.