That the “debt” means any liability inclusive of interest. [Para 13][569-D-F] 1.2 An appeal under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act is E permissible against the passed by the DRT under Section 17 of the SARFAESI Act. Under Section 17, the scope of enquiry is limited to the steps taken under Section 13(4) against the secured assets. Therefore, whatever amount is mentioned in the notice under Section 13(2) of the SARFAESI Act, in case steps F taken under Section 13(2)/13(4) against the secured assets are under challenge before the DRT will be the ‘debt due’ within the meaning of proviso to Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act. In case of challenge to the sale of the secured assets, the amount mentioned in the sale certificate will have to be considered while G determining the amount of pre-deposit under Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act. However, in a case where both are under challenge, namely, steps taken under Section 13(4) against the secured assets and also the auction sale of the secured assets, in H M/S SIDHA NEELKANTH PAPER INDUSTRIES PVT. LTD. v. 555 PRUDENT ARC LIMITED & OTHERS that case, the “debt due” shall mean any liability (inclusive of A interest) which is claimed as due from any person, whichever is higher. [Para 13][567-H; 568-A-C] 1.3. As per the second proviso to Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act, it is the “borrower” who has preferred an appeal B before the Appellate Tribunal and the “borrower” who shall have to deposit 50% of the amount of “debt due” from him. If the words used in the second proviso to Section 18 of the SARFAESI Act are “borrower has to deposit”, it is not appreciable how the amount deposited by the auction purchaser on purchase of secured C assets can be adjusted and/or appropriated towards the amount of pre-deposit, to be deposited by the borrower. The borrower can take the benefit of the amount received by the creditor in an auction sale only if he unequivocally accepts the sale. In a case where the borrower also challenges the auction sale and does D not accept the same and also challenges the steps taken under Section 13(2)/13(4) of the SARFAESI Act with respect to secured assets, the borrower has to deposit 50% of the amount claimed by the secured creditor along with interest as per section 2(g) of E the Act 1993. [Para 14][568-D-G] 1.4. Where the borrower challenges the auction sale, thereafter it will not be open for the borrower to pray to use the sale proceeds received from the sale of the secured properties to be adjusted/given credit in an application for waiver of pre- F deposit. [Para 15][571-F] 1.5. In the present case, the respective High Courts have seriously erred in directing to adjust/appropriate the amount realised by auction sale of the secured properties/deposited by G the auction purchasers while considering the 50% of the amount as pre-deposit to be deposited by the borrower, while preferring an appeal before the DRAT.