In any event, the discretion to be used shall always have to be strictly in accordance with law and not dehors the same. The High Court thought it fi t not to record any reason, far less any cogent reason, as to why there should be a departure when in fact such a petition was dismissed earlier not very long ago. The consideration of the period of one year spent in jail cannot in our view be a relevant consideration in the matter of grant of bail, more so by reason of the fact that the off ence charged is that of murder under Section 302 IPC having the punishment of death or life imprisonment — it is a heinous crime against the society and as such the court ought to be rather circumspect and cautious in its approach in a matter which stands out to be a social crime of a very serious nature.” 19. Similar is the opinion of this Court in Prashanta Kumar Sarkar v. Ashish Chatterjee and another (2010) 14 SCC 496 has held as under: “9. We are of the opinion that the impugned is clearly unsustainable. It is trite that this Court does not, normally, interfere with an passed by the High Court granting or rejecting bail to the accused. However, it is equally incumbent upon the High Court to exercise its discretion judiciously, cautiously and strictly in compliance with the basic principles laid down in a plethora of decisions of this Court on the point. It is well settled that, among other circumstances, the factors to be borne in mind while considering an application for bail are: (i) whether there is any prima facie or reasonable ground to believe that the accused had committed the off ence; 480 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 11 S.C.R. (ii) nature and gravity of the accusation; (iii) severity of the punishment in the event of conviction; (iv) danger of the accused absconding or fl eeing, if released on bail; (v) character, behaviour, means, position and standing of the accused; (vi) likelihood of the off ence being repeated; (vii) reasonable apprehension of the witnesses being infl uenced; and (viii) danger, of course, of justice being thwarted by grant of bail.” 20. Keeping the aforesaid analysis of law when we turn our attention to the facts on hand it would not detain us too long to arrive at a conclusion that High Court seems to have been primarily swayed by the fact that there has been delay in fi ling the complaint i.e. 13 months for granting bail in favour of accused persons viz, respondents in respective appeals. The allegation made in the complaint relates to gang rape of a minor girl who is aged 15 years six months, studying in Class X. The fact of her father being a police constable who is far below in the hierarchy of service cannot be lost sight of. One of the respondents against whom allegations have been made is the son of a sitting Member of Legislative Assembly – MLA.