(b) In Rustom Cavasjee Cooper vs. Union of India AIR 1970 SC 565 (“Bank Nationalization Case”) it was observed C that this Court was not the forum where conflicting policy claims may be debated; it is only required to adjudicate the legality of a measure which has little to do with relative merits of different political and economic theories. (c) This Court in the case of State of M.P. vs. Nandlal Jaiswal (1986) 4 SCC 566 observed that the Government, as laid D down in Permian Basin Area Rate Cases, 20 L Ed (2d) 312, is entitled to make pragmatic adjustments which may be called for by particular circumstances. The court cannot strike down a policy decision taken by the Government merely because it feels that another policy decision would E have been fairer or wiser or more scientific or logical. That courts could interfere only if the policy decision is patently arbitrary, discriminatory or mala fide. (d) In Peerless General Finance and Investment Co. Ltd. vs. RBI (1992) 2 SCC 343, this Court dithered to indulge F itself with matters involving domains of the executive and the legislature concerning economic policy or directions given by Reserve Bank of India. This Court observed that it is unbecoming of judicial institutions to interfere with economic policy which is the prerogative of the Government, in consultation with experts in the field and that it is not the G function of the courts to sit in over matters of economic policy and it must necessarily be left to the expert bodies. (e) The validity of the decision of the Government to grant licence under the Telegraph Act, 1885 to non-government H VIVEK NARAYAN SHARMA v. UNION OF INDIA 183 [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] companies for establishing, maintaining and working of A telecommunication system of the country pursuant to government policy of privatisation of telecommunications was challenged in Delhi Science Forum vs. Union of India AIR 1996 SC 1356. It was contended that telecommunications were a sensitive service which should B always be within the exclusive domain and control of the Central Government and under no situation should be parted with by way of grant of license to non-government companies and private bodies. While rejecting this contention, this Court observed that: C “... The national policies in respect of economy, finance, communications, trade, telecommunications and others have to be decided by Parliament and the representatives of the people on the floor of Parliament can challenge and question any such policy adopted by the ruling Government....” D (f) The reluctance of the court to judicially examine the merits of economic policy was again emphasised in Bhavesh D. Parish vs. Union and India (2000) 5 SCC 471. This Court opined that in the context of the changed economic scenario the expertise of people dealing with the subject E should not be lightly interfered with. The consequences of such an interdiction can have large-scale ramifications and can put the clock back for a number of years. That in dealing with economic legislations, this Court, while not jettisoning its jurisdiction to curb arbitrary action or unconstitutional F legislation, should interfere only in those few cases where the view reflected in the legislation is not possible to be taken at all.