in Kaslefsky v. Kaslefsky46 that if the door of cruelty were opened too wide, the courts would be granting divorce for incompatibility of temperament, but this temptation must be resisted, lest the institution of marriage is imperilled. At the same time, the bench felt that the concept of legal cruelty has B changed according to the advancement of social concepts and standards of living. Continuous ill-treatment, cessation of marital intercourse, studied neglect, indifference on the part of the spouse and allegation of unchastity are all factors that lead to mental or legal cruelty. While doing so, this Court affirmed that a set of facts stigmatized as cruelty in one case may not be so in another, as cruelty largely depends on the kind of lifestyle C the parties are accustomed to or their social and economic conditions. Similarly, intention, it was observed, was immaterial as there can be cruelty even by unintentional conduct. Moreover, mental cruelty is difficult to establish by direct evidence and is to be deciphered by attending to the facts and circumstances in which the two partners in matrimony had D been living. On the question of irretrievable breakdown of marriage, which is not a ground for divorce under the Hindu Marriage Act, reference was made to the fault theory, which is hinged on an accusatorial principle of divorce. Excessive reliance on fault as a ground for divorce, the judges’ opined, encourages matrimonial offences, increases bitterness and widens the ongoing rift between the parties. Once serious endeavours for E reconciliation have been made, but it is found that the separation is inevitable and the damage is irreparable, divorce should not be withheld. An unworkable marriage, which has ceased to be effective, is futile and bound to be a source of greater misery for the parties. The law of divorce built predominantly on assigning fault fails to serve broken marriages. F Under the fault theory, guilt has to be proven, and therefore, the courts have to be presented with concrete instances of adverse human behaviour, thereby maligning the institution of marriage. Public interest demands that the marriage status should, as far as possible, be maintained, but where the marriage has been wrecked beyond the hope of salvage, public interest lies in recognising the real fact. No spouse can be compelled G to resume life with a consort, and as such, nothing is gained by keeping the parties tied forever to a marriage which has, in fact, ceased to exist. In Naveen Kohli (supra), the parties had been living separately for more 45 (2006) 4 SCC 558. 46 (1950) 2 All ER 398. H 204 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A than a decade, and civil and criminal proceedings had been initiated. Therefore, the Court held that the marriage should be dissolved, as wisdom lies in accepting the pragmatic reality of life. The Court should take a decision which would ultimately be conducive to the interest of both the parties. The Court also directed the payment of Rs.25,00,000/- towards permanent maintenance to the wife.