We record our deep sense of appreciation for the efforts put in by Shri Gourab Banerji, learned senior counsel who has ably assisted this Court as Amicus. H 376 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A C. T. RAVIKUMAR, J. 1. I have had the advantage of reading the erudite opinion of my learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, for himself and learned brother Justice Aniruddha Bose, and the separate opinion of learned brother Justice Hrishikesh Roy, concurring with the opinion of learned brother Justice Ajay Rastogi, but disagreeing with the opinion of learned brother B Justice K.M. Joseph. Regretfully, I record my inability to agree with the opinion of learned brother Justice Ajay Rastogi as also with the concurrent opinion of learned brother Justice Hrishikesh Roy. While fully endorsing the opinion of learned brother Justice K. M. Joseph, to which my learned brother Justice Aniruddha Bose has concurred, I wish to add a concise addendum as under, in respect of some of the issues, of course, only in C support of findings returned thereon. 2. The issue(s) under reference, the modification of the referred question and the allied questions cropped up for consideration have been elaborately dealt with and answered in the erudite draft of my learned brother Justice K.M. Joseph and hence, it is absolutely unessential D to refer them. While considering the power of the Court under Section 11(6) of the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 it is to be noted that the position of Section 11(6) before and after the amendment and Section 11(6A), inserted by Act 2 of 2016 with effect from 23.10.2015 have been referred to in all the three opinions. Hence, I do not think it necessary to extract those provisions to avoid the risk of repetition. Certainly, the E powers conferred under Section 16 of the Act often referred to as ‘Kompetenz-Kompetenz’ make it clear that the Arbitral Tribunal is empowered and thus got competence to rule on its own jurisdiction, including on all jurisdictional issues and existence or validity of the arbitration agreement. This provision would have its full-play when appointment of the arbitrator takes place, on consensus, by the parties, F in accordance with the terms of the arbitration agreement or by designated arbitration institution, without the intervention of the Court. But then, the provision under Section 11 (6) of the Act applies when the procedures envisaged under the arbitration agreement have not worked and an application is filed for invocation of the power thereunder before the G Court for making appointment of the Arbitrator(s). The controversy in regard to the nature of the function to be performed under Section 11 (6) has been set at rest by the Seven-Judge Bench decision in SBP & Co. v. Patel Engg. Ltd.1by holding that it is ‘judicial’. It continues to be ‘judicial’ despite the amendment brought to the said section and even after the insertion of Section 11 (6A) in the Act. An application for ‘Appointment H 1 (2005) 8 SCC 618 M/s N. N. GLOBAL MERCANTILE PRIVATE LIMITED v. M/s 377 INDO UNIQUE FLAME LTD. & ORS.