Further, under Sub-Clause (l), the Bar Council of India has the power to perform all other functions conferred on it by or under the said Act and under Clause (m) to do all other things necessary for discharging the aforesaid F functions. The powers are, thus, wide and extensive as conferred by the legislature. Thus, when under Section 24(1), the Bar Council of India has the statutory power of prescribing Rules subject to which a person may be treated as qualified to be admitted as an Advocate in the State roll, then the Bar Council of G India is not devoid of its jurisdiction in undertaking a pre- enrolment training course or examination prescribed by the Bar Council of India. Section 49(1)(ag) of the said Act, which while dealing with the general powers of the Bar Council of India to make rules, specifically stipulates that the class or category of person entitled to be enrolled as advocates, is an aspect for which H 346 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A all powers have been conferred on the Bar Council of India. Thus, the provision for an examination for enrolment of advocates by the Bar Council of India can hardly be doubted. [Paras 29-32][363- C-H; 364-A-E] 1.3 The objective of the legislature while giving wide B powers to the Bar Council of India under Section 49, which gives it the powers to make Rules, read with Section 24(3)(d), which gives it the powers to prescribe the norms for entitlement to be enrolled as an Advocate under the Rules of the Bar Council of India, leads to the conclusion that these are adequate powers with the Bar Council of India under the said Act to provide such C norms and Rules. The interdict placed by the of this Court in V. Sudeer on the powers of the Bar Council of India cannot be sustained and it cannot be held that V. Sudeer lays down the correct position of law. It has to be left to the Bar Council of India as to at what stage the All India Bar Examination has to be D held – pre or post. [Paras 33-36][364-E-H; 365-A] V. Sudeer v. Bar Council of India (1999) 3 SCC 176 : [1999] 1 SCR 1048 – held not correct law. 2. Students who have cleared all examinations to be eligible to pursue the final semester of the final year course of law, on E production of proof of the same, could be allowed to take the All India Bar Examination. The result of the All India Bar Examination would be subject to the person passing all the components required under the course of study of the University/College. This would be subject to the All India Bar Examination results being valid for a specified period of time. [Para 38][365-E-F] F 3. Appropriate rules can be framed laying down that an enrolled advocate who takes up an employment in a non-legal context for a substantial length of time (say for five years) would be deemed to be a new enrolee and in to regain the qualification, that person would be required to take the All India G Bar Examination once more.