This Court while concluding that the purchaser was not ready or willing to perform his part of the contract within the stipulated time G period, denied to grant specific performance for the entire contract. However, what is to be seen in the present case, is that the sale agreement dated 14.08.2002 stipulated that the vendor (deceased G. Venugopala Rao) was required to get the land measured and demarcated within three months, following which, the purchaser (Respondent No. 1 herein H /Plaintiff) was required to pay the balance sale consideration. So, it can GADDIPATI DIVIJA & ANR. v. PATHURI SAMRAJYAM & 819 ORS. [KRISHNA MURARI, J.] be clearly observed that the performance of the purchaser’s obligation A to pay the balance sale consideration within three months is dependent upon the fulfilment of the vendor’s obligation to get the land measured and demarcated within three months. 35. Therefore, it can be deduced that unless the vendor got the subject land measured and demarcated within three months, it would be B impossible for the purchaser (Respondent No. 1 herein/Plaintiff) to get a sale deed executed, and as such, the question of paying the balance sale consideration does not arise. This was also observed by the High Court while placing reliance on the recitals in the sale agreement coupled with the evidence of PW1 and PW2. Moreover, as has been held above, C it is clear that the vendor (deceased G. Venugopala Rao) failed to perform his part of the obligations by getting the subject land measured and demarcated, while the purchaser (Respondent No. 1 herein/Plaintiff) was ever ready and willing to pay the balance consideration. As such, when specific performance of the terms of the contract has not been done, the question of time being the essence does not arise. In this way, D the facts of the present case are distinguishable from that of Siddamsetty (supra), andthe Appellants herein cannot claim that time was of the essence of the contract. 36. In view of the above, we are of the considered opinion that the High Court was justified in allowing the appeal and decreeing the E suit for specific performance filed by Respondent No. 1 herein. The findings of the High Court are hereby upheld. The present appeals, in our view, have no merit and are liable to be dismissed. 37. Accordingly, both the appeals are dismissed, and the dated 05.10.2010 as well as dated 10.12.2010, passed by the High F Court are affirmed. However, in the facts and circumstances of the case, we do not make any as to costs. Ankit Gyan Appeals dismissed. G (Assisted by : Mahendra Yadav, LCRA) H