This prayer was rejected by this Court in Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Udyog Sangathan10 on the F ground that re-examination of the settlement could not be done as the issue had already been decided. With regards to individual victims and organisations, any grievances towards the amount of compensation had to be taken up before the appropriate authorities constituted under the said Act. It is noteworthy that the Union of India had opposed the plea G of the private parties, and had taken a stand before this Court that claims had been adjudicated and compensation had been paid in terms of the scheme devised under the said Act. 9 (supra). 10 (supra). H 894 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 2 S.C.R. A 31. The aforesaid was the latest endeavour prior to the filing of the present curative petitions. However, even before this, certain private organisations had filed interlocutory applications for disbursal of the surplus amount left from the settlement fund. This Court in Union Carbide Corporation Ltd. V. Union of India11 observed that approximately Rs. 1,503.01 crores from the settlement fund were available B as on that date, and thus ed that this amount be distributed on pro rata basis to those persons whose claims had been settled. 32. There appear to be two reasons for the growth of the fund – (a) interest on it and (b) more importantly, an exchange rate fluctuation in favour of the US Dollar. We may hasten to add that the learned C Attorney General was correct in submitting that UCC could not have taken benefit of a hypothetical fluctuation in the opposite direction, i.e. in favour of the Rupee. Nevertheless, the fact remains that the settlement fund, and the disbursement from the same underwent a significant increase considering the lapse of time. D 33. Next, learned counsel for UCC contended that the language of this Court’s s dated 14.02.1989 and 15.02.1989 left no doubt as to the comprehensive nature of the settlement. UCC had agreed to the settlement even without a finding as to its liability. UCC’s Indian holding, i.e. UCIL had been wound up. The settlement was accepted only on the E basis that it was an overall settlement, which ended its potential exposure towards any legal proceedings. As a final stamp upon the settlement; this Court’s dated 15.02.1989 had imposed a duty on the Union of India and the State of Madhya Pradesh to ensure that any suit, claim, or civil complaint filed in the future against UCC would be defended by the Union of India and would be disposed of in terms of the said . F 34. It was urged that the review had confirmed the ‘basic assumptions underlying the settlement’ and the settlement itself had been upheld, save the aspect of closure of criminal proceedings. Moreover, the issues sought to be raised in the present curative petitions were in fact raised in the review petitions filed by the private parties and G were finally decided by the of this Court dated 03.10.1991.