Thus, the resolution H 890 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 9 S.C.R. A process is not adversarial to the corporate debtor but, in fact, protective of its interests…..” (emphasis in bold supplied) 39.2. As regards to the process of insolvency resolution, while dealing with various provisions of Chapter II of Part II of the Code, this B Court in the case of Essar Steel (supra) summed up the key role of resolution professional in the following terms: - “48. The detailed provisions that have been stated hereinabove make it clear that the resolution professional is a person who is not only to manage the affairs of the corporate debtor as a going C concern from the stage of admission of an application under Sections 7, 9 or 10 of the Code till a resolution plan is approved by the Adjudicating Authority, but is also a key person who is to appoint and convene meetings of the Committee of Creditors, so that they may decide upon resolution plans that are submitted in accordance with the detailed information given to resolution applicants by the D resolution professional. Another very important function of the resolution professional is to collect, collate and finally admit claims of all creditors, which must then be examined for payment, in full or in part or not at all, by the resolution applicant and be finally negotiated and decided by the Committee of Creditors.” E 39.3. In the case of Jaypee Kensington (supra), after taking note of the roles and duties of the resolution professional and the resolution applicant, this Court underscored the crucial role of committee of creditors in the entire CIRP with reference to several past decisions. Rather than any other discussion, we deem it appropriate to reproduce the relevant F passages therein as under: - “Committee of Creditors: the protagonist of CIRP 97. While in their representative roles, the resolution professional and the resolution applicant are duty-bound to ensure that the resolution plan is prepared in conformity with the requirements of G the Code and the CIRP Regulations and is properly presented for consideration, the central role in taking the decision as to whether a resolution plan be adopted or not, in the same form as presented to it or in a modified form; and as to whether the attempt for revival of corporate debtor be made or not, ultimately rests with H the pivotal body, comprising of the financial creditors of the M. K. RAJAGOPALAN v. DR. PERIASAMY PALANI 891 GOUNDER & ANR. [DINESH MAHESHWARI, J.] corporate debtor and termed as “Committee of Creditors”. As A noticed from the provisions above quoted, the final decision on a resolution plan is taken by the Committee of Creditors; and, for approval, a resolution plan is required to be voted in favour by not less than 66% of the voting share of the financial creditors, as per Section 30(4) of the Code. It is also relevant to point out that B though the resolution professional is to run the business of the corporate debtor as a going concern during the corporate insolvency resolution process but, as per Section 28(3) of the Code, he cannot take certain decisions relating to the management of the corporate debtor without prior approval of the Committee of Creditors by a vote of at least 66% of the voting shares86.