G Let the appellants, namely, Jai Shankar Chaudhary [In Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 322 of 2021], Abhay Kumar @ Abhay Sahni and Ram Babu Sahni [In Criminal Appeal (DB) No. 411 of 2021] be released on bail during the pendency of appeal on furnishing bail bond of Rs. 10,000/- (Ten Thousand) H with two sureties of the like amount each to the satisfaction OMPRAKASH SAHNI v. JAI SHANKAR CHAUDHARY & 153 ANR. ETC. [J. B. PARDIWALA, J.] of learned Additional Sessions Judge-VII, Vaishali at Hajipur, A in Sessions Trial No. 280 of 2019 arising out of Jandaha P.S. Case No. 202of2018. The sentence shall remain suspended in the meanwhile. Realisation of fine shall also remain stayed.” B (Emphasis supplied) 10. The original first informant (brother of the deceased) being aggrieved and dissatisfied with the aforesaid passed by the High Court has come up in appeals before us. SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE APPELLANT C 11. Mr. R. Chandrachud, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant vehemently submitted that the High Court committed a serious error in passing the impugned thereby releasing the three convicts on bail pending final disposal of their respective appeals by suspending the substantive of their sentence,in exercise of power under Section D 389 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘the CrPC’). 12. The learned counsel would submit that once the accused stood convicted for a very serious offence like murder, the presumption of innocence would no longer exist and the High Court is expected to be very slow in granting bail. He submitted that the High Court while E considering the plea of the three convicts for suspension of substantive of sentence has virtually appreciated the evidence. The High Court could not have gone into the issues like over-writings in the First Information Report, inordinate delay in lodging the First Information Report etc. while considering the plea of the convicts for suspension of sentence of life imprisonment. F 13. The learned counsel would submit that the entire case of the prosecution is based on ocular evidence. The Trial Court having believed and accepted the version of the appellant herein, who is one of the eyewitnesses to the incident, the High Court could not have so lightly and casually suspended the substantive of sentence of life G imprisonment. 14. In such circumstances referred to above, the learned counsel appearing for the appellant prayed that there being merit in his appeals, those may be allowed and the impugned common passed by the High Court may be set aside. H 154 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 5 S.C.R. A SUBMISSIONS ON BEHALF OF THE RESPONDENT NOS. 1, 3 AND 4 RESPECTIVELY (CONVICTS) 15. Mr. V.K. Shukla, the learned Senior Counsel appearing for the convicts, on the other hand, vehemently opposed the appeals, submitting that no error not to speak of any error of law could be said to B have been committed by the High Court in passing the impugned suspending the substantive of sentence, imposed on the respective convicts by the Trial Court.