Annexure A-1 and A-2 are copies of the Death Certifi cates of appellant no.1 and appellant no.7 respectively. The said application is allowed and the Cause Title stands modifi ed accordingly. Formal amendment to the Cause Title be carried out accordingly. The appeal stands abated as regards these two appellants. Accused no.2 - appellant no.2, accused no.3 - appellant no.3, accused no.4 - appellant no.4 and accused no.6 - appellant no.6 have so far undergone incarceration for a period of about one year and two months. Accused no.5 – appellant no.5-Somashekar has been incarcerated for fi ve years and three months. SUBMISSIONS 5. Mr. S. Nagamuthu, the learned senior counsel appearing for the appellants submitted that the High Court did not apply its mind to the evidence on record. Moreover, the High Court has not recorded any fi nding that the only conclusion possible was that the guilt of the accused has been established beyond a reasonable doubt. Without recording any such fi nding, the High Court has overturned the of acquittal. Moreover, no specifi c fi nding is recorded by the High Court that every accused or any particular accused caused the death of the two deceased persons.He pointed out that there is no fi nding about the applicability of Section 149 of IPC. He would, therefore, submit that the impugned cannot be sustained. Moreover, there is a delay in recording FIR. The learned senior counsel also pointed out that though a grievous injury was suff ered by accused no.1 - appellant no.1, the prosecution off ered no explanation about the said injury. He submitted that in view of the said injury, in fact, a First Information Report (for short, ‘FIR’) ought to have been registered, and an investigation ought to have been carried out. H. D. SUNDARA & ORS. v. STATE OF KARNATAKA 51 [ABHAY S. OKA, J.] 6. Mr. Nishanth Patil, the Additional Advocate General for the State of Karnataka, submitted that the delay in registering the FIR may be of a very few hours, which has been explained. Moreover, the evidence of eyewitnesses PW-1, PW-2, PW-3, PW-6 and PW-7 proves the appellants’ guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. In fact, that would have been the only conclusion which could be drawn on the basis of evidence on record. He submitted that if the impugned is not satisfactory, this Court, after re-appreciating the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and other material on record, can satisfy its conscience about the correctness of the ultimate conclusion of the High Court. CONSIDERATION OF SUBMISSIONS 7. In this appeal, we are called upon to consider the legality and validity of the impugned rendered by the High Court while deciding an appeal against acquittal under Section 378 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (for short, ‘Cr.P.C.’). The principles which govern the exercise of appellate jurisdiction while dealing with an appeal against acquittal under Section 378 of Cr.P.C. can be summarised as follows: - (a) The acquittal of the accused further strengthens the presumption of innocence; (b) The Appellate Court, while hearing an appeal against acquittal, is entitled to re-appreciate the oral and documentary evidence; (c) The Appellate Court, while deciding an appeal against acquittal, after re-appreciating the evidence, is required to consider whether the view taken by the Trial Court is a possible view which could have been taken on the basis of the evidence on record; (d) If the view taken is a possible view, the Appellate Court cannot overturn the of acquittal on the ground that another view was also possible; and (e) The Appellate Court can interfere with the of acquittal only if it comes to a fi nding that the only conclusion which can be recorded on the basis of the evidence on record was that the guilt of the accused was proved beyond a reasonable doubt and no other conclusion was possible.