In a dispute between the husband and wife, the child should not be made to suff er. Relevant para 6 thereof is extracted below: “6. However, at the same time, the respondent husband cannot be absolved from his liability and responsibility to maintain his son Pranav till he attains the age of majority. Whatever be the dispute between the husband and the wife, a child should not be made to suff er. The liability and responsibility of the father to maintain the child continues till the child/son attains the age of majority. It also cannot be disputed that the son Pranav has a right to be maintained as per the status of his father. It is reported that the mother is not earning anything. She is residing at her parental house at Jaipur. Therefore, a reasonable/suffi cient amount is required for the maintenance of her son including his education etc. which shall have to be paid by the respondent husband, irrespective of the decree of dissolution of marriage between the appellant wife and the respondent husband. The amount which was being paid pursuant to the passed by the Army authorities on 15-11-2012 has also been stopped by the respondent husband since December 2019.” (emphasis supplied) 264 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 14 S.C.R. However, in a given case, where the earning of the wife is also good, that factor can always be considered as joint parenting is always best for upbringing of the child. The basic object is the welfare of the child. 13. A perusal of the passed by the High Court shows that the amount of maintenance awarded to the appellant was reduced from ₹20,000/- to ₹ 7,500/- per month, merely noticing that earlier, the respondent was in business. However, at that point in time he was in debt and in fi nancial distress, hence, not able to pay huge amount of maintenance to the minor daughter. The respondent is not represented before this Court to justify the stand taken by him before the High Court. The Family Court had passed a detailed giving reasons. 14. Nothing is evident from the record or even pointed out by the learned counsel for the appellant at the time of hearing that affi davits were fi led by both the parties in terms of of this Court in Rajnesh’s case (supra), which was directed to be communicated to all the High Courts for further circulation to all the Judicial Offi cers for awareness and implementation. The case in hand is not in isolation. Even after pronouncement of the aforesaid , this Court is still coming across number of cases decided by the courts below fi xing maintenance, either interim or fi nal, without their being any affi davit on record fi led by the parties. Apparently, the offi cers concerned have failed to take notice of the guidelines issued by this Court for expeditious disposal of cases involving grant of maintenance. Comprehensive guidelines were issued pertaining to overlapping jurisdiction among courts when concurrent remedies for grant of maintenance are available under the Special Marriage Act, 1954, Section 125 Cr.P.C., the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005, Hindu Marriage Act, 1955 and Hindu Adoptions and Maintenance Act, 1956, and Criteria for determining quantum of maintenance, date from which maintenance is to be awarded, enforcement of s of maintenance including fi xing payment of interim maintenance.