Each of ‘B’, ‘C’ and ‘D’ were to forward in the above manner, their respective coupons to the assessee, who was to send to each one of them three coupons separately by post (V.P.P.). On realisation of the three V.P.Ps. the assessee would supply to ‘A’ the article named by him. It was held that the E consideration was not only money paid or promised to be paid, but it was something more. According to the High Court of Madras, the title to the goods did not pass to ‘A’ under a contract of sale. The transactions were held not to be sales liable to tax. However, the State came up to this Court contending that the respondent therein had offered the coupons F against payment, in the scheme of circulation sales, and the article of choice was ultimately sent to the customer for payment of a price which was accepted by the customer; there was, thus, offer and acceptance. All the attributes and characteristics and requirements of a sale were present in the transaction. Though, designed by the adoption of a circuitous method, the transaction amounted to nothing but a sale and G was liable to sales tax. 46. Applying the aforesaid principles and the of this Court to the case at hand, it is noted that when the dealer uses one of the spare parts from his stock for the replacement of a defective part in an automobile under a warranty, he is given a monetary benefit in the form H M/s TATA MOTORS LTD. v. THE DEPUTY COMMISSIONER OF 1335 COMMERCIAL TAXES (SPL) & ANR. [B. V. NAGARATHNA, J.] of a credit note. The definition of “credit note” from various dictionaries A and Law Lexicons have been adverted to above. A perusal of the aforesaid definitions would clearly indicate that a credit note issued by a manufacturer in favour of a dealer is a valuable consideration within the meaning of the definition of “sale” under both, Central Sales Tax Act as well as the respective State enactments under consideration. The object B and purpose of including the expression valuable consideration within the definition of sale apart from cash and deferred payment is to enlarge the scope of the expression price than what is enunciated under the Sale of Goods Act which is an enactment of 1930. The expression as already noted, is relatable to a money consideration. No doubt, cash is a money consideration but the definition of “sale” under the Central Sales Tax C Act as well as under the State enactments does not imply price to mean only a money consideration in a narrower sense but in a wider sense to include different forms of money consideration such as deferred payment and also a valuable consideration which need not be restricted to cash or deferred payment only but a valuable consideration which would include D a credit note which is to be read within the definition of “price”. 47. Benjamin’s Sale of Goods, Eighth Edition, states that the consideration in a contract of sale of goods must in English law, be a price in money, either paid of promised.