“The General Rules of Interpretation of this Schedule”. Rules 1, 2 and 3 are relevant and are extracted below: B THE FIRST SCHEDULE—IMPORT TARIFF (See Section 2) GENERAL RULES FOR “THE INTERPRETATION OF THIS SCHEDULE Classification of goods in this Schedule shall be governed by the following principles: C 1. The titles of Sections, Chapters and Sub-Chapters are provided for ease of reference only; for legal purposes, classification shall be determined according to the terms of the headings and any relative Section or Chapter Notes and, provided such headings or Notes do not otherwise require, D according to the following provisions. 2. (a) Any reference in a heading to an article shall be taken to include a reference to that article incomplete or unfinished, provided that, as presented, the incomplete or unfinished article has the essential character of the complete or finished E article. It shall also be taken to include a reference to that article complete or finished (or falling to be classified as complete or, finished by virtue of this rule), presented unassembled or disassembled. (b) Any reference in a heading to a material or substance F shall be taken to include a reference to mixtures or combinations of that material or substance with other materials or substances. Any reference to goods of a given material or substance shall be taken to include a reference to goods consisting wholly or partly of such material or substance. The classification of goods consisting of more than one G material or substance shall be according to the principles of rule 3. 3. When by application of rule 2(b) or for any other reason, goods are, prima facie, classifiable under two or more headings, classification shall be effected as follows: H CCE, AURANGABAD v. M/S VIDEOCON INDUSTRIES LTD. 271 THR. ITS DIRECTOR [S. RAVINDRA BHAT, J.] (a) the heading which provides the most specific description A shall be preferred to headings providing a more general description. However, when two or more headings each refer to part only of the materials or substances contained in mixed or composite goods or to part only of the items in a set put up for retail sale, those headings are to be regarded as equally B specific in relation to those goods, even if one of them gives a more complete or precise description of the goods. (b) mixtures, composite goods consisting of different materials or made up of different components, and goods put up in sets for retail sale, which cannot be classified by reference to (a), C shall be classified, as if they consisted of the material or component which gives them their essential character, insofar as this criterion is applicable. (c) when goods cannot be classified by reference to (a) or (b), they shall be classified under the heading which occurs D last in numerical among those which equally merit consideration.” Chapter 85 falls in Section XVI, the heading of which reads as follows: “CHAPTER 85 Machinery and Mechanical Appliances; E Electrical Equipment; Parts thereof; Sound Recs and Reproducers, Television Image and Sound Recs and Reproducers, and Parts and Accessories of Such Articles NOTE 1.