(3)…… (4)……” H JHABBAR SINGH (DECEASED) THROUGH LEGAL HEIRS v. 577 JAGTAR SINGH S/O DARSHAN SINGH [BELA M. TRIVEDI, J.] 10. Section 121 which pertains to the instrument of partition, being A relevant for our purpose is reproduced as under: “121. Instrument of partition: - When a partition is completed, the Revenue-officer shall cause an instrument of partition to be prepared, and the date on which the partition is to take effect to be recorded therein.” B 11. Section 123 pertains to the affirmation of partition made without the intervention of the Revenue Officer which reads as under: “123. Affirmation of partition privately affected: - (1) In any case in which a partition has been made without the intervention of a Revenue-officer, and party thereto may apply to a Revenue- C officer for an affirming the partition. (2) On receiving the application, the Revenue-officer shall inquire into the case, and, if he finds that the partition has in fact been made, he may make an affirming it and proceed under section 119, 120, 121 and 122, or any of those sections, as circumstances may require, in the same manner as if the partition had been made D on an application to himself under this Chapter.” 12. At the outset, it may be noted that the plaintiff Jagtar Singh, the predecessor of the present respondent, had filed the suits claiming himself to be the co-sharer in the joint khewat along with the vendor Jit Singh, and had sought relief against the defendant Jhabbar Singh and E others with regard to the possession of the suit lands, on the ground that he as a co-sharer had a superior right to pre-empt the sales, and that he was not put to any notice of sale of the suit lands on or before the date of such sales. In a very loosely drafted plaint, the plaintiff had neither pleaded as to how he was the co-sharer, nor had he impleaded the said F Jit Singh, the owner of the suit lands, with whom he claimed to be the co-sharer, and who had sold the suit lands to the defendants Jhabbar Singh and Others. It is needless to say that in a suit for pre-emption, the vendor i.e., the owner of the suit land who had allegedly not given any notice of sale to the plaintiff as required to be given under Section 19 of the Pre-emption Act and against whom the right to pre-empt the sale is G claimed would be a proper party if not a necessary party, for a complete and final adjudication on the issues involved in the suit. 13. As held by this Court in U.P. Awas Evam Vikas Parishad vs. Gyan Devi2, necessary party is one without whom no can be 2 AIR 1995 SC 724 H 578 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 3 S.C.R. A made effectively; and a proper party is one in whose absence an effective can be made but whose presence is necessary for a complete and final decision on the question involved in the proceedings.