So, constitutional functions are not put on a hold when the Legislative Assembly of a State is dissolved. We are conscious that the constitutional powers of the State legislature are crucial facets of the principle of federalism. These provisions create a space for the States to be seen and heard and for the States to have an equal say in the democratic functioning of the Nation. It is not only the letter of the law which makes a Constitution federal but also the exercise of such power. Interpreting the phrase “powers of the legislature” to allow Parliament to exercise all constitutional powers which are vested in the Legislative Assembly of the State would reduce the power of the State. However, the Constitution recognises such reduction of federal power when the Proclamation under Article 356 is in force. As we have held above, t he exercise of power after a Proclamation under Article 356 is issued is subject to judicial review. An immunity from judicial scrutiny does not attach to the exercise of Constitutional powers of the Legislature of the State. The Court while judicially reviewing the exercise of power can determine if the exercise of the Constitutional power of the Legislature of the State has a reasonable nexus with the object sought to be achieved by the Proclamation. e. The standard to assess actions taken under Article 356 after the issuance of Proclamation 229. In view of the discussion above, the following standard is laid down to assess actions under Article 356 after the Proclamation has been issued: 203 (1974) 2 SCC 33 140 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 16 S.C.R. a. The exercise of power by the President under Article 356 must have a reasonable nexus to the object of the Proclamation; b. The exercise of power by the President will not be rendered invalid merely on the ground of ‘irreversibility’ of the actions; c. The person challenging the exercise of power must prima facie establish that it is a mala fi de or extraneous exercise of power. After a prima facie case is made, the onus shifts to the Union to justify that the exercise of power had a reasonable nexus with object of the Proclamation; and d. The exercise of power by the President for everyday administration of the State is not ordinarily subject to judicial review. iv. Article 370: a temporary provision? a. The historical context to Article 370 230. In the section above, this Court has noted the historical context in which the State of Jammu and Kashmir had acceded to the Dominion of India to ascertain whether the State held an element of sovereignty. In this section, the historical context with respect to Jammu and Kashmir is referred to for the purpose of identifying the reason for adopting Article 370. A reference to the historical context in which Article 370 was included will aid this Court in determining whether the provision is temporary or permanent in nature. I. Accession of Jammu and Kashmir 231. The British Parliament enacted the Indian Independence Act 1947.