16. Proceeding alleging under-invoicing of price and thereby evading customs duty by the respondents was initiated by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and carried forward by the customs department primarily on the basis of the price declared by the foreign supplier in the fi rst set of 192 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 13 S.C.R. export declarations fi led before the Hong Kong customs authority. It was noticed that there was great discrepancy in the price mentioned in the export declarations and the price of the goods as per the import invoices. To support the above allegations, the department relied upon copies of those export declarations. Adjudicating authority brushed aside the objections raised by the respondents that the copies of the export declarations relied upon by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence and the department were not attested and were just xerox copies. Adjudicating authority took the view that merely because the copies of the export declarations were just xerox copies and were not attested, the said fact did not make those documents unreliable or unauthentic. It was held that the foreign supplier had accepted the factum of fi ling those declarations which the noticees did not deny. This fi nding of the adjudicating authority was negatived by the CESTAT. The Tribunal, while accepting the objections of the respondents that those declarations could not be relied upon for the purpose of enhancement of value not only because those were unattested photocopies but also for the reason that the foreign supplier had explained that incorrect price was erroneously mentioned in the fi rst set of export declarations for which it fi led a second set of export declarations showing the price of goods in question matching with the price as declared in the import invoices. The second set of export declarations was accepted by the Hong Kong customs authority but for showing incorrect price initially, imposed penalty which was paid by the foreign supplier. CESTAT also noted that no investigation was carried out by the customs authority with the Hong Kong customs authority indicating anything incriminating against the respondents. Therefore, CESTAT held that the value shown in the fi rst set of export declarations could not form any reliable basis for enhancement of the value. 17. We concur with the view taken by CESTAT. First and foremost, the export declarations relied upon by the appellant and earlier by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence were unattested photocopies. Since those documents were used as a piece of evidence against the respondents, it was necessary that those documents were required to have been proved as is understood in law. Unattested photocopies of the relied upon documents without anyone proving or owning up the veracity of the same would not have any evidentiary value. It is another matter that the very substratum of these documents was subsequently removed when the foreign supplier COMMISSIONER OF CUSTOMS (IMPORTS), MUMBAI v. M/S GANPATI 193 OVERSEAS THR. ITS PROP. SHRI YASHPAL SHARMA [UJJAL BHUYAN, J.] fi led a second set of export declarations before the Hong Kong customs authority showing lower price matching the price of the goods declared in the import invoices.