We need not go into the questions in detail as the argument with reference to Article 163(3) has not been specifi cally raised on behalf of the appellant – Manish Sisodia, though the plea that the CBI, the DoE and the Court should not examine merits and wisdom behind the choice of policy decision have been raised. 20. The appellant–Manish Sisodia, it is claimed, had deliberately destroyed the two mobile phones so as to prevent any investigation. Further, he had changed his mobile phone on 22.07.2022, the date on which the media had covered the news of the complaint sent by the LG of NCT of Delhi to the CBI for investigation. The appellant – Manish Sisodia states that people do change mobile phones frequently, and old phones need not be retained. Whether or not the allegation as to deliberate destruction of mobile phones is correct would be decided post recording of evidence, but this would not be a weighty factor for deciding the question of bail, given the period of detention undergone by the appellant – Manish Sisodia.45 42 Article 74(2) of the Constitution of India reads: “…(2) The question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered by Ministers to the President shall not be inquired into in any court.” 43 Article 163(3) of the Constitution of India reads: “…(3) The question whether any, and if so what, advice was tendered by Ministers to the Governor shall not be inquired into in any court.” 44 See In Yashwant Sinha and Ors. v. Central Bureau of Investigation, (2019) 6 SCC 1, State of Uttar Pradesh v. Raj Narain, (1975) 4 SCC 428, Doypack Systems (P) Ltd. v. Union of India, (1988) 2 SCC 299 and other cases. 45 See Section 201 of the IPC, which reads: “201. Causing disappearance of evidence of off ence, or giving false information to screen off ender.—Whoever, knowing or having reason to believe that an off ence has been committed, causes any evidence of the commission of that off ence to disappear, with the intention of screening the off ender from legal punishment, or with that intention gives any information respecting the off ence which he knows or believes to be false, if a capital off ence.—shall, if the off ence which he knows or believes to have been committed is punishable with death, be punished with imprisonment of either 504 SUPREME COURT REPORTS [2023] 15 S.C.R. 21. However, there is oneclear ground or charge in the complaint fi led under the PML Act, which is free from perceptible legal challenge and the facts as alleged are tentatively supported by material and evidence. This discussion is equally relevant for the charge-sheet fi led by the CBI under the PoC Act and IPC.We would like to recapitulate the facts as alleged, which it is stated establish an off ence under Section 3 of the PML Act and the PoC Act. These are:  In a period of about ten months, during which the new excise policy was in operation, the wholesale distributors had earned Rs.